@@729486

txt The Nixon Administration and Senate proponents of an independent cancer agency appeared today to have reached almost complete agreement on the strategy for attempting to conquer that large and deadly group of diseases . They have agreed that the cancer research effort should have a budget separate from the rest of biomedical research and that it should be headed by a person responsible directly to the President . They also appear to be agreed that the cancer effort should have headquarters at the National Institutes of Health and be considered administratively a part of the institutes , the Federal Government 's main arm for medical and biological research . In recent months there has been much debate in Congress and in the scientific community on just these aspects of the strategy for conquering cancer . Some have taken the view that the time is ripe for an all-out research assault on cancer and that this effort needs to be directed by an independent agency set up for the purpose . Others , agreeing that cancer research should be expanded and intensified , hav , e insisted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institutes of Health . The Administration had adhered to the latter view . An evident meeting of minds ' between the Administration and the Senate advocates of a ' separate cancer agency emerged today at a hearing before the Health Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare , It began with a mutual round of congratulations . Sena- tor Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , lauded the Administration for " openness of mind " and " a really extraordinary exercise of statesmanship . ' He was equally warm ' n praise of Senator Edward M. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , who early this year introduced a bill to set up a separate cancer agency . Mr. Javits , who is co-sponsor of the bill , also praised Senator Kennedy , chairman of the subcommittee , for exercising extraordinary self-denial . The hearings are to consider legislation introduced by the Administration and Senators Kennedy and Javits to establish much-expanded research efforts against cancer . The legislation has not come up in the House . Senator Peter H. Dominick , Republican of Colorado , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by congratulating Senators Javits and Kennedy and Elliot L. Richardson , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , The Secretary was about to testify before the subcommittee . Mr. Richardson said the intention of the Administration bill was to have the director of the cancer program report directly to the President and that the program 's budget would be submitted directly to the Office of Budget and Management for the President 's approval . Even though the program will be part of the N.I.H. , the budget will not go first to the institutes ' director nor to its parent organization . The Department of Health , Education and Welfare . These points had not been entirely clear in the Administration bill , Mr. Richardson also indicated that the director of the cancer program , a Presidential appointee , would have rank equal to the director of the N.I.H. and would be given the opportunity " to review and comment on the program plans and budget request for cancer-related activities of the other N.I.H. institutes and research divisions . " Answering questions from reporters after the hearing , Senator Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subcommittee would be very close to a revised version of the Administration bill . He said there had been consultation between his subcommittee and the Administration on the revisions . Some Voices of Dissent Dissents at the hearing were ! voiced by Senator Gaylord Nelson , Democrat of Wisconsin , and Dr. John A. D. Cooper , president of the Association of American Medical Colleges Senator Nelson said it appeared that the cancer agency would physically be at the N , I , H. , but administratively and ' philosophically would constitue a separate agency and that this separation would have an ill effect on the institutes as a whole and on biomedical research in general . Dr. Cooper said his association looked with concern on legislative efforts , however well-intentioned , that would isolate a special conquest of cancer program in a new agency outside the National Institutes of Health . All who spoke today emphasized that the cancer problem was multifaceted and extremely difficult and that no one should expect a quick or easy solution . But Dr. Cooper said the association , representing an important element of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark undercurrents of opinion " that , he said , had entered the national debate on the conquest of cancer ? One of these is that the mere injection of Federal funds will somehow produce " an instant cure for cancer . " The other , he said , is the view that the key problem in current cancer research is managerial rather than scientific . He called both of these ideas " unconscionable. "                     