@@732046

txt Will American taxpayers , facing the combined effects of inflation and recession , see significant tax reform soon ? Whether there can be a major reform at a time of economic and figral turbulence is uncertain : the big battle is over the recent tax cuts to bolster the economy , and the prospect that more tax cuts will be required if the oil cartel once again raises prices . For the first time since 1969 , Congress has set its wheels in motion . In June chairman Al Ullman ( D ) of Oregon , of the House Ways and Means Committee , announced ambitious tax reform hearings and the first phase of them got under way this week . The present phase deals particularly with so-called tax shelters ( loopholes ) and the " minimum tax " which is applied to those with large incomes who otherwise avoid tax payments . The second phase of the tax hearings will come next November , Mr. Ullman said here , " after completion of development and passage of the bill resulting from the hearing now being announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bill prepared after the August recess . George Meany , crusty AFL-CIO president , promptly told the committee that Americans were tired of tax loopholes . Saying he spoke for 14 million trade union workers , he charged // *Tax reform : Americans to see gains soon ? // that low and middle-income workers are being discriminated against in favor of the rich . He opened a full-scale drive against the capital gains tax and the tax exclusion on estates , which he called " the most disruptive and unfair elements in the tax structure . " Mr. Meany quoted Treasury records that over 400 individuals reported incomes in excess of $100,000 a year in latest figures available , and paid no federal income taxes , and that four Americans earned more than $1 million and paid no income taxes . ' He asserted " the effective U.S. income tax rates on the nation 's oil giants average only 7.6 percent in 1974 , " although the theoretical tax rates for corporations is 48 percent . He cited the tax rate of Exxon as 5.6 , and Mobile and Texaco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration 's proposal , July 8 , by Treasury Secretary William E. Simon to give new tax concessions to help corporations attract investment capital . He characterized this as " the old , discredited , trickle-down doctrine of the 1890s and 1920s . " Mr. Meany conceded that concessions might be made available for one industry ? capital-intensive nuclear plants generating energy . He said that the trade union members on the President 's labor-management advisory committee supported tax benefits in special cases in the electric utility field . It is the administration 's contention that higher energy prices and twin recession-inflation have produced a capital shortage so ' that corporations ca n't raise money to build new plants or renovate old ones without exorbitant interest . Not so , said Mr. Meany , ( with the possible exception of electric utilities ) ; this is " scare talk " he said , designed to " justify proposals which would decimate the federal Treasury . "                     