@@729415

txt In a political landslide that has affected the whole island from Land 's End to John o'Groat 's , Labour has retaken control of most of the town halls of Britain . No great tremors have been felt in Westminster yet however , only a distant rumbling . For the results of these local government elections in no way affect Prime Minister Edward Heath 's . Conservative government and its present hold on power in Parliament . But for Mr , Heath and the Tories there 's thunder in the air . Labour even won control of the local government of Bexley , where Mr. Heath holds the parliamentary seat . In England and Wales the Labour Party , which had lost 1,300 seats to the Tories in 1968 , made more than 2,000 net gains this time . In Scotland a week ago Labour either retained or won control of every major town , excepting only Edinburgh , And in the Scottish capital , although outvoted by a coalition of Tories and Progressives , Labour for the first time can claim to be the biggest single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in local government elections is much more volatile than it is on the national scale . The turnout at the polls is much smaller . Since opposition frequently rouses more energy in people than support , the swing of votes ; against the party in power at the town halls is often three or four times the size of any conceivable swing in a national parliamentary election . Issues , too , tend to be grass-roots issues on which parliamentary electors get little say  --  transportation , amenities , environment , education , and local housing policies . It is also true to comment that Labour had suffered such a crushing defeat in 1968 that " it had nowhere to go but up . " Substantial gains were accounted to be in the nature of things . However , political observers were talking in terms of 800 to 1,000 Labour gains . Nobody forecast more than 2,000 . On the parliamentary level , national opinion polls have suggested recently the Tories have come back and now run neck and neck with Labour in the public 's favor . Economic policies The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but more help for those in serious need  --  and its effort to get some discipline into Britain 's strike-prone labor relations seem to have just abut equal weight at - the moment to its obvious failures over prices and unemployment . But there is an issue that has never yet been put to the public  --  membership in the European Economic Community . Here polls indicate a most reluctant acceptance of the possibility . Most people expect it to happen . But 60 to 70 percent would rather it did not . So the balance is by no means stable . And the results of the local elections warn Mr. Heath that his government 's hold on power could be more tenuous than most people seem to think . Seats lost Between 1966 and 1969 a loss of 15 seats oy Labour in parliamentary by-elections caused its majority to drop from 97 to just 67 . It is clear today the Tories would lose any by-election that occured right now in any marginal constituency . Their majority is 31 . Fifteen seats changing hands would leave them with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself and that Mr. Heath 's Conservative gov- ernment would find itself in the position of the Labour government in the late 1960 's . But it could . And if it began to happen , Mr. Heath would certainly not last even three more years as Prime Minister . Meanwhile on many issues of local importance the government has got to learn to work with the opposition if the nation 's day-to-day business is to be amicably done . That 's what time it is by the town hall clock .                     