@@732448

txt South Africa holds the key to whether or not the deepening crisis in Rhodesia moves into all-out guerrilla war , with African nationalists trying to oust the white minority government of Prime Minister Ian Smith by force and install black  --  majority rule . Britain and others now are looking to South African ? Prime Minister John Vorster to bring new pressure on Mr. Smith to resume the talks on a transfer of political power to blacks which the Rhodesian Premier broke off last week . Nobody is better placed than Mr. Vorster to do ? this . Britain itself stepped in Monday with an offer to intervene to try to prevent a race war ? provided Mr. Smith would agree to black majority rule within two years . But Mr. Smith turned that down within 24 hours . Equally concerned are the presidents of four African republics ? Nyerere of Tanzania , Kaunda of Zambia , Machal of Mozambique , and Khania of Botswana . As the Rhodesian drama has unfolded , they have hitherto urged the Rhodesian black nationalist leaders to seek majority rule through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Smith 's talks with the top nationalist leader still within , Rhodesia , Joshua Nkomo , has virtually persuaded the four presidents that there is left'o alternative but guerrilla war . The four presidents met . Wednesday in the Zambian capital of Lusaka for talks with Rho- desian nationalist leaders to discuss where to go from here . All of them view with dismay the prospect of all-out guerrilla war in Rhodesia , but they find it hard to refute the Rhodesian nationalists . ' argument that talking to Mr. Smith has gotten them nowhere . And there is little more that the four presidents can do to bring more pressure on Mr. Smith . to make him " reasonable . " That leaves Mr. Vorster . With Mozambique now joining the United Nations ' economic blockade of Rhodesia , South Africa controls landlocked Rhodesia 's only remaining rail outlet to the sea. - In one sense , then , South Africa has its hand on Rhodesia 's lifeline . But Mr. Vorster has never been one for UN blockades or boycotts because he knows they might one // *South Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used against him to force him to change his own race policies at home . Nevertheless Mr. Vorster is known to believe that the only way - white Rhodesians can save themselves is to consent to speedy moves to black majority rule . Over the past year he has put pressure of one kind or another on Mr. Smith to move in that direction , operating in tacit tandem with the African presidents now meeting in Lusaka . After the collapse of the Smith-Nkomo talks last week , Mr. Vorster said the door still appeared to be open for a resumption of discussions . So it is assumed he must be up to something to get them going again . Britain'sinitiative having been summarily rebuffed by Mr. Smith , Mr. Vorster now has the ball in his court ? if he is able or willing to play it . Inhibiting him may be the unwillingness of many South African whites to go as far as he in putting pressure on Mr. Smith and the latter 's fellow white Rhodesians . Mr. Smith counts on this " kith and kin " feeling not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governments in both countries to come to his aid in the last resort ? particularly if Russians or Cubans get involved in the fighting on the side of the African nationalists . His aim is believed to be to involve both Britain and South Africa in such a way that they feelmorally obligated to help him , even if he has refused to meet their conditions for such help . To lessen the likelihood of a scenario involving Russians and Cubans which might stir public opinion in Britain and South Africa in favor of helping Mr. Smith , . the governments in both countries are doing what they can to persuade Russians and Cubans to keep out . This is why South Africa announced last week its willingness to withdraw all its troops from Soviet-and Cuban-backed Angola and why British Foreign Secretary James Callaghan had southern Africa on the agenda in his talks in London this week with visiting Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko.                     