@@729943

txt The British army and Northern Ireland police said tonight that gunmen of the Irish Republican Army are moving into Newry where violence is feared during Sunday 's civil rights march . The joint statement said security forces have " reliable information " that the infiltrators are " likely to take advantage of any confrontation between demonstrators and security forces to launch an armed attack . " Windows Shielded Earlier today , British troops acted to seal off the border town in preparation for the march . Newry and the surrounding area , with a ' 14,000 population , was being guarded by 4,000 troops . This is one-fourth of the total British armed forces in Northern Ireland . Stores , offices , and businesses shielded their windows with wire grills and wooden boards . Groups stood around talking tensely . Some families have sent their children away to stay with relatives for the weekend . The illegal march has been planned as a protest against the killing of 13 civilians in a clash with British troops last Sunday in Londonderry . Security chiefs investigated a tip that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wearing British army uniforms . About 200 army combat uniforms were stolen from a cleaners in Londonderry last month . Security chiefs have been expecting the uniforms to turn up but there has been no hint of how they might be used until today . 9.000 Troops on Guard British troops and the Ulster Defense Regiment mounted a tight security check on all vehicles entering and leaving Newry in a search for arms and suspects . Road blocks snarled traffic and delayed workers and schoolchildren . An appeal from British Prime Minister Edward Heath and Ulster Premier Brian Faulkner warned : " The dangers of this march are clearly and widely recognized . The organizers should think again while there is still time . " The move followed a secret one-day visit to London by Faulkner for six hours of talks with Heath , Home Secretary Reginald Maudling and Defense Secretary Lord Carrington . ' William Cardinal Conway , Roman Catholic primate of all Ireland , also made behind-thescenes moves tonight to try to stop the march by contacting civil rights leaders and asking local priests to use their influence with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a telegram to the Irish Council of Churches . It " strongly supported calls for restraint and continuing prayer " in Ulster . Three masked gunmen drove 1 across the border at Strabane in County Tyrone today and blew up two cars belonging to customs men . They also planted a third bomb which badly damaged government cattle pens . ' A soldier was flown to a Belfast hospital after he was seriously injured in the explosion of a remote controlled mine in another border incident . He was a member of a mobile patrol on a border road near Middletown in County Armagh . The army claimed to have hit four gunmen during a clash with snipers in the Lower Falls area of Belfast last night . However , an army spokesman said the gunmen were not found and the extent of injuries was not known .                     