@@733770

txt The diversity of plant and animal life on earth is on a collision course with pressing economic needs in the world 's developing countries . This is the conclusion reached by Eric Eck-holm in a newly released Worldwatch Institute report , " Disappearing Species : the Social Challenge . " Mr. Eckholm , a senior researcher with the institute , argues that hundreds of thousands of plant and animal species , mainly in the world 's tropical regions , will disappear by the end of the century if current development trends are allowed to continue . Such a massive loss of biological diversity would pose a direct threat to future research in agriculture , forestry , and medicine , he says . Mr. Eckholm contends that current conservation programs are insufficient in the face of the immediate economic needs of rapidly growing , land-hungry populations in the third world . Some of the world 's most biologically rich regions are also among its economically poorest . To a hungry person , notes Mr. Eckholm , a loaf of bread today is worth far more than the theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9 Tsavo West National Park , Kenya By R. Norman Matheny , staff photographer Zebras , and other declining species ? who will champion their cause ? From page 1 Vanishing species a challenge In Venezuela , for example , he points out that remaining tropical rain forests are receding fast as a result of rapid population growth , high unemployment , and rising numbers of land-starved peasants . " Planned destruction " is coming about through shifting cultivation , the extension of grazing lands by large landowners , and government-sponsored land settlement . And since official programs to turn forests into farmland can not keep up with demand , illegal land clearing is rampant . According to a Venezuelan analyst , there are 30,000 farm families living within national parks , forest reserves , wildlife refuges , and protected zones . The illegal squatting creates de facto agricultural land , which is subsequently le2alized . Laws simply unenforced Preservation laws in Venezuela are often not enforced , says Lawrence S. Hamilton of Cornell University , because " they could be enforced only at gunpoint . " Local officials know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but is simply trying to feed his family and make a living . " Mr. Eckholm believes that popular conservation campaigns for individual species like whales , zebras , and bald eagles should continue . But he warns that such campaigns are inadequate to defend entire ecosystems , such as rain forests , against the rush of economic development . Although endangered animals get the most public attention , a disappearing plant can take with it 10 to 30 dependent species , including insects , higher animals , and even other plants , Mr. Eckholm says . The International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources finds some 10 , percent of the world 's flowering plants to be " dangerously rare or under threat . " Endangered ' list issued Earlier this year , the Smithsonian Institution listed close to 10 percent of the 22,200 plant species native to the continental U.S. as being " endangered " or " threatened . " Some organizations , such as the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources in Rome , have made significant moves to preserve genetic'diversity , Mr. Eckholm said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words of Charles Warren , chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality : " The current rate of species depletion is so totally without precedent in the history of evolution as to evoke concern in any thoughtful , scientifically aware person . "                     