@@734445

txt Joanne Chesimard , a leader of a militant black group who was serving a life term for the 1973 slaying of a state trooper , escaped from a state women 's prison here this afternoon with the help of three armed men . Authorities said three black men who had come to visit Miss Chesimard , drew .45-caliber automatic pistols , seized two guards as hostages and commandeered a prison van in the escape . The three men and the 32-year-old Miss Chesimard , who was serving a life term plus 65 years for murder and assault , were joined by a fifth confederate , tentatively identified by authorities as a white woman . They fled in two cars that had been parked in the parking lot of the Hunterdon State School for the Retarded , which is adjacent to the minimum-security prison . The guards were released unharmed , and the van was abandoned near the school . Authorities were unsure of the makes and models of the getaway vehicles , which were first identified in a state police bulletin as a blue Pontiac and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a Ford Maverick and a two-tone blue Lincoln . Authorities were also unsure of the direction in which Miss Chesimard , who has been described by associates as " the soul of the Black Liberation Army , " and her companions had fled . It was reported that they might have fled in the direction of New York City , where members of the militant black group have been accused of kidnapping , robbery , murder and other crimes . The women 's prison , which is a minimum-security facility with one maximum-security building , is on a rise about 200 yards south of Interstate 78 , some 15 miles east of the Pennsylvania state line . Prison officials first announced that the cars had sped east on Interstate 78 toward New Brunswick but the state police said later that the vehicles had apparently gone west toward Pennsylvania . In giving sketchy details of the prison break , James Stabile , speaking for the State Department of Correction , said the " guests " had signed in at the prison during the regular visiting hours , which were from 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visitors permitted to see Miss Chesimard , who was confined in South Hall , the maximum-security unit , which housed 17 female inmates . Mr. Stabile said that the men were not searched and that there was no metal detector at the registration building where visitors sign in before being taken by van to see inmates . Asked why the men were not frisked , Mr. Stabile said : " I do n't know . That 's being investigated . That 's the question officials are asking . " Authorities said they knew the identities of the three gunmen , but they refused to release their names or those of the guards involved . According to officials at the prison , the three men signed the visitor 's book , had their identification verified and were taken by van to South Hall to see Miss Chesimard . They apparently commandeered the van during the trip to the unit . " They came in with guns at the guards ' heads , " said Capt . Gordon Hector of the state police . " They got the drop on the guard inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took the guards as hostages , handcuffed them and escaped in the van with Miss Chesimard , driving over the hilly terrain to the school for the retarded . There are no fences surrounding the prison , but there is a 15-foot-tall chain-link fence around South Hall . Authorities said that another confederate was waiting at the cars parked near the school and that the five then made their escape . The two guards were left in the van . Miss Chesimard and one black man were seen in one of the vehicles , while the remaining suspects were in the second car . Roadblocks were set up , but the escapees eluded police . Until last February , Miss Chesimard had been held in a Federal prison in Alderson , W. Va. , because she was considered a " high security risk . " She was transferred to the Clinton Correctional Institution for Women on Feb. 20 , after the Federal facility was closed . Miss Chesimard was convicted in March 1977 in New Brunswick for the May 1973 slaying of a New Jersey state trooper , Werner Foerster , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Harper , 29 . The troopers had stopped a vehicle in which Miss Chesimard and several men were riding on the New Jersey Turnpike . Trooper Foerster and one of the men in the stopped car , James F. Coston , the former information minister of the Black Panthers , were killed in a shootout . Miss Chesimard was wounded . Clark Squires , said by the police to have been one of the men accompanying Miss Chesimard , was captured near the turnpike and in 1974 was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment .                     