@@733481

txt Letters ABRAM BERGSONDAVID BRINKLEYJAMES J. HARFORD Jr.DAN CIOBANUSCHUYLER BISHOPBERN ... Letters Eurocommunism : . . But One Can not Be Sure ' To the Editor : Eurocommunism is a complex theme . In trying to characterize it for commercial television , Henry Kissinger did perhaps leave himself vulnerable to strictures like Stanley Hoffmann 's ( letter Jan. 27 ) . Kissinger 's chief concern , however , was obviously to dramatize the threat posed far ' traditional Western values should Communist parties gain decisive political power in Western Europe . Professor Hoffmann does not seem to share , this concerns but one can not be sure . Although he carefully exposes alleged distortions by Kissinger , he does not face squarely the crucial issue as to the attitude of Western European Communist parties toward democratic political institutions . This question is not easily settled , but it is difficult to be optimistic about the prospects of political democracy under Communism of any known kind . To be sure , some of the Western European Communist parties have sought to differentiate themselves from Soviet Russia , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions . As everyone knows , however , such professions are not exactly novel among Communists . They have repeatedly preceded a Communist accession to power ever since Lenin , and ever since Lenin they have as repeatedly To the Editor , It seems strange that so much of the discussion of the Westway project is devoted to the highway . Since the early 60 's , Manhatttan 's waterfront // Kimble Mead has been considered a target for major . urban redevelopment . The waterfront , now minimally productive , has a potential value to the city that is very great . Major redevelopments have been cropping up along the waterfronts of cities all over the world . New York 's waterfront remains stagnant . The economic value of the Westway project 's budget is not in the increase of automobile efficiency but in what will occur above the submerged highWay . Since the public has little notion of what might occur or what is planned , the project has no right to be instigated . It is the planners ' and the media 's responsibility to publicize the complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreational , residential and business developments . are planned ? How are they expected to benefit the city ? These things should not be hidden beneath a highway issue . Otherwise Manhattan might end up with another Roosevelt Island , with a park space that is like all the other been repudiated by party actions afterward . Such tactical opportunism , we are sometimes told , is only apparent , Communists simply have a different conception of democracy . It would be little comfort to adherents of democracy in its traditional sense if that were so , but in fact the tactical opportunism has been real enough . That too was already manifest under Lenin , most dramatically with the Bolsheviks ' armed , dispersal in January 1918 of the very Constituent Assembly which they had once insisted on having summoned . The same flexibility has been manifest ever since . Conceivably democracy might survive under Western European Communism , but then again , it might not . Experience teaches that there is then no opportunity to correct a mistaken judgment on that matter . Should Western European Communism prove authoritarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for in power their leadership will still act independently of Russia in foreign affairs . Western European Communism could sometimes turn out to be Titoesque . Many party members no doubt would not be pleased to have the U.S.S.R. dominate Western Europe . But party leaders such as L , L. Radice of Italy ( Encounter , May 1977 ) appear reluctant to sanction NATO 's mission , so far as that is to forestall such dompark spaces along the waterfronts of this city ( uneventful , straight asphalt paths at the water 's edge , like Riverside Park and the East River Park ) . Or there might not be anything done at all . JAMES J. HARFORD Jr . New York , Jan. 27 , 1978 An ' Irrelevant ' Birth To the Editor : I read with interest the comments made by Charles Neider in the Jan. 26 issue of The New York Times on the significance of the birth of an Argentine child in Antarctica , and I take the liberty to make two points : ( 1 ) The doctrine of effective occupation is still valid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defining the rights and obligations of the countries concerned : ( 2 ) Argentina is a party to the Antarctic Treaty , and it is a matter of general knowledge that under that treaty Argentina has frozen its claims on Antarctica . Therefore , any intentional act or mere accidental fact that could otherwise be interpreted as showing effectiveness in the possession of a territory is at present , entirely irrelevant . If this predication proved to be true , as a general proposition , the birth of an Argentine child in the said territory would in no wise alter the latter 's legal status ; the registration ? of the said birth could not have any different legal effect than that of any other birth at an American or Russian scientific research station , for instance . Needless to say that at no time in history has the birth of a child been acknowledged by the community of nations as indicative of effective sovereignty . Consequently , I think that the letter of Mr. Neider might have misled the average American reader on an issue which is clearly understood by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Law and Diplomacy , Tufts University Medford , Mass. , Jan. 31 , 1978 ination . In any case , we can not be indifferent to the spread of Communist authoritarianism in Western Europe , What the U.S.A. can and should do about Eurocommunism is still another question . Our ability to influence Western European politics Is limited , but we can act wisely only if we understand where our interests  --  ie. These can hardly be served by accession of Communist parties to power in Western Europe . ABRAM BERGSON Director , Harvard University Russian Research Center Cambridge , Mass. , Feb. 3 , 1978 ? To the Editor : If I may respond briefly to an attack ( letter Jan. 27 ) by Prof. Stanley Hoffmann of Harvard on a program on West European Communism ' done by Henry Kissinger and me on NBC television . His various disputes with his former colleague , Processor Kissinger , I will leave to the two of them . As for his attacks on what I reported on the air , ' Professor Hoffmann simply does not know , or does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is nothing new in the growth of the Communist Party in France . He is wrong . There is . In very recent times it has gained , or strengthened , control over the French unions and used them for its own purposes , and in the most recent elections it won more than 1,000 municipal offices , including some in the biggest cities . And , of course , until late in 1977 , the Communists with their " Common Program " with the Socialists seemed almost certain to acquire national power . All of that is quite recent , and the 1946 election figures Professor Hoffmann cites are quite immaterial . He says French mayors have little power . He is wrong . A mayor with the total support of a tightly disciplined national party , the richest party in France because of its financial help from Moscow , and the party 's unions , has considerable power , and uses it . ? Professor Hoffmann seems quite ready , if not eager , to accept the European parties ' claims to independence of Moscow and Stalinism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so do their internal structures and policies . Is he ready to assure us that once in power they will be genuinely independent and preserve democratic freedoms ? If he is ready to offer this assurance , I am not ready to accept it . Neither are the numerous European scholars , democrats and journalists with whom I have discussed this  --  all of whom are a good deal closer to the action than Professor Hoffmann is . It is astonishing to see reasoned critical questioning of the European parties ' real purposes dismissed as " cold-war propaganda , " a phrase so far removed from its original context and so irrelevant to the events of the 1970 's it is simply trite and meaning- , less . Of the Harvard Center for European Studies , one would expect better . DAVID BRINKLEY Washington , Feb. 3 , 1978 City Lamplighter To the Editor : Is Comptroller Goldin trying to put an end to the only thing that works in New York City ? I find it a comfort , and worth the money it costs , to know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have a street light fixed  --  usually that same day . No city agency can claim results like that . SCHUYLER BISHOP New York , Feb. 4 , 1978 About the Westway Project 's Prime Value Age Discrimination in Employment : The Changing Climate To the Editor : The Times recently reported a Federal Appeals Court verdict in Chicago that " in work such as teaching , where it found no clear relationship between age and the ability to do the job , public employees can not be forced to retire at a specified age . " The article made it clear that Judge Swyggert and the court considered forced retirement for teachers constitutionally invalid . Yet , just two years before , a Federal judge in Minnesota deduced just the opposite , based on analogous facts . Responding to a request by state faculty ( including the , writer ) for an injunction against a new state law reducing the mandatory retirement age , Judge Lord ruled against the plaintiffs , He held the Supreme Court decision in the Murgia case ( upholding retirement of police at 50 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument used by the Minnesota court to deny the request of the litigants was disallowed by its Chicago counterpart . The sharp divergence of opinion underlines a familiar truism , The Minnesota plaintiffs were clearly in the right place ( a Federal court ) at the wrong time . In less than two years , the climate of opinion has altered so radically that everyone is now climbing on the bandwagon  --  legislators , public interest groups , " aging " associations , and others . Now the judiciary is joining in  --  except for the Supreme Court . Even those who once ignored the problem are becoming conscious of its importance . The growing visibility of older people and direct involvement in the political process by the Gray Panthers and similar activists is beginning to be felt . Contradictions between public awareness of ageism and institutional reactions to it are now surfacing . The contrasting court decisions illustrate how risky it is to assume that justice will always prevail in courts presided over by imperfect human beings . The situation is compounded by variable interpretations of ambiguous laws and legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " name of the game . " On the more positive side , the shift in judicial judgments may presage a new flexibility and sensitivity to public opinion . Slow ? as that may seem , it belies the contention that , given the conservative bent of the courts , legislative action is the only effective recourse for eliminating age discrimination . The court 's decision is more unequivocal than the provisions of H.R.5383 ( now being reconciled in conference ) . The Senate version adds an unacceptable " exemption " of tenured college professors , and Pepper 's bill sets a new ceiling of 70 for most workers , while the court has ruled out any , upper limit . If the Chicago verdict is sustained , it may have wide repercussions . Despite several remaining loopholes , it brings into the open the deeper ques tion of the constitutionality of any , Federal legislation that permits age discrimination in employment under any pretext . Many legal experts consider that the crux of the controversy . BERNARD I. FORMAN Washington , Jan , 31 , 1978 The writer is mandatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     