@@730488

txt In his first comprehensive foreign policy speech of the campaign , Senator George has emphatically rejected isolationism and summoned the nation to a " new internationalism , " rooted in historic American ideals and fueled less by military might and a narrow nationalism than by economic strength and a willingness to share it with the less fortunate world . The speech in Cleveland was clearly in reply to the Nixon campaign charges that Mr. 's proposals for withdrawal from Vietnam , cutting American forces in Europe and slashing the defense budget portended a retreat to preWorld War II isolationism . Thus , Mr. 's " new internationalism " would be supported by " a strong national defense , but one free of waste ... forces fully adequate to defend our own land and to fill vital defense commitments . " He would keep American forces in Japan to defend that country and head off any temptation for it to develop its own " massive nuclear military arsenal . " He would reinforce this country 's commitment to Israel and retain " sufficient American power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Senator . implies that he would also keep some American forces in Europe indefinitely , after an initial reduction , but rejects the idea that maintaining American forces at present levels would enhance prospects for negotiating mutual troop cuts between NATO and the Warsaw Pact countries . He is more concerned about reassuring Europe as to the American commitment to the success of the European Economic Community than to the Atlantic Alliance . Mr. makes clear that in trying to curb the arms race and trim this country 's excess arsenal , he would not begin with " excessive trust " in the Soviet Union nor rely on " Moscow 's good intentions . " He rightly charges President Nixon with failure to consult his allies adequately and thus reviving fears that Washington and Moscow might  --  in typical nineteenth-century manner  --  reach Big Power agreements at Europe 's expense . ? The whole thrust is away from a world relying on nuclear ' arms , crippling defense budgets and an outdated balance-of-power concept  --  toward a future in which the nations will finally forge a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from wict- , ening , to promote sound development , to defuse the population explosion and to preserve the , environment . The Senator has taken to heart 13 Thant 's stark warning of 1969 that the world had only ten years left in which to bring such problems under control  --  and he intends to act on that assumption if elected . Any globe-encompassing speech is bound to be short on detail  --  and this ' was no exception . Mr. would " maintain the . ' power we need , " but  --  aside from Japan and Israel  --  he does not cite ' those : " vital defense ' commitments " he promises to honor . He would recognize the Government of mainland China , without saying how he ' would extricate this country from its obligation to Taiwan . Latin America is.mentioned only glancingly , with no reference to the . Alliance ' for Progress or : the InterAmerican System  --  also largely ignored by the present Administration . Mr. 's document contains the Inevitable generalizations , and his idealism , unfortunately , sounds dated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerges clearly as a dedicated internationalist , and he makes an effective argument that it is the Nikon Administration  --  by insensitivity to allies and trading partners , ignorance of developing countries and indifference to traditional American ideals  --  that risks a dangerous isolation for the United States .                     