@@730206

txt A jury of seven women and five men began its deliberations late this morning in the trial of Angela Davis and after six hours recessed for the night . The members of the panel were taken to a hotel about 6 P.M. Pacific daylight time and locked up . They were not told about the hijacking of a Western Airlines jetliner by a man who asked for $500 , - 000 and reportedly demanded " custody " of Miss Davis . The jury received the case after a 75-minute charge from Superior Court Judge Richard E. Arnason . It is considering 11 Verdicts that might be returned against the former university instructor , who is charged with murder , kidnapping and criminal conspiracy . In his instructions , Judge Arnason told the jurors that in count one of the indictment , the charge of kidnapping , they might return any one of five possible verdicts . He listed four possible verdicts for count two , murder , but said that on the third count , conspiracy , they could only find Miss Davis guilty or not guilty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courtroom this morning when the judge delivered his charge to the allwhite jury . Through most of the 47 days of the trial , which was spread over 13 weeks , the courtroom was jammed . The charges against Miss Davis stem from her alleged involvement in the escape attempt and shootings at the Marin County Civic Center in San Rafael , Calif , in August , 1970 . She is accused of conspiring with Jonathan Jackson in a plot that the prosecution maintained was designed to free from San Quentin prison three black convicts known as the Soledad . Brothers , One of the Brothers was George Jackson , older brother of Jonathan Jackson . The prosecution contended that Miss Davis was in love with George Jackson , and that it was because of that love that she conspired to extort his release from prison . The escape attempt took place in the courthouse of Judge Harold Haley , where James D. McClain , a black convict from San Quentin , was standing trial in a criminal proceeding . The trial was interrupted when ' Jonathan Jackson smuggled guns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black convicts who were there as witnesses . Gun Purchase Admitted The four then took five hostages , including Judge Haley , and started to flee . Outside the Civic Center , shooting erupted , and three of the kidnappers and Judge Haley were killed . In the subsequent police investigation , it was found that the guns smuggled into the courtroom were registered td Miss Davis . In her defense , Miss Davis admitted that she had purchased the guns but said that they had been bought for the defense of the Soledad Brothers defense headquarters . It was said during the trial that Jonathan Jackson had had access to the guns . The charge of conspiracy is , the key accusation against Miss Davis . If she is found not guilty of that charge , it is expected that she will also be acquitted of the others . But if he is convicted of conspiracy , it is thought that she will probably also be convicted of the other charges . The charge of kidnapping involves the taking of the hostages from the courtroom . The murder is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Civic Center when he was killed , she could be convicted under California law if it was found that she had been involved in a conspiracy and that the judge had been slain in the commission of that crime . Miss Davis was arrested in New York in October , 1970 , and was extradited to California in December . After a year of pretrial proceedings , the case was shifted here from Marin County . Testimony in the trial began 10 weeks ago . In presenting its case , the state called some 100 witnesses . The defense rebutted with 11 witnesses . Miss Davis made the opening statement for the defense but did not take the witness stand to testify in her own behalf .                     