@@729563

txt Now that the first surge of excitement and world prominence over the projected Nixon visit to Peking has passed , the People 's Republic of China is behaving very much as usual . No visible  --  or audible  --  letup in anti-American propaganda has yet occurred . And Peking has reiterated its interest in joining the United Nations  --  but not at the expense of accepting a two-China policy that would permit Nationalist China to retain its seat at the same time . The initial reaction to the proposed Nixon-Chou En-lai meeting vouchsafed by the Soviet Union is that this represents " nothing unusual , " which only goes to show how very unusual it actually is , to all concerned . Canvas filled in But these are relatively short-range developments . On the larger canvas , a number of considerations arise to furrow diplomatic brows as they contemplate the situation . First , what is the role of Premier Chou in the China of today ? Is he really calling the tune for the massive reemergence of the People 's Republic into contact with the outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy as the United States ? The consensus is yes  --  but this does not mean Chou En-lai is in any position to challenge either Chairman Mao Tse-tung or the People 's Liberation Army , the twin pillars of power in Peking at present . Either Chairman Mao or the top leadership of the Chinese Army could destroy Mr Chou even today , if they felt it were necessary , or began vigorously to disagree with his tactics , experts on China agree . But Mr. Chou , with his years of experience in surviving near the top of the Chinese ' hierarchy , has taken care to maintain close alliance with the powerful Army chief of staff , Gen. Huang Yung-shen , just in case . Second puzzle is the unsolved problem of Taiwan . How can Mr. Nixon or anyone else placate or reassure Chinese Nationalist President Chiang Kai-shek about what is obviously taking place ? // // President Chiang is renowned for his devotion to rigid principles . He could conceivably break with the United States . It would not he the first time he had decided to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or might the present situation drive him into the arms of the waiting Russians ? The Soviets would like to have a naval base and perhaps airfields on Taiwan , convenient to the South China Sea , the Strait of Taiwan , and mainland China . From Moscow 's viewpoint , such a gain would help offset the unquestionable setback occasioned by a Sino-American rapprochement . Or might General Chiang decide to take Nationalist China out of the United Nations , on grounds it soon would be ejected anyhow , or relegated to subordinate status in the General Assembly ? Many feel this too would be in character . At his age , President Chiang may feel he has little to lose by taking the plunge of breaking with his great American friend . But his younger associates undoubtedly are watching their mentor carefully ? or even eagerly ? for any sign the " Gimo " is losing his grip , or ready to take a step his colleagues deem unwise . Guerrilla reaction His lone decisions will be very hard to overturn , but there may be some on Taiwan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong course is being chosen . Finally there is the question of the impact on the dedicated little bands of Communist guerrillas and so-called " freedom fighters " out in the hinterlands of Asia . For decades , these Communist cadres have continued to raid and fight in jungles and mountains in northern Thailand , Laos , Burma , and Malaysia . Essentially they have been fighting against Western-backed , capitalist-type governments in the countries mentioned . They have always looked to Peking for ideological guidance and material support . How do they feel at the prospect of China warming up to the greatest Western capitalist nation of them all ? One expert here is convinced they will feel " sold out " if China now is to assume a role of international rectitude and join the United Nations . " What , " they may ask , " have we-beerr fighting for all these years in the Asian wildernesses ? "                     