@@731143

txt Diplomatic commuter Henry A. Kissinger is off again . As he plans his third swing through the Middle East , the U.S. Secretary of State clearly believes his personal involvement is required to resolve the new problems in negotiations on disengagement of Egyptian and Israeli forces and to achieve that desperately wanted first stage Mideast agreement and give impetus to the Geneva peace conference . He perhaps is also conscious that Arab oil producers are watching , and wants to make sure any accord reached is definitely stamped : " Made in America . " The White House has announced that the secretary will leave Thursday night for Egypt and Israel . The trip is expected to last four days , and stops in other capitals are not ruled out , say U.S. officials . In Egypt the secretary will meet President Sadat at Aswan . Bunker goes along Accompanying Dr. Kissinger , along with other U.S. officials , will be Ellsworth Bunker , the U.S permanent representative at the Geneva peace talks . The White House also has announced a Feb. 11 meeting to discuss long-range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy , the Netherlands , Norway , Japan , and Canada , as well as oil-producing countries . State Department officials deny that an impasse or deadlock has occurred at Geneva . They note there is a great complexity of problems under discussion at the medium-level military talks in the Swiss city and that only political decisions at the top can resolve them . Israel has made a good step forward , says one Kissinger aide , but // *Kissinger 's Mideast agenda // there are many " reticences " on both sides . Since it is politically sensitive fo the parties to move either way and the secretary 's effort now is to work out a separation of forces so neither ' side asks too much of the other . ' Some diplomatic observers are surprised that Dr. Kissinger feels it necessary to meet so often with Israeli and Egyptian leaders rather than operate through their ambassadors here , especially in view of Defense Minister Moshe Dayan 's recent visit to Washington . The prospect now seems to loom that the secretary will spend much of his diplomatic life in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab capitals in order to bring about a peace in the Middle East . Since Dr. Kissinger obviously does not object to ? and even enjoys ? such a style of operating , the question arises in the minds of some as to whether the Arabs and the Israelis may not become too dependent on him to sort things out . The result could be an increased reluctance to make decisions involving progress without his personal reassuramce . Logical extension American officials see Wahsington 's close involvement at this juncture as a logical extension of its part in achieving the six-point cease-fire agreement , since separation of forces is an ingrediant of that agreement . But the high-level personal diplomacyseems to have a momentum of its own . " These people leaders seem to work at the top , " says one U.S. official . " Their political world makes it that way . " While the details of the DayanKissinger talks are not known , it is believed the disengagement proposals worked out are unacceptable to Egypt ? although not to the extent that disagreements can not be negotiated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canal of between 13 and 20 miles , which would leave it in control of the passes and the main lateral road in Sinai if Egypt agrees to thin out its troops and armor on the east bank of the canal . Diplomatic experts see no insurmountable problems . Israeli Prime Minister GoldaMeir believes she has been given an electoral mandate to negotiate , they reason , and , although the Geneva talks are getting nowhere , the next Kissinger go-around could produce the political decisions needed for an agreement . President Sadat 's preoccupation , it is felt , is the Israeli demand for the opening the canal and a refurbishing the shell-shattered cities along the waterway as insurance against future way . Once accomplished , it would be hard to reverse this course and start another way ; so he wants an Israeli guarantee that the initial disengagement would not harden into just another cease-fire line .                     