@@728375

txt Letters pg . 280 Letters Business And Economics Supplement To the Editor : In view of the life-and-death power held by industrial conglomerates . . . on this endangered planet , may one correspondent offer a footnote to John Brooks 's lead article , in the special Business and Economics Supplement you added to your Jan. 18th issue ? ( The writer is the author of " THINK : A Biography of the Watsons and IBM , " to which Mr. Brooks made a number of references . ) Mr. Brooks 's essay dealt with company-commissioned books ( it was titled " When Business Sits for Its Portrait " ) , and with the need for more corporate information transmitted to the public . The gentle and merciful suggestions he offered hold out little promise for reform . . . . He suggests that publishers identify , as such , books underwritten by corporations . Beyond that , he feels that cor.parations have " a ? social duty " to offer cooperation to writers and historians . This is all very Well . . . and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will go nowhere . Far more compelling mechanisms are required to bring corporations from behind their impenetrable walls of secrecy and ? deception . John Lindsay has called for new concepts of corporate regulation , which might be a beginning in opening avenues of information and understanding , of industrial policy and conduct . A few lonely lawmakers in Washington share his  --  and my ? views . We need to know where power originates , how it becomes collective , how it is exercised , and how it is concealed .... Periodically , corporations , holding companies , and powerful financial institutions beyond designated size should be subjected to . . . analysis ? with reports and results available to investigators , scholars , writers and students . . . . At intervals , or perhaps on a continuing , permanent basis , hearings before an agency with power of subpoena . . . should inquire into the deepest recesses of industrial and financial secrecy . We have a right to know who , literally , owns what . . . . People whose lives and future may be profoundly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association with government power , are abysmally uninformed ( and are kept uninformed ) , by traditions and practices that have been refined into quasi-criminal , artfully corrupt planning and operations .... Oil companies and international corporations make more policy than the State Department , policy that bears on inflation , poverty , militarism , and plundered resources . The time is past when corporations can function as super-states . The time has come when they should operate under regulations . . . not in camera but in a goldfish bowl . . . . Of course , as long as bankers make banking law , as long as oil companies can rip out an ocean bottom , as long as industry supplies policy-making personnel to the Government ( while government-trained lawyers transfer freely from agencies to industry ) mandatory reforms are not in prospect .... William Rodgers Centreville , Md . To the Editor : In one of his novels ( " Main Street , " if memory serves ) , Sinclair Lewis defined the businessman of an earlier generation as an individual who never read anything he could n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distaff member of the fraternity ( in fairness to you , I wo n't ask you to mention my special field ) I can only hope we 've improved in the years between . At least I can testify that I read every word of your Special Supplement , found it consistently fascinating , and mean to profit from its specifications . Sandra Gillespie San Francisco . Hare Krishna To the Editor : Herbert Gold 's article of Jan. 11 , " San Francisco ? Plenty of Avant Left in the Garde , " contains a flippant reference to " Hare Krishna beggars . " Obviously Mr. Gold is unaware of the function of the devotees of the International Society for Krishna consciousness .. . These young people are representatives of one of the many branches recently established in the United States with the arrival of their spiritual master , A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami , from India . They are attempting to raise the level of God consciousness in the public . and they practice what they preach : no gambling , intoxicants ... illicit sex , meat-eating . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people who regard drugs as a panacea . ... To further their movement , they operate on the streets ... chanting " Hare Krishna , " requesting donations , and selling their magazine . . . which elucidates the Bhagavad Gita , the Upanishads and the wisdom of Vedic literature . . . . In San Francisco , specifically North Beach and environs , they have been feeding scores of hungry hippies daily . . . . Ernestine A. Corens Buffalo , N. Y. Anatomy Of Error To the Editor : James Thomson made an important contribution to the immortality of fashionable commentators in his Dec. 21 review of Henry Brandon 's book , " Anatomy of Error . The Inside Story of the Asian War on the Potomac . " In the past , the consequence of bad farming has been starvation . Historians , too , have had to reckon with the ultimate judgment of scholarship ? but Thomson 's review is an exorcist 's incantation against the corrective judgments of the future . He senses that " success stories " of the 1960 's will be written , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Asia  --  safety that has permitted Korea , Singapore , Indonesia , Cambodia , Thailand and Burma to breathe again . . . safety that has made it possible for India and Japan to eschew national nuclear forces . . . . But when historians have put all the pieces together . . . when they have ? recognized our military commitment in Vietnam as the " other turning " in the roads that had previously branched at Manchuria in 1931 , Ethiopia in 1935 and Munich in 1938 , Mr. Thomson will have the antidote . . . . Crossing his candles before him , he will chant " posthoc - ergo - propter - hoc - fallacy " over and over . .. until our nation is restored to its current cool , sober examination of these complicated issues .. . and the immoral defenders of the Kennedy - Johnson foreign policy have been put to flight . Charles L. Mack Jr . Lexington , Mass . Charles Osborne To the Editor : I was pleased to see Harold Schonberg 's review of my book , " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . but it seems to me that certain of his reservations are influenced by his confusion over my identity . From two remarks he makes ? " Osborne , himself a critic and singer " ( my italics ) , and " Osborne , so knowledgeable a student of singing history " ? it is obvious that Mr. Schonberg thinks the book was written by my distinguished , American namesake , Conrad Osborne . Yet Mr. Schonberg should remember me ? for The Times used to print my reviews of London operas and concerts . I am resigned to being mistaken for other people . When Brigid Brophy dedicated her novel , " The Snow Ball , " to me , an Austrian newspaper said I was dem zornigen Osborne gewidmet . . . . I am , however , neither the angry John nor the American Conrad , but the long suffering Charles Osborne Assistant Literature Director The Arts Council of Great Britain London . Mr. Schonberg replies : No mixup . I know Conrad Osborne personally , and Charles Osborne only by reputation . But I had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singers and singing . In my review , I should have made it clear that the London and American Osbornes , whose work does parallel each other 's , are separate people . Esperanto ( Continued ) To the Editor : In his letter of Jan. 11 , Mark Starr , the chairman of the Esperanto Internacia Linguo , quotes me ? as saying that " the idea of a new artificial language like Esperanto seems to have suffered irreparable damage . " The words " like Esperanto " were , through some misunderstanding , inserted by The Book Review ; they do not appear in my address delivered at the 36th International P.E.N . Congress . Under a " new artificial language " I was thinking of the linguistic experiments made in this century ( Esperanto being a creation of the 19th century ) , like mundolingua , universal , occidental or novial , which have not produced any literary works of merit , and of interlingua , which has been constructed for communication in the exact sciences . I am not against Esperanto ; on the contrary , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have already established literary traditions of quality which surpass a considerable number of writings in the co-called natural languages . The devotion with which the Esperanto authors are working on the enrichment and refinement of their language is truly admirable . , Aleksis Rannit New Haven , Conn.                     