@@732314

txt LETTERS LEON KANDELL . MilwaukeeJEROLD L. AXELRODHOWARD J. BOLNICKALAN GARTNER pg . F15 LETTERS City Jobs To the Financial Editor : The headline on Page 1 of The New York Times on Dec. 6 told your readers that the United States Senate had passed a 2.3 billion Federal loan authorization for New York City . Some may have thought this was the real story on the subject . I submit that the real story appeared on the back page of that paper . It was headlined " Jobs Declined In 134 of 162 Major Industries in the City . " A Bureau of Labor Statistics report showed major declines in employment between 1967 and 1973 in the securities industry , water transportation , apparel manufacturing , wholesale trade and insurance , among others . The total loss in six years was 500,000 jobs , enough to support 1.5 million people . What is even more disturbing is that only 27 industries showed gains . Almost 85 percent showed losses . And the gains were in Industries which represent " taking-ineach-others ' - washing " rather than " export @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Local government and medical and health services , for example , accounted for 68 percent of what gain there was . Herbert Bienstock , head of the New York office of the Bureau of Labor Statistics , said it all : " One must conclude that the city 's fiscal crisis is a headache , but its job losses are the real disease . " Without jobs  --  new and growing numbers of jobs In export Industries ? New York has no recourse hut to shrink . Throughout history new jobs were the magnet that attracted people to New York . Today , very likely , the city has 1.5 million more people than it can sustain . Unfortunately . Americans have not learned how to plan for a controlled and orderly reduction in population , We are mesmerized by the premise of continuous growth , and our greatest city seems to have the hardest time rec. ogrrizing that growth may well have ended . I suspect further that the challenge is not a city versus suburbs issue . In ninny respects Greater New Ynrk leans to have characteristics similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or so ago ? old plants , withdrawal of industry , aging population and maturization . The great challenge for New York 's leadership as it gets Its fiscal house in order is to focus not on the political accidentals of the problem , but on the hard economic realities of jobs or the lack thereof . LEON KANDELL Milwaukee Dec. 12 , 1975 The writer was formerly chief economist at the New York Stock Exchange and president of the Securities Industry Association . Housing To the Financial Editor : Everyone seems to be heralding the return to " basic housing " as a cure-all for many of the housing industry 's maladies ( " Less House for a Home , " Dec. 7 ) . But in all this frenzy to return to basic shelter I fear that there are some major misconceptions that are gaining ground . The major creeping error I see is the concept that " cheaper is better . " There is a widespread effort to find the lowest denominator of cost , and of everything else , including taste , acceptability and design . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selling prices in line with ability to pay , but the solution is perilous . Comparison is being made between the current situation and the pent-up housing market of the early 1950 's when shelter housing in the form of tiny Cape Cods and splitlevels sprung up in Levittowns across the country . Such comparisons are foolhardy . Yes , there is currently a large , unfulfilled housing market comprised primarily of young marrieds ( much as in the 1950 's ) and a substantial percentage can not afford the average home . However , the motivations of the marketplace then are not those of today . Many of these young people have grown up in suburban homes much larger than they will be offered , they have enpoyed many of the amenities that they will be asked to sacrifice , and they have by and large , been spoiled by their parents ' affluence . " They can not be expected to rush out and grab any bare box . What is needed to truly stimulate a resurgence in the basic housing market Is not a cheaper version of yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denominator , but some fresh and stimulating ideas that will turn on the young families of the 1970 's . Yes , smaller square footage will be required , as will sacrifices in certain amenities GA well as a strenuous effort to reduce costs , but we will also have to find ways to stimulate buying by using creative design and creative financing . JEROT.D L. AXELROD Melville , L. L Dec. 10 , 1975 Social Security To the Financial Editor : Preston Bassett 's article , " Social Security 's Weak Underpinning . " ( Dec. 14 ) , embodies the assumption that Social Security benefit levels are by and large appropriate . This assumption eliminates all solutions to the underfunding problem other than those which propose new sources of revenue . It also forces thinking about the problem into a narrow framework which may not be appropriate . The Social Security problem should be considered within the context of providing retirement benefits through both public and private sources . In today 's conditions , Social Security , as a pay-as-you-go system , transfers resources from one generation to another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer payments becomes too large and the future expected pay-as-you-go benefits grow too fast , the result may be a significant reduction in private savings , which may be unhealthy for the economy . Social Security benefit levels supported by reduced personal savings should probably be funded ( matched by corresponding business or public savings ) rather than pay-as-you-go . Funded benefits , though , should be provided in the private sector to retain the accumulation of assets there . If Social Security 's high current liability of $2.4 trillion were obtained in the public sector , the Federal Government would completely usurp the nation 's generation and allocation of capital . Social Security transfer payments should be limited to a floor-of-protection level that does not cause a significant reduction in private savings . Benefit levels in excess of the Social Security floor should be provided through private pension plans , perhaps on a mandatory minimum basis rather than the current voluntary basis . There are no free lunches in finance , and Social Security is no exception . HowARD J. ROLNICK Continental Assurance Company , Chica go Dec. 31 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed worth noting in your article on the Presidential candidates ' economists ( " Candidates In Search of Economic Wisdom . " Dec. 28 ) that each of the Democratic candidates with the exception of Mr. Wallace has endorsed a fill I - ern ploymen t policy as broadly exemplified by the Humphrey-Hawkins bill . Indeed , one of the economists referred to In the article , Robert Lekachman , has made important contributions in the development of the bill and , of course , Mr. Humphrey is the principal sponsor in the Senate . ALAN GARTNER Social Policy New York Jan. 5 , 1976 The financial editor welcomes letters from readers , preferably of no longer than 300 words . Letters must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Saul Lembod                     