@@732422

txt THE CITY of Chicago asked a federal judge Tuesday to scrap a controversial police hiring quota plan and to permit the promotion of new sergeants outside of established merit selection processes . Late Tuesday the Justice Department filed a response with Federal District Court Judge Prentice H. Marshall , op. posing all the requests submitted by Corporation ennewl William R. Quinlan . The Justice Department brief suggest . ed the city could not be trusted to lower race and sex barriers , and urged Judge Marshall to retain the temporary quota he imposed last January . THE CITY 'S petition stated that Marshall 's quota objective could be approximated if the city were permitted to hire instead from a tentative 1978 tangibility list . Quinlan estimated that minorities would comprise 50 per . cent of the 500 hired annually in the next three years . The city also requested the return of 895 million in federal revenue sharing funds withheld from the police depart-meat because of its allegedly discriminatory practices . Quinlan also asked for permission to appoint 60 new sergeants and to establish a permanent rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of whom would be promoted permanently but not off the 1973 sergeants eligibility list , which Judge Marshall has ruled was discriminatory . IN HIS brief , Quhdan estimated that white male composition of the police department would be reduced to 75 per cent by the end of 1978 it Marshall accepted the city plan . Marshall had imposed a hiring quota of 42 pa cent black and Latino males , and 16 per cent females . The city asked that be lump each of the distinct grasps into a " protective class " and permit the city to hire them from a tentative 1976 eligibility list predicated on an examination administered to more than 15,000 last April . However , the examination is yet to be certified free of discrimination , and background tests and psychiatric tests have yet to be completed on the 5,717 persons still in the running . In an opposition brief signed by U. S. Attorney Samuel K. Skinner and other Justice Department attorneys , Judge Marshall was urged not to change his ruling . " THE CITY 'S response to a consent decree requiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit brought by the United States against the Chicago Fire Department has been to hire no firefighters in the last two years , " the Justice Department brief said . It termed Quinlan 's propositions not " meritorious " and estimated that it would take 19 years to effect appropriate minority representation in the police department , even with Marshall 's quota .                     