@@728806

txt Communist forces in South Vietnam are concentrating their/ efforts increasingly on the government 's pacification program through a stepped-up campaign of low-level warfare , assassinations , and abductions . There is mounting concern here over a recent upsurge in terrorist incidents in the countryside and their possible effects on the pacification effort . The increased Viet Cong emphasis on low-level , guerrilla warfare means the government is faced with more of the type of fighting which the Viet Cong do best and which the government forces are least effective at countering . Some officials feel the Viet Cong now are beginning seriously to test the government 's hold on the countryside for the first time since the 1968.1969 rapid government expansion into the rural areas , More forceful reaction The lack of Viet Cong resistance to the pacification drive in that massive land-grabbing period was considered nothing short of remarkable . Now the Communists have started to react more forcefully . The current Viet Cong campaign hardly comes as a surprise . It was practically announced to the Americans and the Saigon government through numerous captured documents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Viet Cong Central Office for South Vietnam . Military observers have noted for some time the breaking down of many North Vietnamese and Viet Cong battalions into smaller units in preparation for lower-level , protracted warfare . The current campaign is not the kind of effort that can bring the Viet Cong a decisive victory in South Vietnam . It appears designed more to keep the government off balance , to maintain the Viet Cong presence in the rural areas , and to help keep the Viet Cong political structure alive until the day when most of the American combat troops are gone and the Communists can once again start fighting a bigger war . It has the advantage of getting the maximum impact out of a minimum number of men , As one United States official put it , " They 're getting more bang for the buck . " Midyear statistics reflect the shift on the part of the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong toward a greater emphasis on assassinations and kidnapping . The main targets are village and hamlet officials , policemen , pacification cadres , leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatives of government officials and ser ? vicemen. // *Hamlets terrorized in new Cong strategy // In 1969 , national police figures showed an average of 207 terrorist incidents a week , resulting in 119 persons killed and 121 kidnapped per week . This year , at the midyear mark , the police statistics show an average of 290 incidents a week , with 165 persons killed and 205 captured in the average week . The figures mark increases of 40 , 39 , and 69 percent in incidents , assassinations , and abductions , respectively . The pattern has varied greatly from province to province , with some much harder hit than others . The kidnappings , for instance , have been most widespread in II Corps area , particularly in Phu Yen Province on the central coast . In the five provinces of the northernmost I Corps , where many regular North Vietnamese units are still concentrated , conventional warfare continues along with a general rise in assassinations and abductions . In the IV Corps area embracing the Mekong Delta , there has been a rise in small-unit attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of this year , the Viet Cong overran 42 outposts in the delta . This is only a small fraction of the total number of outposts , and most were quickly rebuilt . But the number is greater than the total overrun in all of last year . In almost every case , the Viet Cong caught the militiamen , or popular-force troops , napping . They had grown careless after a considerable period of Viet Cong inactivity . The III Corps area , which includes Saigon , has been the least affected . But here , too , there has been a general rise in the number of terrorist incidents . None of this means that efforts to consolidate the government 's hold in the countryside have come to a halt . In fact , the government has plans by the end of October this year to move its forces into all of the 475 hamlets still classified as " under Viet Cong control . " But the stepped-up Viet Cong activity at the village level does coincide with what some officials describe as a " loss of momentum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one of the leading Saigon government pacification officials in a speech to the allied foreign ministers who met here in early July . " The momentum of pacification and development has slowed somewhat during the past six months , " said Maj. Gen. Cao Hao Hon , chief of the Pacification and Develop . ment Coordination Center . " This was anticipated as the need for consolidation increased . " he said . " Increased Communist activity and mili- tary attacks have also recently tended to slow pacification efforts . " Other major problems still facing the government in the countryside , according to a number of experts , are the continuing scandal of widespread corruption among government officials and military officers and the inability of the government 's " Phoenix " problem seriously to cripple the so-called Viet Cong " shadow government , " consisting of political agents , tax collectors , terrorists , and propagandists .                     