@@730877

txt Phase 4 and Watergate have a lot in common . Neither is pleasant . Neither is likely to go away soon . Both mean continuing bad news for Richard Nixon , the last thing he needs . Indeed , Phase 4 may well worsen the grave political problems the seemingly endless Watergate revelations have pressed upon the President . For the Nixon decision to go with tight economic controls , even though widely anticipated , is touching off extremely bitter criticism from many businessmen and conservative politicians  --  the very people whose continued support is essential to the President in his struggle to restore confidence in his administration . Thus Mr. Nixon had hardly finished issuing his Phase 4 plan when conservative GOP Sen. James Buckley of New York declared it an " odious " scheme . Arch Booth , chief executive officer of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce , immediately labeled the controls " another series of charades " by the President . Ironically one of the few outright endorsements came from Leonard Woodcock , the president of the liberal United Auto Workers . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed up on the White House " enemies list . " A Startling Scenario There 's no way Phase 4 is going to transform Mr. Woodcock and other liberals into Nixon allies . ' But tight controls , which the President himself admits are n't going to work very , well , could well deepen Watergateinduced disillusionment among those he has counted as his natural allies  --  businessmen and Republican politicians . For , under Phase 4 , businessmen now face unpleasant profit squeezes , along with the possibility of a continuing sick stock market and sagging dollar . Republican politicians , especially those who must stand for election next year , face the unhappy task of placating voters angry about rising food prices , which the President acknowledges are inevitable . This gloomy prospect is giving rise to a startling scenario now beginning to be discussed in Washington . It goes like this : Phase 4 makes economic problems worse instead of better . At the same time , the Senate 's Watergate investigation produces more testimony damaging the President . The combination has a devastating effect on businessmen ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians , concerned about saving their own skins in 1974 . Leading businessmen and Republicans abandon the President . They call on him to resign so the government can get a fresh start under Spiro Agnew . This scenario , it must be emphasized , is far-fetched . Nonetheless , the very existence of such speculation in political circles is a measure of how far the President 's stock has fallen . And while Mr. Nixon may never be confronted with extreme pressure to leave office , he certainly is confronted with an extreme problem as he strives to avoid becoming a political cripple merely clinging to his office . " Worst of All Worlds " Phase 4 might work , of course , and consequently give the President 's fortunes an important lift . If all goes well , Mr. Nixon even suggests the possibility that controls may be lifted altogether by the end of the year . But not even he seems confident that all will go well after the double debacle of Phases 3 and 31 , f2 . The President 's statement outlining Phase 4 was remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather a plea that " we should not despair of our plight . " Mr. Nixon asked for a " policy of patience . " This is n't the kind of rhetoric that instills confidence , and many congressional Republicans plainly are worried . " Psychologically , the President 's leadership on domestic issues is in trouble , " concedes Rep. Barber Conable of New York , an influential House Republican and Nixon loyalist . " And unless he has the confidence of the public , Phase 4 will be difficult . " " We seem to be headed for the worst of all worlds again  --  more inflation and a recession next year , " says a moderate House Republican . Says another GOP Congressman : " We have enough problems with Watergate , but if the economy is sour we 'll really go down the drain next year . " Democrats , for their part , already are seizing on Phase 4 as another reason to kick Mr. Nixon . " Over the next few weeks and months , there will be serious transition pains , especially in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will continue to pay the consequences of the administration 's disastrous . .. policies , " says Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts . Senate Democratic Whip Robert Byrd weighs in with this gibe : " Controlling and decontrolling , freezing and unfreezing , and the perpetuation of instability and uncertainty can never become a satisfactory substitute for sound economic policy . " Democrats seem totally confident that Phase 4 will , in fact , worsen Mr. Nixon 's woes . Says one House Democrat , " The President has botched up so badly in the past that there 's no way out of it for him now . "                     