@@731704

txt Tanzania 's socialist experiment , once hailed as the most hopeful in Africa . is in trouble . After years of being considered the shining example on this vast and struggling continent , the East African country now faces failure in its efforts to collectivize a massive but scattered rural population . Two years of drought , oil price increases , and a stubborn population are forcing the government to reassess the nation 's most basic program . The collectives ? similar to Israel 's kibbutz and Russia 's kolldioz ? are called ujamaas , a swahili word meaning familyhood . How it was to work As outlined originally in 1967 , the ujamaas were to pull together the country 's predominantly rural population in communal farm villages of up to 3,000 people , where education , utilities , and basic services could be more efficiently provided . Villagers would retain most rights to their land , but otherwise evolve into a cooperative society . The concept was hindered from the start by the reluctance of the peasant population to abandon their traditional settlements . Wealthier tribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the parched central plains , initially enthusiastic about the effort , were often disillusioned by inadequate housing and the absence of promised services at the new sites . The problems , first disclosed in a still secret report by economists at the University of Dar es Salaam , basically are the lack of incentive and involvement in the decisionmaking process . As a foreign official explained : " In the most advanced ujamaa cooperatives members no longer work their individual shambas ( farms ) , but are little more than farm labor on state land . " Speedup attempted By early 1974 less than one-quarter of the 12 million population had moved into ujamaas . In an attempt to hasten the shift President Julius Nyerere declared last Spring that the entire rural population would have to move by the end of 1976 . Lower level and military officials took the statement to mean that force should be applied and subsequently there were reports of brutality throughout the country . Huts were burned down and shambas were sometimes plowed under to prevent the former inhabitants from returning . The resulting confusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year drought aggravated the already tense situation . As far back as April , flour , rice and milk were unavailable . Gasoline is now being rationed , meat is a rare luxury , and prices for what little is available have increased by an average of 50 percent . Trade money runs out The combined impact of troubles with the drought and ujamaas has broad implications : ? Long an unaligned nation ? which is a rarity in Africa ? Tanzania has no foreign reserves left and recently had to obtain overseas credits for almost $250 million to buy basic foodstuffs . Officials fear that the aid requests may be attached to political concessions . ? More serious is the prospect of a poor 1975 crop . Mr. Nyerere has already said that Tanzania is " faced with serious famine next year in which many people could die . " ? Political repercussions may result from the tension caused by ujamaa failure and drought , as happened this year in the drought-stricken nations of Ethiopia and Niger . This is particularly possible , according to a high-level foreign diplomat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single political party . Proposals ignored A World Bank report assessing Tanzania 's agriculture program recently made recommendations that certain incentive programs be implemented and that a private sector be started . But party officials of the Tanzania African Nationalist Union , who are currently touring the country to assess the situation , have so far not shown interest in any of the proposals . There is some hope in the potential wealth of this East African nation 's mineral deposits . But it will take many years before they can be developed and channeled into needed revenue .                     