@@728669

txt Somehow , despite all the stirring in this nation over Cambodia and the economy , the Republicans are mounting a political campaign that may very well be successful in wresting the Senate from the Democrats . More than anything , the Republicans have been able to come up with some particularly attractive candidates in states where Democratic senators are vulnerable . The chief GOP challenge  --  only seven more seats are needed for the Republicans to take over the upper house  --  will come in the following states with Democratic incumbents : Texas , Tennessee , Ohio , Connecticut . Florida , Nevada , and New Mexico . Economic upturn seen Beyond that the Republicans have what might be called " good prospects " in Senate races in Utah , North Dakota , Wyoming , New Jersey , Michigan , Maryland , and Indiana . Of the 35 Senate seats up for election this year , 25 are in Democratic hands now  --  hence the sizable GOP opportunity here . Republican leaders are banking on an upturn in the economy and a cooling down of tempers over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But with such candidates or likely candidates as U.S. Reps . Robert Taft Jr . in Ohio , George Bush in Texas , William C. Cramer or Judge G. Harrold Carswell in Florida , Mrs. George Romney in Michigan , Rep. William E. Brock III in Tennessee , Anderson Carter in New Mexico , Nelson Gross in New Jersey , and Rep. Thomas S. Kleppe in North Dakota , to name only a few  --  the Republicans seem set to make strong Senate bids , even if the President is beset with popularity-depleting problems in early November . Indiana outlook In Maryland there is more and more talk of a politically attractive Republican congressman , Rep. J. Glenn Beall Jr. , taking on incumbent Sen. Joseph D. Tydings . Mr. Beall is being seen now as a possible winner , should he decide to make the race . In Indiana U.S. Rep. Richard L. Roudebush and State Treasurer John Snyder provide the Republicans with good material for a strong Senate race to upset the Democratic incumbent , Vance Hartke . Other emerging GOP candidates , with particularly strong political appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Senate primaries , include U.S. Rep. John S. Wold in Wyoming , Rep. Clark MacGregor in Minnesota , State Attorney General John Danforth in Missouri , Rep. Laurence J. Burton in Utah , District Attorney William Raggio in Nevada , and Rep. Lowell P. Weicker Jr . in Connecticut .                     