@@729424

txt Leonid Brezhnev , the Communist party leader , called on the Western powers today to begin exploratory negotiations on reductions in military forces and ' armaments in Central Europe . ? Speaking in Tiflis , the capital of Soviet Georgia , at ceremonies marking the 50th anni ! versary of Soviet control of that Caucasian republic , Mr. Brezhnev said the Soviet Union would do everything in its power " to achieve the strengthMning of the peaceful coexist . Mnce of states , regardless of their social system . " He proposed troop reductions in his address to the 24th Congress of the Communist party on March 30 . The move attracted some interest in Westem capitals at the time because it was similar . to proposals ' made by members of the North : Atlantic Treaty Organization . The timing of Mr. Brezhnev 's ' remarks suggested that the Kremlin might have decided to press harder on the issue as a way of attracting flagging Western interest in the Soviet bloc 's much-discussed idea of a conference on European seenrity . The Soviet leader , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech , said he wanted to talk about one point in the Western reaction to his congress address . " Some of the NATO countries show an evident interest , and even some nervousness , concerning the reduction of armed forces and armaments in Central Europe , " he said . " Their representatives ask : Whose armed forces , foreign or national ? What armaments , nuclear or conventional , are to be reduced ? Could it be , they1 ask , that the Soviet proposals encompass all this taken to-gether ? " A Light Brezhnev Touch Then Mr. Brezhnev , in one of his infrequent light touches ? aimed this time at the Georgian audience , whose people are fabled for their wine-drinking exH ploits  --  added : " In this connection , we too have a question : Do n't those curious people seem like a person that tries to judge the flavor of wine by its appearance without tasting it ? If something is not clear to somebody , we are quite ready to make it clear . " " All you have to do is muster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste , " he said . " Translated into diplomatic language this means : Start negotiations . " The Soviet leader 's remarks follow a call by Mike Mansfield , the Senate majority leader , for a unilateral 50 percent cut in the 310.000-man American force in Europe . At the party congress Mr. Brezhnev spoke in more conciliatory terms than usual about the United States , and since then senior Soviet officials have said they had been ordered to negotiate seriously on outstanding differences . He listed a six-point package , wrapping up many old Soviet ( proposals . The fourth point said : " We stand for the dismantling of foreign military bases . We stand for a reduction of forces and armaments in areas where the military confrontation is especially dangerous . Western diplomats have inquired , as Mr. Brezhnev indicated , whether the proposal envisaged only the reduction of foreign troops , which would weaken Western defenses the most because the Russians are close by . There has been interest in whether Mr. Brezhnev was contemplating talks by the two military blocs  --  NATO and the Warsaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The latter is assumed , but is not clear , nor did Mr. Brezhnev elucidate today . His remarks about the Soviet domestic scene were largely ceremonial . Of interest was a prolonged 12-second burst of applause given by the Georgians in the audience on the mention of the name of Stalin as a leading Georgian hero . Though the dictator has been discredited elsewhere in the country , he remains something of folk hero where he was born .                     