@@733162

txt Letters ELIAS M. SCHWARZBARTNACK YOUNG ANRODERICK COOKFRANK THOMPSON Jr.ROBERT A. CLE ... Letters The B-1 Decision and the Arms Race To the Editor : Tom Wicker has said it best ( July 3 ) : President Carter has earned ' an " A-1 on the B-i , " His decision was a victory for moral courage and clear thinking . Great consequences follow . 1 . The decision was not merely against the B-1 . It was for a far superior , less costly and less vulnerable nuclear delivery system , based on the strategic cruise missile , which I had described as our " ace in the hole " in a Jan. 21 letter . It not only strengthens the air component but , since it can also be launched from land or sea , is an important auxiliary of our entire triadic system of nuclear defense . 2 . The decision marks the first stage of a realistic reassessment of our selfdeceptive doctrine of " mutual deterrence , " which was never accepted by the Russians and succeeded only in deterring us. 3 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic planning into the 1980 's and has thus been irrevocably placed outside the framework of the SALT 11 negotiations . Consequently , the entire approach to SALT II and its link to Mutual Balanced Force Reduction must be rethought on both sides , with a return to fundamentals. 4 . The fundamentals are that the ineluctable laws of war are not repealed by technology or by wishful thinking . As Clausewitz taught , the object of war ( grand strategy ) will always be victory , for which military superiority , material and strategic , is quintessential . In the nuclear age , nuclear war and conventional war are complements , not alternatives . Consequently , for victory ( or to avoid defeat ) , it is necessary to have both a first-strike capacity and the capability of conducting ( or halting ) a superblitzkrieg . The Russian Communist leaders , following the early teachings of Engels , who was also a profound Clausewitzean military thinker , have always understood this , have armed for it and are on the verge of achievTo the Editor : The House ethics committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of Congress , embarked upor. a rather dubious course of action which might tarnish the integrity of honorable men and women , due to its failure to consider the practice of gilt-giving within the context of Korean customs . It seems that the Park Tongsun episode has been blown out of proportion because of the lack of understanding of the rather extravagant gift-giving practices among Koreans . Gift-giving carries an entirely different connotation in this country where a gift is usually cherished for its token value or the thoughtfulness the gift embodies : while in Korea a gift is considered an expression of sharing oneself with others . Gift-giving clearly signifies a fine Oriental . virtue of generous self-giving . In Korea , for instance , Dutch-treating among friends is absolutely abhorred  --  indeed , unheard-of . Anyone  --  including some of the vehement critics of the Korean Government  --  who is familiar with Korean culture would not find lavish gift-giving practices out of bounds or en attempt to compromise the integrity of the recipient . Needless to say , the fault lies with the givers who did not comprehend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it should net be considered such a morally reprehensible act , inasmuch as gifts To the Editor : On January 21 , President Carter issued a general pardon for draft resisters who fled conscription in the Vietnam War . He further ordered an individual review for those who entered the military and then were given undesirable discharges for violation of the Military Code . Congress now proposes that funds be denied for the upgrading of military discharges and for the re-entry of the 2,000 or more young men who fled the draft . Thus , we again face the delicate problem of Executive versus Congressional power . A page from history is instructive . In July of 1862 , Congress authorized the seizure and confiscation of all property owned by those participating " in the existing rebellion . " The property was to be sold , and the proceeds deposited in the Treasury . Those who had not given aid or comfort to the rebellion could eue for damages resulting from erroneous seizure . In December of 181i3 , President Lincoln issued it blanket pardon offering the return of all seized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December of 1864 , the Union Army laid siege to Savannah , where Edward Padeiford , a major banker , had stored over a thousand bales of cotton that was subsequently seized . He immediately took the " oath of amnesty and allegiance " and sued for the return of his seized cotton . The Supreme Court affirmed a judgment of more than $100,000 in his favor . Congress promptly amended a pending appropriations bill to deny all funds for the payment of judgments based on the Presidential pardon . Defending this action , the Attorney General ( in U.S. v. Klein ) argued that Congress alone has the power to dispose of United States properties and therefore , in spite of the pardon , could deny al-61171 ing it , if they have not already done so . Will we grasp this lesson in time ? 5 . The cruise missile Is not an absolute weapon ( there is none ) but it can help to buy us what is desperately needed : time  --  time to meet and turn the Russian challenge , if we have the understanding and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visibly improve if our President would explain to the people that we can not continue along the present path , deluding ourselves that saline solutions like SALT II , III , etc. , can prevent , or alter the laws of war . He must help us to summon the courage to look into the abyss and say : The only escape for nations from the scourge of war is for the great powers to transcend both SALT II and M.B.F.R. and to move together to destroy the capacity to make war ? through rapid , mutual , progressive disarmament , both nuclear and conventional , with on-site inspection and verification at each stage , with open borders and free movements of peoples . There is no other way . But if that fails , and without mutuality it must fail , there is no choice but for America to proceed with its Sisyphean task . Butz M. SCHWARZBART New York , July 4 , 1977 were given in most instances by Koreans who feel eternally Indebted to the American people for what they have done for them . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy influence should go unpunished , but the committee should take into account the delicate cultural differences in the gift-giving practice ? ; and not go ovettboard in its investigations . ( Assoc . Prof. ) NACK YOUNG tkii Political Science , Georgia State Unify , Atlanta , July 5 , 1977 Inferior Stamp Glue To the Editor : The Post Office seems to have hit upon an ingenious new fund-raisiCg , device  --  inferior glue . Several tirnee. during the last weeks , I have had letters " returned for postage " as the stamps had simply fallen off in transit or self-destructed in the mailbox . Some of them were large letters to Europe , which amounted to quite a large double investment . My complaint to the F.D.R. Station led to the serious suggestion that I go to the information counter for a lesson in stamp-licking . ( I politely declined . ) Surely the service is bad enough without being charged twice for it , in such a devious way ? ReDERICK c00x New York , July 2 , 1977 together , or condition the disposal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying : " To the Executive alone is intrusted the power of pardon " and " it is clear that the Legislature can not change the effect of such a pardon any more than the Executive can change a law . " Hamilton wrote in The Federalist that because " the sense of responsibility is always the strongest in proportion as it is undivided " the President 's pardoning power " should be as little as possible fettered or embarrassed . " He added that " without easy access to exceptions in favor of unfortunate guilt , justice would wear a countenance too sanguinary and cruel . " Thus the question over two centuries : Should we bear the mien of charity , or of malice ? History , and President Carter , opt for charity . One hopes Congress on sober reflection Will . too . FRANK THOMPSON Jr . Member of Congress . 4th Dist. , N. J. Washington , July 1 , 1977 To the Editor . The first goal e the B-1 campaign was to terminate the weapons system itself . This was clearly accomplished . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together the corporations , the Pentagon , the labor unions and the Congress : to show how weapons systems are conceived , approved , funded , promoted , produced and deployed . This , too , was accomplished in some degree . The third goal was to raise fundamental questions about the meaning of national security and the militarizelion of American foreign policy , using the B-1 as symbol par excellence . Our success or failure in achieving this goal will be revealed in the weeks immediately ahead . To the extent that the Administration is allowed to replace an obsolescent technology ( the manned bomber ) with a new and even more dangerous technology ( the cruise missile ) , it can be assumed that the public , the press and the Congress have failed w learn the most crucial lessons of the B-1 campaign . ROBERT A. CLELAND Chmn. , North Shore Committee Clergy &; Laity Concerned Wilmette , III. , July 4 , 1977 ? To the Editor : The recent B-1 - decision will make some people happy . But before they rejoice too much , they 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deciding not to produce B-1 's will not recover the $5 billion already committed or necessary to complete the research and development which Mr. Carter has promised to finish . To this must be added another $5 billion to update the ' B-52 fleet , add cruise missiles , etc . In computing costs of the B-1 , critics like to use the Pentagon 's technique of life-cycle costing , whereas they frequently leave off life-cycle costs for competitive systems . Last night I heard commentators say that the $100 million B-1 will be replaced by the $500,000 cruise missile , ignoring many factors like R. &D.,; spare parts and maintenance , etc . But the largest effect is likely to be elsewhere than in the immediate costs of the systems . Deciding not to replace the ancient B-52 , we will be under pressure to replace the Minuteman with the M-X , a silo buster of extreme accuracy ( and cost ) . And once we into production on the cruise missile , there is no way we can predict the outcome . The Soviets will be compelled to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they did not stop at 1,000 land-based I.C.B.M. 's , we will be disappointed with their decision to build more cruise missiles than we build . Also , we will be completely confused about how many they have built , where they are stored or what they expect to do with them . The President is moving away from a world of known weapons systems where all major weapons can be counted and tracked for a world of imponderables about weapons . He could not have found a way to add more to the arms race than he has done by this decision . As in the case of Minuteman , he will have traded a temporary advantage in technology for a loosened control over weapons in general . If we thought the triad was a valid concept , why must we go on to the tetrad , with all the problems a whole new weapons system entails ? JOHN L. Falls Church , Va. , July 1 , 1977 The writer is former Secretary of the Air Force . Morality and Abortion To the Editor : The Times 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elective abortions ? with its intemperate language about " dark ages of hypocrisy and deceit , " " epidemic of unwanted children , " and " immoral gibberish " ? obviously bespeaks chagrin at the failure of Congress and the Supreme Court to force taxpayers to participate in medically unnecessary abortions through government subsidies to the abortionists . Congress clearly has a right to deter-. mine how public funds are to be spent , and the people clearly have a right to petition Congress not to use their money to destroy innocent lives . It is strange that The Times is so anxious to impose its own peculiar ideas of morality on the rest of the nation . MICHAEL SCHWARTZ Associate Exec . Dir . Catholic League For Religious and Civil Rights Milwaukee , Wis. , June 29 , 1977 Gift-Giving : An Old Korean Custom Charity or Malice ' Toward Those Who Fled Draft                     