@@731062

txt New advances have been made toward normal diplomatic relations between the United States and China , according to American officials in the Kissinger party on their way home from Peking . They point to joint communiques issued Wednesday in Peking as a concrete expression of this progress . Specifically , they refer to : 1 . A different nuance in China 's wording of its precondition for full and normal relations . 2 . Broader emphasis on the importance of " frequent contact at authoritative levels . " 3 . Expanded application of the general principles stated in the 1972 Shanghai communique , beyond the Asian-Pacific region to the world in general . 4 . Projections for a quantitative and qualitative upgrading of the two countries ' liaison offices . In a Tokyo press briefing on Wednesday , the American officials declined to be more specific in defin-*Please turn to Page 16 *Steps to U. S. link // ing China 's change of nuance on the key issue of normalization . But they said this nuance would permit a definite further evolution in relations between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might include a bending by Peking in its present refusal to establish full diplomatic relations as long as the U.S. recognizes Taiwan . But they spoke of the new communique as establishing principles that now will be explored further for concrete implementation . In particular , they pointed to the difference between last year 's and this year 's Chinese statements on the subject : This year the Chinese side said merely that " The normalization of relations between China and the U.S. can be realized only on the basis of confirming the principle of one China . " Last year 's demands Last year the Chinese statement was much more demanding : " The Taiwan question is the crucial question obstructing the normalization of relations between China and the United States ; . . . the liberation of Taiwan is China 's internal affair in which no other country has the right to interfere , and all U.S forces and military installations must be withdrawn from Taiwan . " For its part the U.S. position on one China " remains word for word the same as in last year 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese on either side of the Taiwan Strait maintain there is but one China and that Taiwan is a part of China ; the United States Government does not challenge that position . " Similarly , nothing appeared in this year 's communique about American military forces on Taiwan . In theearlier Shanghai communique the U.S. declared it would " progressively reduce its forces and military installations on Taiwan as the tension in the area diminishes . " American officials declined to say whether the omission in this year 's communique means the requirement for lessening of tension has been fulfilled . They noted , however , that the process of military reduction is in fact being fulfilled . Withdrawals of forces in the past 18 months have brought AmeriCan troop levels down to something over 6,000 . Broadening process In general , the American officials sketched an ongoing broadening process in U.S.-China relations . As part of this , they noted that this year 's call for " frequent contact " is not tied , as last year , to visits to Peking by Americans . They refused to speculate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high-level Chinese leader . In the new communique both sides noted that " international relationships are in a period of intense change , " and said : " The two sides agreed that in present circumstances it is of particular importance to maintain frequent contact at authoritative levels in order to exchange views , and . . . to engage in concrete consultations on issues of mutual concern . " , Functions expand ? The projected upgrading of the liaison offices could include both numbers of personnel and scope of functions , the American officials indicated . They noted that the dividing line between a liaison office and an official embassy would probably erode , and that the liason offices already perform many diplomatic functions . These might be expanded , they suggested , to include some trade responsibilities .                     