@@733123

txt AT LEAST TWO persons were killed and more than two dozen injured , including 15 policemen , when gunfire and rioting erupted Saturday during a Puerto Rican . Independence Day celebration in Humboldt Park on the city 's West Side , More than " 8npersons were arrested . More than 100 helmeted policemen confronted an estimated : LOW rioters who virtually took over Division Street In the area bordering the park . Rioters smashed windows in three police vehi ? cloy , then set them afire . Police attempted to close the park , but were turned back by crowds hurling bricks , bottles , rocks , sticks , chairs , and other debris . DEAD ON ARRIVAL at St. Elizabeth 's Hospital were Rafael Cruz , 25 , and Julio Osorio , 26 , both of whom suffered gunshot wounds . Police Lt. Carl Maggio of the Woad Street District was admitted to St. Mary 's in good condition with an injured right hand . Doctors said he would undergo surgery on Monday . Fourteen other police officers , including Commander Aurelio Garcia of the Wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacerations anti abrasions . At least seven persons were reported shot and taken to Norwegimr  --  American Hospital ; another five who were injured , including a 10-month-old-baby , were taken to St. Mary 's . Two others were taken to Walther Hospital with injuries . WITNESSES min TROUBLE broke out late Saturday afternoon when a member of the Latin Kings street gang was shot in the leg by a member of a newly formed rival gang as members of // the two groups were celebrating in the park . As police were taking a suspect to a patrol wagon , the suspect began resisting , witnesses said . When police tried to subdue him , picnickers became angry and began hurling objects . Angry crowds who confronted police in Division Street chased away two television crews and a newspaper reporter . WBBM radio reporter Prank Grenard , 20 , was taken to St. Mary 's Hospital with a broken left hand and lacerations to the head , Patrolman John . Keane of the Wood Street District said Grenard was working alongside a Channel 2 film crew shooting pictures of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St , when ' some rioters attacked him . Witnesses said police fired directly at a group of 00 or more rioters who threw a torrent or rocks , bottles , bricks , and other debris at them . The rioting was the worst in Chicago 's Latin community since June , DK when seven persons were shot , more than two dozen hurt , and 37 arrested in two nights of rioting . A policeman , describing the action in the park , said he and other officers in a patrol wagon " went-to pick up injured and prisoners , We got as far as the ZOO block of Division Street , then we were hit with bricks and rocks . People were shooting at us so we turned around and got out of there . "                     