@@732467

txt Steven Kara. giants ' funeral was hold Friday , three blocks from the jailhouse cell where he hanged himself in desperation after . he was mistakenly arrested on a warrant that had been dismissed . Meanwhile , a reporter 's check of circumstances surrounding his death early Wednesday turned up several procedural mistakes in the police handling of the ease , Police said only that an internal investigation was underway . The 20-year-old youth whose body was found hanging by his trousers from his cell door was said to have been terrified of incarceration since ho was jailed for three months for possession of two marijuana cigarets . IRONICALLY , It was Karaglanis ' freedom on probation that led to his rearrest and to his taking his life despite a frantic jailhouse plea to " get me out of here ? I ca n't stand it . " About 75 relatives and young friends attended the 10-minute Greek Orthodox funeral rites . The youth 's father , John , and his mother , Muriel , sobbed during the services . From the funeral home in this city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Karagianis ' body was borne in a 25-car motorcade to burial in a Queens cemetery , within the city . KARAGIANIS WAS DEAF In one ear and a poor reader . He dropped out of high school after his freshman year . He tried the Navy but was honorably discharged after a few months for learning deficiency . The youth had worked for a Yonkers service station , but at the time of his suicide he was unemployed . Police sources said Karagianis had minor brushes with the law before his sentencing last year to a year In jail for marijuana possession . He was released on probation in December after three months . " Ile had a very difficult time in prison , " a friend said . " When he came home he was terrified of over having to go back . He never really mentioned any specific incidents but it must have been terrible . Ile used to shudder at just the thought or mention of jail . " HERE IS THE SEQUENCE of events that led to Karagianis ' death , according to sources ; Shortly after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Karagianis ' arrest as a probation violator : . Specifies were not available on why the warrant was issued but It was dismissed in January in Westchester County Court and notice of its cancellation sent over the sheriff 's computerized teletype system to all police agencies . However , Yonkers police claimed they never received notice of the warrant 's cancellation . On March 4 , members of the uniformed warrants squad went to Karagianis ' home , a white frame house in a middle-class neighborhood where he lived with his parents and a brother , John . KARAGIANIS WAS NOT home but his mother told the officers of the warrant 's dismissal . When they left . she said she called lawyer Jeremiah Gutman . He notified the sheriff 's department that there had been a mistake and on March 9 the dismissal notice was fed back into the computer and again relayed to all units . After Karagianis ' death , Ills father complained bitterly : " You ca n't trust a boy 's life to a computer . " About 11 p.m . Tuesday , two officers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violation . APPARENTLY ONE of the officers remembered Karagianis and was aware a warrant had been out . Police withheld the name of the officer . However , normal police procedure // // Muriel Karagianis places flowers on coffin of her son Steven Friday . Her husband , John , takes her arm at funeral In New York City . would have been for the officer to radio police headquarters , first to check on whether the car had been stolen , and secondly to Inquire about the status of the warrant . A source said no such check was requested . A test of the computer Friday found that it had properly recorded and stored notice of the warrant 's dismissal . THE ARRESTING officer took KaragJanis to the North Command station-house , and there he was allowed to call home . " Get me out of here , " his mother quoted him as saying . " I Ca n't stand RI " Ile was booked asa probation violator , then sent to Central Booking , a ndlo away , where he was locked in a cell . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrests are made by the department 's uniformed Warrants Squad and added : " this Is almost unheard of for a policeman on patrol to make a warrants arrest and not members of the warrants squad . " MEANWHILE , Mrs. Haraglanis called Gutman who said he called Central Booking and explained the warrant had been dismissed . Gutman said be was told nothing could be done until court opened In the morning . Gutman said he then told the officer : " Keep your eye on him because lie 's very depressed and is even more depressed now because of his incarceration . " Such a warning normally would lead to a suicide watch . Police sources said no such watch was ordered .                     