@@733299

txt Evidently protest is so popular in South Africa these days that Prime Minister Vorster wants his white supporters to do some protesting too . The target will be outsiders  --  the Carter Administration in particular ? who have lately been increasingly outspoken in their criticism of his government 's racial policies . The vehicle for protest will be a snap election among South Africa 's whites  --  the only group that has the vote  --  on Nov. 30 , a year and a half before they would have been required . Mr. Vorster wants the electorate " to say whether they agree with my standpoint and that of my ministers that no other country has the right to interfere in our affairs or prescribe to us . " Underlying this effort to rally the faithful  --  more and more of whom have lately expressed their dismay at some of the government 's policies  --  is a plan for more fundamental change . The new parliament 's major task will be to approve a new constitution that would create two new assemblies , supplementing the present parliament that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2.4 million persons of mixed race ( " coloreds " in South African parlance ) , the other the-750,000 Indians ( or " Asians " ) . Each would supposedly legislate for its own community . The majority in each would appoint members  --  six whites , three " coloreds , " two Asians  --  to a council that would , in turn , elect a strong president with sweeping executive powers . The transparent purpose of this exercise would be to assure that political power will remain in the hands of the ruling National Party , while co-opting the minority " coloreds " and Asians and keeping them from common action with the country 's black majority of 18.6 million . Blacks would be allowed to participate only in the politics of ' the nominally independent " tribal homelands " where some 8.6 million of them live . The 10 million " urban blacks " outside the homelands would have no role in the central government and would remain subject to severe restrictions over every aspect of their lives . This effort is unlikely to buy the National Party any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Mondale and United Nations Ambassador Andrew Young  --  have asserted that South Africa should aim toward a system of " one man , one vote , " a formula which Mr. Vorster finds particularly offensive . The Americans fully understand that " one man , one vote " could not be attained overnight ; in a society as complex as that of South Africa , progress toward such a goal must be deliberate , and the goal itself might long have to be tempered with constitutional provisions to protect minority rights . South Africans truly willing to admit blacks to political society might devise different arrangements , but in any event , blacks need to be represented fully in the councils that design the nation 's evolving system . Until South Africa 's suppressed blacks are granted basic political rights and liberties , outsiders are certainly justified in pressing for a system that conforms to democratic concepts . Judged against such standards , the new charter seems sadly wanting . That conclusion has already been reached by leaders of South Africa 's " colored " and Asian communities , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Vorster 's decision to proceed despite this dissent seems a stubborn and futile gesture . It is unlikely to gain him respite from the harsh winds blowing both within South Africa and from abroad .                     