@@732186

txt The report will make some clear findings , of wrongdoings and failures of proper command and control , of inexcusable actions . , . in a whole series of assassinations and assassination attempts that extend through three administrations . " Sen. Frank Church D. , Idaho has lowered his voice . He leans closer , as if he is t a l k i n g about something so bad he does n't want to be overheard . Now and then voices break in from the other offices where they are worried about more mundane things , like press releases , making coffee , finding car keys , and solving constautents ' probChurch is late to a meeting with the group from his Select Senate Intelligence Committee that is drawing up the final report on CIA involvement in esnassination plow He is late , so he sits in the straight-backed chair like a jockey waiting for the gate to open . " HE IIAS SO many halls In the air that I do n't see how he does it , " an Hide says . Still in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearings , with their press and TV coverage , turn Frank Church into a presidential candidate ? At 51 , Church has a smooth , young , full face and sad , very serious , brown eyes . The eyes of the boy orator who grew up to face death and barely won . The eyes of a boy wonder elected to the Senate at 32 who sees the leaves beginning to fall . Now he seems to be everywhere . Turn on the evening news , he is there . Pick up the paper , he is on page one . CHURCH IS chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee holding hearings into questionable or illegal activities by the CIA , National Security Agency , the Federal Bureau of Investigation , the Internal Revenue Service , and so on . He is chairman of the multinational subcommittee investigating bribery by United States corporations abroad . He is a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee which looked into the American role in the Egyptian-Israeli Sinai agreement . And he would like to be President . In the back offices there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are already talking about who will be his chief speechwriter . And he has brought in a newsman from Idaho and a public relations man to handle the press . Church himself talks as if it is n't a sure thing , even though he admits people have been urging him to let them raise money and form a committee for him before it is too late . He walks along the long , dim hall , a tall broadchested figure , talking about the campaign while hurrying to the subcommittee meeting and apologizing for having to hurry . " I do n't know where this thing the intelligence investigation will bring me out , " he says . " I do n't know what the shape of the party will be by then . Maybe it will be too late . But I 'm not going to do anything , no matter what I decide , until after this . " TO CRITICS , Church has been using the intelligence hearings as a forum to gain exposure so he will be a household word by the time he enters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee 's failure to hold public hearings on the plot he feels would have revealed the role of John and Robert Kennedy in authorizing the CIA to plan the assassination of Fidel Castro . Because of this " picking and choosing , instead of laying it all out , " the committee has appeared to be concentrating on such quickie headline-grabbers as shellfish poisons , dart guns , and FBI break-ins , the Republican critic said . SO FAR THE hearings have lacked the oomph  --  and thus the TV coverage  --  to turn Church into an Estes Kefauver or Sam Ervin . Public television began by covering the hearings live , but finally gave up . More than one obscure ' but " talented member of Congress has used televised hearings to make his name a household word . The most notable is Sen. Kefauver D. , Tenn. , who was propelled by a Senate racketeering investigation into contention for the 1952. and 1956 presi : dential nominations . The most , recent is Sen. Howard Baker R. ; Tenn. , relatively unknown nationally until he became ranking Republican on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far , Church feels the investigation is the most important thing he has been involved in , topping the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 's hearings on the Viet Nam war , which , he said , ' gave legitimacy to the protests " against the war . Although he has a reputation for integrity and honesty at a time when both are politically rare , he grinds on the nerves of some of his fellow Democrats , including liberals . " CHURCH IS another small-state politician , " a Democratic strategist says . " ' Another ! A no ther Goldwater ! Who needs it ? Church , could n't figure out national politics if you gave him a madman . " " Church Is u loner , " another Democrat complains , applying another standard of big-city politics and finding him wanting . " He smiles a lot , but I do n't think ' ve ever heard him tell a joke . He takes himself too seriously . Just like does . " He has a reason for being serious . While at Stanford Law School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : death within six months . But he survived , cured , after X-rays that burned out the malignancy . Ironically Church 's first job in government service was in the intelligence field ? as a young Army officer in ' World War II whose daily duties included producing an intelligence estimate of Japanese troop strength . Now in his fourth six-year term , he has a Senate reputation as a pragmatic liberal , unusually articulate and ever ready to compromise . BORN JOLT 25 , 1924 , is Boise . Church is the son of conservative Republican parents whose opposition to Roosevelt 's New Deal obviously did not influence him . Church was Impressed more by the liberal views of Chase A. Clark , a Democratic governor of Idaho and U. S. District judge whose daughter , Betidne , Church married in 1947 . Now at this moment Church does n't seem Interested in talking about politics . Behind the ' glasses the brown eyes sharpen only when he talks about the report on assassinations , about the CIA , and " the glimpses into this world of mystery . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nailed to the wall on the basis of the evidence , well the press is going to be disappointed . , When you read it there will be enough evidence there that you will be able to make up your own mind about what happened in these cases . .. " But , he adds , his voice low and quiet , " you would n't as a juror make a finding beyond a reasonable doubt that would indict a man or put a man in prison or hang him , because there are too many gaps and contradictions in the evidence . "                     