@@731989

txt When Charles de Gaulle blackballed Britain 's first bid to join the European Common Market in 1963 , the man who had directed London 's thwarted effort in Brussels declared : " We in Britain are not going to turn our backs on Europe ; we are a part of Europe by geography , history , culture , trade and civilization . " Edward Heath , who spoke those words , has now had his prophecy fulfilled , though not in the way he had in mind on that bleak January day in Brussels . In an unprecedented national referendum  --  which Mr. Heath opposed as destructive of the parliamentary system  --  the British people have voted overwhelmingly to cross at last those 21 miles of English Channel and link their destiny to that of eight partners in mainland Europe . As Prime Minister during the first four years of this decade , Mr. Heath thought the die had been cast when he led Britain into the European Community in 1973 . But the opposition Labor party , which ousted his Conservative Government last year , decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for British participation and then leave final action on membership up to the voters . Hence the referendum , which has endorsed the Community more decisively than even ardent proEuropeans had expected . The result brings great relief to the Common Market , to the other eight member-governments and also to the United States , which for twenty years has viewed British participation in the European unity movement as desirable for the over-all economic and political strength of the West . But Britain 's economic malaise coupled with the situation that led to the referendum and the way the campaign was waged inevitably pose questions about how good a " European " Britain will be . Die-hard opponents of the Europe connection were mostly from the Labor . party left  --  including seven Cabinet ministers and powerful union leaders  --  and the far right of the Conservatives . Right-wing Tories pose no problem ; but it is difficult to believe that Prime Minister Harold Wilson will now get full-hearted cooperation from the left-wing ministers and union chiefs , whose antipathy for Europe was so intense that they won the right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson will probably now reshuffle his Cabinet to remove implacable Common Market foes from jobs that would bring them into frequent negotiations with their European counterparts ; but the question is whether concern for their views will continue to affect Britain 's conduct in the Community . The European members , who have tolerated a great deal of British foot-dragging over the last fifteen months , would find more of the same intolerable . In a verdict that cut right across party lines , nearly every part of the United Kingdom  --  including even Northern Ireland , Wales and Scotland , where opposition to the Common Market was supposedly heaviest  --  has repudiated the anti-Europe forces . Britain can expect no miracles from membership , but it will have wider opportunities  --  and get more help  --  for reviving its ailing economy . It will also have the chance to play a far more influential international political role than it ever could do on its own . What is necessary now is for Harold Wilson to shelve his obsession with surface Labor party unity and act as Prime Minister of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one that , as he said yesterday , conclusively ends " fourteen years of national argument " over Britain 's role in Europe .                     