@@730313

txt President Anwar el-Sadat 's decision today to ask for withdrawal of Soviet military advisers and experts from Egypt has been attributed by informed Arab quarters here to mounting domestic pressure . Last week , An Nahar , a newspaper here , printed the text of what it described as a note submitted to Mr. Sadat in April by 10 Egyptians who had once held prominent Government posts . They criticized Cairo for " over-dependence on the Soviet Union . " Among the signers were Abdel Latif Baghdadi and Kamal Eddine Hussein , who were members of the junta that in 1952 carried out the coup d'etat that toppled the monarchy . Mr. Sadat himself had mentioned the note in a speech in Cairo in May and promised that it would be provided for publication in the press , but it was not . An Nahar said a copy had been delivered to one of its executives while on a visit to Paris . The note , which said that the Russians were promoting their position in Egypt without actually helping the country recover the Arab territory that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opposition to Mr. Sadat in Egypt was rising with the growing Soviet presence . Debate in Cairo Press In recent weeks , a debate has been going on in the statecontrolled press in Cairo about whether the current state of no war and no peace in the Middle East was in the interest of the Soviet Union . Mohammed Hassanein Heykal , editor of Cairo 's authoriH tative newspaper Al Ahram , said that the Russians were benefiting from this state of affairs but not so much as Israel and the United States . The Russians showed signs of annoyance . President Niko- , lai V. Podgorny , during the visit to Moscow earlier this ' month by the Syrian President , Hafez al-Assad , declared that the assertion that the Russian , ' were seeking to perpetuate thel Middle Eastern stalemate was " a lie . " At a meeting in April of the Central Committee of the Arab Socialist Union , Egypt 's sole political organization , 75 per cent of the questions put to Mr. Sadat by the members pertained to the Soviet presence in Egypt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases in Egypt and what kind of control they had in the Egyptian Army . Mr. Sadat repeatedly emphasized that there were no Soviet bases in Egypt but that the Russians were getting only " facilities " for their navy at Egyptian Mediterranean ports . Bid to U.S. Seen Informed sources believe that President Sadat 's final decision to get the Soviet troops out may have been caused by pressure from the Egyptian Army . The press here recently reported friction between the Soviet advisers and high-ranking Egyptian officers . A prominent Soviet military technician was reported to have been deported after making a joke about the Egyptian soldiers in the presence of Maj. Gen. SaadHussein al-Shazli , the Egyptian Chief of Staff . Unconfirmed reports here tonight said there had been a movement against Mr. Sadat in the army and that it had been checked after the President had agreed to scale down the Soviet military presence in Egypt . The reports said that the Egyptian high command last month submitted a memorandum to Mr. Sadat saying that exercises by Egyptian forces in the last six months had showed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the SAM-2 and SAM3 missile lanuchers . Soviet min. tary technicians were brought to Egypt to install them in the spring of 1970 . The reported memorandum was said to have concluded that there was no longer any need for the Soviet advisers . Mr. Sadat 's political advisers , informed sources said , concurred , maintaining that removal of Soviet troops from Egypt could advance the country 's international prestige as well as her bargaining position in a Middle Eastern settlement . It is believed that Mr. Sadat 's move would deprive Israel of one of her main ' arguments against Egypt . As a result of the Soviet military build-up in Egypt ; the Israelis had obtained considerable military assistance from United States . Mr. Sadat , who has said he is seeking a peaceful settlement , is thought to be seeking to encourage the United States to undertake a new initiative aimed at insuring Israeli withdrawal from Arab territory occupied in 1967 . The withdrawal of Soviet military advisers is thought to diminish considerably the chances of a Soviet-United States confrontation . ? Mr. Sadat 's main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a constant critic of Moscow and has objected to Arab treaties with the . Russians . The Egyptian President is believed to have discussed the matter with Syria , his other main Arab ally , when the Syrian President stopped in Cairo earlier this month on his way home after four days of talks in Moscow . Syria , though dependent on Soviet military assistance , has been reluctant to bring in large numbers of Soviet military advisers . About 500 Soviet trainers are believed to have aided Syria 's 150,000-man military forces since the 1967 war . Syria refused to follow Egypt and Iraq in signing a treaty of friendship ' and cooperation with the Soviet Union .                     