@@733156

txt CHICAGO BUSINESS loader Patrick O'Malley angrily resigned from the Regional Transportation Authority Board budget . after It failed to agree on a new O'Malley later said his letter of resignation was delivered to Mayor Effendi ? after the RTA meeting . He had not consulted Bilandic before walking out of the stormy RTA board meeting and submitting his resignation , O'Malley said . THE RESIGNATION made O'Malley the second Chicago member on the nineman board to resign in frustration . Pastore Cafferty resigned earlier this month , contending the board had become too involved with administrative detail and was not spending enough time on transportation matters . O'Malley left the meeting just before the board reversed a previous decision and voted 6 to 2 against adopting an " austerity budget . " Earlier this year it voted down a proposed 5 per cent gas tax , forcing the RTA staff to come up with an austerity budget in time for the June 30 budget deadline . The deadline is set by state law . The board agreed to meet at 2:30 p.m . Wednesday to try to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The " austerity " budget proposal cuts . RTA spending on area transit services by $55 million , . the amount that would he raised by a 5 per cent gasoline tax in the six-county Chicago area . City members led by O'Malley fought for board adoption of the tax , and suburban members , complaining that too much RTA money is spent on the Chicago Transit Authority , fought it steadily , O'MALLEY , A CHICAGO businessman and civic leader , urged the rest of the board to resign with him before he walked out of the chaotic meeting which various members described as a " charade . " " I do n't know what the hell Is going on here , ' Evanston board member D. FDrailtdiaeyl.Baldino said of the board 's action Baldino said later he would be willing to vote for a 5 per cent gas tax for the Chicago area if certain conditions are met in the 1978 budget . The RTA board may not have sufficient votes to pass the tax or budget O'Malley quits RTA board Austerity budget fails ; new vote set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement with the Chicago delegation . BY LAW , SIX BOARD members must vote to approve the tax and budget . The five city members supported it , but the four suburban members previously voted against it . But with O'Malley 's announced resig ? nation and the absence of Chicago tabor leader James Kemp , who said he will be -Y out of town next week , it appears that at least two more suburban swing votes would be needed for approval . At least two of the three other suburDam members say they are adamantly opposed to a 5 per cent tax in the suburbs . LAST YEAR , THE RTA board was unable to pass its budget by June 30 because of a dispute between city and suburban members . The action resulted in a temporary cutoff of funds to transportation systems in the Chicago area , requiring many to borrow money to meet their payrolls . The budget was passed 13 days late . " I am thoroughly disgusted , " said O'Malley before he walked out . " We have clearly not met the mandate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corp . and the Chicago Park District board , then urged the other eight board members to join him in resigning . O'Malley made his statement after the board , as a prelude to considering the austerity budget , voted themselves a pay cut totaling $24,000 for the nine members . " If we 're cutting everyone else , we might as well cut ourselves by 12 per cent , " Udine said . Before the board voted down the austerity budget Chicago member Nicholas Rosen warned of substantial cuts in service and possible fare increases if the austerity budget were approved .                     