@@733348

txt President Carter told a group of Jewish leaders tonight that " intemperance or partisanship " should not he allowed to thwart what he said might be " the best opportunity for a permanent Middle East peace settlement in our lifetime . " Mr. Carter thus not only appeared unwilling to bend under increasingly strong Jewish and pro-Israeli criticism of his policy but also seemed to suggest that too fervent support of some Israeli positions might harm Israel by hampering negotiations . Mr. Carter appeared at a meeting of the General Council of the World Jewish Congress to speak before an audience of about 800 Jewish leaders from 41 countries . 2 Men Interrupt Speech Many elements of the President 's speech were conciliatory and meant to reassure those who felt his policy had tilted too far toward positions vigorously opposed by Israel . However , he firmly restated the main elements of his Administration 's policy that have drawn criticism and caused disquiet among Israel 's supporters . Mr. Carter was interrupted early in his speech by two young men in the dinner audience , who rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what about your betrayal of Israel ? " and " You are stabbing Israel in the back . " As the two men left the hall , the audi- ence gave President Carter a standing ovation . At other points in the speech , Mr. Carter was interrupted by applause , but only at passages in which he reaffirmed American support for Israel and for human rights . As expected , the audience sat mute when he spoke of issues such as Israeli withdrawal from occupied territories and United States disapproval of settlements in occupied territories . Some passages of the speech seemed to combine firmness and conciliation . The President , for instance , said the United States " will continue to encourage a constructive solution to the Palestinian question . " But he added that it would do so " in a framework which does not threaten the interests of any of the concerned parties , yet respects the legitimate rights of the Palestinians . " " We ourselves do not prefer an independent Palestinian state on the West Bank " of the Jordan River , Mr. Carter said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiate the solution . Mr. Carter seemed to discount any possibility that the United States would use military and economic assistance as a lever to put pressure on Israel , saying the size of the aid ' is " without parallel in history " and that " our aid will continue . " On the other hand , he evoked some phrases and policies of recent weeks that aroused unease and anger in the AmeriAssociated Press President Carter holding Torah before addressing meeting of World Jewish Congress in Washington . can Jewish community . He said that the United States had called on the Soviet Union , as co-chairman of the Geneva peace conference on the Middle East , " to use its influence constructively . " This was a reference to a joint statement by the United States and the Soviet Union on Oct. 1 , which aroused considerable opposition and criticism . Tonight , he again used the ? phrase " legitimate rights " of the Palestinian people , which had drawn most of the criticism of the joint statement . The 1973 Geneva conference adjourned after a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconvene it by the end of this year . Israeli Settlements Criticized Mr. Carter also said that " one source of Arab concern about Israeli intentions has been the establishment of civilian settlements in territories currently under occupation , " adding that the United States considered these settlements to be in violation of an international convention on occupied territories . In what might have been an attempt to reassure Israel that it would not he forced to deal directly with major officials of the Palestine Liberation Organization , Mr. Carter said that the procedural arrangements reached at the Geneva peace conference in December 1973 " will be a good basis for the reconvened conference . " Those procedures , in effect , gave Israel and the other participants the right to veto the invitation of a new participant . But Mr. Carter said that a " resolution of the Palestinian question " was one of the major questions facing the Middle East and " all will have to be resolved . " Mr. Carter outlined the terms of the so-called " working paper " on procedures for reconvening the Geneva conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated they might reject . The working paper provides , among other things , that Israel would discuss the future of the West Bank and of the Gaza Strip with an Arab group consisting of Jordan , Egypt and " the Palestinian Arabs . " " This can provide the means for the Palestinian voice to he heard in the shaping of a Middle East peace , and this represents a positive and constructive step , " Mr. Carter said . The President , who received the Nahum Goldmann Award for support of human rights , seemed to wish to warn his audience that narrow suspicion of his policies could endanger Israel 's long-term interest . Contending that the chance for peace was perhaps the best in " our lifetime , " Mr. Carter said : " We must not let it slip away . " " This is not a time for Intemperance or partisanship , " he added . " It is a time for strong and responsible leadership and a willingness to explore carefully and thoughtfully the intentions of others . " " Much still needs to he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Carter added . He said the Arab countries had " accepted Israel 's statlis as a nation " and were " increasingly willing to work toward peace treaties . " " Nor do they dispute Israel 's right to live , within secure and . recognized bor. ders , ' " the President declared .                     