@@729768

txt In somewhat the same manner as these mothers and children prepare for festive ceremonies in Kyoto , Japan , the Sato government awaits , with some trepidation , reservations , and doubts , the arrival next week of U.S. Treasury Secretary John B. Connally Jr . Surtaxes , the yen , TV exports , and textile trade will be the grist of conversation . Tokyo is bracing itself for the visit next week of United States Treasury Secretary John B. ConrallY Jr . No one is quite sure if the U.S. is ready for serious economic negotiations yet , or specifically what Washington 's real negotiating proposals will be . The Japanese are sure , however , that Mr. Connally  --  who is viewed here as the architect of American " over-their-heads " economic diplomacy ? will be tough . The general expectation in Japanese Government and financial circles is that Mr. Connally , who has been publicly vested with wide-ranging authority by Mr. Nixon , will now get down to the concrete proposals and counterproposals that the U.S. has heretofore skirted . Contrary evidence is offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party of any senior staff officials on monetary affairs such as Paul A. Volcker or John R. Petty . Politicians to decide Uncertainty and unpredictability are compounded by the fact that decisions now are clearly out of the hands of the bureaucrats and in the hands of the top-level politicians on both sides . Even high-ranking officials , in Japanese ministries concerned with the trade , currency , and other economic issues pending between the two countries say they do not know how Prime Minister Eisaku Sato will move . Likewise , high-ranking U.S. Embassy officials in Tokyo say they - do not really know how President Nixon will move . For their part , the Japanese are staking out an advance bargaining position ' of , roughly , a $5 billion turnaround in the U.S. **40;615;TOOLONG revaluation of the yen of under 10 percent , as against expressed American desires for $13 billion turnaround and ( by implication ) something like a 20 percent revaluation of the yen . U.S. demands hinted What any of these turnaround targets might mean in practice is still very much a matter of conjecture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and capital liberalization , restraints on Japanese exports , and probably increased purchases of American weapons by Japan that would cut down the huge Japanese trade surplus with the U.S. Japan , despite protests by the export-minded Ministry of International Trade and Industry and the protectionist Ministry of Agriculture , is willing to talk in terms of a package . But at this stage it is impossible to . nail down anything more definite . The New York Times did report earlier this week that U.S. demands include limitations on Japanese auto and color - TV exports to the U.S. , import liberalization for computers and agricultural products coming into Japan , and an increased sharing of American defense costs in Asia .                     