@@732386

txt Governor Carey announced today that , beginning April 1 , state-chartered banks would be required to disclose the geographic sites of their mortgage loans as the first step in a state effort to identify and eliminate the practice of " redlining . " Under a regulation issued today by the state 's Banking Department , the banks will have to disclose all loans in their mortgage portfolios by census tract , to permit the department to correlate the loan information with Federal census data on the economic and ethnic makeup of the area . " Redlining " is the alleged practice of refusing to make any mortgage loans in a certain neighborhood , regardless of the merits of specific properties or the credit standing of prospective borrowers . Banks have denied engaging in such a practice . " For many years we have heard that redlining existed in New York State , and we have known what the consequences were for the neighborhoods affected by it , " Governor Carey said at a news conference in his office here . " No neighborhood of our state should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  it is intolerable ? and I am determined that the proper steps be taken now to bring an end to the redlining practice as rapidly as possible . " As further explained at the news conference by John G. Heimann , the Superintendent of Banks , the banks ' reports ? to be made public periodically ? will provide the statistical basis for possible legislative action on redlining in the 1977 session . The redlining issue has been a volatile one in Albany . Last year the Assembly linked redlining with the issue of allowing savings banks to offer checking accounts . It did so in a single bill that required the savings banks to set up a S3 billion mortgage pool for deteriorating neighborhoods in return for checking-account privileges . That bill died in tile Senate , and there was some speculation today that by addressing the redlining question as a separate issue , Mr. Carey was seeking to avoid a repetition of that stalemate and clear the way for a separate consideration of the checking-account issue . Bill Being Prepared At today 's news conference , Mr. Carey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checking account question . His top aides are known to be preparing a bill that would give checking accounts to the savings banks and also provide for the election of savings-banks trustees by depositors . The new Banking Department regulation does not apply to federally chartered banks , which hold 46 percent of banking assets in the state . But a new Federal law requires similar disclosure by these banks , and Mr. Heimann said he expected the Federal banks to cooperate voluntarily with the state program . Several top executives of state-chartered savings and commercial banks flanked the Governor and Mr. Heimann at the news conference and expressed their support for the regulation . " It will be a pleasant change to he dealing with facts instead of with guesses and accusations about redlining , " Albert 13 . Hooke , first vice president of the Savings Banks Association of New York State , said in a statement . At his first general news conference here in weeks , Mr. Carey also made the following other points : CI.He offered warm , spontaneous nraise for his Environmental Conservation Commissioner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters of policy in recent weeks . In announcing plans to close the Hudson River to most commercial fishing because of chemical contamination , Mr. Reid acted " out of a keen sense of public duty " and " with my full support , " the Governor said . Mr. Carey also raised the possibility , without elaboration , that the General Electric Company , the principal source of the PCB contamination  --  derived from the polychlorinated biphenyls used in the production of capacitors  --  that led to Mr. Reid 's action , might be asked to pay damages to the commercial fisherman for their loss of income . " We may well he seeking some form of indemnification , " he said . t ! Mr. Carey in effect reiterated his intention to veto the so-called Stavisky bill , which would limit New York City 's right to cut its education budget . " Any attempt to chop up the fiscal plan and piecemeal it destroys the effectiveness of the ( Emergency Financial Control Board , " he said . Passed more than two weeks ago , it has yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor 's aides believe the Legisla ! ture is holding the bill to allow ! public pressure against a veto ; to mount .                     