@@728789

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 28 Letters to the Editor of The Times Party Bossism Issue To the Editor : I have been troubled for some time by your persistent editorial apposition to Democratic candidates for state or city office who appear to have the support of what remains of the regular Democratic organization . You were faithful to this position in your preprimary editorial which endorsed Arthur Goldberg but diminished its support by criticism of his candidacy as the product of " boss " rule . Hard on the heels of the grudging Goldberg endorsement came a column of James Reston , published the morning after Primary Day , in which Mr. Reston complained about the evidence of public apathy seen in the low vote in the New York primary . The cause of this apathy , says John Gardner , whose comments Reston set forth and apparently endorsed , is that the individual now feels that he can not affect the system and is therefore withdrawing from participation . I suspect that Messrs . Reston and Gardner may have a part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy contributes to the problem rather than to its solution . Public 's Role Public participation in politics throughout our history has been exercised through party organizations . When the parties are fractionalized ? as they have been recently in New York , with your open approval and encouragement  --  the public is not only confused but also moved to withdraw from participation in party politics . Granted that some party leaders are not as liberal as your editorial board would like them to be , and conceding that some few of them may even be corrupt , there is no reason to throw out the baby with the bath water . We need a viable party system as a , vehicle for public participation , and your blind criticism of all activities of party leaders , whom you automatically call " bosses , " can only discourage public interest in party politics . What is called for is wider participation in the party organizations , not destruction of the organizations . My conclusion is that rather than detracting from Mr. Goldberg 's candidacy because he had the support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wider public participation in politics sought by Mr. Reston , and been fairer to the Democratic leaders and Mr. Goldberg , if you had congratulated the party leaders on having this time selected and supported a respected and qualified candidate for Governor . BERNARD A. HELFAT New York , Aug. 1 , 1970 ? Claim to Blue Lake To the Editor : I read with interest and applauded your July 15 editorial " Justice for the First Americans . " I was particularly pleased with your remarks on the Blue Lake claim of the Taos Pueblo here in New Mexico . To all of those in this country who oppose the Blue Lake issue because they fear it could set a precedent for other Indian groups to claim great tracts of land , I would like to point out that giving Blue . Lake back to Taos Pueblo could in no way set a precedent . The people of Taos Pueblo laid their claim to Blue Lake and the surrounding 48,000 acres legally , through the U.S. Indian Claims Commission . That body , created by the Government , contacted all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laid claim to lands for which they had received no compensation . There were hundreds of claims , all investigated thoroukhly by the commission ; hundreds of claims were processed and thousands of dollars paid to Indian groups in this country for land taken from them by the Government . Legally , there can be no further claims . In my opinion ? and I am a lawyer by profession ? no court in the land would award another claim under these circumstances . It would be well to point out here that the Indian ? Claims Commission found in favor of Taos Pueblo , but because the Pueblo people would not accept monetary payment for these lands , Congress has not seen fit to award their claim . The Indians who settled for monetary payment have received their money and forgot= ten their claims . Only Taos Pueblo has yet to see justice . In addition , there is the question of religion , and I think this is very important . First of all , the people of Taos Pueblo have used the Blue Lake area as a religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soil , Not only is Blue Lake important religiously to the Taos people , but so is every other lake in that area . Other lakes of religious significance to the Taos people are Deer Lake and Water Bird Lake , both sister lakes to Blue Lake . However , the significance of Blue Lake and the Blue Lake watershed to the religious life of other pueblos and Indian groups in the Southwest is just as'important . The streams leading out of Blue fake are considered arteries by other tribal groups and thus are very important to Indians other than those who are native to Taos Pueblo . The waters of this lake are literally the lifeblood of the Indian religion of the area . - DAVID F. CARGO Governor of New Mexico Santa Fe , July 30 , 1970 ? Stand on Gas Leases To the Editor : I was surprised to read in your July 27 news story , " State May Limit Utilities on New Gas Customers , " the statement attributed to Joseph C. Swidler , chairman of the New York State Public Service Commission . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interior was " influenced by the oil industry " in being " very slow " to approve leases in the , Gulf of Mexico . It is ' all the more . surprising to read these remarks of Mr. Swidler since he was represented at Interior 's mid-July lease hearings affecting the Gulf of Mexico . Mr. Swidler 's representative must surely have heard witness after witness from various segments of the petroleum business , recommend early and favorable consideration of the lease applications submitted to Interior . Both the American Gas Association and the American Petroleum Institute urged early exploration and development of the proposed lease gea to help alleviate the current shortage of natural gas reserves and to meet the increasingly larger consumer demands in the future . This same point was made over and over again by numerous other witnesses representing oil or gas companies and other groups . Anyone who was present at or who read press accounts of the hearings could have no doubts as to the petroleum industry 's position on the proposed lease sale . Without exception , industry witnesses ? in the words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this proposed sale be held at the earliest possible time as a beginning of industry 's and Government 's renewed efforts to satisfy the growing energy demands of our nation . " Anyone who takes the time to review the industry 's testimony at the hearings will agree that the petroleum industry ? far from favoring a " go slow " policy  --  has urged swift approval of the lease applications by the Department of the Interior . FRANK N. IKARD President American Petroleum Institute New York , July 29 , 1970 ? Futile Venture To the Editor : What has been all wrong with our policy and the resulting situation in Vietnam is that it has ignored the fact that we made a fUndamental mistake when we involved ourselves ' in the war in Vietnam . What our political leaders seem unable to comprehend is the fact that there is a destiny to be fulfilled in Asia that we can not alter in the long run , a destiny that ultimately and inevitably rests solely in the hands of the hundreds of millions of people who are the permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but transients , can only temporarily influence the course of events in Southeast Asia . This fact in turn means that what we are doing in Vietnam can be completely nullified in time by events that will be beyond our control once we have withdrawn from Southeast Asia , as we are bound to do sooner or later since we are not permanent inhabitants of that part of the world . The trouble is that while ? most Americans have now come to realize that a tragic - mistake was made , very few have the courage to advocate the one and only way such a mistake can be truly and unqualifiedly corrected , and that is by an unconditional , unilateral withdrawal of our forces from Vietnam . To do so is not a defeat , but a realistic recognition of the untenable position we occupy . Any other course is merely a beating around the hush and an evasion of the issue . Mistakes involving the loss ON A BOTTLE ( Rescued from the San Francisco Earthquake and Fire ) PACIFIC SODA WATER Across the face embossed , And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among air bubbles Within the seagreen glass As fresh as in the sea ? This bottle , lately lost Within our own Pompeii And rescued yesterday ( Our history is brief ) , Quick peer of Roman , Greek , Now equally antique . ERNEST KROLL of human lives are grave matters and inevitably costly , and we have already paid a grievous price for our mistake . The question is : how long are we going to continue dooming American lives in a futile venture , with nothing to show for it in the end ? For the fact remains that lives and resources so lost are expended and sacrificed in vain . That is the prospect we face , in my judgment , just so long as we remain in Vietnam . EMERSON C. IVES Pawling , N. Y ? July 22 , 1970 ? British Problem To the Editor : As a Belfast Catholic , thirteen years resident in New York , I was extremely amused at the naivete manifest in Joseph Darby 's July 23 letter . The Northern Ireland problem in its present form ( extant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i.e. , Lord Randolph Churchill , Clement Atlee , et al. , for political capital ? so much for British " proctorship . " Indeed it is Britain 's problem , one created by her , and one which she is unable to solve . If the reaction to the situation is chaotic , it is because that situation is evil and allowed to exist by a democratic country , to wit : gerrymandering , disenfranchisement , unfair labor and housing practices and religious intolerance and persecution , to say nothing of colonial partitioning . Mr. Darby would do well to direct his attention to the history of his adopted city and country before indulging in any enthusiastic toasting of " disciplined and dedicated " Mother England . DAVID J. KEON Kew Gardens , N. Y. July 24 , 1970 ? Per Capita School Tax To the Editor : ' In this time of population explosion and with the Roman Catholic hierarchy trying by every means possible to obtain public tax support for its parochial schools , would it not seem more equitable to the taxpayers of every religious faith and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per capita school tax for each child in excess of two or three per family ? Since this one religious denomination opposes birth control , certainly its members should bear the concomitant result by paying for the education of their children when they have large families . This is just as fair as taxing single persons , childless couples and corporations for the public schools , not to mention the demands of this one religious organization for a religious tax from everyone to support their parochial schools . Under no circumstance should the citizenry be double ? taxed for parallel and competing systems of public and pri . vote religious schools . . M. V. LITTLE Chairman , Committee to Preserve Religious Liberty in the New York State Constitution Rockville Centre , L. I. July 15 , 1970                     