@@728537

txt Many of Columbia University 's leading scholars and teachers have formed an organization of tenured faculty members to fight campus violence , which they attribute to " the actions of a minuscule group of extremists . " In its first public statement , the Council of Tenured Faculty of Columbia University said that the small groups of radicals threatened students as well as faculty members . " The university must not be an enclave of illegality , " it said . " Membership in the university does not confer a privilege to break the law , nor does the university have the obligation to protect those who do so . " The action of the tenured faculty members came after a few recent episodes of windowbreaking , disruptions of disciplinary hearings , some brief sit-ins , bomb scares and threats . The temporary chairman of the new council is Charles M. Frankel , professor of philosophy . Other members include Ronald Breslow , chemistry ; Walter Gellhorn , law ; I. I. Rahi , Nobel-winning physicist , and professor emeritus ; Robert Gorham Davis , English ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Samuel Eilenberg , mathematics , and Douglas Damrosch , head of the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center . 100 Signers Although the organization and statement were prepared with little fanfare  --  the draft was not completed until Thursday afternoon  --  nearly 100 professors were said to have signed the statement by yesterday .. Persons close to the faculty estimated that a substantial majority of the 913 tenured faculty members would have signed by the end of next week . The council said that it was aware that many universities were facing similar problems and that much of the unrest stemmed from the war in Vietnam , political and racial tensions and widespread discontent . " The fact that there is violence and madness outside the campus is not an argument for violence and madness on it , " the council added , " It is an argument against such behavior . Attacks on universities today come from many quarters . The Council of Tenured Faculty seeks to strengthen the university against these attacks , from whatever quarter they come . " Warns on Legislation The council noted that government support of universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less sympathetic to the needs of the universities but less aware of the vital role they play in the nation and the world . " It warned of the danger of " unwise punitive legislation . " " Columbia 's teachers , " the council said , " can not be passive in the face of actions on the campus , even though they are the actions of a minuscule group of extremists , students and nonstudents , which involve vandalism and attempted extortion . " The allegation of extortion referred to public demands by some extremists that unless Columbia produced $2-million to bail out the Black Panthers on trial here , considerable damage would be done to the university . The extremists , the council said , are endangering the atmosphere in which a university can function " with the understanding that all questions may Associated Press Dr. Charles M. Frankel , the temporary chairman of the new council at Columbia . 3e asked and no answer for3idden . " Only professors and associate ) rofessors are tenured at Columbia . But the council ex3ressed a strong desire to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the continuing clanfication and renewal of the university 's sense of purpose . " In the defense of free inauiry and individual rights , the . ; ouncil said , " it makes no difference whether one is ' radical ' r ' conservative . " Universities are particularly vulnerable , the council added , because they need honest disnurse , uninhibited inquiry , gentleness and generosity in dealings . " But these . conditions require the university community 's self-discipline , the council emphasized . Long-Term Interests " We can not put our ultimate faith in coercive measures , " it said . " We must put that faith in the willing resolve and selfdiscipline of all of us who teach and learn at Columbia . " The council said that its interests were " long-term " and that it hoped to become a " permanent addition " to the university . " Centers of education , inquiry and discussion , where people can meet together without fear and with the understanding that all questions may be asked and no answer forbidden , are indispensable to the adequate solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are crippled , the condition of our society , no matter what else happens , will be substantially worse . "                     