@@731828

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Of Blacks and the Volunteer Army To the Editor : Your recent editorial " Volunteer Army " implied that the Army 's success in recruiting has been due largely to the recession and associated high unemployment rates . It pictures the ' Army as rapidly drifting toward a predominantly black force , especially in the combat arms . Undoubtedly rising unemployment is increasing applicants for the armed forces . Following the expiration of the draft , the Army failed for months to meet recruiting objectives . However , by June 30 , 1974 , we ended the first official year of the all-volunteer force at 100.6 per cent of our authorized strength . That was before recession and unemployment were major issues . Since then we have been able to continue meeting quantitative goals while progressively raising quality . Actually , labor , business and industry have never been seriously interested in the individuals who make up our prime market  --  the 17- to 21-yearolds . Most of these who do not attend college continue to live with parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlisting many educationally qualified and motivated young men and women for several reasons : Our Army is becoming better and more professional  --  thus , Army life is becoming more attractive ; we have improved the quality and training of our recruiting force and the Army has a number of good enlistment options and programs that are attracting more and more young men and women . Some mistakenly relate military pay raises in recent years to the cost of an all-volunteer force . Any analysis A Geneticist on Safeguards To the Editor : In a Feb. 28 news story I was quoted as having been in partial dissent from the Conference on Genetic Engineering at Asilomar , Calif. , i.e. , that I " regarded the safeguards as virtually unenforceable because of the difficulty of determining , exactly the risk of specific experiments . " The subject of the conference and the implications of its conclusions are both extremely complex , and it would be easy and mischievous to oversimplify them ; and the consequences for the progress of scientific research might then be very serious . Therefore I am bound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what was asserted . My chief concern at the conference was that a set of precautions that are entirely appropriate for certain risks might be prematurely rigidified into a set of bureaucratic regulations that might be very readily enforced beyond the domain of their reasonable application . I am wholeheartedly in support of the spirit and intentions of the conference report but was unwilling to put my name to a document that left many important questions for future determination and whose tone seemed to invite the bureaucratic rigidity just . mentioned . I was simply less optimistic than many of my colleagues that we would To the Editor : Your recent reportings and editorials dealing with the subject of " discrimination against Jews " by Arab countries is a serious matter that ought to he handled positively and more objectively . Discrimination as such for reason of race , religion or color is a phenomenon that has been denounced by almost every human being and forbidden by every religion on this earth . Unfortunately , the line that separates discrimination from freedom of choice is hard to draw ; therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of discrimination . Despite the fact that the Arabs are in a state of war with Israel , Jews living in Arab countries enjoy equal rights , running their successful businesses and enjoying their freedom of religion . Those of them who were torn by dual loyalty were either permitted to go to Israel or were discriminated against for this very reason , i.e. , dual loyalty . This " reason " may be tolerated here in the U.S. , but do we expect the Arabs to , welcome their citizens ' loyalty to their enemies ? Jews and/or Jewish companies have been and are still trading . and doing business with Arab countries , and in some industries , where they are specialized , they almost have a monopoly on Arab markets . A good supporting example is Secretary Kissinger , who is trusted . welcomed , hugged and even kissed by Arabs everywhere . Honesty and fairness is required by I he media here to distinguish between Arab boycott against . Israel and those who support It either militarily or economically. , and discrimination against Jews as such . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabic patents . The U.S. is exercising this freedom of choice in all military shipping contracts and the Department of Agriculture shipping contracts for agricultural commodities . A " blacklist " , is maintained and revised periodically for ships calling at ports of Communist-bloc countries or Communist-controlled areas . Ship owners or operators do not receive their final payments unless they offer " satisfactory evidence of the ship 's future employment during the sixty days following completion of their contract with the U.S. Government . " Noncompliance will cause owners or operators to forfeit their final payment . A blacklisted ship is precluded from buying bunker fuels , etc. in the U.S. , which hits directly at businesses having nothing to do with government . The mishandling of this issue either by the media or ? our politicians will not benefit or further the interests of American business in general or the Jewish business in particular within the Arab markets . MICHAEL . S. SAAH Secy. , Natl . Assn. of Arab Americans Washington , March 3 , 1975 The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Because of the large volume of mail received . we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . Cambodia 's Survival : ' We Look to America ' To the Editor : Your March 3 editorial " For Peace and Welfare " said that more military aid to my country " would only extend Cambodia 's misery a little while longer , " but if aid would help in furthering " political compromise and truce , " " then it would be given willingly . " What is " political compromise and truce " ? Did the Khmer Government not impose on itself a unilateral cease , fire following the Paris Peace Agreements ? Did it not propose a six-point peace proposal on July 6 , 1973 , and then an unconditional peace negotiation proposal on July 9 , 1974 ? Did it not wholeheartedly endorse the United Nations resolution calling for peace talks ? In fact , my Government has invited the Kmers of the other side " to undertake immediately negotiations without prior conditions , at a place and time agreeable to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of any negotiations . What have been the Communist reactions ? An increase of brutal atrocities against an innocent civilian population . The indescribable suffering reflected in news photos is caused by Chinese-made 107mm rockets . In an interview with Newsweek 's Scott Sullivan , Sihanouk declared , " A compromise is and will be absolutely unacceptable . " Your recent editorials on the Khmer situation have advocated capitulation by my Government . But in light of the above facts , on what basis do you propose such a " solution " ? Now that the U.S. wishes to rid itself of its responsibilities in Indochina , are the Khmer people to be told that their five-year struggle for freedom and self-determination has been for nothing ? The opposition has indicated that it will accept only the complete subjugation of the Khmer nation . In our life-and-death struggle we look to America as a means of survival . While it can not be denied that Americans have given much of themselves in Indochina , does it follow that they should be privileged to abandon the continued struggle of small nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burdens as leaders of the Free World ? Must the choice to which lives , ballots and mile upon mile of Khmer refugees fleeing the Communists give testimony he simply ignored ? A. GAFFAR PEANG-METH Press and Information Attach ? Embassy of the Khmer Republic Washington , March 5 , 1975 ? ' A Vast Global Balkan ' To the Editor : With a professor of history as Secretary of State , our Government is surely aware of Bismarck 's famous saying , " For the Balkans I would not risk the bones of one Pomeranian Grenadier . " Post-World War I historians have ascribed to the neglect of that axiom a large role in the downfall of the Kaiser 's Reich . Is not Indochina a vast global Balkan ? MAX STAUB Forest Hills , N. Y. , Feb. 27 , 1975 ? The First Teachers To the Editor : We appreciate your Feb. 26 editorial in support of California 's decision to channel funds into education for fourto eight-year-olds . While this is a promising shift in emphasis , it neglects the crucial years of development from birth to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his relationship to his mother ( or mother-substitute ) and expands to include his father and other close people . If these initial relationships are not . strong and satisfying , a good teacher-student ratio at age four can only be remedial . The damage has already occurred . For the roots of competence , motivation , confidence and language development lie in the infant 's healthy emotional development . Recent research findings demonstrate that well-parented babies are most likely to develop fully their intellectual and emotional potential . If California or any other state wants to avoid a remedial program , attention to and funding for the earliest years of childhood are essential . We have tended to ignore the needs of the first teachers of children : their parents . They are expected to perform their parental roles instinctively , aided per , haps by conflicting advice from relatives , friends and experts . Increasingly , programs like ours are supporting parent and child development , but much more needs to be done . A real headstart must begin at the beginning . JOANNA STRAUSS NAOMI SIEGEL Parent-Child Interaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I , 1975 of payroll costs of the Volunteer Army should exclude the 1971 " catch-up " pay raise . That raise was deserved in the interest of fairness and equity and should have occurred whether we moved to an all-volunteer force or not . As for the Army becoming all-black , these fears have proved unfounded , although total black enlisted content has increased to about 22.5 per cent . In December 1974 , there were about 149,500 black soldiers in the Army , of whom about 29,000 were in the Infantry , Armor or Field Artillery . Further , any recognition of blacks re-enlisting at a rate of 52.2 per cent ( while the Caucasian re-enlistment rate is 30.9 per cent ) should note that blacks comprise only 23.4 per cent of all re-enlistments . Also , 75 per cent of black re-enlistments are in skills other than these combat arms , and most of these other skills are directly transferable to civilian skills . The annual accession rate of nonprior-service blacks entering the Army during the fiscal year 1975 is expected to be about 23 per cent ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the re-enlistment rate and the new volunteer rates are all about even . While black content of the Army is higher than in the general population , this is probably a reflection of that group 's awareness of the fairness and equal opportunities available in the Army . We are proud of what the Army is doing and delighted that your editorials take a look at us from time to time . ( Maj. Gen. ) L. GORDON HILL JR . Chief of Public Information Dept. of the Army Washington , March 4 , 1975 have further opportunities to communicate the detail of a responsive set of regulations that would reflect more precisely than does the actual text of ' the provisional report the actual technical consensus of the group , which was indeed of a high order . JOSHUA LEDERBERG Prof. of Genetics , Stanford University Stanford , Calif. , Feb. 28 , 1975 ? Lefkowitz Comments To the Editor : The readers of The Times are entitled to a comment from me in regard to the paid advertisement in the form of an " Open Letter " which appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation pending in the Department of Law based on complaints received from the public concerning the activities of Therapeutic Hypnosis Inc. and James D. . Under these circumstances , it would be inappropriate to reply to the specific comments contained in the " Open Letter " except to say that this is a complex investigation which requires thorough preparation and study . As far as this office is concerned , appropriate action , if warranted , will be taken within our authority to protect the public interest . LOUIS J. LEFKOWITZ New York State Attorney General New York , March 6 , 1975 Of Arabs , Jews and Blacklists                     