@@733214

txt Letters pg . 16 Letters Mideast : ' Let People Be Free to Move ' To the Editors : President Carter 's magnificent persistence in his stand on human rights is possible because of his clear-sighted , sharp separation of the moral principles from the political interest of the great powers in detente as a possible contribution to the assurance of , and perhaps the exploitation of , their primary objective-in-common ? the avoidance of mutual annihilation . His stand on human rights has already yielded visible movements toward decency by tyrannies all over the world , in spite of an initial attempt by the Russians to kill it by a Pharaonic " hardening of the heart , " and has given rise to hopes of a continued humanization of brutal regimes ? Communist and anti-Communist . A similar separation of the humanitarian from the political is possible in the not so much less frightening Middle East conflict . The issues as to which countries will have what degree of sovereignty , militarized or demilitarized , over what areas of land or sea are proper subjects for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to negotiate the non-negotiable . But whether people should be permitted to move some kilometers from nearer the Mediterranean to nearer the Jordan would seem to be a matter of human rights . Surely this human right of people to move is the real issue , and not the silly smoke screens that have been Of Prisoners , Parole And a ' Guessing Game ' To the Editor : The July 23 letter " To Study Sentencing Practices " was quite revealing . It criticized what it characterized as a guessing game . To guess is to conjecture correctly . Its writer is the New York State Commissioner of Correctional Services . He has previously acknowledged that he knows little about parole . He now advocates that parole decisionmaking should be investigated by a commission at public expense because it is human judgment . That is a substantial revelation . Why did the New York State Department of Correctional Services mimic parole with temporary-release programs if the public and offenders do n't need or profit from discretionary release and supervision ? Is it believed that such decisions should be controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , in our complex state , parole decisions are subordinate , ordinary and should not be insulated by checks and balances against corruption ? Some know that parole costs much less than imprisonment and isolates offenders less from supportive influences . Almost everybody knows parole costs are but a pittance when compared to the cost of crime . Conditional freedom with supervision after release from prison better serves individual and public interests than any other correctional service . Some day the Commissioner of , Correctional Services might learn these facts . He should learn the meaning of the word " guess " before publicly criticizing parole for its accomplishments . Meanwhile let us not be penny-wise and pound-foolish . Let us nurture and not criticize correct conjecture about offenders . Far too little has been proven about them . FRANK L. CALDWELL Commissioner New York State Board of Parole Albany , July 29 , 1977 hastily thrown up : whether the existing settlements should be de jure or only de facto , whether it is only the people already there or additional settlers that should be permitted , whether any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different farms . The real question is , Should people have the right to move to where they , want to move ? But oh , you will say , such movement will prevent a peace because it will prevent the peace conference . This is so only if one or both of the parties are absolutely firm in their conviction that they do not want a real peace . If Israel will never give up land on which a Jew has settled or if any area transferred will have to be judenreinuncontaminated by the presence of any Jews  --  with such attitudes no real peace is possible . Neither side could know any security . It there is to be a real peace , there can be no objection to Arabs living in lsmeL There would have to be freedom of movement for all people in all directions . Meanwhile , the response to Carter 's declarations on human rights is taking the form of Arab countries ' inviting Jews to come back . Even Syria is permitting Jewish brides to join their grooms in America ! Let the conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let people be free to move where they will . Or is Russia to be scolded for prohibiting Jews from moving from Moscow to The Haven To the Editor : Regarding your Aug. 2 news story " Immigrants From India Find Hostility in America " : It ? is a shame that too many of our countrymen have forgotten that ? as Neil Sedaka put it in his song " The Immigrant " ? " there was a time when strangers were welcome here . " GARY E. HINDES Dover , Del. , Aug. 2 , 1977 To the Editor : Having just returned from a research and study trip to West Germany , I wish to share with your readers some recent observations which may be of interest with regard to the frequency of malpractice suits or tragic incidents such as " Hospital Deaths Laid to Mislabeled Gases " news story Aug. 3 . I found that a Patienten-Schutzbund ( Society for the Protection of Patients ) exists in West Germany , which deals with such matters in an apparently efficient way . The very active president of this organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue of a new federal rule on the basis of which every patient discharged from a hospital be given complete diagnostic findings , test results , etc. concerning his or her medical condition so Tel Aviv while Israel is to be scolded for allowing Jews to move from Tel Aviv to Samaria ? AREA P. LERNER Irvine , Calif. , Aug. 2 , 1977 The writer is Distinguished Professor of Economics at the City University of New York . ? On ' Spinsterhood ' To the Editor : Today 's disgusting , sexist , saddening editorial characterizing many Jewish Syrian women as " doomed to nonproductive spinsterhood " indicates to me that , as far as The Times is concerned , women are indeed good for only one thing . How could you ? How could you ? CAROLINE GILMAN Laurelton , N. Y. , Aug. 3 , 1977 From the Editor : Our editorial dealt with the peculiarly circumscribed condition of Syria 's Jewish community . Its few members are virtually cut off from contact with the rest of Syrian society and from the outside world . They are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given the fact that the mores of the society restrict women even more than men , virtually the only role remaining to Jewish women is the traditional one of mother . When this role , also , is denied them , the result is indeed " nonproductive spinsterhood . " We would apply the same criteria to very few other societies . Tobacco Sales Aid To the Editor : Applause for your forthright , vigorous editorial " Tending a Killer Crop " ( Aug. 1 ) , pointing out the Federal Government 's " anomalous position of discouraging cigarette smoking while encouraging the growing of tobacco for cigarettes . " Price supports , you emphasize , are the manner in which the encouragement is rendered . And you conclude that Government " should not be underwriting the health of an industry whose principal product causes so much harm to the health of the nation . " You make out an irrefutable case for the removal of such supports . However , your editorial would have even greater strength and conviction if it also castigated the media which encourage the growing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertisements  --  such as that on page 5 of The Times Magazine of July 31 . A. S. FLAUMENHAFT Lawrence , L , I. , Aug. 1 , 1977 that at any time they are readily available for possible subsequent hospitalizations , visits to doctors , specialists , test comparisons , etc . Unrelated to the above , I also discovered the existence of a wellorganized Society for Leisure Time , an association for the examination and appropriate Gestaltung ( formation and unfolding ) of leisure time and relaxation not only for senior citizens but also for vacationing or unemployed youngsters , widowed or divorced persons , lonely individuals and the like . According to its bylaws , the organization is of help to all those who are isolated or feel forgotten " in a free democratic society , " certainly a progressive viewpoint in a formerly none democratic country . WILLIAM G. NIEDEIU.AND , M.D. Englewood , N.J. , August 3 , 1977 Patient Protection , German Style Blackout : How to Turn a Disaster Into an Opportunity To the Editor : The real story of the blackout of July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hundreds of merchants who were looted or victimized by arson . We do n't know about the hundreds of volunteers who have come forward to help in a variety of ways . This became apparent to me when I volunteered to help the city set up a number of neighborhood business assistance teams to provide technical advice and assistance for blackout victims . Major business corporations , banks , accounting firms , insurance companies , chambers of commerce , trade associations , lawyers and ordinary citizens responded with alacrity to the call to assist their fellow New Yorkers . Because of this response , we were able to establish 14 neighborhood business assistance teams in the areas of the city hardest hit . They have provided technical help on the myriad of problems - confronting businessmen . Our volunteer advisers have been getting extensions of , loans and mortgages , helping , with Small Business Administration loan applications and insurance claims , helping to reconstruct destroyed financial records and showing in many ways that they carer and want to help . Most of the volunteers had never visited the neighbor ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has shown the people there that they really care . No miracles will ensue from this effort , but there are opportunities which can ensue . The communities which failed to defend themselves against the looters now have the chance to show the businesses they need that they must continue . Businesses which were herd pressed even before the blackout now have a second chance with the availability of Federal low-interest loans and other resources to modernize , reorganize and be revitalized . Banks and savings institutions have a chance to show their interest in depressed neighborhoods . Youths too long unemployed have a chance at the very least for some employment during the cleanup period and perhaps longer . The city itself has a chance , if it moves quickly , and thoughtfully , to refurbish whole business areas and in the process to uplift entire neighborhoods . There are some obvious choices to make now and in the future . We can take the dim view and complain that another neighborhood has gone down the drain  --  or we can try to work with community leadership to make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few a real opportunity for the many . If we approach revitalization with a business-as-usual attitude , it wo n't happen  --  and that 's the danger . For with each passing post-blackout day , the deep concern for the immediate emergency and the people involved will diminish . The volunteers who have been so magnificent in a crisis will return to their business and professional pursuits and the victims of the blackout will somehow muddle through . The blackout will be a memory , and we will have lost a magnificent opportunity to turn a disaster into an opportunity . HASKELL L. LAZERE Director , New York Chapter                     