@@734339

txt Iran 's revolutionary leader , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , has finally lost his patience with freedom . After a week that saw the nation plunge into its worst crisis since the revolution , the dour , implacable leader made a series of statements that indicated the dawn of organized suppression had arrived . After threatening to throw the leftists into the " dustbin of oblivion , " he ordered the press and writers to stop their " poisonous " articles against the rev'olution . Then he moved against the rebellious Kurds in the west , ordering the government to crush them at all costs and outlawing the Kurdish Democratic Party , its leader AbdorRaiunan Qassemlou , and Kurdish religious leader Sheikh Ezzedin Hosseini . Aug. 18 he drew tight the final strings on his exclusive Islamic republic , declaring that he would soon reduce Iran to a state of just one or two loyal parties ? presumably the powerful Islamic Republic  --  n Party and its rival Muslim People 's Republican Party . Others , he said , would be banned . Ayatollah Khomeini was unmoved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era of Rastakhiz , the one-party state pursued by the ousted Shah // From page 1 Khomeini policy : Neither country favors any addenda to UN Security Council Resolutions 242 and succeeded only in finding an Israeli-Egyptian consensus against the current thrust of US The ayatollah declared that opposition groups were " poisonous to the health of the revolution . " Their abuse of freedom " has forced us to stop our mild behavior with them . They should be removed , their publications banned , and their activites stopped , so much so that no sign of them be left in the country . " Unfortunately , it is becoming glaringly obvious that the ayatollah 's internal policies are becoming almost a carbon copy of the Shah 's . The crackdown , which had long been predicted by the left , somewhat overshadowed the grand opening Aug. 19 of the assembly of experts that will fashion the final version of the new constitution . Iran has banned the Kurdish Democratic Party , and its leader , Abdor-Rahman Qassemlou , has been stripped from his seat in the 73-member Council of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to heal the scars left by the events of the past week , if he ever wants to . The left has been dispersed ( although the radical Islamic Mujahideen-e Khalq guerrillas continue to hang onto their Tehran headquarters ) but not crushed . It is now largely underground and waiting for time to play into its hands . For now the Fedayeen-e Khalq guerrillas , the vanguard of the left , have declared that they do not intend to use violence . But it is obviously a card they are holding in reserve . In the west the government has claimed victory in breaking the four-day siege of the Kurdish town of Paveh , near the Iraqi border , by rebellious tribesmen . But it is a hollow victory since the Kurds merely melted into the surrounding mountains when government troops arrived , leaving more than 300 bodies , most of them of official revolutionary guards . The authorities reacted wildly to the Kurdish action by executing 11 Kurds accused of causing the trouble , apparently without trial . This tactic worked against the Arabs in the southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uneasy silence by a series of indiscriminate executions . But the Kurds are made of much sterner stuff , and considerable unrest was reported Aug. 19 in the Kurdish town of Mahabad . ? The autonomy-seeking Kurds appear prepared , if necessary , for a protracted guerrilla war that experienced observers say the government 's weakened forces would have extreme difficulty winning . When the Shah was faced with a similar crisis last year , he reacted by belatedly enacting reforms and gradually opening the gates of " liberalization . " Ayatollah Khomeini has done exactly the opposite , in a sense taking the revolution full circle . But the Shah proved that suppression only buys time , and the Ayatollah may find himself with much less time than his predecessor . While both had enormous oil revenues to play with , the Shah also had a strong military and intelligence network . Ayatollah Khomeini 's is still in its embryonic stage . The Shah also had the economic means , albeit inefficient , of processing oil money . Diplomatic observers suggest that the present regime is unable to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back into the economy . With the economy barely struggling along , a problem exacerbated by official incompetence , the dissident groups that now have been cast aside by Ayatollah Khomeini are likely to bide their time before reacting , waiting for the conditions to take their toll in public opinion . " The entire foreign diplomatic community believes that somewhere in Iran is a new shah ' waiting to emerge , " said one Western diplomat . It may prove far more difficult for any new shah to take over than the smoothly planned 1953 coup that brought Muhammad Reza Pahlavi to power or the previous coup by which his father Reza Shah strode into Tehran with a small band of loyal troops and took over with hardly a shot fired . But as the odds stand , few people are willing to place any bets on a lengthy incumbency for Ayatollah Khomeini .                     