@@733305

txt Letters pg . 28 Letters - ? What a Decision for Bakke Will Not Do To the Editor : Civil rights activists assert that a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court supporting Alan Bakke in his suit against the University of California would " seriously hamper the ability of minority groups to overcome the impact of past discrimination in education and employment " ( news story Sept. 13 ) and that " everything that 's happened in the last 20 years would he rolled back " ( N.A.A.C.P. Executive Director Benjamin Hooks ) . But is it really so ? Such a conclusion presupposes that a Supreme Court decision declaring racial quotas unconstitutional would automatically require universities to stop their affirmative action programs and cease in their efforts to provide special help and assistance to minority students . There is no evidence at all to support this assertion . Indeed , the likelihood is that the Supreme Court ? even if it rejects quotas and racial preference in Bakke  --  will insist on the continuation of remedial aid and assistance to minority students . This has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this area . As recently as June 27 , the Supreme Court held that Federal courts may order school districts to provide remedial education programs , such as remedial Of Peaches and Hazards To the Editor : Did Robert K. Phillips of the National Peach Council actually suggest , as you report Sept. 27 , that workers seeking effective contraception be allowed to work with dibromochloropropane ( DBCP ) ? My mouth remains agape at this ludicrous suggestion . Producers of the fumigant shut their eyes for years to the evidence that DBCP might cause sterility . Now , Mr. Phillips suggests that we ignore the evidence that it may cause cancer as well . In a sense , he advocates rat poison for birth control . While thousands of workers continue to die yearly from occupational hazards such as vinyl chloride , asbestos , benzene , coal dust , and coke oven emissions , industry sources maintain an artillery barrage of criticism directed at the Occupational Safety and Health . Administration ( OSHA ) . But what constructive action have they taken ? Sixteen years ago , rats exposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peach Council check workers ' sperm counts over the years ? After evidence of carcinogenicity appeared in 1973 , did they sponsor further animal research ? And even now , have they attempted to locate exposed workers who have quit , moved or retired , and determine whether unusual numbers of them have died of cancer ? To my knowledge , the answer is no. believe that industry has far more effective means available to it for controlling disease in the workplace than does a Federal bureaucracy . But Mr. Phillips 's statement reveals an attitude of deliberate blindness that must impel the rest of us to vigorous support for agencies such as OSHA . EDWIN C. HOLSTEIN , M.D. Internal and Occupational Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center New York , Oct. 5 , 1977 A Feud That Never Was To the Editor : In his recent obituary of my friend Geoffrey T. Hellman , Alden Whitman wrote that Geoffrey " feuded fiercely " with those of his colleagues on The New Yorker who did n't agree with his high opinion of Harold Ross , the founder of the magazine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was with Brendan Gill , " and he went on to say that " the two were reportedly not on speaking terms , though previously they had maintained an amicable relationship . " This is a gross misrepresentation of Geoffrey 's nature ; it is also a damaging untruth about our friendship . Geoffrey was an exceptionally . shy and sweet-natured person and , to my knowledge , he never " feuded fiercely " with anyone , on or off the magazine . Certainly he and I never had a feud . Moreover , having adjacent offices at the magazine , we spoke almost daily up to the time he fell ill , and we often lunched together . It is a fact that as an old friend of Geoffrey 's I was one of the last of his colleagues to be granted the privilege of visiting him as he lay dying . So much for " reportedly " ? a word that has little to recommend its use in write-ups of the distressed living and the defenseless dead . BRENDAN GILL New York , Oct. 1 , 1977 speech and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of illegal school segregation . Is it conceivable that this same Court would suddenly become insensitive to the needs . of minorities and jeopardize the special recruitment ' efforts and remedial programs , such as SEEK and College Discovery ' , that universities throughout the country have undertaken to help minority students ' overcome past inequities ? No decision for Mr. Bakke would require universities to evaluate student applications solely on the : basis of test scores . Nor would it prohibit universities from using flexible admission standards and from evaluating each applicant in terms of his or her own background  --  whether he came from a culturally impoverished home ; the nature and quality of the schools he attended ; whether family circumstances required that he work while attending schools : whether he manifested leadership , industry , perseverance , self-discipline and motivation . What the university may not do is to institutionalize the use of race as a legitimate criterion in evaluating students for adraissioa . A long ime or supreme Court decisions gives rise to the conclusion that there is no contradiction between declaring racial classifications and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with you my reasons for supporting Mario Cuomo 's candidacy for Mayor of the City of New York . I first met Mr. Cuomo when serving on the New York State Steering Committee for the White House Conference on the Handicapped . Mr. Cuomo was co-chairman of that committee which held hearings in different cities throughout New York State . Mr. Cuomo personally chaired almost all of the hearings , sitting for periods as long as 10 hours , listening to each of the persons giving testimony before the committee and , in many instances , personally intervening on behalf of handicapped persons with individual problems . The degree of interest and sincerity that he manifested was far beyond the call of duty and demonstrated clearly the mettle of the man . A politician would have perhaps appeared for a brief exposure and then designated someone else to fulfill the obligations of actually chairing these lengthy sessions . Individual programs and policies can be debated at length . My overriding concern is the measure of the person and his degree of honest concern and integrity . In this regard , Mario @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. Rusxm , M.D. Director , Rehabilitation Medicine Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center Brooklyn , Oct. 1 , 1977 Wrong ' Law To the Editor : Despite New York City 's problems , it sits safely behind its refusal to allow cars to turn right on red . New York State has , in its apparent desire to resemble California , condemned a not insignificant number of its citizens to mutilation and death . The " right turn on red " law has made every intersection with a traffic light an accident waiting to happen . I can list twenty intersections in Great Neck that are absolute disasters , and many more in other areas . Meanwhile , the emergency room at my hospital has seen a significant rise in traffic accident cases in the last two months . The law is unenforceable ; that much must be obvious : What is a " stop ? " But it also breeds carelessness , and that results , inevitably in accidents . The law is wrong , dangerous and illconceived . Governor Carey , repeal it . DAVID S. RABINOWITZ , M.D. Kings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Purse To the Editor : The other day I left my purse on a No. 4 bus going north on Madison Avenue . Only a few hours later , thanks to a series of wonderful people  --  another bus passenger , the bus driver , two dispatchers at the bus garage ? I had the purse in hand again . Nothing whatsoever was missing . ALICE R. CRAEMER New York , Sept. 29 , 1977 quotas unconstitutional and helping disadvantaged students overcome cultural or economic handicaps , thus expanding educational opportunities for America 's historically deprived minorities . There are no grounds to assume that the Supreme Court , even if it rejects quotas and racial preference , will outlaw affirmative action programs to help minority students . To make this unsupported claim is to ignore the record of the courts and to cause unfounded fear and confusion . NAOMI LEVINE , RICHARD.COHEN New York , Oct. 3. 1977 The writers are , respectively , executive director and associate executive director of the American Jewish Congress . ? Colleges Are Fallible ' To the Editor : As a college teacher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the concept of quotas for minority candidates to graduate and undergraduate institutions . Anyone who has been involved in admissions procedures knows that ouestionabie criteria are often used ; with the best will in the world , it is difficult for admissions officers to ignore letters of recommendation from known teachers , records compiled at familiar colleges and schools , advantages derived from a significant share of worldly goods , such as summer courses , trips abroad and foreign languages . In other words , the " haves " are favored , and students with limited financial resources look less attractive , less qualified . Also , any teacher knows that character and commitment count for tar more than raw aptitude , the numbers that appear on test scores . Many more students can ao the loo tnan are many admitted ; in the last stages of the winnowing process , the perceptible differences among candidates are often minute , and the admissions officers are forced to look for any negative factors they can find , in order to arrive at the correct number of acceptances . Finally , guaranteed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary for our own health and survival . As the gap between blacks and whites widens in so many areas , we must confront , and solve , this basic , most difficult problem of our society . Just as we do n't rely on private charity to support the unemployed , we can not hope that compliance with admissions standards perceived as moral will occur voluntarily . Colleges are human and fallible , like the rest of us ; there must be the sanction and encouragement and compulsion of the law to help them fulfill their wider obligations . FRANKLIN W. ROBINSON Williamstown , Mass. , Sept. 26 , 1977 Koch 's Link To the Editor : I am replying to your editorial of Sept. 29 concerning my wish to maintain my present apartment even if 1 become Mayor . If I am fortunate enough to he elected Mayor , I will live in Gracie Mansion . At the gate , I will have a guardhouse , quantities of rooms at my disposal and a magnificent lawn to loll on . It is not life as anyone ? even a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In such a setting , it must be easy to forget the irritations of ordinary life . Where are the realities of having to take a subway to work , of coping With the everyday problems of living in an apartment and doing things for oneself ? These are experiences that I do not want to lose . I do not want to be an imperial Mayor . I want to be the man I have always been , or as close to that as is humanly possible under the circumstances . I know that if there are 12 people in the living room of my apartment , two of them will have to sit on the floor . But I still intend to make as much use of it as I can . I also know that Gracie Mansion is a necessary and splendid base for a Mayor , and it would be dishonest of me to deny that , if I am elected in November , I will look forward to enjoying it . I suppose that some people can live through abstraction ; I require reality . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in downtown Manhattan . That apartment Is now rent-controlled . If I become Mayor , I will negotiate with my landlord to change its status to rent-stabilized . I will gladly bear the increase in the cost of the rent to keep my link with my old and familiar neighborhood . EDWARD I. KOCH New York , Sept. 30 , 1977                     