@@728589

txt At first glance this college town in northern Ohio looks as tho it could be a college town in any part of the midwest . There is the expected glut of motels and restaurants on its outskirts . Its streets are shaded with elm trees and lined with framed Victorian-type homes . There are the usual student beer halls with the usual names near the campus of Kent State university . It is at the gate to the university that you begin to find the unexpected . Near a beautiful tree , white with blossoms , you see an armored personnel carrier from the 107th cavalry . The entrances to the campus are barricaded by state troop . erg in riot helmets , the windshields of their patrol cars taped to prevent shattering should they be hit by rocks . Guardsmen 011 Patrol On the campus itself , where students only a few days ago walked peacefully to and from classes , columns of national guardsmen now patrol with bayonets on their loaded rifles . There is something at Kent State that you would never expect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in Viet Nam or during a ghetto riot but not at a school . It is blood . Blood of the students killed and wounded here today . Tonight near the scene of the shooting a platoon of guardsmen i n camouflaged helmets has taken up combat positions . Their rifles are loaded . A round is in every chamber , the bayonets are fixed . The men squat behind trees or lie prone scanning the parking lot below , squinting thru the growing darkness for sign of a sniper . Not far away more guardsmen are marching on the sidewalks toward other positions . The troops ' mess area is set up next to the R.O.T.C. building which is now a charred rubble . Student radicalr , destroyed it with flares and fire bombs Saturday night protesting the involvement of American troops in Cambodia . This is what the Kent State campus looks like tonight  --  an occupied community in some as yet unnamed war . Nearly all students and faculty have left for home in obedience to an order from Robert I. White , university president . University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students . Allison Krause , 19 , of Pitts-1 burgh , was an art history major with a B average . Jeffrey Glenn Miller , 20 , of Plainview , N. Y. , was a psychology major with a C average . Sandra Lee Scheuer , 20 , of Youngstown , 0. , was majoring in speech and hearing with a B average . William K. Schroeder , psychology major from Lorain , 0. , the fourth youth to be killed , was a dean 's list student with a 3.2 grade point average . The grade point average means that he had a B-plus average                     