@@729033

txt Hounded by human enemies , America 's once huge bands of wild horses are disappearing from the Western plains and mountains . In remote gullies , , . mesas and deserts where only the hardiest survive are the remaining descendants of the tough , small Spanish mustangs brought to the horseless New World by the conquistadores 400 years ago . At the turn of the century , there were an estimated two million wild horses ranging through the ' immense grasslands that run west of the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains , past the Continental Divide and through the deserts beyond to the Pacific Coast . Today , the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior estimates that only 16.000 are alive , scattered in II Western states . The wild horse is hunted down for sport or slaughtered for pet food or killed because it competes for grass with antelope , deer , cattle and sheep . The plight of the horses has touched off a growing movement among conservationists to protect the last of the vanishing bands . But the efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in airplanes still stampede the wild horses till they drop from exhaustion . capture them and sell them as horsemeat for 6 cents a pound . The story of the horses , and the efforts to save them , is told in a just-published book , " America 's Last Wild Horses . " by Hope Ryden of New York , a documentary film producer for A.B.C . News . Miss Ryden said , " They need protection from cruelty and extinction . Many livestock people want to remove all predators and competitors . // If there is no economic gain , then they feel the animal has no right to exist . " Only rarely does a traveler in the West catch sight of a wild stallion standing on a hilltop , a half mile or more off the road , his mares downhill out of sight , testing the wind and watching for enemies . " You occasionally see one and it 's the thrill of a lifetime , " said Mrs. Velma ( Wild Horse Annie ) Johnston of Reno , Nev. , who has been an almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever see is a cloud of dust after they are gone . It 's their stubborn ability to survive that makes them so remarkable . " In their argument for saving the horses , the words of defenders are filled with such emotion and wonder . They be . lieve the horses are part of American history and should he preserved as much as Plymouth Rock , the Gettysburg battlefields or the giant Sequoia trees . A Hunter 's Viewpoint But sentiment does not move Chester ( Chug ) Utter , an airplane pilot and mustanger who lives near Reno . He said he captured 40,000 horses over 14 years for the Bureau of Land Management before quitting two years ago . In those days , the bureau sold the animals at auction to all comers . Mr. Utter said wild horse preserves should he set up on Government land by those who wish to save them . " Otherwise there 'll he 50 , - 000 running around the mountains and the average tourist will never get to see them , " said Mr. Utter . " You need every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do n't have any ax to grind either way . But I 'd much rather have wild game than a bunch of horses you ca n't do nothing with . You ca n't catch them on horseback . " Professor C. Wayne Cook , head of the range sciences department of Colorado State University , said the horses should be saved because of their history and their place as part of man 's natural surroundings . They played a large role in the life of the plains Indians and in the development of the West . Dr. Cook acknowledged the emotional factor in the movement for preserving them . " We have so many horse lovers and the majority do n't want to see the horse abused . " But Dr. Cook cautioned that there should he some control over the numbers of wild horses lest thry multiply ton quickly and become too competitive for grazing lands . Mrs. Johnston says that at the present rate of hunting mustangs , they will all be gone in eight years . She is president of the International Society for the Protection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Calif . It was largely through her efforts that the so-called Wild Horse Annie Law was passed by Congress . It prohibits hunting of unbranded horses by motor vehicles and airplanes on public lands . Mrs. Johnston said hunters get around the law by putting a branded mare out with the wild horses and then gathering up the whole group a year later , a practice which is allowed by the Bureau of Land Management . Mrs. Johnson wants to secure Federal protection for the few remaining wild horses . A bill introduced by United States Senator Clifford P. Hansen , Republican of Wyoming , which would have given the Department of the Interior custody over the animals , died in committee this year . Mrs. Johnson and those associated with her hope to get a similar bill considered in the next session of Congress . Preserves Established Thus far , there are only two wild horse preserves on the Federal land controlled by the Bureau of Land Management . A group of citizens of Lovell , Wyo. , started a fight to save 200 horses in the Pryor Mountains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureau set up a 35,000-acre preserve for the horses . Another 200 horses are roaming in a 300,000-acre site in the southern desert of Nevada . This preserve , however , is less than ideal . The land is part of the Nellis Air Force bombing and gunnery range and the Nevada test site of the Atomic Energy Commission . In Oshoto , 120 miles east of Sheridan , Wy. , Robert E. Brislawn , an 80-year  --  old rancher , began searching out pureblooded Spanish mustangs 50 years ago from herds that even then were beginning to decline . Mr. Brislawn 's special intest was in horses of Barb or Andalusian ancestry that were carried to the North American continent by the early Spanish explorers . The horses can survive on next to nothing in the remote areas to which man has driven them . The direct descendants of the Spanish horses are marked by their small stature , Roman noses and the lack of a sixth large lumbar vertebra that is found in most modern horses . Mr. Brislawn , called the " Wyoming Kid , " is every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his 3,000 acre Cayuse Ranch near Oshoto . A Day on the Range After a midmorning drink of bourbon , cut with 7-Up , and swallowed in the bunk house filled with newspaper clippings , sleeping cats and dogs and mountains of odds and ends , Mr. Brislawn and his son , Emmett , set out with the family to find some of the horses . The animals roam free on his land and the stallions choose their own mares as they do in the wild . A black stud was seen first , only a silhouette on the hilltop , head up and alert , watching to see if it was a friend or foe who stopped the pickup truck on the gravel road below him . Sensing no danger , and apparently remembering past snacks of oats , he moved downhill toward the Brislawns . A harem of eight or 10 mares and their colts appeared , moving over the top of the hill , and followed iihn , breaking into a trot . Soon the small , excitable horses were milling around a laughing Mrs. Emmett Brislawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as she dumped coffee cans of oats on the ground The animals ' long manes and tails were matted with burrs and they danced away on unshod hooves at any unexpected movement . The Wyoming Kid was in among them , wearing his smooth-top 10-gallon hat , shouting to his son about the merits of one of the mares . Later , bouncing over the roadless grassy brown hills in the truck , he reflected on how men seek beauty , size and conformation in their . horses today . " They 've bred the horse out of the horse , " he said . " Barb is all of it . Man o ' War was supposed to be part Barb , only they called it Arabian . Big old homely rough-headed Barb will do it . That 's the daddy of them all . There 's not many left . "                     