@@733423

txt Recent developments have spotlighted some of the potential strengths ? as well as the current fragility ? of relations between the Soviet Union and the United States . Generally , relations continue to be difficult , Western analysts here believe . Current headlines tell of differences over the Middle East and human rights with other problems lurking in the wings . And there is genuine concern at possible complications and delays if the reported illness of President Leonid Brezhnev keeps the Soviet leader out of action for several weeks or months . Two senior foreign affairs diplomats also have been out fOr weeks . Mr. Brezhnev 's personal approval is considered necessary for vital decisions on strategic arms and other talks . His absence might give hard-line opponents time to rally , it is felt . This is a difficulty in relations that can recur as long as the Soviet Government is dominated by a single individual . For now , however , strategic arms Wks ? the cornerstone of the entire U.S.-U.S.S.R. relationship ? are still apparently headed toward a new agreement , it is reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now say agreement could come by the summer of next year rather than earlier ? but it is still on track . And other facets of U.S.-Soviet ties keep on reflecting progress . 1 . Indian Ocean talks to limit the arms race there are reportedly satisfactory to both sides with new talks set for early in the year . 2 . Working-group discussions on chemical and radiological weapons have been completed in Geneva . // From page 1 U.S.-Soviet talks 3 . Cooperation continues on orbital space flights , with the Soviets sharing data from their missions . 4 . Joint research on better ways to generate electrical power reached a new stage Dec. 16 when a 40-ton U.S. magnet being tested here began feeding electricity into the Moscow power grid . 5 . Senior officials of both sides are exchanging visits ? and each other 's musicians are playing and singing in each other 's cities . While none of this should be overstated , some analysts here see the beginnings of more depth to d  --  tente than in the early days of the first Nixon-Brezhnev strategic-arms pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " commented one analyst . " There was no underpinning . Today we have many other contacts established ? science , environmental , space , and so on . " This argument grants that strategic arms still hold the key . A failure there could worsen relations across the board . But at the very least the Soviets have much more to lose by a new deep freeze , it is felt . " It is encouraging that there can be prog ress on the Indian Ocean at the very time both sides are arguing on the Middle East and other issues , " comments another experienced analyst . It is also notable that Indian Ocean headway was made after the Soviet military presence was ordered out of Somalia at the mouth of the Persian Gulf , it is said . The working groups on chemical and radiological weapons were among several set up after an otherwise unprofitable meeting between U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko last March in Moscow . Another , on limiting conventional arms sales , has just begun in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons . Nothing has yet been done in the field of civil defense . The Soviets have shared space-flight data . The 40-ton magnet is being used in an experiment on magneto-hydro-dynamics ( MHD ) . Sandwiched between Soviet news agency Tass denunciations of U.S. plans to develop the neutron bomb the other day were two items : Soviet tenor singer Anatoli Solovyanenko leaving to sing with the Metropolitan Opera in New York ? and a laudatory review of American pianist John Browning for a concert of Mozart , Barber , and Moussorgsky in Moscow 's cream-and-gold Conservatory Hall .                     