@@733436

txt Letters ABRAHAM D. SOFAERJUNE P. WILSONMARTIN W. FREYFRANKLIN H. WILLIAMSC . FRED BERG ... Letters Mideast : Toward an Alternative to the P.L.O . To the Editor As a Jew who is unambivalently proud of his Arab heritage , I naturally shared the euphoria President Sadat released with his visit to Jerusalem . I also share his desire to achieve an overall settlement , and especially some plan for rectifying the tragedies that have befallen those Arabs most like the Jews  --  the Palestinians . But the euphoria is diminishing , and an overall settlement that achieves a sufficient measure of justice for all remains unlikely . President Sadat is too wise and sincere to blame the stalemate concerning the West Bank on Prime Minister Begin , President Carter , or anyone but the Palestinian leadership and their supporters . The great ease with which the Israeli-Egyptian issues have been settled is only partially explained by their relative tractability . President Sadat 's willingness to live with Israel , and to let Israel live , is what has led Begin and the Israeli leadership to agree to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to recognize Palestinian " rights , " his voice and his demonstrated commitment to peace are no substitute for the voices of Palestinians equally committed to peace . Israel will not fight a war for " Judea " or " Samaria , " holy as those places may be to the Jewish people . If those were the only areas sought by the Palestinians , they could be obtained peacefully , either as part of Jordan or even as some separate entity . But the P.L.O . has now demonstrated beyond doubt that it wants far more . It wants nothing less than to destroy Israel . Indeed , the Arab radicals want not only to kill all the Jews , but are now committed to kill President Sadat and every Arab willing to live in peace with the Jewish people . President Sadat can not credibly guarantee Israel 's security against the assaults of those who regard him as a traitor to be murdered at the first opportunity . At least three possible roads to peace still exist . First , Egypt may be forced to accept less for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course would leave the Palestinian problem unresolved , but would be far preferable to war . Second , Jordan could enter the negotiations and make clear its own willingness to establish full ties with Israel . This would enable Israel to give the Palestinians more territory and authority , but only through the trusteeship of Jordan . The Palestinians would be better off than if Jordan played no part , but would remain homeless . Only if enough Palestinians demonstrate their willingness to live with Israel could a Palestinian homeland be achieved . The P.L.O . seems determined to fight , despite its people 's best interests . But many talented and imaginative Palestinians , who live on the West Bank and throughout the world , could organize and provide alternative leadership for their people . They would do so readily , I believe , if Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , Jordan and Egypt jointly urged and supported such a movement , at the same time terminating support for the P.L.O . Now is the time to act . The pressure on Egypt must soon force it to accept all that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcome , but its interests have never coincided with the aspirations of the Palestinian people . Only Palestinians committed to peace can obtain from Israel the settlement that is rightfully theirs . ADRAHAM D. SOFAER New York , Jan. 3 , 1978 The writer is a professor of law at Columbia University . Three of his grandparents were born in Iraq , the fourth was born in Egypt . To the Editor : In regard to your recent editorial on " The $2,000 Necktie , " I too would hesitate to tell the rich how to spend their money . But I am surprised that The Times would suggest , even in its lighter moments , that in , . estment in less-developed countries ( L.D.C . ' s ) would not be a desirable alternative to conspicuous consumption . Although I have no data on the appreciation of diamond-studded neckties , the prospective purchaser should be interested to know that the rate Superpower With a Language Handicap overcome a bias that has distracted our interest from foreign perceptions of our purposes and actions . If the United States should undertake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career in the study of other cultures , important benefits should soon trickle into the formulation of sound American positions in international problem areas . As for the attitude of the other superpower the talents of foreign area specialists and interpreters are exploited fully , providing the Soviet Union with a powerful means to understand strengths and weaknesses of its principal adversary . If our interpreter 's faux pas is thought to be laughable , an underlying American arrogance is an absolute not , LINCOLN LANDIS Arlington , Va. , Dec. 31 , 1977 To the Editor : There is a serious question as to how much a free society is obliged to grant rights of free speech and assembly to those who are explicitly bent on destroying those very rights . While a tree society can be damaged by the suppression of dissenting opinions , it can also be damaged by the excessive toleration of totalitarian movements . Yet some civil libertarians are fearful of placing any limitations on the rights to free expression and assembly . But even the American constitutional guarantees to free speech and assembly can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech and assembly create a clear and present danger to public safety tas in the well-known case of someone shouting " fire " in a crowded theater ) . There are times when the rights to free speech and assembly will be in conflict with other rights or even with each other ( as when the printing or delivery of a newspaper may be prevented by those who insist that they have a right to assemble in the pressroom ) . At such times limits to our rights are justified . When Nazis wish to march in Skokie , 111. , with its large Jewish population ( including many survivors of German Nazism ) , we have an obvious case of a clear and present danger to public safety . The Nazis wish to taunt those in Skokie with an ideology and symbols that stand for the destruction of Jews . It is foolish to expect such an audience to react with restraint . The thought that the Nazis are trying to convert Jews to their cause by marching in that neighborhood is so absurd that the desire to provoke and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ march . This case is quite different from those in which unpopular groups try to convince or to apply moral suasion to initially unsympathetic audiences . It is strange that The Times editorial on Jan. 1 fails to appreciate why this makes the Skokie case so radically different from other historical claims to the right to assembly . Not one case mentioned in the editorial involved intentional provocation . It would indeed be blasphemous to suggest that Martin Luther King 's march in Selma , Ala. , was an attempt to provoke or terrorize the local population . To the contrary , the Skokie march would he comparable to a Ku Klux Klan effort to march along 125th Street in Harlem , where the motive would be to provoke , intimidate or terrorize rather than to convince , educate or edify . Those who fear that reference to a clear and present danger may just be used as an excuse for not permitting the public expression of unpopular views have a legitimate concern , and they have a right to ask if such reference serves as a subterfuge in specific cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case . One may ask , " If the Nazis are banned from marching in Skokie , would this restrict their ability to express views or to assemble ? " The answer is clearly " no , " since the Nazis would remain free to print their literature and to hold their meetings . Hence , those who view a ban on the march as a serious restriction on either free speech or assembly are in the throes of grotesque exaggeration . The Times editorial , which supports the A.C.L , U. defense of the Nazis ' right to march , admits that their appearance on the streets of Skokie can provoke violence but counters that this " only emphasizes the obligation of the police to keep the peace . " If such a march took place , it might be hoped that violence would be prevented . Perhaps those who would be severely taunted would show restraint . Perhaps the police could muster enough power to halt violence . But when there is a clearly and deliberately provocative intention , prudence demands prior restraint . Society has an obligation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrain the self-proclaimed assassin . The Times says that until the Nazis do something illegal , they are entitled to the protection of the law . But to say that restraint should not occur until after illegal actions have taken place is to invite disaster . CHARLES EVANS New York , Jan. 2 , 1978 The writer is a lecturer in philosophy at City College . To the tenor : Westway is an outrage , based on disjointed and evil assumptions . First we are told how many jobs the project will generate without regard for the monstrosity these jobs will create  --  the same argument labor and industry used to defend the building of the B-1 bomber and the F-14 fighter . Secondly , we are told that Manhattan needs a mammoth roadway when elementary logic tells us that a finite island such as ours should discourage all additional traffic . is the American economy in such jeopardy that jobs must inevitably be linked to the military-industrial complex and Detroit 's insatiable appetite for highway construction ? But perhaps most flagrant is the " bonus " that would add housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center is falling in ruins . Has our nation 's history of " destroy and move on " taught us nothing ? For the sake of a few tainted Federal dollars , we are asked to leave Harlem , large sections of the West Side and the vast area between Washington Square and Canal Street to rot in order to create a " suburb " in the Hudson River  --  with no existing transit link with the center city . Surely there are just as many jobs available in the restoration of our blighted areas and the rehabilitation of our antiquated subway system and deteriorating streets . The cynicism and/or stupidity of our elected officials in the face of these inescapable facts are beyond comprehension . JUNE P. WILSON New York , Jan. 4 , 1978 To the Editor : For a few days , we can expect open season on Presidential interpreters , a breed whose numbers and political clout are small enough to make an attractive target for public ridicule . Yet , a few words of extenuation appear to be in order . If there is a problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be witnessing only a symptom of a more severe problem that limits the effectiveness of U.S. representations and policies regarding other states . In view of the need for ungarbled communications that could affect political perceptions and military initiatives , the opportunities available to language and area specialists would seem to deserve a superpower 's full respect and support . However , as prominent academicians have forcefully noted , this superpower has been reluctant to allocate funds in the face of cutbacks in specialization training across the country It is unfortunate that an American illusion of cultural superiority has seemed to accompany the rapid material achievements of our gifted political and social system , If these domestic successes are to be matched by creative advancements in resolving problems between opposed national systems , our political leaders must The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name . address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are tine/de to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . Canada 's Example To the Editor : Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations which flagrantly abuse human rights is ingenious and complex but rests mainly on the premise that , since many countries are guilty , distinctions between them are intrinsically unfair . Canada has grappled with this easy out and , in the case of South Africa , found it wanting . The system of apartheid , which systematically deprives dark-skinned South Africans of their full humanity , makes that the only government in the world based upon " decisions affecting humans on the basis of race and color , " states Canadian External Affairs Minister Don Jamieson . And that , Canada believes , constitutes a distinction which can not be ignored , While our rhetoric has taken on an impressive new resonance vis- ? - vis South Africa 's racial policies , our all but total lack of definitive action has been thrown into sharp  --  and embarrassing ? relief by Canada 's newly adopted policy . Individuals and private industry may continue to conduct business as usual in South Africa , but all official commercial aid , including all Canadian trade officials , have been withdrawn . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  to follow Canada 's example . By any criterion , we can not afford to do less . FRANKLIN H. WILLIAMS President , Phelps Stokes Fund New York , Jan. 3 , 1978 of return in 1976 on U.S. investments in the developing countries was 25 percent  --  more than twice the rate of return on our direct investments in the developed countries . He should also know that private investment goes far to help promote the development of the poor countries . In fact , many developing countries have graduated from the rolls of aid recipients and now rely on private capital markets to meet their external financial requirements . More importantly , I must challenge your suggestion that investment in an L.D.C . would weaken the dollar and hurt the American economy . In 1976 , earnings on our direct investments in developing countries totaled $7 billion compared to investment outflows of only $2.8 billion . These investments expand the output of critical raw materials needed by our economy , They increase our exports by stimulating demand in the host countries for U.S. goods , technology and managerial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total about 25 percent of total U.S. exports , creating hundreds of thousands of jobs in this country . I am skeptical of most theories of " socially useful " spending , but private U.S. investment in developing countries is generally of real benefit for the American economy . Perhaps you should try to persuade Tiffany 's to run an advertisement to show that it is also chic ! C. FRED BERGSTEN Asst , Secretary for Internal Atrairs U.S. Department of the Treasury Washington , Dec. 30 , 1977 Letter : On Skokie and the Nazis The Limits of Free Speech The Anker Years To the Editor : Mayor Koch 's assessment of Board of Education Chancellor Irving Anker 's effectiveness on the job was indeed couched in intemperate terms . However , Mr. Anker 's record as Chancellor can not be defended on the basis of his long years of service in the schools or on his established friendships with his colleagues ( letter Jan. 3 ) . The " good old boy " syndrome has no place here . Instead , one should look dispassionately at Mr. Anker 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public confidence in the public schools on the upswing ? By any valid and reliable measuring device , are pupil achievement levels on the rise ? Was the budget crunch met with a daring and effective counterattack through the application of imaginative educational programs and devices ? Has the severe high school truancy problem been approached with an attempt to make the high schools so dynamically attractive to youngsters that they would rather be in school than anywhere else ? Were the scandalous deficiencies in management of the Bureau of School Lunches and among school custodians handled with dispatch through internal moves or were such moves merely the results of outside pressure ? Unfortunately , the answers to the above are in the negative and the assessment of Mr. Anker 's performance can be determined accordingly . MARTIN W. FREY Rye , N.Y. , Jan. 3 , 1978                     