@@732727

txt Patricia Hearst received Friday a final sentence of seven years in prison for her role in a bank robbery by the Symbionese Liberation Army . Miss Hearst , originally a kidnap victim of the SLA , stood impassively as Federal Jt.dge William Orrick Jr . said the prison term was being imposed because of the " violent nature " of the crime and to deter others . Attorneys for the 22-year-old newspaper heiress had asked the judge to set the sentence at one year  --  the time she already has served in jail since her capture last September  --  and clear the way for her immediate release from federal custody . UNITED STATES Atty . James Browning opposed that motion , arguing that the crime was serious enough to warrant additional punishment . After the sentencing , Browning said Miss Hearst will be eligible for parole in 16 months . The defendant 's mother , Mrs. Catherine Hearst , reacted bitterly to the sentence . With tears welling , she approached reporters crowded around the defense table after court had adjourned . " It 's exactly what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never had a break during the whole thing ; not from the press , and not from the court . " MISS HEARST displayed no emotion as she stood facing Orrick , flanked by her attorneys , F. Lee Bailey- and Al Johnson . " I have taken into consideration the unique and bizarre circumstances surrounding this crime , " Orrick told her . " But nevertheless , the violent nature of your conduct can not be condoned , and an appropriate term of imprisonment must be imposed that will servo as a deterrent . " With that , he handed down the sentences for the two charges on which she was convicted last March : seven years for bank robbery and two years for carrying a weapon in the commission of a felony . He ruled that the two sentences could be served concurrently and that Miss Hearst will be given credit for the 371 days that she has already spent behind bars . THE YOUNG defendant , dressed in a simple shirt-waist green dress , and appealing even more thin and frail than during her highly publicized eight-week trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smiled thinly as she left the crowded courtroom . Originally , Miss Hearst had been sentenced to the maximum allowed for the two offenses-35 years in prison  --  by Federal District Judge Oliver Carter , who had presided at the trial . However , the judge said , he would consider modifying the sentence after a series of psychiatric examinations of the defendant . Carter died in June , and Orrick was selected to set the final sentencing . MISS HEARST , abducted by the terrorist SLA on Feb. 4 , 1974 , was convicted of joining her captors in the holdup of a San Francisco bank in which three persons were shot and wounded . She testified at the trial that she took part only because her kidnapers threatened to kill her if she did not cooperate . She said she spent 19 months in the underground out of a dual fear of her SLA traveling companions and the FBI . Briefly retracing the history of the startling case , defense counsel Johnson made an eloquent plea for leniency before the sentence was imposed . " This defendant has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tortured , and taunted , " he told Orrick . " Your honor , she 's had enough . " HOWEVER , BROWNING told the court the govermilent felt additional time should be served because the robbery was " a very serious and grave offense . " He also suggested that a longer sentence would ? be a valuable deterrent . " The lesson should be that rebellious young people who become revolutionaries for whatever reason and commit acts voluntarily and willfully should be punished , " said the prosecutor . Bailey , Miss Hearst 's chief counsel , reminded the judge that the defendant has cooperated with law agencies in providing information against SLA members charged with other crimes . AT LEAST ONE other legal problem still confronts Miss Hearst  --  a Califoria charge stemming from an incident in front of a Los Angeles sporting goods st ore during which she allegedly sprayed machine-gun fire to help SLA members William and Emily Harris elude arrest . The Harrises already have been sentenced to prison terms of 11 years to life for a crime spree that followed the sporting goods store @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminal complaint relating to the kidnaping of Miss Hearst .                     