@@728877

txt President , Nixon is staring right into the teeth of a difficult political decision : How best to consign his own considerable powers of the presidency to the task of trying to elect more Republicans to key positions here and across the nation . As of now it is known that Mr. Nixon 's thinking goes along these lines : ? Confronted with the continuing critical status of the Mideast , as well as Vietnam , Mr. Nixon feels that he must give top priority to these vital subjects . Immediately behind come the urgencies of the domestic scene . Mr. Nixon knows that any appearance of presidential neglect of such priorities would be the worst kind of politics , both at home and abroad . Thus , any presidential forays out into the hinterlands to help candidates is , as a presidential informant expressed it , " on the back burner as of now . " ? However , in the last weeks of the campaign the President will make a further assessment of just what his participation should be . He may , at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involvement in the Virginia and New Jersey gubernatorial contests of last year . Thus , to help Republican senatorial and gubernatorial candidates in key races Mr. Nixon well may decide to make three or four trips into critical regions . If world conditions dictate otherwise , Mr. Nixon will skip the hustings altogether . But , as of now , he is leaning heavily toward the kind of involvement that will be as invisible as possible ( in terms of giving any appearance of being away from dealing with the pressing presidential problems ) and still as visible as possible ( in terms of bringing in crowds and support for GOP candidates who need his help ) . Senate races stressed Top consideration will be given to crucial Senate races . A Republican net pickup of seven seats would turn the upper house over to GOP leadership . At the moment the issues are running in the favor of the presidency , strengthening the political potency of a president who takes to the campaign trail : Item : School integration is running smoothly in the South as the school year begins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of a beginning " toward finding some solution to the Mideast complexities . Should this beginning fall apart before the elections , then , of course , it will no longer be a presidential asset . Item : The Nixon plan for disengagement in Vietnam , while still the subject of dissent , appears to be working well for him politically . The quieting of the conflict recently , if sustained , could work in the President 's favor and help Republican candidates generally . Item : There has not been a long , hot summer of urban turmoil , even though there have been incidents , and further incidents threaten . The cities have not burned , and this , of itself , is something that the administration will be credited with , if only by implication .                     