@@730867

txt Police Commissioner Donald F. Cawley said yesterday that he was planning a major reorganization of the detective force that would put about half of the detectives back in the precincts and make detectives responsible for the first time to uniformed precinct commanders . Emphasizing that none of the plans have been " finalized , " Commissioner Cawley said in an interview that the reorganization would probably go into effect in mid-September . He also confirmed reports that 125 detectives , who work in plainclothes , would be assigned to temporary uniformed duty in precincts throughout the city beginning at the end of this week or the beginning of next week . When the reorganization is complete , he said , these 125 men will return to plainclothes and become part of their precinct 's detective force . Reports have been circulating for the last two weeks that major changes were being planned and that some detectives might be put in uniform . Although police officials would not confirm any of the reports publicly because Commissioner Cawley was on vacation , the // the Department of Personnel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are involved with staff operations by 10 per cent . All these people will be returned to precinct duty . The moves are part of the Commissioner 's over-all plan to buttress the uniformed force , which he refers to as " the backbone of police service , " He says there are now about 15,350 police officers in the precincts and that the " minimum manning level " should be 15,600 . But as this new reorganization goes into effect and recruits come out of the Police Academy into the precincts , Mr. Cawley said , he hopes to have 16,000 police officers at the precinct level by August . The reorganization of the detectives combines elements of the system that was in effect from 1919 to 1972 , when detectives worked out of the precincts in a parallel operation with the precinct uniformed force , and the so-called Specialization by Crime Category system , which has been in effect for a year and a half . Under the latter system , the Detective Bureau was reorganized into 17 detective districts , each of which covered at least three precincts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included sex crimes ; homicide-assault and robbery .. Under the new proposal , specialized units would be reorganized and would probably operated boroughwide but in conjunction with precinct . level work . For instance , the Commissioner said , if a robbery squad noticed a number of similar drugstore robberies in adjoining precincts , it would contact the precinct detectives for more information and work closely in catching the criminal . The precinct detective force is an effort to co-ordinate crime-control efforts under precinct commanding officers to make them more accountable and responsible for crime within their bailiwick , The new system would make a crime-control officer , probably a captain , 3,000-man Detectives Endowment Association had obtained a court order seeking to prevent " massive transfers " from the detective force to the precincts . Is Last week , 300 detectives'attended an emergency meeting called by the association to voice consternation and anger over their belief that the department was depleting their ranks and trying to erode the prestige of the Detective Bureau . On Monday , Stephen J. Crowley , president of the association , agreed to withdraw the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Police Commissioner to idiscuss the proposed plans . The meeting is scheduled for tomorrow , hut Mr. Crowley could not be reached yesterday to comment on the proposals which were outlined by Mr Cawley in an interview with The New York Times . ' There is nothing in this move that should be connoted as a demotion , " Commissioner Cawley said . " It 's rather a reorganization to provide us with additional men at the precinct level , " The Detective Bureau has 2,615 men and women , according to Mr. Crowley , whose association has more members because it includes retired detectives . Commissioner Cawley said the reorganization involved the bureau 's 2,300 investigatore , " perhaps 50 per cent " of whom would he put into the precincts as part of a crimecontrol unit under the ultimate direction of the precinct commander , The remaining investigators , he said , would continue to work in specialized crime categories ? homicide , robbery , burglary and sex  --  probably on a borough-wide level . In addition , the Commissioner Is also cutting 5 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the public-morals division , and is planning to cut men from directly responsible to the commanding officer . Under the crime-control officer would be the detectives , always referred to by Mr , Cawley as " criminal investigators " ; the plainclothes anticrime unit ; a crime analysis unit , and a crime-prevention unit . The anticrime patrol , which roams the streets in inconspicuout clothing , would make arrests along with the uniformed force . The detectives , under the immediate supervision of a detective lieutenant and detective sergeants , would conduct investigations and the crime analysts would study crime patterns within the precinct . The crime-prevention squad would lecture community groups or , for instance , show merchants what protective devices they could use on their stores . Many of the opponents of specialization had complained that detectives could no longer develop sources since they worked in such large areas and that it was much easier to solve crimes when detectives worked within one precinct . Commissioner Cawley said that there was merit to this argument and that it was , in effect , one of the reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the forthcoming reorganization is still in the planning stage , and Mr. Cawley said that while he disliked announcing incomplete plans , he felt that the advance reports and consternation warranted his outlining it as specifically as he could . The Commissioner said he was enlisting 125 third-grade detectives ( the lowest , detective grade ) who are in the top 50 per cent of their districts for temporary uniformed duty until the fall because there are more poeple on the streets in the summer and therefore there was need for a full uniformed force , He said , however , that they would function as stationhouse officers and thus free patrolmen now fulfilling that function for street patrol ,                     