@@730521

txt About 40 top. , Chicago gangsters have been subpenaed to appear in a special federal grand jury investigation of organized crime and its involvement with police and politicians . The new Justice Department probe results from months of spade work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and marks the second phase of a continuing government crackdown on mobsters that has sent at least a score of them to federal penitentiaries in recent years . Scheduled for exploration by the jury are such facets of crime syndicate operations as gambling , loan sharking , and the infiltration of legitimate businesses , especially in the hotel-motel-restaurant field . According to informed sources , gangland ties with politicos and corrupt police will also be included in the far ranging inquiry to be conducted by United States Atty . James Thompson and Sheldon Davidson , head of the Justice Department strike force . Heading the list of mobsters subpenaed to appear before the grand jury , when it opens sessions this week , is Gus Slim Alex , financial adviser to the new ruling triumvirate of the Chicago Mafia . Alex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he lolled in the sun at his $50,000 Fort Lauderdale condominium . David Yarros , another syndicate overlord with operations both in Chicago and Miami , got his grand jury summons as he was about to tee off at the Bay Shore Country Club just outside the sun capital of Southern Florida . Alex and Yarros were reported probable targets of Justice Department plans to grant immunity from prosecution to a select group of hoodlums in an effort to wrest truthful testimony from their rich knowledge of underworld folk lore . Their alternative to giving the government an honest count could be imprisonment in County Jail for the grand jury 's life . Others reportedly subpenaed in the probe include Leonard Patrick , a gambling boss controlling a rackets empire north of Devon Avenue , and Leslie Killer Kane Kruse , a Skokiebased mobster who recently functioned as an advance man in Las Vegas for Alex . Alex is said to be interested in investing Chicago mob funds in a Nevada hotel and casino . Also said to be high on the Justice Department 's list of those to be questioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record of labor terrorism who at one time was a top aide of former Teamster boss James R. Hoffa . Zapas has a record of at least 47 arrests and is an official of the Laundry Workers Union , in which another of the grand jury targets is also involved . He is Leonard Needles Gianola , a close Zapas associate and a reputed loan sharking boss who appeared Oct. 26 before another special federal grand jury investigating hoodlum financing of the Chicago narcotics racket . Reports of those subpenaed also furnish a clue to the government 's collateral interest in the mob 's political clout . Ed Brady , a long-time Southwest Side gambling boss whose base of operations is the 11th Ward , is reported among those to be questioned . Brady is known to have impeccable connections with a host of politicos . The new Justice Department inquiry into organized crime does not herald a slackening off in the grand jury investigation of Chicago police corruption . That probe , too , will be widened within weeks . Contrary to wishful thinking in some police circles , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Atty . Thompson is loaning the seven-man , Washingtondirected strike force two assistant United States attorneys , Dan Webb and Farrell Griffen . And the inquiry is being widened to include two additional Chicago police districts , Albany Park on the Northwest Side and Chicago Lawn on the far Southwest Side . In each case , the FBI has called for photographs of present and former members of these commands in connection with complaints from tavern owners and other businessmen who have accused police of extortion . The government is also reported assembling evidence to shake the tree where higherups in the Chicago Police Department have been hiding while patrolmen , sergeants , and lieutenansts were indicted and convicted of shakedowns . " The Justice Department bas committed itself to a course of action to root out corruption in the Chicago Police Department , " a Washington source said . " The outcome of the election will not affect that . "                     