@@731234

txt American officials said today that Israel and Syria had agreed to send delegations to Washington later this month to continue independent discussions with Secretary of State Kissinger on achieving a separation of forces in the Golan Heights area . But as , Mr. Kissinger flew from Damascus , the Syrian capital , to Riyadh , the Saudi Arabian Capital , and then on to the Jordanian capital here this evening , newsmen aboard his Air Force 707 jet were told that a " huge gap " still existed in the terms of a Syrian-Israeli accord . It was also not certain that the Washington dialogue would lead to an agreement comparable to the IsraeliEgyptian disengagement accord that was signed on Jan. 18 . Next Stop Is Bonn Newsmen ' were given no indication during the two-hour flight to Amman from Riyadh that King Faisal of Saudi Arabia had provided Mr. Kissinger with any new information about a break in the . oil embargo . American officials on the plane were reluctant toi discuss the embargo because of the sensitivity of the issue . Mr. Kissinger planned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight and perhaps tomorrow before going on to Bonn , West Germany , on his way back to Washington . He is expected to arrive in the United States Monday night . Mr. Kissinger said he had gone to Riyadh to report to // King Faisal about his talks this week in Damascus and Tel Aviv " on behalf of peace in the Middle East . " In the presence of the Saudi Foreign Minister , Omar Saqqaf , Mr. Kissinger said : " Some progress was made in establishing a negotiating process between Israel and Syria , and the United States will spare no effort for disengagement on the Syria front . " " We consider this a first toward a just and lasting peace throughout the Middle East , " Mr. Kissinger said . He added that he had stressed in his talks with King Faisal " the already close and cordial relationship that exists between Saudi Arabia and the United States . " The United States has been counting on King Faisal to use his influence in the area to get the oil embargo lifted . Arranging Talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Kissinger plane , the agreement by Syria , and Israel to move their still inconclusive , indirect talks to Washington was the result of a suggestion made by Mr. Kissinger to President Hefei al-Assad during their talks in Damascus ' Wednesday . The same day , Premier Golda Meir of Israel accepted the idea , and last night , Mr. Assad firmly agreed to it during his four-nd-a-half hours of talks witha Mr. Kissinger in Damascus . . A senior Israeli official  --  possibly Foreign Minister Abba Eban , Defense Minister Moshe Dayan , or his successor  --  would come to Washington in the next two weeks , an American official said , to begin substan , tive discussions with Mr. Kissinger aimed at producting a concrete Israeli proposal on disengagement . American officials said that while it was possible that the two delegations would overlap in - Washington , no face-to-face meetings between Syrians and Israelis were contemplated at this time . The Syrians have refused to deal directly with the Israelis up to now , demanding that Israel promise first to withdraw from all pied territor ? meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given additional details on the events that led to Wednesday night , when Mr. Kissinger handed over to Mrs. Meir the list of 65 Israeli prisoners held by Syria . According to American spilt . ces and information provided on this trip in Damascus ' and Tel Aviv , this is roughly what happened and why newsmen were reporting that Mr. Kissinger " hoped " to get the list from Mr. Assad when he had the list at least a week before his visit to Damascus : In early February , as the result of intensive diplomatic exchanges by Mr. Kissinger with Israel and Syria , the United States was developing a plan by which Syria would send Washington the prisoner list and assurances of willingness to allow the Red Cross to visit the captives . These were the Israeli preconditions for talks . Israel , in turn , would send her ideas on disengagement to Washington ; Mr. Kissinger would then turn over each set of documents to the opposite side . Arab Envoys Step In But on the Washington 's Birthday weekend , Foreign Minister IsmailFahmy of Egypt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make his latest trip to the Middle East and to secure a framework for the disengagement talks while in the area . Mr. Kissinger agreed to pick up the list of prisoners in Damascus , which by , then had virtually been promised to him by the Syrians . Mrs. Meir told Mr. Kissinger of the emotional potential of the prisoner list for the Israeli political scene , and urged him not to come to the Middle East without the list . As a result  --  and also because he was uncertain of the assurances he had received ? Mr. Kissinger asked the Syrians to provide him with the list before he departed for the Middle East . This was to insure that he would at least be certain of having the list and would not have to bargain further for it when he arrived in Damascus . He promised Mr. Assad , however , that he would not turn the list over to the Israelis until authorized to do so by Damascus . Sabah Kabani , the newlyappointed head of the Syrian Interest Section in Washington , gave the list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle East . The list , containing the 65 names , was written in Arabic . In great secrecy , Mr. Kissinger received the list and put it in his office safe . The only other American officials who knew that he had the list were reported to be Under Secretary Joseph J. Sisco , his top Middle East aide , and one of his personal assistants . Other American officials , meanwhile , were telling newsmen that they were confident that Mr. Kissinger would receive the list in Syria ? not knowing that he already had it . Mr. Kissinger told Mrs. Meir , through Ambassador Simcha Donitz , in Washington , that he had the prisoner list and that it contained 65 names . The Ambassador was asked not to tell any other Israelis about this , and Mrs. Meir did not request that Mr. Kissinger send her the names beforehand .                     