@@730099

txt President Nixon today warned the Soviet Union ? that great powers can not avoid responsibility for aggression by those to whom they give weapons to launch that aggression . He spoke before a joint session of the Canadian Parliament . The President did not mention Soviet aid to North Viet Nam but left no doubt about what he had in mind . Nixon aid that arms agreements and declarations of peaceful purpozes will not bring peace if the " aggressive use of existing weapons is encouraged . " " The great powers must use their influence to halt aggression , ' not to encourage it , " he said . Speaks of " Realities " Nixon said that the question of whether great powers fulfill their responsibility to build peace will be determined by the realities of . their behavior and not by the " atmospherics of their diplomacy . " The President met earlier for nearly two hours with Prime Minister Pierre Elliot . Trudeau of Canada . They held a wide ? ranging discussion that included ' talks about Nixon 's China trip , about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in combating illegal narcotics traffic . They also devoted time to U. S.-Canadian trade talks that have been stalemated sinceFebruary . Will Reassess Trade Ronald L .. Ziegler ; White House press secretary , said that both . leaders agreed to reassess their positions on trade matters and hinted that I the talks will be resumed shortly , He said no date has been set but expressed confidence that today 's talks would lead to reIsumption of discussions . The discussions were brought about by Canada 's $2.5 billion trade surplus with the United States last year . The bulk of Nixon 's speech to Parliament dealt with U. S.-Canadian relations . His tough talk about the responsibilities of major powers to keep the peace were his strongest public utterances since the North Vietnamese launched an offensive into South Viet Nam two weeks ago , using some Soviet tanks and other equipment . " Great powers must not treat a period of detente as an interlude between periods of tension , " Nixon said . " Better relations among all nations require restraint by great nations  --  both in dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . " " The structure of world peace can not be built unless the great powers join together to build it , " he said . The President 's speech to the Canadian lawmakers was friendly but emphasized that " it is time for Canadians and Americans to move beyond the sentimental rhetoric of the past . " He said they must recognize that there are differences between the two countries , that each has its separate identity , and that nobody 's interests are furthered when these realities bre obscured . ? He expressed understanding Concerning a growing Canadian fear of increased American investments . ' He recalled that Her to World War I the Unitpd States held similar apprehensions about some European powers . " We depended then on European capital for our development , and we wanted to free ourselves from that dependence , " he said . Nixon noted that Canada is the United States ' largest trading partner . He said the two economies have become highly interdependent , " but the fact of our mutual interdependence and our mutual desire for independence need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic interaction must be found that is beneficial to both countries , and " respects Canada 's right to chart its own economic course . "                     