@@729621

txt Treasury Secretary John B. Connally today overruled the Pentagon and said that servicemen would get pay raises only for promotions . " They 'll be treated just like everyone else , " said Connally in a television interview . Connally heads the Cost of Living Council , set up by the President to administer the wage-price freeze . The Defense Department later canceled length-of-service military pay increases in a retreat from its previous position that members of the armed forces would be exempt from the wage freeze . Connally earlier had said bluntly " the military is not going to be able to get a raise " and that the Pentagon had erred in its statement that the military is exempt . Suspension of the longevity pay increases will save an estimated $12 million over the 90-day freeze period , a Pentagon spokesman estimated . David Pa ck ar d , deputy secretary of defense , said that in addition to promotion pay increases , reenlistment bonuses will continue to be given . Connally lashed out at George Meany , president of the AFL-CIO , for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was " rank demagoguery " and " sheer malarky " for Meany and other labor leaders to say that President Nixon 's tax cuts favor big business over the worker . Describing Meany as being out of touch with " what is meaningful to the American workman , " Connally said that the nation 's rank-and-file workers would support the President 's new program . Sees Union Cooperation " I think they are going to cooperate , notwithstanding Mr. Meany 's statements , " Connally said . " I think frankly that he 's not giving his workmen and his members credit for understanding their problems as well as they do . " During the Interview , Connally said that Meany and Sen. Edmund S. Muskie ID. , Me. , a leading contender for the Democratic Presidential nomination , had previously supported wage-price freezes . " Now both of them have turned 180 degrees , " Connally said . Raps Partial Coverage The AFL-CIO president has said his giant union would support a freeze if it were applied even-handedly and across-theboard . He has complained that Nixon 's order does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income . Connally explained that interest rates were not frozen because " if we tried to freeze them , the freeze would have become the floor . " He also said that the investment tax writeoff for corporations would go only to businesses that made improvements in equipment and facilities that would last for several years . On other matters , the treasury secretary said that lie is opposed to giving Lockheed an exemption from the 10 per cent surcharge on the Rolls-Royce engines that it is importing for the TriStar jet .                     