@@729810

txt Officials in Whitehall remain far from optimistic about a rapid settlement of the Rhodesia problem . Yet at the same time one gets the impression that a lot of people in London are going to be very surprised , and considerably disheartened , if Sir Alec Douglas-Home re- turns from Salisbury next week empty-handed . Meanwhile , in Salisbury , it is noted here , black politicians declare that a deal between Sir Alec and Rhodesian leader Ian Smith is certain . White Rhodesian newspapers report that " optimism runs high . " Whitehall 's caution is the product of an acute awareness that it was Sir Alec himself who first began the formulation of the famous " five principles " on which a settlement would have to be based , which Harold Wilson later expanded to six . // *London wary on Rhodesia // Sir Alec was Foreign Secretary from 1960 to 1963 , the years in which the crisis originated . He was then Prime Ministei in 1963 and 1964 . The crisis was born when the Federation of the Rhodesias and Nyasaland broke up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Nyasaland as Malawi . Southern Rhodesia in law resumed its special position as a " selfgoverning colony under the British crown . " In 1965 , however , it made a unilateral declaration of its own independence . To end this state of rebellion ? which has resulted in the United Nations voting for economic sanctions against Rhodesia ? Britain requires a new constitution allowing unimpeded progress toward black majority rule , an immediate end to racial discrimination , a guarantee against retrogressive legislation after independence is granted , and a settlement that is demonstrably acceptable as of now to most black opinion as well as white in Rhodesia . There are about 260,000 whites in the country and some 5 million blacks . Britain accepts that there are powerful forces now making for a settlement , so that it may in the end prove to be this fifth principle of acceptability that becomes the greatest stumbling block . The forces making for a settlement , as seen from here , include these : ? Rhodesia 's export trade and its hopes for economic growth are suffering badly . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most industrial countries except Britain . The United States even has moved now to make it legal for American firms to buy Rhodesian chrome . ? Lack of a settlement looks like widening racial divisions in southern Africa , and to a dangerous extent . Black Rhodesians are suffering economically much more than whites . Black business opinion now probably favors a settlement . Whitehall is resigned to the certainty that black opinion outside Rhodesia will stigmatize any settlement , however liberal , as a " sellout , " for no settlement will provide majority rule immediately . Reversal sought It is , however , prepared to bear with this situation provided the five principles are adhered to . Whitehall believes it likely that black opinion inside Rhodesia will endorse a settlement on one proviso : That the Smith regime reverse its trend toward a form of apartheid and demonstrably set out on a path that must lead in the end to black rule . Hitherto , Mr. Smith has refused to make any such change . Indeed , recently he has gone faster and further down the opposite road . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major political sacrifice on Mr. Smith 's part . This if it happened , could radically transform the whole situation . Sir Alec would return to Westminster and report the terms he had achieved to Parliament . Endorsement of any settlement by Parliament here would then have to await the sounding of black Rhodesian opinion . Such soundings would . probably be undertaken in part by the ballot box and in part through a traveling commission . This would give the majority a veto , if it wished to use it . So it can be seen why , although pressures for a settlement are very strong , there is sound reason for Whitehall 's extreme caution .                     