@@733468

txt Israelis see the latest turn in the Middle East peace efforts as the opening of a new phase in the war for American goodwill . Ever since President Carter 's Jan. 4 meeting with Egyptian President Sadat in Aswan , Israelis had been expecting a new Egyptian maneuver aimed at getting the United States to put pressure on Israel to accept in effect Egypt 's conditions for a Middle East peace . To Israelis , a sign that this might be coming lay in statements from both the U.S. and Egyptian sides about a near-identity of views between Mr. Carter and Mr. Sadat . The Egyptians , in particular , made much of this . But what Israelis had not foreseen was that Mr. Sadat would try to initiate this new round in the war for American goodwill in such a dramatic way by threatening to break up or suspend the Israeli-Egyptian negotiations so soon after they had started . And this in turn persuades Israelis that the consequent U.S. pressure on them will not simply be " quite strong " ? as originally envisaged ? but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the possibility of a U.S. initiative for a triangular summit involving Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without By R Norman Matheny. staff photographer Sadat : ' The war for American goodwill ' Presidents Carter and Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Mena-hem Begin . There is little enthusiasm here for such a move before assurances are received that this would not turn into a " boxing arena of two against one , " meaning a more or less joint American-Egyptian front against Israel . As to Mr. Sadat 's situation , Israeli appraisal stresses that the Egyptian President needs peace as much as Israel does , if not more . For not only did Mr. Sadat increase hopes among // permission . From page 1 Sadat pressures U.S. to squeeze Israel the politically conscious parts of Egypt 's population of doing away with the country 's economic plight ( Egypt is receiving food assistance from the Urited States in the amount of $1 billion annually ) . de also may not be able to prevent the toppling of his regime by the forces of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejectionist " Arab regimes , his sworn enemies ? if his peace promise fails . Israel , however , fears that despite such a situation , it will be difficult to persuade Washington to keep a balanced course between Egypt , backed by the oil states , and an oilless and isolated Israel . U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance began the day Jan. 19 with a crisp game of tennis on the Hilton Hotel court . He saw Prime Minister Begin in the afternoon . He will talk to Mr. Sadat in Cairo Jan. 20 . Mr. Vance 's response to the new complication was indicated by his statement : " I attended many negotiations , sawmany ups and downs , and am convinced ? judging by my talks with Mr. Begin and Mr. Sadat over the phone ? the peace process will be resumed very soon . " The Begin government is , of course , already trying to point out the premeditated character of what some describe as Mr. Sadat 's " strategy of blackmail . " The Israeli Prime Minister , however , as well as his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be difficult to muzzle all Israelis . Already , Knesset member Geula Cohen , of Mr. Begin 's own Herut Party , has expressed hope that the government has learned a lesson and will not renew its " exaggerated concessions " in future peace talks . Another key figure of the Prime Minister 's political group , who wants to remain anonymous for the time being , suggested that in any resumed talks Israel should declare its proposals made so far null and void .                     