@@732072

txt JOHN CARDINAL Cody took a giant step toward reconciliation Monday when he offered to meet with the Chicago Archdlocesan School Board to iron out a. rift over his decision to close two inner-city schools and over the board 's right to review such decisions . After reading Cody 's six-page statement , Vito Petruzzelli , board chairman , called it " an extraordinary attempt at reconciliation . " Petruzzelli then said he would not move to adjourn , the board indefinitely as he had threatened to do if the cardinal did not clarify a harsh statement he had made June 23 . In it , Cody had sharply criticized the board and intimated the need to strip it of some of its authority . STOPPING JUST short of apologizing , Cody expressed " my regrets that this message is carried by written word " and said , " I am sorry If in particular ways recent actions or tone have been offensive to you . " I would be less than honeb were I not to admit that statements I ' hove read , seen or heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He cited suggestions of his gad , of concern for schools " and " an implicit suggestion of racism . " Cody suggested that part of the difficulty lies in " conflicts of responsibility " between the school board and the Pastoral Resources Committee , which in part handles parish finances and subsidies . He said he would like to present suggested guidelines to both groups for discussions . " If these can be refined , mutually accepted , and published by the beginning of the school year , I am sure much of the current controversy could be resolved , " he said . AFTER THE MEETING , Petruzzelli said he would call the cardinal and arrange for a meeting as soon as possible . The two issues involved are the authority of the board to review school closings and mergers and present recommendations to the cardinal , and whether Cody had told the board executive committee the board 's right to review such decisions had been held in abeyance , Adrienne Levatino , a board member , said she thought Cody 's statement failed to offer any clarification and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ape said she would not have voted for tae moUon W dipurn untaiuiuoiy t Tip statement had been offered . In other action , Vie board re-elected Petruzzelli as its chairman and elected Msgr . Mari J. O'Day , pastor of St. Damian Parish , Oak Forest , as vice ? chairman , and Mrs. Theresa Booker as secretary .                     