@@733910

txt Letters Rabbi SOL ROTHALLEN B. BAKERKENNETH L. WILLIAMSJAMES M. HENLEPAUL O'DWYER P ... Letters E.R.A. : A Religious Community 's Dilemma To the Editor : The Equal Rights Amendment presents the religious community of America with a very serious dilemma . On the one hand , we endorse enthusiastically the application of the principle of equality to every segment in our society . But on the other , we are deeply concerned that , if passed , . E.R.A. will be implemented in ways that will collide with moral and religious ideals to which we are equally committed . . If the E.R.A. were intended to correct abuses still current in our society ? for example , less compensation for equal work or the arbitrary refusal to admit women into certain professions by reason of sex ? it would be applauded by all fair-minded people . Many E.R.A. advocates , however , are not satisfied with the elimination of exploitation and the guarantee of equality of opportunity in the economic and social domains . They seek to impose on all of us the kind of equality that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , If military conscription were renewed , women would be drafted into the armed forces , be compelled to occupy the same barracks as men and fight side by side with them . This " ? ? " " ' To the Editor : The press has joined other citizens in a cry for action , including more severe penalties , in the wake of a series of wanton and tragically fatal attacks upon people on the streets of this city . It is a sad irony that the same people who now exude crocodile tears were , would inevitably lead to conduct that many would characterize as morally repugnant and religiously corrupt . Must this kind of equality be imposed on those who are repelled by it ? The application of E.R.A. would , in effect , compel universities to turn their dormitories into co-educational facilities , with damaging consequences to the moral and religious lives of students . Must this be imposed on us in the name of equality ? . There are sectarian educational institutions which , by virtue of their religious orientation , require the separation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided for male and female students in conformity to religious prescriptions . Should these institutions be compelled to mix their student bodies in contradiction to their religious ideals in the name of universal equality ? That such interpretations of E.R.A. by the courts is possible and indeed likely is indicated by two circumstances . First , Senator Ervin 's attempt to amend E.R.A in such a way as to prevent these consequences was defeated . Senators appeared to acquiesce to the strident demands of E.R.A. advocates . It is not unreasonable to assume that the courts may do parities . Until such disparities are significantly diminished , innocent victims of crime will suffer from the aggressions , and innocent victims of deprivation will suffer its agony . Our condition did n't develop overnight , nor will it dissipate that way . ? The procrastination in eliminating the social incongruity is bred in the selfish realization that its cause is only partially the onus of our time ? while the rewards of our labor will belong totally to the future . KENNETH L. WILLIAMS New York , Dec. 6 , 1978 The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Youth Advisory Council to the Youth Board and member of Mayor Koch 's Blue Ribbon Committee on Youth Services . so as well . Secondly , the courts have already affirmed the right of female reporters to go into male locker rooms and the right of girls to play on boys ' teams . Many see in these decisions the handwriting on the wall . It has been observed that the twin goals of freedom and equality are not always compatible . For example , to achieve equality in the distribution of wealth , many would have to be deprived of the freedom to acquire it . It follows that , in a democratic context , if both freedom and equality are to be preserved , there must be an accommodation of the claims of these sometimes conflicting ideals . Equality can not be permitted unrestricted application ; it must leave room for freedom . Should not then the principle of equality also have to accommodate itself to such moral and religious ideals as modesty , chastity and family purity ? We would then endorse the principle of equality and urge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of reason and moderation that will allow the classic ideals of human conduct to remain intact . ( Rabbi ) SOL ROTH First Vice President Rabbinical Council of America New York , Dec. 5 , 1978 The Shah 's Reward To the Editor : It has been a long wait ? over two years ? but at last Carter 's energy policy is clear : Give the Shah two pats on the back for every hundred demonstrators shot . I had hoped for better . It appears that the denial of human rights to millions of people seems less horrible to the Administration than a one-cent hike at the gas pump . It may be coincidence , but the situation in Iran and the worsening relations with Russia all seem part of a 1950 's revival . If so , then for the nostalgic strategists at the White House the attack of a desperate and angry people upon the U.S. Embassy in Teheran must have been cheering indippel JAMES M. HENLE Northampton , Mass. , Dec. 3 , 1978 Of Crime , an Election and ' Crocodile Tears ' How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one month ago , refusing to support and vote for candidates for public office who took a strong stand against crime . Is there any law against criminals ' reading the election returns ? There is an apocryphal story of an out-of-work actor who is said to have cynically remarked that the public has a memory of two weeks . Next Election Day , why not make a point of remembering unfavorably those who insist that the commission of street murder should be a safer enterprise than , say , the designing of clothes , the repair of Numbing and ministerine to hospital patients ? ALLEN B. BAKER New York , Dec. 6 , 1978 A Sober Message ' To the Editor : The tragic slaying of a visiting fashion designer on a New York City street and countless similar acts of violent crime in recent memory deliver a sober message after the initial impact . While citizens voice outrage and legislators mandate adult punishment for certain youthful offenders , we fail to hear that message . The hopelessness and frustration of our disadvantaged youths manifests itself in violent crimes against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : The final deal between the city , the state and the American Stock Exchange , by which Amex agreed to stay among us news story Nov. 27 , ought to be put into perspective . Amex never seriously considered moving to Connecticut , and a move to New Jersey was distasteful to the exchange . Governor Byrne was used by Amex in a game in which New Jersey could never win but which has cost New York City and New York State dearly . It is true that Amex has been operating in cramped quarters and , in 1977 , decided to move to another building . In the spring of 1977 , a representative of Amex came to City Hall to warn that his client would move to New Jersey if it were not given more serious consideration by the city . The fact that Amex and the New York Stock Exchange were always threatening to move made this a " cry wolf " situation , and nobody believed Amex would go . But as City Council president I felt that the city was in no position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have the Governor 's representatives come to our next meeting with Amex officials , city officials and labor and industry leaders . ' The tax relief Amex wanted could only *be realized on the state level . Meanwhile , city officials gave Amex a list of ? sites to choose from , all in the Wall Street area . But as the city showed its intention to help , Amex raised its demands . As a consequence , things dragged till after the 1977 election . Mayor Koch was elected and immediately took a hand . It was no fault of the Mayor 's that no agreement was announced for another 10 months . The Mayor 's representatives found Amex driving the same hard bargain . Amex officials knew that politically they were in a most advantageous position . As the 1978 election approached , the polls showed Perry Duryea ahead . Arthur Levitt Jr. , president of the exchange , is no stranger to politics , and Amex stalled . But Governor Carey would not have it that way . He knew it would be a feather in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he concluded a deal to keep Amex in New York . Then the polls began to show Carey winning , and Amex concluded the agreement . In our discussions , Amex constantly referred to the loss of 2,000 jobs in New York if it moved to New Jersey . But that is a fallacy : Most Amex employees live in New Jersey already , and in any event , Federal edicts have ordained that five years hence there will not be one-tenth of that work force here . If we experience a few more " triumphs " like the Amex deal , the World Trade Center deal , the Yankee Stadium deal , the Roosevelt Island deal and the water tunnel fiasco , it will take more than Congress to prevent us from being forced to take advantage of the bill amending Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Law , which Herman Badillo sponsored . Good deals at election time will be the death of us yet . PAUL O'DWYER New York , Dec. 4 , 1978 To Provide Electricity for an Uncertain Future To the Editor : S. Baron ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we do not proceed rapidly to build many large , central power stations . He sustains that conclusion by simple assertion and emotional ? appeal , bereft of evidence or analysis . The decision to build any large , central power station must be justified on the basis of forecasts of demands for electricity 20 or 30 years hence , because it takes 10 years to bring a large plant on line and another 20 to 30 years to amortize the investment . Nobody knows , however , how large demands will be that far in the future . Today one can find plausible 30-year forecasts at almost any level , all assuming a steadily expanding , prosper . ous economy combined with reasonable changes in other factors , such as prices . There are many indications suggesting that demands for electricity will expand much more slowly than utilities might wish . Rapid expansion of the electrical supply system confronts users of electricity with the prospect of rapidly rising prices because new electric power stations are more expensive than ex- ' isting sources of supply . For a wide variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic benefits . Ill-considered expansion of electricity supply is needlessly inflationary . If environmental costs are inchided , the incentive to shift uses away from electricity where possible becomes very substantial . In the face of uncertainty it is generally prudent to adopt a course of action that permits flexible adaptation to events as they unfold . Large , central power plants involve such long lead times that they require an inflexible commitment now to a course of action for 30 years into an uncertain future . Smaller facilities and improvements in efficiency of end uses have the advantage of coming into use more quickly and of providing capacity to adjust supply to developing demand . Inflexible commitment also poses a political problem . While an elected legislature is strictly limited in the extent to which it can commit its successors to a course of action , an appointed regulatory body , when it approves a large power plant , commits the public to underwriting the plans of . a utility for the next 30 pears , guaranteeing in- : vestor-owned utilities a rate of return on investment even if their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as ours might logically prefer a choice of technologies for which commitments can be made and modified in smaller " lumps . " Given these circumstances , those who advocate rapid construction of many large , central power stations have some heavy baggage to carry ? to persuade the public that their vision of the future is more probable than the alternatives and that what would be good for the electrical power industry would also be good for the country , when all of the economic , environmental and political costs are fully counted . ( Prof. ) MARK N. CHRISTENSEN Energy and Resources Program University of California Berkeley , Calif. , Nov. 30 , 1978                     