@@730912

txt That is where it all begins , right there on the flanks of that big mountain looming thru the rain clouds a few miles away across the border into Burma . Some eight months ago , primitive hill tribesmen reaped a harvest of death from the opium poppy fields on those lovely green slopes . And now , you 're in a helicopter thundering thru the mountain passes and sweeping the forests at treetop level in search of the hidden trails on which caravans of pack horses and mules are moving tons of opium to supply the demands of the international drug traffic . DOWN BELOW , on a broad bend of the Mekong River , lies the juncture of Thailand , Laos , and Burma , the Golden Triangle area of Southeast Asia that takes its name from the billion dollar profits to be made from the 700 tons of opium produced annually in these wild and remote foothills of the Himalayas . This is elephant and tiger and leopard country . But those impenetrable forests below also hide far more dangerous quarry  --  heavily armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the deadly cargo they are convoying to market . So instead of soaring across the Golden Triangle at higher altitudes , the chopper hugs the terrain , swooping low across the ridges and twisting its flight to the topography to give the gunmen who lurk there a harder target to hit . THIS IS ONE of the patrols flown almost daily by United States customs agents assigned overseas to assist their Laotian counter-parts in the offensive against drug smuggling . Their purpose Is to stop the flow of opium and heroin at its source before it becomes lost in the global narcotics pipeline that leads to the lucrative market represented by the more than 500,000 heroin addicts in the United States . At the moment , only an estimated 10 to 15 per cent of the the Southeast Asian heroin is believed to be reaching American shores . But within a few years that amount is expected to increase dramatically as traditional Middle Eastern sources are dried up . THAT IS the reason for this hair raising flight and the others like it during which dedicated young American customs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an effort to stamp out a smuggling racket that is as ancient es the Orient itself . Aboard the flight is Rep , 1 Morgan Murphy Jr . D. , Ill. , the Chicagoan who has been waging a three-year personal investigation of the worldwide narcotics racket to expose its tragic impact on American youth . The helicopter follows a carefully calculated flight plan so as not to stray over territory held a scant 25 miles away by the Pathet Lao rebels who now control almost 80 per cent of this small kingdom 's territory . THERE IS A cease-fire In Laos and talk of a negotiated settlement . However , the civilian American pilot on contract to the American AID mission Tribune MaP The Golden Triangle . in Laos does not wish to tempt the rebel troops , their North Vietnamese cadre , or the insurgent machine guns that lie hidden in the jungles below . Suddenly , the chopper breaks over a low lying ridge at 120 miles an hour and circles quickly below tree top level to survey a remote village of the Chinese irregulars who hire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remnants of the 3d and 5th Kuomintang KMT Nationalist Chinese armies which w e re driven out of mainland China during the Communist takeover in MM . They were some 20,000 strong then , but now they are believed to number only 2,000 or 3,000 , the rest having settled down and married into the hill tribes of the tri-border area . THESE ARE some of the toughest , best armed fighters of these mountains , having operated for over 20 years under Generals Li and Tuan in Southern Burma and Northern Thailand , They are essentially nomads , holding allegiance to no one but the opium traffic and drifting across international borders as tho crossing the street for a bottle of milk . But something as innocent as milk is not their stock in trade . Opium is , and the cash with which to buy arms and supplies . And while the Thai government , with U. S. support , is attempting a resettlement program for the Chinese irregulars in an effort to give them the stability of Thai citizenship and land on which to finally settle , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get the KMT out of the opium trade . THERE ARE NO signs of human life to be seen in the village , but the egg beater passage of the helicopter causes a stampede among a small herd of pack horses at the edge of the clearing . And it is clear the sharp-eared jungle fighters have heard our approach and are hidden somewhere with their trigger fingers just waiting for an overt act . There is none , however . For our mission is to merely mark the KMT location so that other air and ground patrols will know later if they have departed on an opium convoying mission . Minutes later , the helicopter banks steeply over a slim hulled craft on the muddy Mekong and Rep. Murphy frantically grabs to close a door that has fallen open as the craft hangs on its side a scant 50 feet above the rushing rapids thru which the boat is scurrying . " IF MY constituents could only see me now , " mutters a thoroly shaken Murphy as the chopper plunges between two towering patches of trees on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been owned by a wealthy Laotian military and government official about whom we 'll report tomorrow . The small river craft en route to Ban Houel Sal will be closely scrutinized by customs officials on Its arrival . For the innocent appearing gunny sacks on its decks could contain more than rice from Thailand . Tomorrow , ' we 'll talk about corruption in high places .                     