@@730545

txt Presidential adviser Henry Kissinger arrived here tonight to begin ironing out with Hanoi 's Le Duc Tim the six or seven points Kissinger said need attention before the United States can sign the draft agreement Hanoi released on Oct. 26 . The two negotiators are to start work tomorrow morning in meetings expected to continue most of this week . Kissinger calls the draft a framework for agreement . Tho says matters of substance must be untouched . However , definitions of substance vary and the United States expects progress . " If our North Vietnamese interlocutors have come here in the same spirit of understanding and flexibility which has characterized our meetings in October , a rapid settlement of the war is probable , " Kissinger told newsmen at Orly Airport . - No Limit on . Stay " The President has sent me here for what he hopes will be the final phase of the negotiations trf end the war in Indochina , " Kissinger said . " My instructions are to stay for as long as It is useful and to conduct the talks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " As for the United States , we believe that we have come so far that both sides have an obligation to remove the remaining obstacle fin the negotiated peace settlement , " he said . " My colleagues and I will dedicate ourselves to fulfilling the aspirations of mankind and bring an early end to the war and help bring peace at last ' . to the heroic peoples of Indochina on both sides of the conflict who have endured so much . " Return to Saigon Another Kissinger visit to Saigon is expected before agreement can be reached . Saigon considers the draft full of flaws , demands guarantees of peace , and threatens withholding agreement . The U. S. shares some , but not all of Saigon 's concern . Attempts this week will be made to : . ? Extend the cease-fire to Laos and Cambodia , not only South Viet Nam , and have international control units on the spot at the time . ? Gain some withdrawal from South Viet Nam of North Vietnamese forces which the agreement mentions only as the " question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Vietnamese parties without foreign interference . " Hanoi refuses to admit to having forces in the south . ? Spell out the administrative structure to handle elections in South Viet Nam . Saigon believes the agreement provides the embryo of a Communist dominated coalition government for South Viet Nam . ? Consider technical questions over the relation of the agreement to the 1954 Geneva Convention . ? Elaborate on the proposed international guarantee conference on Viet Nam 30 days after signing as a means of providing long term guarantees and supervising short term tasks . These would include the workings of the election council , relationship between the two and four-party military commissions and the international control units , and the policing of the agreement 's one-for-one resupply program . The military commissions ' tasks will include return of prisoners .                     