@@728523

txt Dr. Gregory C. Coffin 's future with Evanston 's elementary schools will be determined Saturday in the long-awaited school board election that has emerged as a public referen -- dam on whether to retain or fire the controversial superintendent . Voters in school district 65 , which includes Evanston and part of Skokie , will mark ballots that show names of six candidates for three vacancies . Panel Is Opposed But unlike the thousands of other suburban voters who will elect their school board members Saturday , district 65 residents will not be voting on the merits of candidates , but on how the candidates view Coffin . In Evanston , as in many other school districts , a caucus of representatives of parent-teachers associations and other community groups indorses candidates for the board of education . The caucus has recommended three candidates , and they have pledged to oust Coffin . Anti-Coffin Slate They are Mrs. Robert E. Baumberger , 56 , of 2740 Woodland rd. , assistant director of civil defense in Evanston and active in civic affairs ; ' Mrs : Robert Eason , 25 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Head - Start parent advisory committee and of the Evanston Human Relation commission 's caucus investigating committee ; and Sumner G. Rohr , 34 , of 2714 Grant st. , assistant director for administration and development of the Adlai ' Stevenson institute . All three are supported by the newly formed Community Education committee . Its chief objective is to oust Coffin and replace him with an educator also dedicated to " quality integrated public education for all " but less " abrasive " than Coffin , Pick Pro-Coffin Slate Black and white residents , who have charged the caucus ' system does not represent the community 's views , formed a group , Citizens for District 65 , and nominated an opposing slate of candidates who would vote to keep Coffin . Their candidates are Bennett J. Johnson , 40 , of 909 Gray st. , publisher and president of Path Press company , a book publishing firm ; Robert Marks , 54 , of 420 Ashland ay. , an attorney and former state legislator ; and Mrs. Betty Papangells , 45 , of 1117 Harvard ay. , personnel director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Disagree on Issues Mrs. Eason and Johnson are black , The other four candidates are white , The opposing slates do not even agree on the issues . The pro-Coffin group says integration is the issue . The anti-Coffin forces contend the issue is a superintendent who has a record of poor administration and suspect methods of operation . Of the 48,000 registered voters in the district , normally no mare than 5,000 vote in a school board election . But the intense interest and emotion generated by the Coffin controversy are expected to result in a record vote for a school issue . The 10-month controversy was ignited last June 24 when the school board voted , 4 to 3 , not to renew Coffin 's contract when it expires this June 30 . Since that hot summer , night In the jam-packed Evanston Unitarian church , the proCoffin forces by far have been the most vocal . Who Is Majority ? But both sides are shying away from ' predictions on the outcome . The unanswered question that will be settled Saturday is whether those who have remained silent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " silent minority . " The voting showdown was set last summer when the four-member board majority backed down under pressure on its original plan to star t an immediate search for a new superintendent . They bowed to demands of " let the people decide " by agreeing not to take further action until after the election . That decision in effect made the election a referendum on Coffin 's future in Evanston . Three board member s , whose terms arc ending , are not seeking reelection . They are Mrs. Robert G. Seyl , board president , and Mrs. Nathan Zimmerman , who both voted to fire Coffin ; and Dr. Allwyn Gatlin , who voted against dismissal . Of the seven incumbent members , two are pro-Coffin and two are anti-Coffin . The slate that has at least two members elected will have the controling votes . Shortly after the election , the board is expected to take a final vote on Coffin . Will March Today Altho school board elections frequent ) , are marked by voter apathy in most communities , the Evanston contest has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers are manning telephones , and campaign Memlure and materials abound . An anti-Coffin candidate has campaigned by greeting rush hour riders boarding the Evanston express devoted train at the Merchandise Mart stop . Today , pro-Coffin groups will march thru Evanston to the Foster center at 2 p. m. to hear speeches by Albert A. Baby , a Chicago civil rights leader , and Charles Hurst , president of Malcolm X college . a Chicago city college . " The main issue is moving forward in authentic integration , " said Mrs. Papangelis . " We have a spectacular beginning to nn authentic Integrated school system . " The groundwork for the integration program was laid before Coffin became Evanston 's superintendent in 195G . He implemented a plan formulated by a citizen 's advisory committee . His foes emphasize Evanston began school desegregation long before Coffin arrived and that ho has been given too much personal credit in the program which so far has been one of the most successful in the nation . Altho many educators use the terms " desegregation " and " integration " interchangably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defines His Terms Ile views " desegregation " as " body mixing , " only the first step in the integration process . " Integration , " says Coffin , is more than mixing black and white children in the same classroom . Integration , in his view , includes changes in curriculum , personnel , school . community relations , a n d policymaking to give blacks and whites effective voices in all aspects of the school system . A major aspect of this process is to promote blacks to key decision-making posts . Coffin 's supporters emphasize that the school system had only one black , Joseph - Hill , then an assistant principal , in any administrative position when he came to Evanston . Now the system has 12 black officials who are central office administrators , principals , or assistant principals . " To many in Evanston , " Marks said , " integration and Coffin are synonymous . If Coffin 's contract is not renewed , Evanston will be unable to obtain another qualified superintendent to move forward on integration . " The anti-Coffin slate , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is a weak argument , " said Mrs. Baumberger of the anti-Coffin slate . She said there are many qualified superintendents in integrated school districts who would come to Evanston and direct an integrated educational program , After the decision to fire Cotfin , the four-member majority issued an extensive report detailing their reasons . The most Bennett Johnson . Mrs. Betty Papangells , and Robert Marks , candidates who support Coffin . serious charges were " financial mismanagement " and " educational inefficiency . " These four , and the three caucus candidates , staunchly maintain that integration has nothing to do with their views of Coffin . When Coffin asked the school board for funds to prepare a response to the majority members ' report , he was told this was not legal . A plea to seek an opinion on the question from Ray Page , state superintendent of public instruction , was turned down . Consequently , private contributions were made to finance publication of his answer , which sought to refute the charges and to point out educational advancements in the district . Seeks HEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and welfare to audit expenditures of federal funds in an effort to disprove the financial mismanagement charge . The HEW audit , released last month , only triggered another round of charges and countercharges . In a statement , Coffin claimed the audit vindicated him and turned up no evidence of financial mismanagement . The next day , the four-member board majority called a press conference to claim the audit substantiated their charges .                     