@@733689

txt Fidel Castro informed the United States on May 17 that he had learned early in April of plans by insurgents to invade Shaba Province in Zaire and had tried unsuccessfully to slop the invasion , Senate sources reported today . The attack started over the weekend of May 13 and 14 . The statement attributed to Mr. Castro raised new questions about President Carter 's assertion eight days later , on May 25 , that Cuba " obviously did nothing " to hold back the invasion by 2,000 or more Katangan insurgents operating from Angola . But the statement also provided the first confirmation from Havana that it had prior knowledge of the invasion plans and suggested to some that there was a connection between the Katangans and Cuban forces stationed in Angola . Cuba is believed to have 18,000 to 20,000 troops there . The Angolan leader , Agostinho Neto , said that rebels returning to Angola after their invasion of Zaire would be disarmed to allay Zaire 's fears of further attacks.1 Controversy With Senators Today , Senator Dick Clark , Democrat of Iowa and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said in a telephone interview that while he did not regard the disclosure of new information about Mr , Castro 's position as " all that central , " he did feel that " it would have been useful in the discussion of the Cuban role if the President had made this clear . " There has been controversy between several Senators and President Carter over the connection between Cuban forces in Angola and the insurgents since the invasion of Shaba Province began . Mr. Carter has insisted that Cuban officers armed , trained and prepared the rebels for their raid on the mining center of Kol  --  ezi , in which hundreds wore killed . Senator Clark said that Senator George , Democrat of South Dakota , yesterday read a secret State Department // cable to the Foreign Relations Committee , giving Mr. Castro 's description of the evolution of the rebel attacks and his purported efforts to stop them . The cable was sent to Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance by Lyle F. Lane , who heads the United States interests section in Havana following a meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high-ranking State Department official confirmed that the contents of the Lane cable were as related by the Senate sources . According to Senate sources , the cable quoted Mr. Castro as having said that he learned early in April that the insurgent force was contemplating a raid on Shaba Province , their tribal homeland , from which they had either been driven out or had voluntarily left more than three years ago . Castro Supposedly Contacted Angolan The Lane cable described Mr. Castro as having said that he was " disturbed " by the report and had immediately approached the Angolan leader , Agostinho Neto , to urge him to call off the invasion , arguing that it would only harm Angola . It added that ** Castro had said that one reason his intercession failed might have been the fact that Mr. Neto was ill and staying in the Soviet Union at the time . Several senators who attended the closed hearing of the Foreign Relations Committee yesterday expressed skepticism about Mr. Castro 's truthfulness , but added that they were disturbed by President Carter 's not having informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority leader , Robert C. Byrd , in his weekly briefing for reporters , said that regardless of the Castro statements , " the Cubans are acting as the cat 's paw of the Soviets in Africa and are in ccntrol in Angola . " " The troops which invaded Zaire did come from Angola , " Mr. Byrd continued , " and the Cubans have trained Katangans and supplied them with equipment . " He added : " Who knew what and where is somewhat peripheral . " ' Senator , reached by telephone , said : " I think one unfortunate as , pect of this is that we are raising the wrong question about the Cuban involve : ment and what challenge it poses for American interests and what to do about , it . I feel Africa is not fundamental to ' American interests and that we ca n't do much about it anyway . " ' A White House spokesman declined any quick comment on the Cuban statement of its relationship to the invasion of Shaba . Nor was it clerd. whether Mr. or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of why President Carter had withheld the substance and details of Mr. Castro 's statement about b tryina to halt the invaders . m This week Ad . Stanfield Turner , the Director of Central Intelligence , briefed four Senate and House committees on the information and reports assembled by the Central Intelligence Agency that he said had prompted Mr. Carter to make his assessment of the Cuban role . Angola to Disarm Zaire Rebels LONDON , June 10 ( AP ) ? The Angolan leader , Agostinho New , said today that rebels returning to Angola after their invasion of Shaba Province would be disarmed to allay Zaire 's fears of further attacks . Mr. Neto , speaking on the Government radio , monitored here by the British Broadcasting Cara. , said that neither his Marxist Government nor its Cuban and Soviet allies had anything to do with the rebel attack on Shaba last month . " Those coming from Zaire with weapons will be systematically disarmed and taken to refugee camps , " he went on . " Nevertheless . the People 's Republic of Angola guarantees the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced to stay in the camps . " The Angolan state never trained nor equipped any army , " Mr. Neto said . " We never organized any expedition against Zaire . Our Soviet and Cuban allies did not intervene in any way on Angolan territory to foment rebellion in Zaire . " The Shaba mining center of Kolweal was overrun on the weekend of May 13 and 14 by secessionist Lunda tribesmen who have lived in Angola since being driven out of neighboring Shaba Province .                     