@@732135

txt The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence has evidence ' that the Central Intelligence Agency considered " operational use " of the shellfish poison kept in As laboratory , including making suicide pills for agents and " aggressive actions , " sources familiar with the events said today . The poison , these sources said , was kept in a laboratory of the technical services division of the C.I.A. , which in 1970 was under the command of Dr. Sidney Gottlieb. the man who conducted LSD experiments for the agency . The // Senate investigators are ex ? pected to interview Dr. Gottlieb in closed session later this week . Meanwhile , a prominent pharmacologist , Dr. Murdoch Ritchie of Yale University . has asked the agency and the Senate committee to prevent the destruction of the shellfish poison on the ground that it could extremely valuable for medical research . He said the poison was similar to one once mentioned in the James Bond books by Ian Fleming . The poison , called saxitoxin , has properties that make it rare and extremely valuable for research on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . One of the Deadliest Dr. Ritchie said he believed the C.I.A . ' s " saxitoxin " was part of a batch prepared by the Army at the Edgewood Arsenal . in Maryland in the nineteen-sixties . He said that it was one of the deadliest poisons known to mankind , but added that because of its value to ' tnedical research , " it would be criminal to destroy this material . " A Dr. Ritchie contended that careful controls could be worked out to keep the poison from misuse . He said . saxitoxin , which is distilled from butter tiaras , is similar to tetrodotoxin , a poison made by the 4apanese from puffer fish . The puffer fish poison was mentioned in James Bond novels , he said . After President Nixon ordered the destruction of chemical and bacteriological weapons in 1969 , following the signing of an international treaty limiting biochemical warfare , it became virtually impossible for medical . researchers to obtain saxitoxin , Dr. Ritchie said . The Ommercially manufactured Japanese . poison Is not as good fob research , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to indicate that over the'Years the intelligence agency ! : ' at least considered " using the shell-fish poison . The agency also maintained a supply of cobra venom . Too Fast for Antidote One potential use of the shell- , fish poison , because it is one of the ' fastest acting posions , was to make suicide pills so that United States agents might be able to kill , , themselves after being caughti'Sources , said . The poison acts so swiftly , these sources said , that the agents ' captors would have no time to administer an antidote . Other intelligence sources , however , said that there were memorandums suggesting " aggressive actions " in which the shell-fish.poison cOuld ? be used . They would not elaborate .. There were also indications that the agency had materials for such uses as disabling guard dogs at a foreign embassy without killing them . This would aid the agency in entering and leaving a premise guarded by dogs without the owner 's knowing the intrusion had been made . The Senate Committee . under the chairmanship of Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these two poisons were not destroyed by the agency following the Presidential order in 1969 , According to intelligence sources , though Dr. Gottlieb headed the division where the materials were retained there was " no implication " that he had violated the order and had them preserved . Seek Information Order Senate investigators are seeking to learn , intelligence sources said , whether Dr. Gottlieb could shed any light on how the Presidential order was handled at the agency . Mr. Church said that in addition to the cobra and shellfish poisons , the C.I.A . had hoarded large quantities of other dangerous chemicals . These may . figure in the hearings next week . Earlier today , the House Select Committee on Intelligence called an unexpected meeting and voted to subpoena briefing papers given to Presidents Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon on the eve of major international crises . ? Representative Otis Pike . Democrat of Suffolk , the committee chairman , said he was seeking copies of intelligence briefings given to the President and to officials at lower levels in the weeks prior to the 1968 Tet offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1974 Cypus crisis and last year 's military coup in Portugal . He said that he expected swift compliance with the subpoenas and that his committee would open public hearings on the subject tomorrow . Suit Against F.B.I . Dismissed SAN FRANCISCO , Sept. 10 ( UPI ) ? The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuiti has upheld the dismissal of aj suit against six agents of the ! Federal Bureau of Investigation charged with falsely arresting five Oregon residents transporting food and supplies to Indians in the uprising at Wounded Knee , S.D. , in 1973 . The appeals ' court upheld United States District Judge Gus Solomon of Portland , Ore. , who ruled that the agents had been acting within the scope of their authority and believed " in good faith " that the arrests were lawful under the Antiriot Act of 1968.                     