@@732604

txt THE UNITED STATES Court of Appeals held Friday that speeches made by state legislators and their votes on certain bills can be used against them in federal criminal trials . The Opinion , handed down by all eight judges of the U. S. Seventh Court of Appeals , reverses a ruling by a three-judge appelate panel and a federal district judge that official legislation can not be used as evidence against state legislators in federal criminal trails . The ruling , although setting a precedent , does not affect laws under which similar evidence can not be used against U. S. congressman in federal and state proceedings , or state legislators in state criminal trials , according to Assistant U. S. atty . Dan K. Webb , who has handled a number of investigations of legislators . U.S. ATTY . Samuel K. Skinner bad said previously that ' a number of potential indictments of legislators would be jeopardized if government prosecutors could not introduce such official records as vote tallies , speeches , and minutes of meetings to prove a legislator had an interest in the outcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday 's ruling came on all appeal by three Illinois legislators indicted in 1974 for allegedly conspiring to extort $5,000 for each of them from the rental car industry in exchange for dropping a regulatory bill they once had sponsored . Those indicted were State Representatives Robert Craig ED. , Danville . Thomas J. Hanahan ID. , , and Louis A. Markert ED. , Mt . Sterling . All are awaiting trial . CRAIG AND five others . including four 1972 state legislators , were convicted in federal court last month of participating in a $10,000 bribe scheme to pass a bill favorable to the ready-mix concrete industry . Judges participating in the Friday decison were Wilbur F. Pell Jr. , Robert A. Sprecher , Philip W. Tone , William J. Bauer , Halington Wood , Walter J. Cummings Jr. , Thomas E. Fairchild , and Luther M. Swygert . A dissent was registered by Cummings ; and partial dissents were offered by Fairchild and Swygert.                     