@@733792

txt The long-term outlook for Soviet policies around the vast ring of Asia shows a number of disturbing minuses  --  and only a few pluses . Asian and Western analysts who make this assessment say the Kremlin is trying to decide just how strongly to react . They see the choices as difficult , delicate , and highly significant for Asian , and world , peace . Too harsh a Soviet reaction would run the risk of further alienating those Asian nations Moscow sees as increasingly hostile to Kremlin policies , including China , Japan , North Korea , and the five members of ASEAN , the Assocation of Southeast Asian Nations ( Indonesia , the Philippines , Thailand , Malaysia , and Singapore ) . But too soft a Kremlin response might , in Soviet eyes , encourage further anti-Moscow developments in Asia . The most recent minus on the Soviet balance sheet for Asia was the long-delayed signing of the peace-and-friendship treaty between China and Japan . It opposes " hegemony " by any other power . The Chinese intend this as part of their worldwide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying the " hegemony " reference did not affect either party 's existing relations with other states . Nonetheless , Moscow is highly displeased . The Chinese signed an eight-year trade agreement with Japan in February . The Soviets worry that now the way is open for powerful Japnese help for China 's economy  --  and military forces . China is seeking aircraft , antitank missiles , and navigational aid from Britain , West Germany , and other European nations . Japanese technology , if not actual weapons , could be very helpful in support . The first Soviet reaction came Aug. 12 . A Tass news agency commentary accused Tokyo of capitulating to Peking . It indicated its concern that the pact would encourage Japanese militarism . The treaty , it said , is " fraught with danger " for Asian stability . But the commentary did not say what Moscow might do to retaliate . Late Aug. 14 Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Nikolai Firyubin repeated a strong line to the Minister of the Japanese Em- From page 1 Kremlin worrying about Asia bassy here . He made it clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions rather than its words , according to a Japanese Embassy spokesman . Asian and Eastern diplomats saw the Soviet reaction so far as a " holding action , " designed to buy time . Some Asians think that the Soviet need for Japanese money , machines , and markets for its vast Siberian natural resources is so great that Moscow will soft-pedal its reactions . The Japanese for their part can not move too much closer to Moscow , since the Soviets refuse to yield the southern Kurile Islands , which it occupied after World War II . Tokyo claims them . Until the issue is settled there can be no Soviet-Japanese treaty to match the just-signed Japanese-Chinese accord . Other minuses Other minuses for the Soviets in Asia include Chinese leader Hua Kuo-feng 's planned visits to Romania and Yugoslavia , on the Soviet Union 's southwestern flanks ; North Korea 's continued tilt away from Moscow , as indicated by its reprinting of a rabidly anti-Soviet speech by the Chinese defense minister ; recent moves to improve ties between China and India : and the growing strength- of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , attended by Secretary of State Cyrus Vance . Against the apparent tilt to the Chinese , the Soviets can count firmly on only Mongolia and Vietnam , diplomats here believe ? although Laos has just moved to support Vietnam in its border war against Cambodia , which is strongly supported by China . And the Soviets have gained definite influence in Afghanistan after the recent coup there . The Soviets remain an Asian power with deep interests not only in combating Chinese influence but in staking out markets and areas of influence . The Communist Party newspaper Pravda took aim at the ASEAN conference Aug. 14 , warning that the United States is trying to reassert its influence throughout Asia . This , Pravda said , is being resisted by progressive Asian opinion ? but Moscow faces both the United States and China in Asia . - And it now has Japan , which has a special defense relationship with Washington , moving closer to China .                     