@@729072

txt A compromise housing bill that would make sweeping new provisions for the development of new communities won a test vote in the House of Representatives tonight . The House , by a nonrecord teller vote of 101 to 94 , defeated a Nixon Administration substitute that would have continued present housing programs for six months more . The vote was a defeat fox President Nixon . The Administration had asked that comprehensive legislation on housing be suspended until next year , when the President plans to make new proposals . Comprehensive Plan Members of both parties said it appeared that the House would pass a comprehensive measure tomorrow that was worked out between Democratic and Republican leaders of the House Banking and Currency Committee . - The bill is similar to one passed earlier this year by the Senate . The committee had approved a more costly and ambitious bill . But , when it became apparent that this could not pass the House , committee leaders approved the compromise . The ranking minority member on the committee , Representative William B. Widnall , Republican of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle " between the committee 's proposal and the bill sought by George Romney , Secretary of Housing and Urban Development . Romney Bill Defeated It was the Romney bill that the House defeated tonight by teller vote before adjourning . In a teller vote , the legislators pass before a teller and indicate their stand on a legislative proposal by turning to the right or left . The compromise bill , which House leaders said would probably be approved tomorrow , contains the following provi-sions : liThe new towns section of the 1968 Housing Act would be greatly expanded . A Community Development Corporation with // in the Department of Housing and Urban Development would provide assistance to local governments and private developers for construction of new communities . There would be guaranteed loans for buildings and ? rants for such loans as water supply and community b buildinos. tlITh e White House Urban Affairs Council would be charged with making long-range urban growth policy and reporting its recommendations to Congress and the President . cExisting housing programs , urban renewal and others would be substantially expanded over the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the $7.4-billion in the original committee bill . CThe Department of Housing and Urban Development would underwrite crime insurance ? burglaries , theft , robbery , larceny ? for people in high crime areas if it is found that the rates of private insurers become unreasonable . The housing legislation that Is emerging from Congress this year developed in an unusual way . The new communities section is similar to proposals worked out earlier in the year by Secretary Romney . Reorganization Plans But when the Budget Bureau rejected the Romney proposals as too costly for the time being , Mr. Romney 's department recommended no expansions of programs but submitted a bill that would reorganize and recodify the thicket of housing programs now in the law . The Banking and Currency Committee rejected the reorganization as too much to handle this year and assigned subcommittees to make a study and new recommendations on reorganization for next year . Meanwhile , the chairman of an ad hoc subcommittee on urban problems , Representative Thomas L. Ashley , Democrat of Ohio , introduced a comprehensive bill that incorporated Mr. Romney 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic leadership of both houses , trying to get the jump on the Administration , endorsed the Ashley bill . ( To the surprise of many , the Senate passed a modified version of the bill and then the House Banking Committee accepted it almost as it was written , with the Republican minority objecting that it was too costly and predicting that it would be vetoed by President Nixon . Disorderly Debate The compromise version emerged today as the House opened several hours of disorderly debate on the complex legislation . Mr. Widnall told the House that he refused to go along with the Administration 's request for no housing legislation of substance this year but that the Ashley measure was " too large and unmanageable . " However , Mr. Widnall failed to carry many Republicans with him in favor of the compromise . All but a handful voted for the Administration " bare bones " proposal presented by Representative E. Garry Brown Jr. , Republican of Michigan . The compromise bill was sponsored by Representative Robert C. Stephens Jr. , Democrat of Georgia . In addition to reducing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struck a provision directing the President to set up a special council to make urban growth policy and eliminated real estate insurance from the provision that would provide Gevernment backing in the event rates become unbearable . If the House passes the compromise measure , the bill will go to a conference committee to work out House and Senate differences , and then to the President . There was no indication in the debate today or from House leaders whether President Nixon might sign or veto the measure . Democrats in Congress contended that they were succeeding in grabbing the initiative from the Administration in moving for new communities and expanded housing . The present law on new communities , after two years on the books , has not been effective . Both the Administration and Democrats have agreed that more substantial aid is needed .                     