@@730777

txt The missing records of 17 Federal Bureau of Investiagtion wiretaps placed on the phones of newsmen and administration officials from 1969 to 1971 were found Saturday in the office safe of former Presidential adviser John Ehrlichman . Acting FBI Director William Ruckelshaus announced today that he personally recovered them from the safe at the end of an investigation initiated a week after he was named to head the agency by President Nixon . Ehrlichman refused to comment on the files when questioned by reporters as he entered the office of U. S. Atty . Earl Silbert . Arriving unaccompanied , Ehrlichman would say only that he was going to identify some documents : At an unprecedented press conference at FBI headquarters here , Ruckelshaus said the wiretaps apparently resulted from a conversation in the spring of 1969 in which Presidential national security adviser Henry Kissinger sought help in tracing information leaks from then FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover . RUCKELSHAUS refused to divulge the names of the four newsmen and 13 government employes whose phones were tapped to avoid " potential harm " which the revelation might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was fired as a result of the taps or of any direct sources of leaks which were found . The wiretaps , Ruckelshaus said , were conducted from May , 1969 , to February , 1971 , and were on the phones for periods ranging from 30 days to as long as 21 months in one case . The records , filling two boxes 18 inches long , are being evaluated , Ruckleshaus said . His investigation confirmed reports of wiretaps designed to close leaks of information which Ruckleshaus described as " related to highly-sensitive foreign policy issues . " The reports indicated that no record of the wire taps remained . Ruckleshaus said the FBI files held two notes in Hoover 's handwriting affirming that former Atty . Gen. John Mitchell had told him the files were destroyed . Ruckleshaus noted Mitchell denied having made such a statement and added " this conflict can not be resolved because of Mr. Hoover 's death . " BECAUSE OF the sensitivity of the surveillance , the records of the conversations were retained and summaries were written by , or under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These then were forwarded to the interested party . Ruckleshaus said he assumed Kissinger or an assistant read the summaries . Kissinger has confirmed that he received summaries relating to members of his staff or matters in his jurisdiction . Asked whether the President knew about the wiretaps , Ruckleshaus said : " I ca n't answer that directly , but I know the President was very concerned about leaks . " Ruckelshaus said that removing the wiretap records was " the most difficult thing I 've . ever had to do . " " We almost had to arm Wrestle with the Secret Service , later on because the records ' were gone . Those records belonged over here and what we were doing was getting back . our records . " He pointed out that at the time they were conducted , such wiretaps were legal in cases involving national security and required only the approval of the attorney general . In June , 1972 , however , the Supreme Court ruled that Americans may not be subjected to wiretapping without a court-issued warrant . Ruckelshaus said his investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FBI headquarters and sent to the White House on Sullivan 's recommendation . However , the reason was disputed . ROBERT MARDIAN , former assistant attorney general in charge of internal security , told FBI investigators Sullivan proposed the removal because he feared Hoover , whose job was considered to be in jeopardy then because of his advanced age , might use them against the attorney general or the President . Ruckelshaus noted that Sullivan " did not affirm Mr. Mardian 's claim . " Ruckelshaus said Sullivan told FBI agents that he ordered the records moved because of their sensitive nature . " There is certainly no proof that Mr. Hoover has such intention but the charge had its desired effect , " Ruckelshaus said . " According to Mr. Mardian , he informed Mr. Mitchell , who in turn informed the White House . " The records were taken from the files by Mr. Sullivan , who ordered them given to Mr. Mardian , who delivered them to the White House . " - WHEN SULLIVAN retired In the fall of 1972 , Ruckelshaus said , the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It ended when Mitchell told Hoover they had been destroyed . Mitchell did confirm , however , they had been taken to the White House . Ruckelshaus ' own investigation was initiated by the request for information by Federal Judge W. Matt Byrne in Los Angeles who presided at the trial of Daniel Ellsberg and Anthony Russo in the Pentagon Papers case . Ruckelshaus expressed disappointment that the files were not found in time to help Byrne determine whether the prosecution 's case had been helped by wiretapping . Byrne dismissed the case against both men last Friday . Last Wednesday Ruckelshaus ) notified Byrne that an FBI agent who had monitored one wiretap recalled conversations between Ellsberg and Morton Halperin , then a Kissinger aide . " OF COURSE , whether this would have any effect on the judge 's decision is not for me to say , " Ruckelshaus said . In answer to a later question , he said : " We found no relation between the evidence in the trial and Mr. Ellsberg . " He added he was confident the material was not used as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review of the files , Ruckelshaus said he knew of " no specific leaks " they revealed . " There was considerable evidence of several people giving their opinions often and openly , " he added . He left open the possibility that a continuing review of the files might reveal a violation of the law . He said he would make an additional public statement later if he determined it was necessary .                     