@@729431

txt The metropolitan area 's railroads were striving early this morning to resume full service following the end last night of the signalmen 's strike , which had curtailed service for 145,000 rail commuters here . Soon after President Nixon signed the bill ending the walkout , the Penn Central and the Central Railroad of New Jersey announced that they expected to have normal rush-hour service on their commuter lines this morning . Some Penn Central employes were reported returning to work before midnight , by which time pickets were gone from Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal . Pennsy Move Awaited The Long Island Railroad , whose service had been partly disrupted by the labor dispute although it was not struck ? it had to terminate its Manhattan-bound runs in Queens because the tracks into Penn Station are under Penn-Central jurisdiction  --  said that its rushhour service this morning would depend on how quickly the Penn Central permitted L , I.R . trains to resume normal service into the terminal here . " The sooner they let us come in , the easier our rush hour will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroad said that the first train into Pennsylvania Station  --  which had left Babylon at 1:32 A.M. ? had arrived on schedule at 2:42 . The Long Island 's service to its Atlantic Avenue terminal in Brooklyn was not affected by the strike . A spokesman for the ErieLackawanna said that " pretty full service " was enpectecl on that line , serving North Jersey , assuming that striking employes and those who had honored their picket lines returned to work speedily and that inspections of equipment and tracks showed no difficulties . He said the railroad planned to send its first train of the morning out of Dover , N. J. , at 5:10 A.M. And an official of the Staten Island Rapid Transit line said , " We hope to have normal service by 6 A.M. " Riders of the Port Authority Trans Hudson , or PATH , service were unaffected by the labor dispute . Both PATH and the Long Island Railroad reached agreement with the signalmen earlier . Over all , the trip-to-work prospects greeting the metropolitan area 's 145,000 rail commuters were brighter this morning than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them had been forced to do without their regular train rides since the walkout began . The Penn Central said early this morning that  --  assuming that the striking signalmen and other employes who had stayed out responded immediately to the line 's return-to-work call the first New Haven Division train to leave Stamford for Grand Central Terminal would begin its run at 4:52 A. M. The first Harlem Division train was expected to leave North White Plains at 5:16 A.M. and the first Hudson Division train was expected to leave Harmon at 5:30 A. M. The Jersey Central said it hoped to have its first Newarkbound Main Line train out of Raritan at 5:10 A.M. and its first seashore area train out of Bay Head Junction at 4:25 . The carrier also noted that meeting this schedule would depend on how promptly its employes returned to their posts . Yesterday the line ran several rush-hour trains , which were operated by supervisory personnel . Except for somewhat longer lines of cars and buses at tunnels leading into Manhattan , there was little indication that the nationwide railroad strike had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connecticut and Westchester County residents rode in private cars or buses to outlying subway stops in the Bronx . Thousands of Manhattanbound commuters on the Long Island Railroad had to switch to subways at Woodside , Elmhurst or Hunters Point in Long Island City because Penn Station was shut by the signalmen 's strike . New Jersey commuters relied once again on buses , and a record total of 1,006 buses used the special lane of the Lincoln Tunnel yesterday morning . On Monday , the first day of the strike , 981 buses used the lane , which is open only during the morning rush hour . A week ago yesterday , 814 buses used the lane . A spokesman for the Port of New York Authority said that the number of commuters who moved through the authority 's bus terminal at 41st Street and Eighth Avenue was 20,000 above normal on Monday evening and again yesterday morning . Automotive traffic was heavier entering Manhattan yesterday through the Lincoln , Holland and Queens-Midtown Tunnels . Motorists using other crossings into Manhattan , the aide said , encountered no more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the best travel bargains in the city was being largely underutilized during the strike : the park and lock lots in Long Island City adjacent to the Queens Plaza subway and elevated line station . The Port Authority Trans Hudson system , which like the L.I.R. had already reached contract agreements with the striking railroad signalmen and thus could continue to run , yesterday picked up additional business compared with Monday , but still ran at far below its normal passenger load . During the morning rush hour yesterday , PATH trains arried 24,000 passengers , up from 18,500 the day before . A normal rush-hour passenger load would be about 47,000 , a Port Authority spokesman said .                     