@@731714

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor To Cut International Oil Prices To the Editor : The International Monetary Fund published statistics at the beginning of last November which showed that between the end of September 1973 and end-September 1974 the monetary reserves of the OPEC countries rose by at least $25 billion , to represent 19 per cent of the world total , compared with only 7 per cent at the beginning of the period . Since endSeptember the rate of transfer of reserves has quickened , and the present international financial system can not long support such massive transfers of reserves into hands which fail to reinvest them adequately . We are now rushing toward financial collapse with no sign of Western governments doing anything purposeful to avert it . The first requirement then is to renounce this nerveless mental set of our times . The second is to recognize that inflation dwarfs the danger of a recession in the havoc it is wreaking in Western economies . The OPEC countries achieve the transfer of reserves into their hands out of the total volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is controlled by the member countries of the I.M.F . acting through their central banks . The third requirement is that member countries of the International Monetary Fund decide immediately to cut drastically the total volume of the means for settling international in. debtedness . This will require a return to a single fixed equivalence of memInadequate School Supplies To the Editor : Seated somewhat uncomfortably on a broken chair among sniffling students in a drafty , poorly-lit classroom , I am responding to your editorial of Jan. 2 , which called for " a responsible Nicholas Berman scrutiny " of Chancellor Irving Anker 's requested $2.78 billion budget . As you stated , New York City schools are beginning to institute programs to aid ' As handicapped students who require specialized education . Although these programs are costly , they probably account for only a small portion of the money Mr. Anker has requested . The Scales of Evil To the Editor : No one who is In any sense a Jew can fail to share Elie Wiesel 's mood and emotions upon reading his " Ominous Signs and Unspeakable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expresses a subordinate theme that is both discordant and disturbing . It surfaces concretely in one sentence : " Without Auschwitz , Hiroshima would not have been possible . " That there is no causal relationship between the events that took place at these two locations is easy to demonstrate . Nothing in the psyche of man should be allowed to produce an illusion of relationship , because it is exactly this type of error , so commonplace throughout the world today , that produces the conditions that make Wiesel and many of us afraid . Hiroshima was neither a derivative of Auschwitz nor a mini-Auschwitz . Hiroshima had a rational military purpose that succeeded . It brought about an abrupt termination of a bloody war . Had that war not ended in that way , it has been estimated that one million American casualties would have been the alternative price for an ending ( plus probably a higher number of Japanese casualties ) , involving an invasion of the home islands of Japan . In this sense Hiroshima was even , grotesquely , humane , as the actual number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this exchange would have been blurred had the United States begun the war with an attack on Japan equivalent hers ' currencies to gold of a standard fineness with the consequent abolition of the " two-tier " system , together with a sharp reduction in the total volume of Special Drawing Rights . It is the increasing volume of balances available for international payments qualifying to be valued at freemarket prices together with the large extension of Special Drawing Rights which have brought about the great expansion of the means of international payments . A drastic reduction of the total volume of international payment means would insure a sharp fall in the international oil price . It is realized ' that financial surgery on this scale can only be achieved through an urgently convened international conference at which heads of governments would commit their countries to immediate action . The adop. lion of this measure would imply a commitment to institute intelligent cooperative control of the world 's supply of capital so that the requirements of developed and developing countries could be harmonized . Also , effective control of internal inflation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the means of international payments . In my country , Canada , statutory control of wages and salaries will be needed to regain control over an inflation which is severely distorting a fundamentally strong economy , and similar anti-inflationary measures must have precedence in all other member countries of the International Monetary Fund . M. E. LINNELL Brentwood Bay , B. C. , Dec. - 27 , 1974 Honestly , I do n't know where all the money is going . Nor do my teachers , who try desperately to explain to outraged pupils how Yankee Stadium can be renovated while the city schools do n't have paper , chalk , thumb tacks , Scotch tape . Perhaps we are disillusioned adolescents , but teachers ' answers of " It 's different monies , " and " That 's bureaucracy " just are n't satisfying . It is frustrating when a history lesson must be halted in order to search for chalk . It is n't bad enough that we are crammed into overcrowded schools that are potential fire hazards ; in addition , we must suffer from a lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MICHAEL . KANDEL Jackson Heights , N. Y. , Jan. 3 , 1975 ? Pill Bottle Procedure To the Editor : In his letter to you published on Jan. 7 , Dr. Michael C. Latham of Ithaca relates how he and his university-trained wife lost a pair of surgical scissors and their good dispositions trying to open a childproof pill bottle . He wonders if there might not be some better way . I am happy to pass on to him the procedure that is followed in our family : When one of the adults finds himself in need of a midnight aspirin or something , we awaken our four-year-old daughter and hand the bottle to her . TOM ALEXANDER Stony Point , N.Y. , Jan. 7 , 1975 to Pearl Harbor , instead of the way it really happened . Fortunately , we have been spared that dilemma . The danger of the Wiesel-type equation is that it equates too many unequal things . It leads to " evenhandedness " ' because no one is perfect . Therefore , the normal human tendency to support an innocent potential victim may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have possibly done to someone , somewhere , at some other time , so that he can conceivably merit the fate that may be in store for him . By this process justice in the world may be achieved painlessly , by redefining the rights and wrongs in every test Wherein the existence of justice can be demonstrated . Synthetic justice of this sort provides a comfortable cop-out for otherwise very decent people , not bigots . Evil is not only qualitative . Very importantly , it is also quantitative . Those who do not see much difference between Auschwitz and Hiroshima may lack the perspective to understand the relative merits in current controversies , including the ones between Israel and its neighbors . Wiesel 's speculations may yet have to be confronted in a more direct manner . What if , in order to prevent another holocaust , it becomes necessary to inflict another Hiroshima on Cairo , Damascus and even more noteworthy world capitals ? No one wishes this choice to arise , but if it should , I for one would like the man at the buttons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scales of evil . SIDNEY W. LEWINTER Falls Church , Va. , Dec. 29 , 1974 Conserving Energy To the Editor : ' - Your editorial reference to the warm temperatures in Rockefeller Center 's shopping concourse Jan. 6 brought forth both a cheer and a sigh from me : a cheer because it points up unintentionally the effectiveness of the center 's energy conservation program , and a sigh because it reminds me of the many misconceptions which abound on the subject of heating and cooling large buildings . Since most people tend to equate temperature control of an office building with that of their own homes ( where you cool in the summer and heat in the winter ) , it is difficult for them to comprehend that certain spaces in office buildings must be cooled , even in the winter . These areas ( such as the underground concourse and interior offices ) are like Thermos bottles  --  they are insulated from the outside and become hot , even uncomfortably hot , if not cooled . Therefore , the warmth which you experienced in the underground concourse reflected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to conserve energy . That is a simple explanation of only one puzzling element in the extraordinarily complex business of heating and cooling and conserving energy : in a major complex such as that made up of the 21 buildings of Rockefeller Center . It is a big job , but , in terms of energy conservation , rewards to be gained are exceptional . We have , since our program was inaugurated in 1973 , modified heating and ventilating operations as well as elevator and cleaning schedules , developed new performance information to increase efficiency of equipment combinations , optimized the operation of mechanical equipment through the use of computer control centers and embarked upon an information program which has resulted in a substantiaL contribution by our tenants to energy conservation in the center . As a result of this effort , in 1974 , Rockefeller Center saved enough electricity and steam to provide both heat and light to more than 10,000 average one-family houses for a year . At Rockefeller Center we have a commitment to provide the finest service and working conditions possible within the framework @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. MARSHALL President , Rockefeller Center , Inc ' , New York , Jan. 6 , 1975 ? Mr. Lefkowitz Responds To the Editor : The Times in its Jan. 7 editorial on the nursing home matter , apparently chooses to ignore statements which have been made public by me arid others to rebut innuendo and unjusLir Pied misstatements of fact . It is wholly unwarranted for anyone to state , as you did in your edir tonal , that I " seem to be a good old friend " of Dr. Bernard Bergman . The , truth is , as I have informed the news media several times , that I knew Pr . Bergman as a respected religious leader whom in recent years I met - at public functions occasionally as I have hundreds of other individuals active in some phase of the life of our state . It is completely unjustified ' to infer ; as you did in your editorial , that I communicated with the New York State Department of Health in behalf of Dr. Bergman . I never made any call at any time to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr. , First Deputy Health Commissioner , whom you quote , has confirmed to me and his remarks have been reported in the press , that I never spoke to him con. - cerning Dr. Bergman . With a single exception , according to reports made to me by members of my staff , no case of fraud involving nursing homes ever was referred to my office and it is unjustified for you to comment that my office has not been able to " crack down " on any of the fraud cases " coming to the attention of his office . " In the only fraud case referred to my office , involving a Buffalo nursing home , the matter also was given to the District Attorney of Erie County at the same time and my office offered to provide full cooperation in the prosecution . Three months after the matter was referred to my office and the inveiti : - gation begun , the subject died . Recovery of money involved in the fraud is now being accomplished . You overlook the fact that It was .1 who applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Special Grand Jury and also advised Governor Carey that it was in the public interest for me to appoint an indepedent special prosecutor with adequate staff and funding to present the matter to the Grand Jury . LOUIS J. LEFKOWITZ New York State Attorney General New York , Jan. 7 , 1975 ? For Efficient Compact Cars To the Editor : The nation 's automobile makers are crying out for the Federal Government to come to their aid in selling acres of unsold 1975 cars . How absurd it Is for them to expect the American people to support the manufacture ' of oversized , inefficient , overpowered , polluting automobile engines which cannibalize twice as much Mideast oil as technologically reasonable . If the Big Three continue to prod= millions of cars which deplete the dollar reserves of this country by inefficient gasoline usage , how can they seriously expect any public sympathy ? Let them produce fourcylinder compacts which obtain thirty miles to the gallon and are efficient and clean for us to support with our tax dollars . STEPHEN L. G. ROTHMAN , MO . New Haven , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 