@@734274

txt President Carter 's new system for protecting federal " whistle blowers " from reprisals for reporting government wrongdoing is about to get its first major test . The results could well influence the willingness of other potential whistle blowers to come forward with complaints . Last year when Mr. Carter presented Congress with his reform plan for civil service , a key element was creation of a Merit Systems Protection Board ( MSPB ) to protect whistle blowers from reprisals . Congress approved the idea . Already nearly 400 whistle blowers ' cases are before the new board ? some 200 or so alleging reprisals from employers for their candidness . But , given the time needed for investigation , in only one case so far has the board 's special counsel recommended blocking what it sees as an agency 's reprisal . The precedent-setting case , now before the board for a decision , pits two Carter appointees ? Attorney General Griffin Bell and the US Marshal Ron Angel in Atlanta ? against four deputy marshals here . About eight months after the deputies complained to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 ) of Georgia last year about alleged misconduct ( including drinking and gambling on duty ) by their superiors , all four were ordered transferred to other cities . An attorney with the US Marshal 's headquarters confirms that such involuntary transfers are rare . The deputies contend the transfers were reprisals for their complaints . The MSPB 's special counsel agrees . Attorney General Bell , who personally reviewed the case before signing the transfer order , says the order was aimed at settling longstanding personnel conflicts and disruptions in the Atlanta office . // From page 1 Test case for ' whistle blowers ' The Monitor has learned that the deputies had been unhappy with some of their assignments . According to one of the deputies , the alleged misconduct was " the straw " that prompted their complaints . But it is unclear if the transfers resulted from personality conflicts and diccatisfaction on the job or from the allegations of misconduct . That is what the MSPB will decide within the next 30 to 60 days , possibly after a public hearing . Final written comments from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' case is " a test " of his office 's ability to protect whistle blowers , says Lynn R. Collins , the board 's assistant special counsel for prosecution . The allegations by the deputies are that their superiors had : ( 1 ) been drinking and gambling while on duty at a firing range ; ( 2 ) sent deputies out to purchase liquor to bring back to the range ; ( 3 ) told the deputies to falsify documents to get a full day 's pay for halfa day ; ( 4 ) been racially discriminating against some deputies . Ironically , current investigations are not examining the accuracy of these charges , only whether the transfers were reprisals because of them . Ruth Prokop , chair of the MSPB told the Monitor the board has learned tactics from this case that will provide better protection to future whistle blowers . Essentially , she said , steps will be taken to avoid allowing an agency to take actions against a whistle blower ( as the Justice Department did ) before the board has finished with the case . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is Lawrence J. Brady , a senior official of the Commerce Department . In May Mr. Brady told a congressional subcommittee his department 's export-control program was in " total shambles " and could not be relied on to determine if the USSR was using US exports for military purposes . In June he was demoted.                     