@@729378

txt America 's Asian allies are reacting with caution and mixed feelings to the developing trend of United States policy toward mainland China . First reactions seem to indicate that the thaw has caught many of them by surprise , if for contradictory reasons . Japan , America 's major Pacific ally , is experiencing a deep sense of anxiety throughout its political and economic leadership . Australia , continuing its hard-line foreign police under Prime Minister William McMahon , is determined to stand by its association with Taiwan . Anticommunism and suspicion of Peking 's motives are as strong as ever in South Korea , South Vietnam , and Thailand . Although Thai comment has been equivocal , Philippine official reaction is noncommittal . In Taiwan , confidence in American solidarity with the Chinese Nationalist regime has been shaken and a correspondent there reports the prevalence of anxiety and unease . A Tokyo correspondent says there is evidence to show that the Japanese Foreign Ministry underestimated and misjudged the Chinese invitation to the American table-tennis team , which spotlighted attention on the easing of Peking 's attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " ministry officials now are worried lest the United States leave Japan behind in reaching an understanding with mainland China on ways to increase contact , particularly in terms of trade . Australia has also made it known that it will do everything in its power to sustain the position of Nationalist China as a member of the United Nations against Peking 's insistence that it be expelled as a condition for mainland China 's entry . South Vietnam opinion is acutely sensitive to any further change in American policy . A Saigon correspondent reports that President Nixon 's latest speech outlining American plans to withdraw more troops from Vietnam has caused serious concern . The Philippines has special factors to consider in its attitude to the mainland . It is worried about Maoist-inspired subversion by dissidents and its rebel " New People 's Army . " And it has to consider the strong anti-Peking sentiment of its 300,000 Chinese nationals , who are mostly pro-Nationalist.                     