@@729906

txt Mayor Lindsay assailed Governor Rockefeller yesterday as " a tool of the White House in the politics of 1972 " and accused the Governor of using his State of the State message to open President Nixon 's reelection campaign with " a false and unworthy attack ' on the city and himself . Mr. Lindsay , in a scathing attack , was joined at a City Hall news conference by seven Text of Lindsay 's statement will be found on Page 21. aides . They variously described the Governor 's criticism of the Lindsay administration as " demagoguery , " " the big lie technique , " " a cruel misstatement of the facts " and " demeaning to the office of Governor and an insult to the State Legislature . " The Mayor , a newly converted Democrat , was asked low he could hope to work with the Republican Governor after making such an attack . He replied : " All the gains the City of New York has made have been done by exerting substance , political power and the coalition of the Big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None of it has been done with any sense of graciousness on the Albany end , and certainly none of it has been done by any sense of willingness to see the city achieve , " he added . The Democratic leaders of the Legislature shared the Mayor 's view that the Governor 's criticism was politically inspired . For instance , Joseph Zaretzki , Senate minority leader , said : " As I followed the speech as the Governor was reading it I put down next to that particular paragraph on page 27 in which the Governor catalogued the city 's ills , ' Lindsay for President . ' " Mr. Lindsay , who campaigned with the Governor in November in support of the ill-fated transportation bond issue , has in the past minimized his differences with Mr. Rockefeller . Yesterday , he mounted a bitter counterattack against his long-standing political and personal foe . " The Governor should have spoken today to the challenges facing the state government , ' Mr. Lindsay said . These include , he said , " why the state failed in its handling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squandered away $1.5-billion on the Albany Mall while pleading bankruptcy to citizens in every town and city , why the state has wasted hundreds of millions of dollars on a disastrous narcotics program . " Mr. Lindsay also cited the closing of state mental hospitals , the " deterioration " of // the state-run subway and commuter railroad system and the , state 's " inept fiscal management , " which he said had left the state without enough money to pay its bills . Noting the Governor 's advocacy of decentralization , the Mayor said : " The record will show that every victory for decentralization of schools and other city institutions won by our city administration in the past six years has come despite the naked opposition of the Governor himself . " Mr. Lindsay called upon seven aides to reply to the Governor 's criticism of their agencies , and they ended up vying for the most critical phrases to apply to Mr. Rockefeller 's message . Jerome Kretchmer , the Environmental Protection Administrator , said " To suggest that the garbage is n't picked up often enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it go at that is just demagoguery . " " It 's picked up here more often than it 's picked up in any . other major municipality in the country , " he added . Lewis Feldstein , executive assistant for neighborhood government , said : " For the Governor to suddenly emerge as the champion of decentralization in many ways is something dike the big-lie technique . " " For six years , " he said , " this city and this city administration has gone farther and made greater and more comprehensive efforts than any city in the nation to bring its services in to the neighborhood and to decentralize its services . " Albert A. Walsh , Housing and Development Administrator , said : " I think it 's a cruel misstatement of the facts and an oversimplification of what is a very complex situation for the Governor to state that housing can not be found in New York City . " The Governor or his housing advisers should know and do know , I am sure , that the years 1970 and then 1971 were the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York , " Last year , we began in New York City new construction of 20,591 units of cityassisted housing , the highest year in the history of this city . " Mr. Lindsay , after calling upon city officials at the news conference , said : " The Governor is totally uninformed about the nature of cities , " He 's uninformed about the management of this city . He 's uninformed about the decentralization processes that have taken place . He 's uninformed about all the productivities that have been introduced . " And if he 's not uninformed , if he is informed , then it 's infamous , because it 's a known big lie , and was done with knowledge . "                     