@@732392

txt The first round in the struggle between President Ford and Congress over control of the American intelligence community is expected to be won by Congress . In the next few days the Senate , it is thought , will take the first big step toward creating its own permanent intelligence watchdog committee , instead of the joint Senate-House panel which the White House strongly prefers . The House is likely to follow the Senate 's lead . But the outcome of the next round in the contest between the President and Congress ? whether lawmakers , through their new committees , should be given a veto power over covert intelligence operations ? is less certain . The President 's new CIA director , George Bush , at a breakfast meeting Thursday ( Feb. 19 ) with reporters , voiced his " personal opinion " against prior congressional approval , but said he could live with it . Congressional leaders themselves are divided . Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield ( D ) of Montana favors the right of veto by the full Senate within 30 days to confirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Senate 's soon-to-expire intelligence investigation committee ( eight of its 11 members ) reject a congressional veto because ? in the words of chairman Frank Church ( D ) of Idaho ? it would " usurp the role of the President as the final arbiter of foreign policy . " An aide of the Senate Government Operations Committee , which began Thursday ( Feb. 19 ) putting final touches on a bill for the full Senate , calls the idea of separate committee for each branch of Congress " the one // *Intelligence issue // point on which just about everyone in Congress agrees . " The difference between one committee or two may seem minor , but the underlying motive is fundamental . Creating a joint committee requires the President 's signature , giving Mr. Ford a veto power which many lawmakers worry that he could use to force the committee to be structured the way he wants . Separate Senate and House panels require simple parliamentary resolutions and no presidential approval . Reducing the number of congressional committees monitoring the intelligence community from the current six to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rivalry and conflict , a Senate aide says . , But concern is growing in Congress over two other aspects of the intelligence community 's new command structure : ? The President 's new " independent " board , which will oversee intelligence operations , is made up of three men ? retired diplomat Robert D. Murphy , former Army Secretary ( 1964-65 ) Stephen Ailes , and economist Leo Cherne ? who support covert activity . ? The new charter which Mr. Ford issued " to improve the performance of the intelligence agencies and restore public confidence in them " gives official approval- to many controversial practices which have tended to undermine public trust ? domestic surveillance of Americans , infiltration of certain American groups , covert aid to universities ; and any undercover activities abroad except assassinations.                     