@@729203

txt In northern Laos last week , the Communists attacked near the royal capital of Luang Prabang and Muong Soui . In one of the largest operations of the Indochina war , 9,000 American and 20,000 South Vietnamese troops swept into the northwestern corner of South Vietnam . As bombers and artillery pounded enemy positions , the allies prepared for a possible major South Vietnamese drive into Laos against the Ho Chi Minh Trail , the Communists ' main supply route . are now engaged in two new operations in the border areas of Cambodia , intensifying the search for enemy supply depots . By striking directly at the Ho Chi Minh Trail , some say , the South Vietnamese would also help ease the pressures on Cambodia . A nightmare of American officials here is that disaster in Cambodia would slow the pace of American withdrawals because of the increased danger to South Vietnam . " A strike against the trail would probably buy a year or more and then most of us will be out , " said a high-ranking American officer last week . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We gave them the Communist supplies in Cambodia . Now we give them the trail . And then we can go . " SFILTSTER Kompong ? Som About 21,500 South Vietnamese troops , joined by Cambodian units , thrust into the Fishhook and Parrot 's Beak areas of Cambodia to strike at Communist supply and training bases . SAIGON To many here , it 's the " last hurrah "  --  the last big American operation in Vietnam before the bulk of the Army goes home . The Green Machine hummed , the helicopters chattered , the jets roared and 9,000 American troops moved into actibn in South Vietnam 's northernmost province of Quangtri . In one of the larger campaigns of the war , shrouded by a six-day news blackout , the Americans repaired roads , built bridges and airstrips , reoccupied historic Khesanh , scoured the countryside in search of nine enemy regiments , hit enemy storage areas from the air and ground , and moved up to the Laotian border . That done , some 20,000 South Vietnamese marines , rangers and airborne units began massing in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines in southern Laos . To the south , in the follow-up of what seemed to be a one-two punch , South Vietnamese and Cambodian troops opened new drives against Communist sanctuaries across the Cambodian border in areas known as the Fishhook and the Parrot 's Beak . As the military command released details of the operation near the Laotian border , many here felt they were reliving a bad dream  --  Khesanh , where United States Marines underwent a 77-day siege in 1968 ; Langvei , near the border where Americans were overrun in a rare use of Communist tanks ; the Ashau Valley to the south of Khesanh , a traditional enemy haven and graveyard for both sides . The plan calls for the South Vietnamese to strike across the border at the Ho Chi Minh Trail in force for the first time , destroy roads and stockpiled supplies and then withdraw , all under the intense protection of American air power  --  helicopter gunships , B52 's , and smaller fighters and bombers . How long the Saigon forces would remain in Laos was not clear . Sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they can create enough havoc in the time allowed to set Hanoi 's war effort back at least two years . According to the plan , the Americans would begin the operation , called Dewey Canyon II , and the South Vietnamese would finish It . So the American units began their part of the job last Saturday morning , moving armored columns westward across Route 9 , a Misting French-built road that crosses the northern provinces of South Vietnam to the Mekong Valley in Laos , running across the trail itself at Sepone . Heavy American artillery , from border positions , would also cover any South Vietnamese advance into Laos . But no United States troops would cross the border . One of the first moves by the Americans , in fact , was to happily put up signs at the border : " Warning ? no U.S. personnel beyond this point . " The over-all plan , as described here , was long sought by President Nguyen Van Thieu as well as by past American military commanders , including Gen. William C. Westmoreland . The direct approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippling the enemy 's capacity for making war . But the idea was always slapped down by the White House . Now , apparently , things are different . The Cambodian port of Kompong Som , formerly Sihanoukville , is closed to the Communist supplies which inflamed the war in the southern provinces of this country . The attacks against enemy border sanctuaries in Cambodia last spring by American and South Vietnamese troops hurt the enemy , even though they brought chaos to Cambodia itself . The Ho Chi Minh Trail was left as the sole supply artery for the enemy . For those in search of a decisive blow , if there is such a thing in Vietnam , the trail loomed as an inviting though treacherous target . The Americans were leaving , the argument went , and a successful raid would make it easier for them to do so by immensely improving South Vietnam 's chances of survival . It could be followed by President Nixon 's announcement in April of a substantial next phase of troop reduction to offset political drawbacks . In short , supporters said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news blackout was lifted here Friday , word of troop movements had come all week from Washington , Hanoi , Moscow and other points , annoying not only the military command here but also the frustrated correspondents who knew the facts and could not report them . They were even forbidden to write on the blackout , as the command insisted on the embargo even after it was disclosed by officials in Washington . As the troops continued to mass at the border , without crossing it in force , some military sources last week wondered whether President Nixon had developed some second thoughts about the whole project . The President , it was understood , had received advance approval from President Thieu to make the final decision , in large part because the United States would be providing the essential air and logistics support and highway security . Yesterday the French newspaper Le Monde and the Japanese Kyodo news agency reported that South Vietnamese forces had already begun operations in Laos . There was no American confirmation of the reports but the enemy apparently thought the invasion was likely and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces in Laos moved against Laotian Government outposts in a series of attacks near the Royal Laotian capital of Luang Prabang and the important base of Muong Soui . The military briefers , who filled in correspondents here daily during the embargo , made much of a reported buildup of enemy troops and supplies in the Laotian Panhandle and talked of a great threat to all of Military Region 1 , which comprises the country 's five northern provinces . They said that 90 per cent of all enemy supplies destined for South Vietnam entered through the northern provinces . " The buildup constitutes a serious threat to the continual withdrawal of United States forces , a clear and increasing danger to United States and South Vietnamese troops , " said one military spokesman . " The indications are they are focusing on Region 1 . " Apart from the concern over infiltration into South Vietnam , there is a growing apprehension here over Cambodia , where the Cambodian army has found it increasingly difficult to keep vital routes open in the face of Communist harassment . About 21,500 South Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treacherous Target                     