@@731054

txt Rep. Edward J. Derwinski R. , 111.1 , a staunch supporter of President Nixon , is boycotting the President 's breakfast meetings with Republican congressmen as " an insult to their intelligence . " " I 'm not anti-Nixon and I 'm not running away from the Nixon vote , " he said . " But if the President wanted Congress ' opinion , he would have asked for it five years ago . " His decision not to attend today 's breakfast , he said , " Was a personal revolt against pomp and circumstance . I think the President has a lot more problems with Congress than can be solved with a hasty series of break : fasts . " HIS FRUSTRATION , Derwinski said , was aimed more at the men ' around the President than at Nixon himself . " I think the President rem a i n s isolated , " Derwinski said in an interview . " And in this sense Gen. Alexander Haig is no improvement on Haldeman and Ehrlichman . " President Nixon spends five hours answering questions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Story on page 3 . Haig replaced H. R. Haldeman as White House chief of staff after Haldeman and John Ehrlichman , another top Presidential aide , resigned as casualties of Watergate . Derwinski said he decided to have breakfast with Postmaster General Elmer T. Klassen rather than accept the White House invitation . HE SAID he had explained to White House staffers , " We ' do n't have to be told a slightly updated version of what has been in the press for a year and a half . It 's more important that the President hear from members of Congress , that he benefit from their frank commentary on his political problems . " And this forum , " he added , " does n't provide for it . It 's too much of the pomp and circumstance identified with the American Presidency of late . " The Illinois Republican said he thought the sudden White House approach to Republican members of Congress was caused by the congressional override of Nixon 's veto of the war power limitation . After having compiled a good record in sustaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at last week 's vote and saw they blew one . " Instead of talking to the G. O. P. leadership and the bulk of House Republicans , Derwinski said , the President should have hammered out his problems with the 30 or 40 " defecting Republicans " and " asked them , ' what 's wrong with me as a Republican President ? ' " ALSO , DERWINSKI said , Nixon should call in " the known , knowledgeable political Republicans and say , ' OK , boys , what would you advise me ? ' " I think I understand about , politics , " Derwinski said . " I think I understand a lot more about politics than some of the people around the President . "                     