@@733484

txt President Carter told Mayor Koch today that the Administration would support further financial help for New York City once he was certain that " all the local parties with an interest in the city 's future " were also making the " maximum effort . " After a half-hour meeting at the White House with the Mayor and a retinue of city officials , the President emphasized the importance of winning pledges from New York State , pension funds , labor unions ' and the city 's financial community to support the city . " Once I am satisfied that they will do their part , " he said , " I will work hard to persuade the Congress to enact a bill that will end the financial uncertainty in New York . " Talks in City Ordered The President also ordered Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal to go to New York next week for further talks with the local officials , whom Mr. Koch has been trying to persuade to agree to his plans for the financially strapped city . Although the President 's statement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short of the total commitment Mr. Koch is seeking , the Mayor insisted that the meeting had gone well . " This was a superb day , " said the Mayor , who had earlier visited Capitol Hill to meet with Congressional leaders . " We found people with open minds . " Mr. Koch 's difficulty in putting together a financial program including further Federal loan assistance has been in getting the local parties to contribute as much as Congress and the- administration are demanding . Congress Is Reluctant But Mr. Koch 's biggest problem ' is expected to be in selling a reluctant , and in some cases hostile , Congress on the idea . Today he made the rounds of top Congressional leaders concerned with the city 's financial plight and then concluded his day in the capital meeting with the President and then with top Carter advisers . Much of what-he heard was a replay of what he had heard before , and there were no commitments , but the following points gave him some encouragement : 1Howard H. Baker Jr . of Tennessee , the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told Mayor Koch that " I am sympathetic and want to do what I can , " and that " it 's unthinkable to let New York go down the tube . " Mr. Baker predicted that the Mayor stood a good chance of convincing Congress . 1Senator William Proxmire , Democrat of Wisconsin and head of the Senate Banking Committee , Which has jurisdiction over the city loan program  --  which expires June 3 ? said : " If I had to vote on further loans to the city at the moment , I 'd vote ' no ' ; but we do n't have to vote now . This will take two or three months . " He said that if they Mr. Koch and others " can show there 's no other way out , I may change my mind " Mr. Proxmire continued to insist that the city // and other " local parties " had the " muscle and financial wherewithal " to solve the problem without Federal help . He was especially opposed to the centerpiece of the Koch program  --  a Federal guarantee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moorhead , Democrat of Pennsylvania , who heads a House Banking committee panel handling the city 's financing problem , gave Mr. Koch the most encouragement . He and Stewart B. , Republican of Connecticut and ranking minority member of the panel , told the Mayor that , " we would attempt to draft legislation which would be both acceptable to the Congress and helpful to New York City . " He added : " We stressed , however , that participation by the state and by local entities would be essential for the passage of legislation . " Hearings will begin Feb. 23 , when Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal testifies before the Moorhead subcommittee . Governor Carey and state officials will follow on Feb. 27 , the Mayor and City Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin on March 1 , and then financial officials on succeeding days . Both Senator Baker and Mr. Moorhead suggested that a solution to the New York dilemma might come within the framework of legislation applicable to other big cities in deep financial trouble . This would help to remove the charge made by many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moorhead exI plained , but the controls would be tough enough to discourage cities from applying for help except in dire necessity . The President 's statement after the White House meeting described Mr. Koch as " an able and courageous man whose administration shows great promise in its early days . " Reiterating an oft-expressed " commitment to preserve New York City 's solvency , " the President said he expected the Mayor to make decisions " to restore New York to a sound financial footing . " Mr. Koch said of his meeting with the President : " It was a very good meeting because rapport was there . I 'm convinced the President wants to help . " It was former Congressman Koch 's first return to the capital since taking office as Mayor . His retinue including Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin , other city officials and a large collection of New York press , radio and television reporters moved like a small army from office to office for the series of interviews , the Mayor pausing occasionally for quick briefings under the bright television lights . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself as the " villain " becaue of his hard line . against further loan assistance . Mr. Prox- ? mire did n't think he was . And Mayor . Koch hastened to add that the powerful Senator was not a villain at all . " We look upon him as a friend , " the Mayor said . STATEMENT BY CARTER I was pleased to meet with Mayor Koch today to discuss New York City 's currentliscal condition and ifs recently ' developed budget and financing plans to cover the next four years . Mayor Koch is an able and courageous man whose administration shows great promise in its early days . He has " a series of difficult decisions to make . We both share a commitment , which I believe reflects the expectation of the Congress , that he will make those ' decisions in a way that will restore New York to a sound financial footing. ? I assured him of my commitment to preserve New York City 's solvency . This Administration recognizes that New York is the nerve center of some of the most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cy is not an acceptable solution to its . problems . I reminded Mayor Koch that try commitment to find a financial solution for the city has always presumed a. maximum effort by all the local parties with an interest in the city 's future ? . the state , the financial community , the city and state pension funds , the labor unions . I am certain that the Congress would not approve a Federal financing role , or other assistance , on any other basis . For these reasons , I have asked Secretary Blumenthal to discuss with all of these parties what they can do . Once . I am satisfied that they all will do their part , I will work hard to persuade the Congress to enact a bill that will end the financial uncertainty in New York .                     