@@733360

txt President Carter 's broad urban strategy is gradually unfolding ? and it could make city living more popular again . Suburban dwellers , on the other hand , may find some of their government-supported advantages eroding . In one of the first major steps affecting urban living , a federal agency has moved strongly against savings institutions to prevent " redlining , " a practice that can make it hard to borrow money for inner-city housing . The action by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board , with support from President Carter , prohibits denial of loans because of the age of a dwelling or its neighborhood . Board chairman Robert H. McKinney calld the new rules " tough , " and expects Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . opposition from savings-and-loan associations . The new rules , which will go into effect in 60 days , would also require that S &Ls; not give " undue " weight , when giving loans , to an applicant 's " arrest records , educational level , lack of previous home ownership , or history of numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were emerging on a wide range of other urban-policy options being evaluated by Carter planners . Cabinet members and high-ranking White House staffers are studying a new , 111-page draft on urban policy prepared by a panel headed by Patricia Harris , Secretary of Housing and Urban Development . The study eventually will result in a major White House policy statement on urban problems early next year . *Please. turn to Page 11 From page 1 Carter to boost cities , spur investment While it is still subject to broad change , administration officials confirm that the current draft advances these options : ? An increase of $1 billion a year in urban-development block grants , which includes funds for water and sewer projects , urban renewal , and so forth . ? An attack on hard-core unemployment in inner cities by increasing public-service jobs from the current 750,000 to 1.2 million . ? Conversion of countercyclical grants into a program that would assist only those cities with above-average unemployment . ? A $2 billion urban-development bank that would make loans to private enterprise and local governments to foster new inner-city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to upgrade existing structures with such steps as weatherization and rehabilitation . Total cost of the package , as now being discussed , is at least $10 billion . A White House official says he looks for three major segments to emerge : encouragement for more private jobs through incentives ; more public-works jobs to attack hard-core unemployment ; some kind of fiscal assistance to distregsed cities . Suburban dwellers , who benefit from tax deductions for interest , probably will escape from the review with their deductions unscathed , officials say . But the study does note : " We must eliminate and reverse the suburban tilt which now exists in federal taxing and spending decisions . . . "                     