@@728532

txt A visitor returning to Damascus after a three-year absence is startled by the signs of war . Never on the eve of the June , 1967 , . war with Israel ' were the outward signs as strong as now . The white vapor trails of patrolling jets crisscross in the clear , dry air over the city 's defending flank of barren western hills . Women in uniform Army trucks and jeeps rumble constantly through main boulevards , r. ' siciential quarters , and even the narrow " Street Called Straight " of Paul 's time . Uniformed Syrian soldiers and Palestinian guerrillas with American GI-type haircuts and crisp new leopard-skin combat fatigues mingle with the early-morning shoppers in the Hamidiyeh Souk , Damascus 's oldest and largest covered market . Chic-looking uniformed woman soldiers are part of the People 's Army , a civilian militia headed by Col. Haditha Murad , a close student of the 1954 to 1962 Algerian war for independence . Colonel Murad Says he has a strength of 100,000 for the People 's Army . The Soviet-equipped regular forces are about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syria spent an estimated-$195 million for defense in 1969 , according to non-Syrian estimates . " We'are glad to see you , " a senior civilian officials tells the first American newsman admitted to Syria for a number of weeks . ' " We know that American people are not our enemies , whatever their government may do . " The newsstand near his office is offering the latest number of the militiamen 's magazine , Josh Ash Shaab ( the People 's Army ) . It says the Israeli U.S.-made Phantom jet fighter-bomber shot down in combat April 3 bore U.S. Navy insignia , English and not Hebrew lettering , and had folding wings and . other accessories indicating it came from . an aircraft carrier . Obviously , concludes Jesh Ash Shaab , " the Phantom was loaned to Israel by the U.S. Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean because of the delay in delivery of new Phantom aircraft . " Not many readers of Jesh Ash Shaab are likely to see denials issued by the U.S. Embassy in Beirut , Lebanon , or take much account of others from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Phantom inside the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights April 7 is the first item on the radio and television news programs . Improved military seen A qualified neutral resident of Damascus notes : " The Syrian armed forces are slowly but surely improving their efficiency . They fought well and bravely against an Israeli frontal attack April 3 . " The landscape and their training make them effective in static fighting from fixed positions , well dug in . The Syrians themselves and their Soviet instructors now arc trying for greater mobility . " Antiaircraft defenses and defensive fighter patrols of Damascus and its outskirts are showing improvement too . During alerts , the Air Force and ground antiaircraft forces take over control of the approaches to the new civilian Damascus international airport . The Syrian Defense Minister , Lt. Gen. Hafez Assad , recently toured frontline positions , camps , and air bases . He distributed decorations and praised the recipients for their bravery . The ruling Baath ( Arab socialist ) Party celebrated its 23rd anniversary this week . Syrian and Palestinian flags flew side by side all over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would continue its " no compromise " policy of opposing a compromise political settlement and rejecting the UN Security Council resolution of November , 1967 , as the framework of such a settlement . How much inner hardening lies behind Syria 's outward militancy ? This is something no foreigner , and perhaps not many Arabs could fairly judge from one brief visit and a few conversations . Upon this question of Syria 's staying power , broadened to include the Palestinian resistance movement as well as the other Arab states , may hinge much of the Middle East 's future .                     