@@734156

txt Flash floods spawned by two days of driving spring rains forced at least 6,000 people to flee their homes in Mississippi and Alabama yesterday and sent rivers and streams across the Southeast overflowing . At least nine deaths , four each in Mississippi and Alabama and one in Georgia , were attributed to the flooding after the rains began Wednesday night . In Alabama , the Red Cross said that IIabout 1,000 families were staying in special shelters yesterday . Disaster crews were sent to Tuscaloosa , Birmingham and Wetumplca , north of Montgomery . Civil Defense officials in Alabama said yesterday that as many as 1.000 people had been evacuated from southern Sumter County in west-central Alabama // after two earthen dams burst in neighboring Mississippi . In Tuscaloosa , where more than 10 inches of rain was reported in the downtown area , County Commissioner Bobby Miller said that damage across the county would " go into the millions of dollars . " The Tombigbee and Luxapallila Rivers overflowed their banks in Columbus in northeastern Mississippi , dividing the city and driving 2,000 persons from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Director , Ray Gildea . The flooding in Columbus cut off direct access between the eastern and western parts of the city , forcing motorists to take a 65-mile detour through Alabama . Unable to See Roads " We ca n't say what the damages are to roads and bridges because we ca n't see them , " Mr. Gildea said . In Jackson , Miss. , the authorities said 500 families were evacuated when the Pearl River rose to 39.5 feet last night , higher than had ever been recorded . The Mississippi Highway Patrol said Interstate 55 from Jackson south to Crystal Springs was closed yesterday because of high water on the Pearl River . President Carter declared a state of emergency in Mississippi yesterday to make the state eligible for Federal aid . Backwaters from the swollen Mississippi River forced hundreds of people from their homes at Vicksburg , officials said . Girl 's Body Is Recovered The body of 4-year-old Angela Love , a pre-school student at the Mississippi School for the Deaf , was recovered in Jackson yesterday morning after she drowned while playing near her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappeared Friday evening . At Rome , in northwest Georgia , police said Charles R. White , 42 , drowned after his car ran off an inundated highway late Friday night and plunged from a flood embankment into 15 feet of water . A total of 8.68 inches of rain fell on Birmingham , in a 24-hour period , about onefifth of an inch short of the record set in 1916 , according to Bob Ferry , chief metereologist at the National Weather Service there . Some flooding also was reported in Missouri , mainly along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers , and in Illinois , where the authorities said heavy midweek rains swelled tributaries of the Illinois River .                     