@@733553

txt The narrow , surprise defeat of the Communist-Socialist alliance in France by the Government parties provides President Giscard d'Estaing with a three-year breathing space  --  until the Presidential elections of 1981 . He has added strength and a new opportunity to revive past efforts to achieve an opening to the left and reverse the trend that brought the Communists to the threshold of sharing power . His comments yesterday indicate that he and Prime Minister Barre intend , both in program and distribution of Cabinet posts , to start in that direction . It is not for Americans to tell the French how to vote nor even that they voted wisely this time . But Americans have been jittery , with good reason , over this election . France 's obvious yearning for change , it seemed , could be satisfied only by a lurch to the left that would put Communists into leading positions , with obvious risks for the entire Western alliance . The returns last weekend suggest that the pressure for change remains . They also suggest , however , that France 's political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet posts to Communists . The Giscardist-Gaullist coalition defeated the combined Socialist-Communist left last Sunday by a hairbreadth margin , 50.7 to 49.3 percent , in the popular vote . But the electoral system of single-member districts ? as in House elections here  --  has provided the winners with a substantial majority in the new National Assembly , 291 to 200 . The French President 's hand has been further strengthened by a shift of seats from the Gaullists  --  whose leader , Jacques Chirac , has opposed an opening to the left ? to the Giscardist parties of the center . And a more moderate Gaullist leader , former Prime Minister Jacques Chaban-Delmas , appears to be making a comeback . The shift in parliamentary arithmetic now makes political realignment feasible . For the entire 20-year life of the Fifth Republic , created by General de Gaulle , the Gaullists on the right and the Communists on the left have , between them , held a majority of Assembly seats . No government could be formed without one or the other . Btit now , for the first time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , , put together a viable majority . The Gaullists , with 148 seats , are still the largest bloc . But Mr. Giscard d'Estaing 's followers , with 143 seats  --  a gain of more than 20  --  and the Socialists and their Left Radical allies , with 113 , now hold more than the 246 seats needed for an Assembly majority . Together , they could govern and some moderate Gaullists undoubtedly would join them . The French people clearly want a change from the center-right coalitions that have held power since 1958 . But they have pulled back from the radical change offered by Francois Mitterrand 's Socialists , who ' sought to bring the left to power in collaboration with Communists . Mr. Mitterrand and his Socialists meet next month to reappraise the policy they have followed for the past decade . It is doubtful they will be prepared to entertain a center-left coalition with Giscardists so soon  --  and Mr. Giscard d'Estaing does not expect it . But steps in that direction can not be ruled out , perhaps beginning with Mitterrand-Giscard contacts ( which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion of a , reform program . One obstacle is the Socialist left , part of which might split away if the party moved toward the center . Another obstacle is Mr. Mitterrand 's presidential . ambition . His belief until now has been that he could defeat Mr. Giscard d'Estaing in 1981 only with Communist votes ; he came within one percentage point of doing so in 1974 . But after his recent disillusionment with Communists , Mr. Mitterrand might reconsider .                     