@@732810

txt President-elect Carter 's decision to propose a hefty tax cut early next year is being hampered by confusing and conflicting economic signals There is widespread confusion over whether the economic " pause " is temporary or the start of long period of stagnation and no one has been able to figure out a mysterious slowdown in federal spending . Although several Carter economic ad. visers have recommend tax cuts ranging from $10 billion to $20 billion , Carter 's transition team members are being cautious because of the conflicting signals . CARTER SAID recently if the current economic slowdown continues until the end of the year , he will consider , sending a tax cut to Congress . But the forecast is so confused that it may be difficult for the President-elect to act on the basis of clearcut information even at year 's end . Fourth-quarter economic statistics are expected to reflect a continuation of the slowdown and any signs of an upturn are expected to be faint . A turnaround may take several months to materialize , many economists believe . Economic forecasters are so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will bring ? an end tci  --  the pause and continued recovery or more sluggishness , higher unemployment , and possibly another recession . In the volatile period ahead , Carter advisers say they want to be sure where the economy is going . They think the slowdown will continue , but they are n't sure . They say they want to be cautious about proposing a massive tax cut to ? spur the economy , especially if it will bounce back without any push from Washington . THE WORRY Is that a big tax cut may cause inflationary problems down the road . Carter has committed himself to stepping up government programs to increase jobs . Carter aides are alreadyaware of the possibility of too much stimulus . Their first problem is figuring out what is happening to federal spending . Spending over the past several months has slowed by an annual rate of almost $15 billion . Many economists believe it 's the prime reason for the slowdown . It appears that federal agencies are not spending all the money appropriated to them . No one can figure out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the face of budget-crunch talk . Others say delays in starting projects is responsible . Yet another fear haunts Carter 's economists  --  the possibility that the money is being spent , but the Office of Manage . ment and Budget is not keeping good track of it . ARTHUR ORLIN , one of Carter 's economic advisers , said the budget situation is unprecedented . The Ford administration does not have an ' effectively staffed operation of monitoring the federal budget , " he said : Rep. Brock Adams ID. ; Wash. , chairman of the House Budget Committee , said his panel will hold hearings Nov. 22 to find out what is happening to the money appropriated by Congress , , MONITORING THE spending of more than $400 billion has always been a , problem , but apparently such an unexplained shortfall in spending has never occurred before .                     