@@730496

txt Ballot applications stored in the City Hall office of the Chicago 3oard of Election Commissioners have mysteriously disappeared for a precinct under investigation for wholesale forgeries and double voting . It also was revealed yesterday that board officials have been unable to account for the location of all the ballot applications for at least a dozen other precincts in wards where investigators have uncovered massive evidence of vote fraud . Tribune Task Force investigators late last week turned over new information to Justice Department officials of double voting and forgeries in the 14th precinct of the 29th ward . Reason Sought Marie Suthers , a member of the election board , said she has been attempting for some time to pin down the reason for the missing ballot applications . She said a listing she received from William Rummel , the chief clerk , has verified that the precinct ballot applications can not be found but that Rummel has given no reason why they are missing . The latest evidence came from a Tribune reader who has closely followed the Tribune articles detailing vote fraud cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons by a federal grand jury . The informant , who was a watcher in the 14th precinct during the March 21 primary , took careful notes when he saw evidence of double voting and forgeries . Missing Applications The poll watcher said he saw Democratic ballot application numbers 97 and 155 signed in the name of Willie Sims , of 20 S. Leamington Av . When reporters examined the ballot applications for the precinct , the applications 97 and 155 were missing and a number of Kusper Ad Seeks Poll Judges Here Page 4 other ballots applications were also gone . The missing ballot applications were not among the ballots that had been voided . Justice Department officials noted that a number of days had elapsed between the time Tribune reporters requested permission from Stanley T. Kusper Jr. , election boar d chairman , to examine the ballots from the 14th precinct and several other precincts and the time he allowed them to actually see them . Federal agents said they want to find out if the missing ballot applic cations were removed during that period . Legal Ruling Needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ballot applications altho he allows ward politicians to do this on a regular basis . He insisted that he needed a legal ruling and a request in writing with the definitive information requested spelled out . Kusper eventually allowed reporters to examine the ballot applications but turned down a request to look at other records , altho he had repeatedly stated in press conferences that such information was available . Within minutes the reporters found numerous forgeries and double voting among the ballot applications . They also found that some ballots also had been removed , including those made out in the name of Sims . Sims told reporters that he cast a Democratic ballot during the primary altho there was no ballot application in his name in the precinct bundle . He added that " I certainly did n't vote twice . " The name of Robert Robinson , of 5253 Quincy St. , was written in on Republican ballot application number 11 and Democratic ballot number 193 . Mrs. Jevena Robinson said she remembers her husband voted in the primary but only once , as a Democrat . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that address and that Robert Robinson Sr. , her husband 's father , lives in New York . Two Applications The name of Mettle Lee , of 5210 Jackson St. , was signed on Democratic application number 140 and Republican application number 17 , altho she said she voted only once . The two signatures were not signed by the same person . Mrs. Ruth D. Smith , of 5100 Quincy St. , was the voter on Republican ballot application number 9 and Democratic ballot application number 200 . Her husband , Lee Smith , said his wife voted once and probably cast a Democratic vote . Charlene Moore , of 5221 Adams St. , had Republican application number 13 and Democratic application number 229 cast in her name , but relatives said there is only one Charlene Moore at the Adams Street address . When a Tribune reporter worked undercover recently in the election commissioner 's office as a $20 a day clerk he noted that the ballot applications in about 120 precincts were missing . A number of these were gone because they had been subpenaed by federal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hanrahan and Kusper refused to reveal which precincts had been subpenaed so it was impossible to determine exactly how many ballot applications were missing from board files . However , The Tribune obtained a copy of an election board survey of the missing precinct applications made by Bruno Chwalisz , chief of the department where the applications are stored . That survey showed that election judges in at least a dozen precincts had never returned the ballot applications following the March 21 primary election . Kusper said he would not comment on the missing records .                     