@@729206

txt WASHINGTON  --  The town of Shaw , Miss. , is a community that has numbered about 2,500 people since 1930 , and did not even have a paved street until the mid-thirties . The immense change that has transformed most of America in recent decades has largely bypassed this obscure town in the Delta ; but now change is about to arrive with a bang . Nearly 98 per cent of all houses that front on unpaved streets in Shaw are occupied by blacks . Ninety-seven per cent of the houses not served by sanitary sewers are in black neighborhoods . All modern street lighting fixtures are in the white neighborhoods , which ' also have effective storm sewers and drainage ditches ; black neighborhoods have only a few haphazard and unmaintained ditches . Most white-occupied houses are served by adequate six-inch water mains ; 63 per cent of the population is served by mains of four inches or less . Similar disparities exist in the placement of fire hydrants and traffic control signs . Yet the population of Shaw is , and has been since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . City officials have maintained that there was no intent on their part to discriminate against blacks . Ten days ago , however , a three-judge Federal court , in a decision written by the respected Elbert P. Tuttle , concluded that since ' ' no compelling state interests can possibly justify the discriminatory results of Shaw 's administration of municipal services , " no matter what the intent , the situation was a violation of the Fourteenth AmendIN THE NATION ment guarantee of equal protection of the laws . The court ordered the city to submit a plan of redress . This week in Washington , whose population is 71 per cent black , the city 's Narcotics Treatment Administration . ( N.T.A. ) issued a report estimating that the number of heroin addicts in the city had risen from 1,162 to 16,800 in eighteen months ( officials believe this figure may still be low even though it is true that part of the statistical increase is due to better reporting of cases ) . More striking than even this spectacular rise in numbers was the residential pattern of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . a 7.7-square-mile area that is the most densely populated part of the city ? the " inner city , " or black ghetto . Within that large area lies the three-squaremile " Model Cities " sector , just a few blocks north of the White House . In the Model Cities sector , 36 per cent of all young men between twenty and 24 years of age and 24 per cent of all youths between fifteen and nineteen are heroin addicts . The Model Cities sector , lying roughly between Massachusetts and Florida Avenues Northwest and running east . from Sixteenth Street to Bladensburg Road beyond the United States Capitol , has not only the densest population in the city but also the highest number of welfare cases and of poor families , according to census figures . The rest of the larger 7.7-square-mile inner city is second in density , welfare load , poverty and narcotics addiction . A " social map " of Washington : pre ? pared through computer methods by Applied Urbanetics , Inc. , shows that this same general area is not only very nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city 's social problems  --  including unemployment , venereal disease , infant mortality , juvenile delinquency . ad welfare cases . The N.T.A. study found that 93 per cent of its 2,759 drug addiction patients were black . In the Model Cities sector there is an estimated addiction rate of 40.2 per thousand patients . West of Reck Creek Park , an area largely all-white and affluent  --  with , of course , the lowest population density , poverty incidence and welfare load in the city  --  heroin addiction is running at a rate of only 0.8 per thousand persons . As with the city fathers of Shaw , Miss. , no doubt there has been no ' Intent " to discriminate in Washington , as the black ghetto developed and remains . There is probably not so glaring a disparity in municipal facilities here as in Shaw . Still , just as Judge Tuttle said of the Mississippi community , the results in Washington seem to speak for themselves . As Ramsey Clark has pointed out , in any city , " when you put poor education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , poor health on the map , and then put high crime on the map , you have marked the same place every time . " One could add drug addiction to that grim list , which may not flout the Fourteenth Amendment but is nevertheless a violation of elementary human decency and ordinary common sense .                     