@@732941

txt WASHINGTON  --  Not many years ago . Walter Mondale watched in wonder as a small army of photographers and reporters chased through the marble corridors after one of his Senate colleagues . " what do you have to do to get press attention like that ? " Mondale asked with envy . " Just screw up , senator , " replied a glib cameraman . " Just Screw up . " Walter Mondale , who for years stood in the long shadow of his fellow Minnesotan , Hubert Horatio Humphrey , is now getting plenty of press attention . AND WITHOUT screwing up . Unless you count getting elected Vice President a bad enough misadventure for any man . It can even diminish a billionaire like Nelson A. Rockefeller , as if he were being looked at through the wrong end of a telescope . The other day . Mondale recalled going to a party recently at the former Vice President 's house . During the party Mondale received eight telephone calls , two from President Carter . " IT 'S NICE to hear the phone ring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League aides at the Kennedy White House , Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson , once the power . house of the U. S. Senate , was reduced to a country-and-western joke . John F Kennedy was heard to ask on occasion , " Whatever happened to Lyndon Johnson ? " Johnson , in turn , almost destroyed his Vice President , Humphrey . He warned Humphrey in advance : " I GUESS you know that most Presidents and Vice Presidents just do n't hit it off . There is something about the jobs and the responsibilities that seem to get in the way of those friendships and understanding . " Johnson reminded Humphrey that after the first year as Vice President , AIben Barkley seldom saw President Harry Truman ; that as Vice President , Truman rarely spoke to FDR ; and that when President Eisenhower was asked about Richard Nixon 's contributions as Vice President he replied : " Give me a week and I 'll think of one . " RIGHT AFTER HE was elected , Johnson dressed HHH up in a too-big cowboy outfit and put him up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joke time at the ranch , and Humphrey was it . LBJ treated Humphrey like a stepfather who keeps his son in line by withholding the car keys . If Humphrey wanted to make a trip , he had to get White House permission to use a plane . Sometimes he had to send a memo , asking for a plane , with " yes " or " no " to be checked at the bottom . Often it came back  --  particularly if there were plans for carrying reporters  --  with the " no " box checked . WHEN CARTER announced Mondale " my chief staff person . He 'll be in the White House . . I 've informed all the White House staff personally that he is their boss , " there was some skepticism and laughter from those who had heard it before . Every President says his Vice President is going to be a superman , running this , and chairing that , and making sure the world does n't fall out of orbit . But there is no laughing now . Carter , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer a joke as tradition dies // intent on carrying out his word todn.ake Mondale a new specimen of Vice President , to actually use his talent . Despite the splendid misery of the vice presidency , Humphrty found he liked the job . He found a special kind of excitement and tension " being so close to exeevutive power . " WHEN MONDALE was leaving on his foreign policy mission to Europe and Japan , the President gave him what was to observers a rare and personal sendoff with words for everyone to hear : " Vice President Mondale has my complete confidence . He is a personal representative of mine . " He was , on his mission to Europe and Japan , a Henry Kissinger without a German accent , not so much a Lone Ranger as Tonto . MOST PEOPLE who know Carter and Mondale say their apparent rapport is genuine . They say their close relationship is unusual between a President and a Vice President . The question is why . After Carter 's lawyer-adviser , Charles Kirbo , interviewed several senators  --  including Mondale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend : " I thought it would be easy to get rid of that fellow Mondale . But I found out it 's not easy . In fact , I do n't know if I 'll ever get rid of him . " All of those senators have their qualities . But Mondale ? he 's different . He 's so uncomplicated . " FOR A POLITICIAN , Mondale has surprisingly little vanity  --  pride but not vanity  --  and that may uncomplicate his relationships with Carter and Carter 's Georgia Mafia . Those who think they have solved the riddle of the Carter-Mondale friendship say it is simply a matter of two small town boys , both from rural and church backgrounds , hitting it off . But bow close are they really ? The old foxes of Europe tested the new boy from Elmore , Minn. , in subtle ways . Was Mondale really a confidant of Carter , as they had been told , a man of connections and power ? OR WAS HE JUST another American Vice President ? Another Humphrey or Spiro Agnew . A man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smile about behind the white damask napkins , between toasts . Humphrey had been portrayed as the eighth wonder of the world . But Johnson often kept him in the dark . Humphrey thought the Vietnamese peace talks were ready to begin when they were still haggling over the shape of the table is Paris . Former President Richard Nixon used Agnew in much the same way Johnson used Humphrey , as a star salesman . Humphrey traveled thousands of miles in the United States and abroad selling the war . Agnew traveled thousands of miles denouncing " rad-libs " and ' ' effete snobs , " playing golf in between . WHEN THE European ministers sat across the table from Mondale , they found the quintessential American , open , friendly , a Bible Belt Midwesterner who appeared as comfortable with himself as when relaxing in his tennis shoes in flights between capitals . But was he in the know ? " Knowledge is power . " Thomas Hobbs , the philosopher , said it . The prime ministers , the foreign ministers , the finance ministers , the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the chancellor 's den in Bonn , at 10 Downing Street in London , in the elegant pale beige president 's suite in Paris , the ministers probed . " THEY WOULD obliquely raise questions about things that are going on , that they knew about , to find out if he knew , too , " said an observer . " They found out that he did . " Mondale , in the argot of Washington , is " on the loop . " lie is plugged in . It made a difference . When Mondale was making some page-one news in Europe , Carter commented that his Vice President was getting a lot of attention from the press . Mondale aides pretended horror . For if Lyndon Johnson had said that , it would have meant : " Do n't bother coming home . " MONDALE , SITTING In his private compartment in Air Force 2 , smoking a cigar , and wearing tennis shoes , just smiled . Would Carter be the kind of President who would be jealous of his Vice President 's publicity ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' We 've talked about that . Carter is a different type of person . I do n't think that 's going to happen . " Mondale acknowledged the history of relationships between Presidents and Vice Presidents had been " very grim . " Ile also admitted he was a little surprised at the small size of his quarters in the White House . BUT THEN the veterans of the fight for status at the White House know it 's the closeness to the Oval Office that matters , not the size . Humphrey and Agnew had beautiful big offices , with white walls and gold draperies . But they were n't in the White House . They were across the street . SW trustee named Carol K. Kimmel , 59 , Rock Island , president of the National Parent-Teacher Association , has been named by Gov . Thompson to the Southern Illinois University Board of Trustees for a six-year term .                     