@@730559

txt Saigon 's attitude still seemed to be the major stumbling block to a Vietnam settlement as the chief negotiators of Washington and Hanoi , Henry A. Kissinger and Le Duc Tho , met Friday for the fifth day of what they hope will be the final round of secret peace talks . The two negotiators took elaborate precautions to throw reporters off their trail Friday . Both delegations let it be known that Messrs . Kissinger and Tho would not be meeting , after four continuous and increasingly publicity-surrounded sessions in the late painter Ferdinand Leger 's former villa at Gif-sur-Yvette . ? Friday afternoon , however , a CBS television cameraman tracked down a new rendezvous site for the two negotiators , at 11 Rue Darthe near the North Vietnamese delegation headquarters at Choisy-le-Roi , outside Paris . An hour 's session According to Communist sources , Friday 's meeting was at the request of Dr. Kissinger . It lasted for about an hour , and was the briefest of the five daily sessions so far . It is understood that later Friday , Dr. Kissinger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become a distinguishing feature of this latest round of Kissinger-Tho talks . The North Vietnamese , for their part , have been briefing their Southern allies , the Viet Cong . An impressive array of senior South Vietnamese diplomats has assembled in Paris to hear Dr. Kissinger 's explanations . Besides Ambassador Phan Dang Lam , chief delegate to the weekly Paris peace talks , President Thieu 's top foreigh-policy adviser , Nguyen Phu Duc , and his ambassadors to Washington and London , Tran Kim Phuong and Vuong Van Bac , have arrived in the French capital . Pullout and scope vital For the record , Saigon 's insistence on a written undertaking by North Vietnam to withdraw all its troops from the South is as strong as ever . Saigon also wants an Indo-China-Wide cease-fire , although it recognizes that Cambodia and Laos have internal ' problems of their own and does not insist on a simultaneous cease-fire in each country . // *Saigon still stumbling block // It wants the demilitarized zone along the 17th parallel re-established as the provisional boundary between North and South Vietnam , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was eliminated in practice last March when North Vietnamese troops overran South Vietnamese bases protecting it and occupied three-fourths of Quang Tri Province . According to informed sources , Saigon feels that it has had to make one major concession to the Communists : Henceforth , instead of considering the Viet Cong as a rebellious minority , it will have to accept them as a legitmate government ? to share the houses with them , " as one source put it . No new incursions In exchange for this major concession , Saigon wants ironclad guarantees that there will be no new incursions from the North and that North Vietnam will give up claiming the right to intervene in the South on the grounds that it is not a " foreign " country . Saigon knows full well that the DMZ will no longer exist in practice , once it accepts a cease-fire in place , because most of Quang Tri Province adjoining the 17t/i ' parallel remains under Communist control . But it wants Hanoi recognition of the validity of the demilitarized zone to make quite clear that , despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own and that of the Viet Cong  --  the South as a whole remains distinct from and independent of the North . Differing views Compared with these preoccupations , the question of what nations to invite to an international conference , or where to hold this conference , are minor matters . Washington will probably do all in its power to avert an open break with Saigon . But its evaluation of what risks to take in pursuit of peace obviously differs from that of Saigon : Risks seen as acceptable by Washington are viewed with the deepest misgivings by its South Vietnamese ally . In the end , the relationship of forces being what it is between Washington and Saigon , Washington 's evaluation is likely to prevail . But the moment of decision may be a turbulent one . And in the meantime ; the two allies seem to be treading on eggs in their gingerly approach to each other .                     