@@730978

txt The House Ways and Means Committee voted today to deny any new trade privileges to the Soviet Union until it eases its emigration policies for Jews and other minorities . The committee 's action was a major setback to the Nixon Administration and to the American business community . The restriction , adopted by voice vote , was attached to a major foreign-trade bill that is now under consideration by the committee . Kissinger Plea Undercut The committee acted about an hour after Secretary of State Kissinger , at a news conference in New York , repeated the Ad ministration 's contention that over the long run more could be accomplished to ameliorate the lot of Soviet Jews and others by quiet diplomacy . In Nairobi , Kenya , Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz said that expanding trade with the Soviet Union would be set back if Congress denied tariff cuts , The Associated Press reported . Curb on Nixon 's Power The amendment would deny President Nixon the right to grant " most-favored-nation " status to the Soviet Union or any other Communist country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not restrict emigration . While the restriction would apply to all Communist countries , including China , it was principally directed at emigration policies of the Soviet Union . The amendment was cosponsored by Representative Wilbur D. Mills , Democrat of Arkansas , the committee chairman , and Representative Charles A. Vanik , Democrat of Ohio . It was similar to one pro ; posed in the Senate by Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington . The dispute over Soviet emigration policies intensified in the late summer of 1972 , when Moscow imposed heavy exit Itaxes , ranging into the tens of thousands of dollars , on Jews seeking to leave the country for Israel . Russians Shelve Tax The Soviet Union has now shelved the taxes and is allowing Jews to leave at the rate of about 30,000 a year . However , there is a large backlog of ' would-be emigrants . While the easing of the exit tax- last spring appeared for a time , to dampen the chances fliF Congressional approval of the , proposals by Representatives Mills and Vanik and by Senator Jackson , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of renewed Soviet repression against such dissenting intellectuals as Andrei D. Sakharov , the physicist , and Aleksandr 1 . Solzehenitsyn , the novelist . As recommended today , the House amendment would prohibit the President from giving most-favored-nation tariff treatment  --  the allowing of any favorable agreements that were extended to any other country ? to a nation that denied Jews or other citizens the opportunity to emigrate , that imposed more than nominal emigration fees , or that imposed fees strictly on the basis of the country to which a person wanted to emigrate , such as Israel . Certification Required Under the amendment , the President would be required to certify to Congress every six months that the countries receiving most - favored - nation treatment maintained a policy of free emigration .. President Nixon had strenuously opposed the restriction , arguing that it could jeopardize efforts to establish better relations with the Soviet Union . But while defeated today on the issue of trade restrictions , the Administration won a partial victory when the committee struck from the House amendment a provision that would have also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or other Communist countries that restricted emigration . The move to strike the provision on credits was offered by Representative Herman T. Schneebeli , Republican of Pennsylvania , on the ground that the Ways and Means Committee had no jurisdiction over trade credits . At present , the President has unlimited authority to grant trade credits . Annual Veto- Power Voted WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 ( AP ) ? The House Ways and Means Committee also approved an amendment by Representative jame4 C. Corman , Democrat of California , giving Congress annual veto power against trade concessions . The amendment would require the President to determine each year that the Russians and other Communist countries were ' meeting nondiscriminatory emigration requirements , and would permit Congress to veto any continued trade concessions . Shultz Fears Trade Curbs NAIROBI , Kenya , Sept. 26 ( AP )  - -  L- Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz said today Oat expanding trade with the Soviet Union would be set back if Congress , protesting the treatment of Jews and intellectuals , denied tariff cuts to the Russians . Mr Shultz , who will leave for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a matter " that has no direct connection with arrangements to buy or sell something . " " IVs essentially a matter of the internal affairs of the Soviet Union , " he added . Mr , Shultz said that he did not mean to imply the Administration did not care about the plight of the Soviet Jews and intellectuals . But he noted that the . two Governments had signed a trade deal , agreeing to lower tariffs . The Secretary is here for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank .                     