@@732865

txt President-elect Jimmy ' Carter is considering a realignent of White House intelligence procedures , he said here today , suggesting that someone other than the head of the Central Intelligence Agency could serve as his primary source of intelligence information . " It 's a matter under study , " he said at a news conference here at which.he announced the selection of a longtime friend , Gov . Cecil D. Andrus of Idaho , as his Secretary of the Interior , and expressed some frustration with his still unsuccessful search for women willing to serve in his Cabinet . ' Under present arrangements , George Bush , who directs the C.I.A. , is simultaneously the Director of Central Intelligence , a separate White House advisory position in which he is the major conduit of intelligence information for President Ford . Mr. Carter , whose views on the subject have been shaped to some degree by Vice President-elect Walter F. Mondale and James R. Schlesinger , a former C.I.A . director , suggested today that he is at least giving some thought to altering the current structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided who will be the D.C.I. Director of Central Intelligence , " said , " and I 've not decided whether or not that person should stay on as head of the C.I.A . " ? ' Mr. Carter-also said , " If you . have just one channel of intelligence " coming to . the President , that probably prevents the President from getting a broad picture of what alternatives are available and to check on the accuracy of reports mode ' to him . I viould like to be the one to judge between two major , perhaps conflicting , sources of information  --  not let some subordinate person , even the very powerful head of the intelligence community , make that choice for me . " One of Mr. Carter 's appointments here today was with Theodore M. Sorensen , a speechwriter and special counsel lo President Kennedy , who is said to be under consideration for the job of director of the C.I.A . Schlesinger Sees Carter Any separation of the roles would be opposed by many C.I.A . officials who have previously labeled such an alteration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence for the White House . But critics of the agency view contend that such opposition issues only from the organization 's desire to maintain its preeminent position in the intelligence community and to protect its direct access to and influence on the President . Suggestions of that sentiment were included in the report of the Senate 's Select Committee on Intelligence earlier this year . The Vice President-elect served on that panel and both he and Mr. Schlesinger , in private and public statements , have criticized the present structure at the White House . It was said that Mr. Schlesinger was ousted from his job as Secretary of Defense by President Ford partly because of his views on the subject . Mr. Schlesinger , whom Mr. Carter is said to favor as the secretary of a new Cabinet-level department on energy , arrived here in Plains today but declined to comment on whether he has been offered or would accept a job in the new administration  --  or on anything at all , for that matter . " I 'm here to enjoy the climate , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the local airport to keep his appointment with the President-elect . It was his second visit to this tiny village . His first , last September , made what Mr. Carter called " a profound impression on me , " and in his news conference today the President-elect said that Mr. Schlesinger " is one of those that I am considering to ask to serve in my administration . " In introducing Governor Andrus , Mr. Carter said he had not considered anyone else for the Interior post and praised the Governor as a superb manager who had reorganized Idaho 's state government . The Governor , who brought only one business suit with him from Boise because he did not expect that his selection would be announced so quickly after his talks with Mr. Carter yesterday , said he was " excited " to be faced with the " new challenge " and promised a diligent stewardship of the country 's land and resources . It was the fourth Cabinet appointment Mr. Carter has made since his election nearly seven weeks ago , and with less than a week remaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President-elect conceded today that he had been having difficulty finding women willing to serve . At one point today he said he could not " specifically " answer the question of whether there would be a woman in his Cabinet . On Thursday , he had said that there would be . Today , he said , " That would be a very good guess . " In discussing his search , he said there V ' 75 no doubt that women had been excluded from consideration for Cabinet posts and other significant positions in Government in the past . I " And another factor that 's , I think , apparent is that when a woman has become a pre-eminent leader in the business or professional world , she can demand and receive superb salaries , " he said . " In addition to that , quite often a woman who has become prominent becomes a member of the boards of directors of five , six , seven , eight major corporations . " " Each one of those corporations pays stipends of 10 to 20 thousand dollars each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tremendous salary level for women who are well known and who serve in major positions ; and this has made it difficult for some of them to decide to come into Government . " Women have a much more difficult time telling the other members of the : : family that they 're going to move to Washington than do men ; and I 've had several women who have expressed some concern that they would like to serve in the Government , and they just could n't split their family , and their husband was not willing to move . " So , I 've done the best I could and still am doing the best I can to get wellqualified women and men , black and white and others , to serve in the Cabinet ; and I 'm going to make a special additional effort at the Under Secretary , Deputy and Assistant Secretary level to take into the administration those who are now in a process of being trained for a higher position . " In reponse to other questions in his news conference , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Bureau of Investigation , was still being considered for the same job in the new administration but that the post would eventually be filled , with Mr. Carter 's approval , by the new Attorney General . He said he had no intention of deviating from- his campaign promise to issue a general pardon for Vietnam war draft resistets in his first week in the White House . More than 100 Congressmen have signed a letter urging that he reconsider and withhold the pardon .                     