@@731192

txt A 24-year-old Air Force veteran killed his parents , an elderly woman neighbor and a 2-year-old boy and wounded the child 's mother yesterday in three shooting incidents spread over 90 minutes and 25 miles of Sussex County in the northwestern corner of New Jersey , according to the County Prosecutor there . The suspect , Frederick L. Carragher Jr. , then surrendered to the police in Newton , the county seat , and calmly reported what he had done , according to the Prosecutor , George G. Daggett . The motives for the shootings , the Prosecutor said , were unknown . All five victims were shot in the head with a .32-caliber automatic pistol , which was taken from the suspect in a brief scuffle with an acquaintance at the last of the shooting scenes , Mr. Daggett said . In an arraignment late last night before Sussex County Judge Frederick G. Weber , Mr. Carragher was ordered held in $230,000 bail and sent to the Trenton Psychiatric Hospital for observation . A hearing was set for next Friday . 1 Ashen - faced but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the judge if he understood the charges : ! four counts of murder , two of attempted murder and one of illegal possession of a gun . " Do you voluntarily agree to hospitalization ? " the judge then asked . " Yes , " was the only response of the slightly built young man wiht short dark brown hair , who was clad in gray trousers and . a black ski jacket . His attorney at the arraignment was State , Assemblyman Robert Shelton , a Democrat of Sussex County . Mr. Daggett identified the dead as Frederick L. Carragher Sr. , 60 , and his wife , Evelyn , 58 , who were the suspect 's parents ; Mrs. Isabel Catalo , 65 , and 2-year-old Kristian Guerin The child 's mother , Beverly Owens Guerin , 26 , was shot in the right ear and was admitted at the Memorial Hospital in Newton in fair condition . Newton is about 50 miles west of New York City . The shooting incidents , described by the Prosecutor as the worst in the county 's history , began at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Flatbrook Road in Sandyston Township , about 16 miles north of Newton , and ended shortly after noon more than 25 miles to the south at Lake Lenape . Mr. Daggett said the suspect , who lived with his parents and had been employed at the Playboy Club in nearby , shot his father and mother in the living room of the house , where their bodies were found on the floor . Each was shot once in the head , the Prosecutor said . Mr. Carragher told authorities that he then got in his Volkswagen and drove 100 yards down Flatbrook Road to the home of Mrs. Catalo , the nearest neighbor , who lived alone . She fell dead on the kitchen floor with a single head wound , the prosecutor said . ' Not a Girl Friend ' The suspect then drove south on Route 206 to Newton and went to the home of Mrs. Guerin , who was described by the prosecutor as a former classmate of Mr. Carragher 's at Newton High School and a friend , but " not a girlfriend . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mrs. Guerin , a divorced woman , had not seen each other for years . Nonetheless , the prosecutor said , Mr. Carragher persuaded her to make a short trip with him to Lake Lenape , about 10 miles south of Newton . Mrs. Guerin brought her 2-year-old son along on the trip , ostensibly a visit to the home of a mutual acquaintance , Lawrence Klingener . After parking the car outside the Klingener house in Lake Lenape shortly after noon , Mr. Carragher and Mrs. Guerin got out , she carrying the baby in her arms , and began approaching the house on foot . Gun Hidden in Jacket Suddenly , Mr. Carragher drew the pistol from his jacket , fatally wounded the baby with a single bullet in the head , and fired a second shot that struck Mrs. Guerin 's right ear , the Prosecutor said . Mr. Daggett said Mr. Klingener , who had just emerged from his house , took the gun from Mr. Carragher in a brief struggle . The prosecutor said that Mr. Carragher allegedly tried to fire a shot at Klingener @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misfired . While Mr. Klingener summoned an ambulance , Mr. Carragher returned to his car and drove north to Newton , where he turned himself in at the Newton Police Station just before 12:30 P.M. The Newton police subsequently turned him over to the Prosecutor . Two psychiatrists questioned the suspect in Mr. Daggett 's office for several hours during the day and were said to have recommended further observation at the Trenton Psychiatric Hospital , where he was sent in an unmarked blue state police car after the arraignment . Investigators said Mr. Can ragher quit last Friday as a maintenance worker at the Playboy Club Hotel in , near the Great Gorge ski resort area . It was not immediately determined how long he had held the job . Mr. Carragher was a 196 graduate of Newton High School , and was described in the class yearbook that year as " nice , quiet and studious . " He was said to have enlisted in the Air Force after graduation and ; was discharged in 1971 , but where he had served and in what capacity was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last July 5 , four women and a 6-year-old boy were found knifed to death in a two-family wood-frame home in Newark . Four of the dead represented four generations of the same family . The year before , on June 21 , 1972 , a former Pinkerton guard , 33-year-old Edwin James Grace , walked into an office building in Cherry Hill and deliberately fired at male employes as he walked from room to room . Six men were killed and six others wounded within seven minutes before the gunman shot himself in the head . He died the following month of his injuries . The previous April , a night . club shootout in Atlantic City left three young women and a millionaire heroin dealer dead . lEleven persons were injured , including five struck by stray bullets .                     