@@731715

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 31 Letters to the Editor Education : The Failures of Society To the Editor : Your Jan. 1 editorial " Children Out of School " ? rang out like an alarm bell in the night to awaken the American people to the grave dangers that confront our democracy . An educated citizen is the only strong bulwark against the collapse of democratic government and the rise of dictatorships of the right or left . Yet several million Arterican children are being deprived of that education . However , instead of agreeing with the report of the Children 's Defense Fund in blaming the schools , supervisors and teachers for this tragic neglect , you might have enlightened yoqr . readers . as to some reasons for this condition , as well as some possible solutions . Thousands of children of migrant workers are deprived of an education because their earnings are needed for their families ' survival . We need a charter of human rights for our migrant farm workers and their chitdr . This is society 's failure , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are not in school are the children of the poor . Crippled by their environment , many children from our urban ghettos can not adjust to the socializing discipline that schools require . Here again , society , is failing . The thousands of children who are suspended . for disciplinary reasons should be suspended from regular classrooms in order to assure the Of Alcohol and Mortality To the Editor : Your editorial of Jan. 4 stating " that regular use of alcohol even in moderate quantities can have adverse effect'on health " rilns directly counter . to the conclusions reported in a recent study by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse . and Alcoholism . This study , , entitled " Alcoholism &; Health , " examines various clinical analyses that relate alcohol consumption to mortality . It concludes as follows : " For unexplained reasons abstainers . .. seem to have a higher early mortality than moderate drinkers . . . All-in-all ; the data on general mortality suggest that for the amount of drinking , apparently unlike the amount of smoking , there may be some kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The study has not been able to find enough data to determine what that threshold ? might be but is reasonably convinced that it is above 11/2 ounces of con , tained alcohol taken per day with food , ROBERT W. WILSON New York , Jan .. 6 , 1975 ? The Cliche-Mongers To the Editor : There are two phrases commonly used in this current economic crisis which drive me up the proverbial wall . One is , " We must all tighten our belts . " By this time we all know that the cheapest food , at least in this education of the greater majority of our children . Should we sacrifice the education of most children to the disruptive behavior of the few ? There is no doubt that disruptive children need an education even more urgently than normal children . However , we need special-guidance classes with a class size of 10 instead of 35 , taught by specially trained and licensed teachers . We need thousands of classes for our children with special needs , if we are to keep them in our schools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be organized , they must be financed by our national Government ; our cities and states do not have the funds . Washington has the sources of in , come , but the billions are being spent for arms while education receives a token recognition . We urgently need a reordering of priorities . It is not " educators and educational administrators who have to face up " to the hard realities of American education but the leaders of a society whose values are rapidly disintegrating . Oliver Goldsmith put it very concisely when ' he wrote : " III fares the land to many ills a prey Where wealth accumulates and men decay . " No school functions . in a vacuum . All schools reflect the , problems of society . MORRIS LEVINE Principal , P.S. 209 Whitestone , N. Y. , Jan. 2 , 1975 country , is the most fattening ? macaroni , spaghetti , potatoes , fatty meats , etc . I do n't know how much the price of belts has risen but we will " have to be able to afford new belts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " We must all bite the bullet . " This will not only increase the danger of lead poisoning but may increase dental costs . Have you received a bill from your dentist recently ? Let 's not bite the bullet but instead tighten up ' our clich ? - ridden mouths . ELEANOR MCGREGOR Brooklyn , Jan. 9 , 1975 ? Pill-Bottle Lament To the Editor : Dr. Michael Latham ( letter Jan. 7 ) complains about the childproof bottles . All day long , day after day , I have to fill prescriptions with those bottles . I can not open them , except after a long struggle . I. instruct the purchaser how he is supposed to open them , which is really a hopeless job as I do not know how to open them . Then he goes home and phones me to tell me that he can not open the bottle . Back to the pharmacy , and I try to show him what to do . I have to take a tranquilizer to keep from going berserk . All over a poorly designed bottle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have designed this container . And he did a great job on both of them . BERNARD SANOW Los Angeles , Jan. 7 , 1975 An Answer to Rail Delays : Dynamic Rerouting There Is No Such Thing As an Energy Crisis ' To the Editor : After months of reading articles where the words energy and petroleum are used interchangeably , I must protest . Equating these two words has created an illusion that there is an energy crisis , instead of a petroleum shortage ? that mankind is on the brink of gluttonously using all the energy in the world , and that there will be none left for future generations . of course , is pure bunk . A geology professor of mine years ago observed that when historians record the results of the twentieth century , its single most dominant characteristic may well turn out to he man 's achievement of unlimited energy supplies . Unlimited energy , in turn , will allow him to separate all the constituents of the earth 's crust  --  iron , aluminum , copper , silicon and the rest ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the environment for both food and comfort . Petroleum , of course , is only one form of energy  --  one that will be available for only another three nr four decades at current rates of discovery and consumption . Coal , on the other hand , can last another ten centuries , especially if supplemented by nuclear power . Of greater ultimate importance , however , are the natural forces of the earth  --  geothermal , solar , wind and tide  --  which are in virtual unlimited abundance . Equating petroleum with energy , especially in the context of a crisis , is creating some very serious public opinion problems . Motivated largely by fear , groups of people are attacking automobiles , restricting industrial development ( including development of alternate energy resources ) , collecting ; garbage ? in general , trying to save and conserve resources instead of , or along with , developing new ones . Of far more concern , however , is the fear being created that running out of . oil will mean an end to one 's heating fuel , automotive fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis " on someone else , particularly the Arabs . Despite the lessons of Vietnam , large numbers of people support the notion that we can bomb the Arabs out of existence to recover petroleum that is " rightfully ours . " Thus given the ingredients of fear , a convenient scapegoat , and all sorts of incident potentials  --  all fanned by the flames of misinformation ? the energy-crisis illusion could easily lead us to another disaster . If we could accept the premise that other people 's resources belong to them , perhaps we could.easily get on with the business of developing our own . If we could also face up to the fact that petroleum is an extremely limited resource , perhaps we could also set some sort of priorities on its USE . One way to start Is to call the problem by its right name  --  a petroleum shortage . There is no such thing as an energy crisis . BERNARD R. HENDERSON Rockaway , N. J. , Jan. 2 , 1975 Authoritarian America To the Editor : ? The drift toward dictatorship in America has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as President . On the contrary , the movement toward autocracy received a double fillip recently . First , Henry Kissinger threatened war against the Arabs over oil , despite the fact that the United States is over 90 per cent self-sufficient in energy production and could be totally self-sufficient for centuries if we reduced but a fraction of our current waste . The Kissinger threat , born out of frustration with the failure of his policies in the Middle East , may also be designed to silence critics of his anomalous agreement with the Soviet Union to limit the nuclear arms race by increasing nuclear weapons on both sides . It is the penultimate stage in the " war is peace " game he has been playing for seven years , which has resulted in a perpetual blank check to the Pentagon , regardless of economic conditions throughout the country . Second , the disclosure that the C.I.A . has been conducting operations against Americans at home has led President Ford to appoint Vice President Rockefeller to head a citizens ' committee of inquiry . It may be remembered that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Rockefeller praised military dictators for their empathy with the poor . As Governor of New York , he regularly bypassed the State Legislature through spurious messages of necessity , which enabled him to rule largely by executive fiat . He thus bears credentials as this hemisphere 's most influential apologist for authoritarian government . With a nonelected President and Vice President , an unharnessed and ambitious Secretary of State and a C.I.A . about to be whitewashed for domestic paramilitary activities , the dark tunnel at the end of the democratic way of light is now plainly in view . HARVARD HOLLENBERG New York , : fan . 6 , 1975 To the ' Editor : Much of the delay suffered by New Haven Line commuters following the Jan. 2 train derailment in the Bronx could have been avoided if the conlniuter rail . lines Iiad plans for dynamic rerouting . The newer commuter trains have ? two-way radios on which engineers and crew can he advised of route changes . Trains ? which were at New Rochelle and ? north could ' have come into Penn Station on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hell Gate Bridge and through Queens . There would have been a lot of dead-heading to get the trains back to Grand Central far their return trips , but'the riders would have benefited . ? . To attract riders , the commuter lines ' must provide- quick , safe and reliable service at reasonable cost . Although train service has improved in the last few years , it is ? still far from what is desired or possible . Greatly increased , reliability can be obtained by use , in an emergency , of all parts of the complex rail network in and around New York City . Dynamic rerouting is common in other networks , such as telephone systems , bus lines and airlines . ( If the direct telephone lines to Chicago are not available , your call may go via The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . St. Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can take another . ) Exi perience has shown that train failures and rail blockages will always occur ; having alternate routes available is often the cheapest way to achieve a desired performance . Such flexibility requires preplanning and may involve cooperation among diverse agencies , but it is far less costly than trying to obtain nearperfect reliability on any one network segment . JORDAN S. WOUK Cambridge , Mass. , Jan. 6 , 1975 If Trains Had Seat Belts To the Editor : Does n't there seem to be something incongruous about a governmental mandate for the installation of seat belts in private automobiles while persons in common carriage by rail are as free and unfettered as a bird , free to crack their skulls upon the slightest mishap ( Penn Central wreck Jan. 2 ) ? In the aviation industry , belt restraints have saved countless lives over many years . Evidence also clearly supports the requirement for belts in automobiles despite the determination of a significant percentage of passengers to avoid their use . I have a strong suspicion that the railroad lobby is against such a common-sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the safest form of travel . It 's time that such nonsensical thinking is put aside by government regulation . There is no valid reason to permit any form of public transportation to continue operation without the use of safety belts . ARTHUR M. HORST Reading , Pa. , Jan. 6 , 1975                     