@@733983

txt After long deliberation , former Texas Gov . John Connally has made up his mind to run for the presidency and will announce late this month that he is seeking the Republican nomination . In learning this the Monitor also found that Mr. Connally , a former Democrat who turned Republican and became Treasury secretary under Richard Nixon , had finally narrowed his decision on running down to this one question : Would he be willing to expend the tremendous energy he knew such a quest would involve ? In recent days he has decided that the prize is both big enough and close enough to his grasp to be worth the effort . Mr. Connally thus will soon become the first major GOP candidate to announce his intentions ? the first person who is well-known nationally to throw his hat into the ring . Illinois Rep. Philip Crane is an announced candidate for the GOP nomination , but he is just beginning to get known outside of his home state . Actually , both Ronald Reagan and George Bush are acting very much like presidential candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connally : hat headed for GOP ring From page 1 Connally readies a bid for the Oval Office be regarded as major contenders . But neither of these is expected to announce until a few more months go by . Mr. Connally will announce in Washington and then go immediately to Texas to repeat the announcement to home-state reporters . Mr. Connally 's assets ? his experience in government , his effective stump oratory , his savvy as a politician , and his ebullient personality ? are such that political observers have long believed he could make it to the presidency . But the charges leveled against him ( of which he was later acquitted ) in the milk-fund scandal of 1974-75 have raised the question in political circles as to whether Mr. Connally may have been irreparably damaged in terms of a presidential bid . The Connally charm is well known . He possesses a " presence " that quickly takes over any room he enters . He is impressive in discussing issues . And he is most persuasive in arguing his own position on issues . But , again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Connally is a " wheeler dealer " or , at least , that he looks like a " wheeler dealer . " This is the adverse impression that candidate Connally will have to change if he is to be able to gain the nomination . There are some observers who believe that Mr. Connally 's former Democratic ties may hurt him with Republican voters in the primaries . However , Connally supporters point out that Ronald Reagan was once a Democrat and that this change in party affiliation has never been a problem for him with Republicans . Mr. Connally will be viewed by Republican voters as a conservative , even though as a former assistant and prot ? g ? of Lyndon B. Johnson he early became imbued with a political philosophy that approved of social programs and of federal spending that helped the states with such programs . But today John Connally is speaking out strongly for less federal spending , lower taxes , and restraint on social programs . And he is speaking out forcibly for improving the US defense posture vis-a-vis the Soviet Union . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primaries will be split between Messrs . Connally and Reagan , making it easier for someone who is viewed as a little more " moderate " to win . That is , with Messrs . Connally and Reagan on the primary agenda , it could possibly help a Howard Baker or a George Bush who , at least , are more closely aligned with the more moderate leaders in the Republican Party ? like Gerald Ford .                     