@@729007

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 27 Letters to the Editor Painless Taxes To the Editor : In the Korean period price control was resorted to with the declaration in late 1950 that the price ceilings would be actual prices for the last two weeks in January 1951 . Prices , with few exceptions , never bumped up into these ceilings . Taxation had taken away enough purchasing power so that the general public no longer could push prices up . Wholesale prices started to decline . The exciting facts that in the present milieu Congress and the Administration seem to have missed entirely are twofold : If they avoid taxes , they tax the people most unfairly . Inflation acts in every way as a tax , but it is extremely regressive to workers and to young families . Inflation of 10 per cent and a national sales tax of 10 per cent equate in their effects . A tax bill passed in periods of inflation such as these two war periods costs the people nothing at all . The dollars can go into inflation or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the dollars that otherwise would cause inflation . The remainder of our incomes would buy all the goods available , as they did in the Korean war period . It is said that neither the Congress nor the Administration has in any educational way at all recognized these , facts . Senator Robert A. Taft , a Republican , greatly helped the Truman Administration to pass its tax bills in 1950 . He then ran for re-election in November 1950 and carried Ohio by a plurality of 57.5 per cent . His popularity was not diminished by vigorous support of sound fiscal policy . In contrast it took three years , and a sudden gold loss of more than $2 billion dollars ( the week of March 11 , 1968 ) , to induce President Johnson and House Ways and Means chairman Wilbur D. Mills to pass the surtax bill  --  too little and three years too late . President Nixon in turn has approved three tax-cutting bills since then . ARTHUR TJPGREN Minneapolis , Nov. 8 , 1970 0 Tests for Teachers Backed To the Editor : As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social studies ) , I 'm perplexed by the ever-increasing proposals to scrap teacher examinations . It has been claimed that they are discriminatory . It would seem obvious that the only thing they discriminate against is insufficient knowledge of subject matter  --  certainly a cardinal sin for any teacher . Chancellor Harvey Scribner recently stated that a change was necessary to give " the city 's recently decentralized community school boards the flexibility to hire teachers and supervisors who would best meet their district 's needs . " I ca n't believe that any district would wish to hire someone who could not pass a qualifying examination  --  regardless . of his ethnic background . As a teacher , I resent the constant lowering of standards . As a Puerto Rican , I resent the patronization all such proposals imply . ROSEMARY LOPEZ KIMPTON Brooklyn , Nov. 9 , 1970 0 Victory Out of Defeat To the Editor : We have been treated by the Nixon Administration to a number of additions to that new language form , the self-contradictory noun phrase . Thus there are growth-recessions , workvacations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the recent elections , I sense a new one , the defeat-victory . If the President can discover such an outstanding defeat-victory in the election results , let him consider the enthralling possibilities of a defeatvictory in Vietnam . I suggest a massive withdrawal-attack , and after our soldiers have arrived home , the President can grandly announce the magnificent defeat-victory with the assistance of some insultcompliments and some diatribe-analyses from Mr. Agnew . DANIEL T. PHILLIPS Cranford , N. J. , Nov. 7 , 1970 0 Overaged Congressmen To the Editor : A very high percentage of the presidents of our larger corporations and banks are less than fifty years old . Furthermore , many corporations , realizing that older men no matter how experienced have lost their drive and initiative , have instituted a rule that men must retire after age 65 . In Congress , however , we have many Representatives and Senators who are over seventy years old and some of them touching eighty . We can correct this situation by either passing a law that men reaching the age of , say , seventy can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and quicker , we could stop re-electing Senators and Representatives who are over . seventy . In my opinion , there is need for some action along these lines . This is well demonstrated when you consider that we have important bills under consideration by the Congress with no action taken . on them . PELL W. FOSTER Jr . Englewood , N. J. , Nov. 2 , 1970 Polluters and Victims To the Editor : One of the curious anomalies of the intensifying struggle to preserve a clean and enjoyable environment in which man can continue to live at least as far into the future as he has survived in the past , is the separation of those who pollute from those who suffer from the handiwork of the polluters . There is no separation . The eager legal expert paid by Con Ed to fight for its right to pump " unsatisfactory " pollutants into the atmosphere can suffer as readily from the poisoned air as the plant manager and the resident of Queens . The son of the chairman of the board of a tobacco company can die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youngster who just bought his first pack of cigarettes through the lure of cigarette advertising . The wealthy stockholder of General Motors stock can absorb as much unhealthy lead into his body as his new grandson . The wife of the manufacturer of a dangerous pesticide can accumulate as much DDT in her kidneys as the woman who died of kidney failure last week . There is no separation . The profitconscious executives whose products , whether huge jet aircraft taking off from Kennedy airport , or paper factories in Maine , create pollution . They themselves suffer at their own hands . So do their families . I. HERBERT GORDON . New York , Nov. 10 , 1970 0 For Peace in Vietnam To the Editor : Both sides in Vietnam want to predetermine South Vietnam 's future ? one by controlling the make-up now of , a " coalition " government , which would organize the first election ( if any ) with North Vietnamese , but not American , troops present ; the other by demanding that the present " government , " after a cease-fire , organize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtually the whole ( 97 per cent ) population . Neither side has yet offered a fair pre-election atmosphere and election process . Has the time now come for a supreme ( if risky ) effort to propose this ? President Nixon told the U.N. , " We must transcend the old patterns in which nations sought to ... squeeze the maximum advantage for themselves out of every negotiation . " A proposal now to create  --  with the other side  --  a disciplined " caretaker " government , directed , within eight months , to oversee rapid troop withdrawal and organize elections without the presence of any non-South Vietnam troops , might get negotiations off dead center . An even-handed proposal would encompass these five concepts : Each member of the caretaker government could serve only if approved by both sides . No member of the caretaker government could be a candidate , or , for four years thereafter , serve federal , district , or provincial governments in any elective or appointive post , or as an officer in the armed forces . Everyone else would be eligible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and date would be agreed upon in advance , binding the caretaker government . The caretaker government would govern . No mere election commission , it would oversee , with International Control Commission help , the withdrawal of all outside troops ; it would control treasury , armed forces , police and paramilitary forces of both sides . It would by definition , personality and pledge deal fairly with both sides and not attempt to consolidate its own power . Both sides would pledge no reprisals and that the first elected government would broadly reflect the relative strength of parties elected to the legislature ? a government of national reconciliation . Though each mistrusting side will haggle , their allies and suppliers can nudge them toward peace , as they did in the Middle East , because both sides can gain something from a regime of reconciliation . For us the only nonnegotiable issue , according to two U.S. Presidents , is that the people of South Vietnam choose their own future , free of interference . If we offer this prospect , we will learn if either side is unwilling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freely , without one-sided manipulation . We can then act accordingly : If the Vietcong is unwilling , we can continue Vietnamization ; if Saigon says no , we can announce a withdrawal date . If both accept , there will be negotiating challenges . Are we selfconfident enough to start climbing this prickly path to peace ? JOSEPH VIERTEL Stamford , Conn. , Nov. 9 , 1970 Asylum for Skyjackers To the Editor : Your editorial of ? Oct. 17 ( " Moscow 's First Skyjacking " ) implies that skyjacking by people seeking political asylum from Communism is to be condemned along with all skyjacking . Perhaps it should , but I would like to point out that U.S. policy was quite different in the 1950 's when a number of skyjackings occurred from Eastern Europe to Germany . There was one case as early as 1953 from Czechoslovakia where the U.S. treated the skyjackers as heroic celebrities . I personally debriefed a group that skyjacked a Hungarian airliner to Ingolstadt , Germany , in July 1956 . Again , U.S. policy was to grant the skyjackers asylum and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . JOHN WESTERGAARD New York , Oct. 26 , 1970 0 For Job-Safety Bill To the Editor : A group of leading American scientists , including such renowned names as George Wald , Sam Epstein , Barry Commoner , Rene Dubos , and Paul Ehrlich , realize better than the U.S. Senate the urgency for action to deal with occupational hazards ' which endanger the life and health of 80 million working Americans . Mobilized by the young people who ran Earth Day , Environmental Action , many in the scientific community are calling for prompt enactment of S. 2193 , the bill sponsored by Senator Harrison Williams of New Jersey which the Senate left in limbo for its election recess . The occupational health issue has been slowly seething its way to the surface . The longer Congress delays , the deeper the outrage and the more determined working people are to obtain remedies for their plight . The Nixon Administration has given lip service , but its proposals suffer from unending legalisms worse than no law at all . The , American worker , like the consumer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has unleashed fantastically dangerous chemicals . Stewart Udall has correctly noted that " of all the environments inhabited by Americans , the places where eighty million ' of us work and spend half our waking hours are among the most lethal . The blue-collar employe , in particular , merits hazardous-duty pay . He is surrounded by unsafe machines . Toxic substances often seep into his lungs and bloodstream . He may die of job-induced cancer , metal poisoning , quick crushing or slow suffocation from lung disease . " Conservatives like Senator . Peter Dominick are brandishing amendments to gut the Williams bill when it is considered during the lame-duck session next month . If they succeed , the blue - collar worker , for whom Vice President Agnew pretends so much concern or for whom the White House has suggested a postage stamp , will have been condemned to more lifeshortening hours at his jobs . There is no other single bill pending before Congress today which will do more immediate good for the beleaguered blue-collar worker than the occupational safety and health bills in the House and Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican politicians who make fawning and empty speeches about hardhats . FRANKLIN WALLICK Editor , U.A.W. Washington Report Washington , Nov. 2 , 1970                     