@@733909

txt Letters How to Reduce the Israelis ' Arms Sales To the Editor : The Nov. 19 article by William Farrell on " Israel Arms Sales , a ' Necessarry Evil ' " should also have made the point that it is U.S. foreign arms sales policy that has required Israel to increase her foreign arms sales . The history of this goes back to the time when Israel was dependent upon French arms and , after the French refused further support , Israel realized that she must develop her own armsmanufacturing capability . She did this very successfully , and found a ready market in her own military services . However , since the last Middle East war , the U.S. has generously been supporting Israel with multibillion of dollars of foreign military aid ? with the proviso that these dollars be used to buy arms made in the U.S. Since these U.S.-made arms supply a major share of the current needs of the Israeli military forces , and since Israel believes ( from the French exJerusalem 's Status : The Democrats ' Vow To the Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State Harold Saunders said : " Our own position was made clear , that is , that the portions of Israel occupied by Israel in 1967 are considered occupied territory , that the United States does not recognize unilateral action to change the status of the city , and that its ultimate status would be resolved in the peace negotiations . " However , in 1976 , before the present Administration was elected into office , . the Democratic Party platform stated , just as clearly : " We recognize and support the established status of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel , with free access to all ils holy places provided to all faiths . As a symbol of this stand , the U.S. Embassy should be moved from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem . " And so we face , still another time , the all-too-familiar political situation in which , to get elected , the astutely cynical candidate will " promise them anything ... " WILLIAM WERNICK New York , Dec. 5 , 1978 A Guideline Reaction To the Editor : This is a response to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 71/2 percent guideline . I find myself facing a major test of that principle . I am a practicing Ph.D . psychotherapist renting a professional office in downtown Manhattan . I was informed last week that my rent will be increased from $600 a month to $900 a Month , a jump of 50 percent . I called the management and pointed out the gross discrepancy between the President 's guidelines and its demanded increase . The executive representative laughed at me and said : " Do n't be naive , we 're not interested in any silly-assed guidelines from Washington . We 're running a business . " I for one agree with the logic , fairness and reasonableness of the ' President 's plea and intend to keep all increases within the suggested range . I resent the arbitrary , reckless , greedy mentality expressed by this particular rental management . For the President 's plan to work , this arbitrary abuse of power and others of a similar nature must be controlled . GIBBS A. WILLIAMS New York , Dec.6 , 1978 perience ) that it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to her ( other than the choice of refusing American aid ) is to sell arms to other nations . - Clearly , a U.S. policy option would be to convert a small share of its military aid to Israel away from U.S.-made arms to the purchase of Israelimade arms ? with mutual agreement as to the selection of the most advantageous military products to be made in Israel ( from an industrial-base perspective ) . This policy might even include a U.S. agreement to buy selected Israeli military products ? especially subsystems or critical parts ? which are needed by the U.S. in such small quantities that they can not attract enough U.S. suppliers . The ratio of Israel 's total foreign military sales to total U.S. foreign military sales ( or even to U.S. foreign military sales just to Israel ) is very small . Thus , the impact of this policy To the Editor : Your Dec. 2 editorial decries the 4-to-12-year sentence for the mugger who pushed an airline stewardess off the platform into the path of a train . You point out that the criminal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support a drug habit , " could have been given a sentence twice as long . However , under our present system of criminal justice , he could also , with the aid of skilled counsel and carefully selected psychiatric experts , have been found not guilty by reason of insanity , sent to a mental hospital , treated successfully and , having recovered quickly from his " insanity , " recommended for release within a Freedom of Language To the Editor : What is the official language of the United States of America ? The executive board of PortugueseAmerican Communications Inc. , ' a nonprofit organization serving a large Portugese-American population in Rhode Island , posed this question tot Vice President Mondale . He asked the Congressional Research Service to looked into the matter . After three weeks of search and research , the Vice President replied through his staff assistant that " we have not been able to find any law which states that English must be the official language of the United States . " In effect , there is no official language . In the Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fathers affirmed our freedom to pray , talk and write . But the greatest freedom they gave us is that of exercising these freedoms in any language . MANUEL LUCIANO DA SILVA President , Portuguese-American Communications , Inc . Bristol , R.I. , Dec. 2 , 1978 change on the U.S. defense industry would be minimal , while the Impact on the Israeli defense industry would be very great . In fact , it would allow Israel to maintain a viable , self-sufficient domestic defense industry without the necessity of a significant foreign military sales effort . ( This point was made very clear to me during professional visits to Israeli defense plants in 1976 and 1977 . ) Such a U.S. policy , i.e. , of supplying a small share of its military assistance to Israel in dollars for Israeli arms production instead of all in U.S.-produced arms , would obviously be an additional step in the Carter Administration 's efforts at controlling worldwide arms sales ? in fact , a double step , since both U.S. and Israeli foreign arms sales would be reduced . JACQUES S. GANS1.ER Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense . year ? a dispositional arrangement that has been occurring in this state with increasing frequency . It was precisely this public safety consideration which led to the New York State Department of Mental Hygiene recommendation to the Governor that the insanity defense be abolished . The time has come to retract your editorial criticism of the department 's position ( editorial March 14 ) and to support the enactment of legislation which will bring about a sensible handling of mentally deranged criminals by the courts of this state . A. L. HALPERN , M.D. Chairman , Department of Psychiatry United Hospital Port Chester , N.Y. , Dec. 2 , 1978 H.R.A. Racial Makeup : The Fabricated Issue ' To the Editor : I am disturbed by an important phrase in your lead editorial of Nov. 25 . The editorial states that " Blanche Bernstein , the Commissioner of Human Resources , became a focus of minority discontent because fewer blacks held top positions in her agency than in the previous administration , and she was accused of being insensitive to the needs of the poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly inaccurate statement . I released a statement rejecting the fabricated issue regarding the racial composition of H.R.A. p. : , rsortntl , which was delivered to The Times On July 17 , That statement provided the information that " of the 76 H.R.A. executive jobs above $29,500 , 31 percent are held by blacks . Of the new appointments and promotions that I have made to those positions 41 percent have gone to blacks . These staff figures are the highest that have occurred at H.R.A. during the past several administrations . " Further , the number of blacks among the 20 senior staff , or " top , " positions has increased compared with the previous administration . Of the 20 positions , six were held by blacks when I took office on Jan . I. As of September , seven of these positions were held by blacks . I am disturbed by the editorial because The Times , as the paper of record , allowed so inaccurate and misleading a statement on blacks in executive positions in this agency to be published . BLANCHE BERNSTEIN **26;968;TOOLONG , H.R.A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Courts When the Laws of a City Reach Beyond the City Limits To the Editor : At a time when this nation is finally moving to correct historical injustices suffered by the residents of the District of Columbia , we read the recent Supreme Court decision of Ilolt Civic Club v. City of Tuscaloosa with much dismay . While state legislatures across this country are considering a constitutional amendment to enable District residents to vote for representatives and have a greater voice in their everyday lives , the Supreme Court has just denied similar rights to citizens of many counties across the nation . The Holt decision , handed down on Nov 27 , upheld the constitutionality of an Alabama statute subjecting nonresidents of a city to the laws , regulations and police powers of that city without being able to vote in municipal elections . The state law in question , adopted 71 years ago , permits the City of Tuscaloosa ( and other municipalities over 6,000 ) the option of exercising extensive powers over nonresidents who happen to live within three miles of the city 's corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to traffic regulations and the city 's criminal ordinances . These same nonresidents are required to pay licensing fees to the city for the privilege of conducting their private businesses outside the city limits . Yet they have no voice , no vote , can not hold office and have no representation in the city government whose laws affect so much of their lives . The majority opinion provides no hint at defining what is an acceptable encroachment outside city limits , The Alabama statute employs a three-mile limit . What will happen if another state chooses a 10- , 12- or 20-mile limit ? In reaching its decision , the ma. jority also implies that the nonresidents are not " governed enough " by the city to require a right to vote . Only a hint is afforded as to what level of regulation will constitute the magic plateau of " governed enough " and ' , necessarily afford citizens the right to vote . Similar laws exist in 36 states . We believe a distinction must be made : While the counties in Alabama are traditionally provided weak powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other states have strong home-rule authority . In Maryland and Virginia , for example , county governments exercise ? broad and extensive powers . This entire issue is a strong reminder of the treatment afforded the District of Columbia , whose residents could not even vote for mayor or President until recently . As county officials , we sympathize with the cities ' desire and need to have effective land-use and zoning contracts outside as well as inside their borders . County officials have therefore fought long and hard to amend outmoded state constitutions to acquire home-rule powers . While the citizens of the District of Columbia labor for passage of the D.C. Voting Rights Amendment in state capitals , we are doing the same for county home-rule amandments . We sincerely hope that the Holt decision will not open up a Pandora 's box of new regulations and restrictions imposed upon citizens without equal protection of the law . We also hope it does not hinder the efforts of our county officials and of the District Of Columbia to persuade state legislators to approve their respective amendments . We would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt the minority point of view , expressed by Justices Brennan , White and Marshall , that the " challenged statutes violated the Equal Protection Clause " of the Constitution . Until that time , we will continue to work closely with our brothers and sisters in the nation 's city halls to serve the needs of our citizens . BERNARD F. HILLENBRAND Executive Director National Association of Counties Washington , Nov. 29 , 1978                     