@@730432

txt " I do n't want to be a puppet just to prevent a riot , " said Edwin Temple , one of 28 prisoners elected by fellow inmates to speak for them to administrators of the state prison here . This outburst came almost a year after 32 prisoners and 11 hostages died here in the bloodiest prison riot in the nation 's history . Temple 's comment , during a heated discussion with Edward Young , another committee member , reflected the complex situation that has developed in the cells , corridors , halls and offices behind the high walls since the five-day riot that began Sept. 9 , 1971 . Many grievances still smolder , but the general tension , inmates and officers agree , is far less than before the riot . Improvements ? many in response to demands by the rioters  --  have been made , but prisoners insist that far more should be done . " The whole system , " said Young during the verbal freefor-all in the exercise yard , " is still geared for recidivism , instead of getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life at this prison are the many visible signs ? as well as memories of the riot . The prisoners , moving two abreast , and the officers with clubs can not help seeing the closed-down sections , gates lying on floors , cracked windows . Grass is nonexistent or discolored where once there were trenches dug by convicts . Piles of donated books are being removed from cartons by inmates to restock the library . School classes are reborn . The chapel , which is also the movie house , has new draperies . Ernest L. Montanye , who became prison superintendent here four months after the state police crushed the riot with guns , says that despite the setback of a brief sit-in , " rapport between prisoners and officers has been making progress , so that we are at least able to talk and get along while the place is being rebuilt . " Major changes , besides the formation of the liaison committee , include these : 9The prison population has been reduced from 2,200 to 1,158 , with the black percentage down from 80 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers * has been increased from 380 to 415 , with 19 of them black and two Spanish-speaking . There were no black or Spanish-speaking officers when the riot started . 9Regulations on visitors have been relaxed . Friends , acquaintances and potential employers may visit prisoners , whereas only close relative used to be allowed . In addition the screen between visitors and inmates has been removed . Censorship restrictions on mail and publications have been greatly eased . siNew clothing has been issued , the commissary and mess hall operations have been improved and a law library has been established for inmates . Some Grievances Remain One change was welcomed over the weekend by the inmates . They may now make collect telephone calls to family or close friends . An officer places the call from newly installed booths and when it is accepted , the prisoner takes over ' the phone . Among the important grievances that continue to rile inmates are the following : 9The Parole Board does not tell an inmate why he has been turned down . To correct this would require a change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to use them but do not help those without skills to acquire them . 9There is no indoor gymnasium , and the exercise yard is not pleasant during the bitter upstate winter . Deputy Superintendent Harold J. Smith says bids have been let for a gym ; he was surprised the inmates did not know this . 9Inmates get from 20 cents to a dollar a day for work at the prison , mostly less than 50 cents a day . Few Racial Tensions ' On one point all inmates and officers interviewed here seemed agreed : Racial tensions among inmates are not important and are certainly much less bitter than in , the world outside the prison .. That blacks and whites seem to be mostly in separate clusters is not the result of racial hostilities but because they feel more at ease that way . " That 's no conflict between white and black , " said a black inmate as inmates played basketball , handball , lifed weights , jogged or just talked in the yard . " We are together because we got something to rap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The disagreements about , the inmate liaison committee are of particular concern because the committee was born of the riot , and the disagreements explore basic attitudes of inmate and officer and touch the nerve endings of both groups . In failing to achieve more , the inmates say , the committee creates frustration among some prisoners . This either makes them more bitter or induces them to be contemptuous of the committee . Curb on Discussion Cited " We were established to stop trouble before it starts , " says Young . " But the way , things are we ca n't talk ' about any officer . And yet the most important relationship is between officer and inmate , so far as stopping trouble is concerned . " Of the original 28 elected to the committee  --  the inmates select roughly one for every 40 inmates  --  only six remain , according to prisoners . The administration says 10 are still there . Prisoners say that most of the originals were forced out by punishment or transfer or a sense of futility . The administration says that while some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison terms . or were paroled or transferred elsewhere at their own request . Some , the administration says , were transferred for disciplinary reasons . Guards have mixed feelings about the liaison committee . They agree with the idea , but some think it will undermine discipline . " Some of these committee members , " one officer said , " found power and became very aggressive . They wanted to run the place . " Underground Action Opposed Young contends that the committee should represent all views of the inmate population . " Otherwise , " he says , " some elements will go underground , and this is what we do not want to see happen . " There seems to be general agreement among inmates that the introduction of black and Spanish-speaking guards has tended to reduce tensions . Some , however , think this is not so much because they are black and Spanish-speaking but because they are young , with less resistance to ' new ideas than the older officers whose friends died in the riot , One of the black officers , Ulysses Westbrook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told him they were pleased that black officers had been assigned to the prison . Inmates seem to think that Superintendent Montanye is better than his predecessor , Vincent R. Mancusi . They say that he is prevented from doing the things he thinks are necessary by a lack of funds or his superiors in Albany . Mr. Montanve is convinced that the inmates and most prison officials want to see huge prisons replaced by smaller ones closer to populated areas . " Inmate reaction would be very favorable , " he said . " They would like to be near home . "                     