@@731862

txt The New York Telephone Company announced yesterday that because of cable faults it was delaying until midnight next Friday the restoration of service it had - planned for midnight tomorrow to 173,000 telephones in Manhattan that have been without service since a fire on Feb. 27 . William Ellinghaus , the president of the company , disclosed the delay at a news conference only two days after his announcement of the Sunday target date for turning on telephones again in a 300-block area south of 23d Street . The earliest that telephone engineers originally considered possible for restoration of service was last Thursday . Difficulties Anticipated The sole reason for the delay , telephones officials said , was the cable faults , apparently caused by moisture , that began cropping up on Thursday during testing of individual subscribers ' lines in preparation for Sunday night 's resumption of service . Lee Oberst , New York City area vice president . in the company 's operations division , who has been directing repair activities , said the faults were detected Thursday night and yesterday morning in at least 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the huge telephone switching center at Second Avenue and 13th Street , where the fire started . " I expected one or two or three problems , " Mr. Oberst said in an interview . " That 's what I meant Wednesday when I talked about ' a few stragglers ' when we restored service . But I never anticipated anything like this . " He added , with a , wan expression , " Nobody 's more heartbroken than I am . The cables , each bearing 2,400 pairs of telephone wires , normally are kept dry by a constant flow of predried air under irressure , about 15 pounds a square inch at the pump down to three pounds at the end of the cable . The cables had lacked their normal protection against humidity , for nearly two weeks while , a force of nearly 4,000 workmen and engineers toiled around the clock to clean up and rebuild equipment in the building and run communications links through alternate centers , Mr. Oberst said that a census of cable faults had nearly been completed yesterday afternoon . Only 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other teats had located the faults within the cables . Some were right next to the Second Avenue building ; others were more distant . Sections of the cables on which extensive splicing already had been- completed , will have to be replaced , and each of the 4,800 wires within them respliced in two locations , in what Mr. Oberst termed a " tedious operation . " Speeding up of the splicing is impossible , Mr. Oberst noted , because every available space for workmen to carry out splices in the cable vault is already occupied . " There was no possible way to increase the effort , " he said . When Mr. Oberst showed the vault to a visiting reporter Thursday morning , it was virtually impossible to move along wooden catwalks rigged between racks of thick cables in the emergency to allow splicing operations to proceed on two levels instead of one . ' Significant Trouble ' The work force in the vault , Mr. Oberst said , is 350 , . with the men working 12-hour shifts . There are two shifts a day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night restoration of service were moving toward completion on the schedule announced las : Wednesday . This leaves the unexpectedly large and slow cable operation , the exact size of which , Mr. Oberst said , is now known . Mr. Oberst said that testing Thursday had shown , by 5 P.M. , that " it was obvious we had a significant amount of trouble . " In the light of this , the regular 6 P.M. meeting of key supervisors of the repair work decided to accelerate the testing of subscribers ' lines through the cables to identify the problems . By 6 A.M. yesterday , Mr. Oberst said , " it was obvious we had a big problem , so we went and told Bill Mr. Ellinghaus the facts of life . " As on Wednesday , Mr. Ellinghaus chose to announce the schedule publicly and to fix a definite time in the future . Because only one task , the repair of cables , instead . of many difficulties , stood in the way , the remaining job was , in engineering terms , more definite than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still needed covered the 104,000 lines serving 173,000 telephones in the stricken district , not the " special service " lines also served by the Second Avenue switching center . Those would be restored day . to day , over the two weeks following next Friday , Mr. Oberst said . Mr. Ellinghaus said there was no link between the " painful " decision to hold up restoration of telephone service because of the slow pace of cable work and the five fires , apparently deliberately set , that have followed the Feb. 27 blaze . Fire marshals have not altered their announced opinion that the Second Avenue fire v.-as not set by an arsonist . The decision " to go for - Sunday night " was his , Mr. Ellinghaus said . " It 's my decision alone to hold up . We know where we stand with the splicing. "                     