@@731200

txt The first week of Britain 's three-week " crisis election " campaign has produced two conflicting trends . Events seem to be going the Labour Party 's way , but opinion polls favor the ruling Conservative Party . Three polls issued Feb. 14 unanimously report a Tory popularity lead , ranging from 1.5 percent ( Gallup ) and 2 percent ( Opinion Research Centre ) to a whopping 11 percent ( Louis Harris ) . Turn of events This is agonizing for Labour , just when economic and diplomatic developments seem to be playing into its hands . Since Conservative Prime Minister Edward Heath called the election Feb. 7 : ? Wholesale prices and raw material prices both have scored record monthly increases , 2.75 percent and 17 percent respectively . ? Gasoline prices have taken their biggest single jump ever , rising by 8 pence ( about 18 cents ) to over 50 pence ( $1.15 ) per gallon . ? The sticker prices of cars from the country 's largest automaker , British Leyland , have been marked up an average of 9 percent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Heath * Events boost Labour , polls Heath // ? Unionized train engineers have called off a nine-week-old campaign of one-day strikes ? a campaign which was undermining support for Labour parliamentary candidates among angry rail commuters ? until after the election , after an appeal from Labour leader Harold Wilson . ? Picketing by Britain 's 270,000 coal miners , whose strike sparked the election , has proceeded peacefully without the violence of the 1972 strike . ? The European Common Market ? into which Britain was led last year by the Conservatives over Labour objections ? has split into open disarray at the Washington conference of oil-consumer nations . Despite this timely cache of campaign ammunition for Labour , the Tories evidently command public support on the issue on which they have chosen to fight the campaign : holding the ground against massive wage claims , such as the miners ' . " We will stand by an incomes policy which the country sees as fair and knows to be necessary , " Mr. Heath declares . " We will stand firm against the abuse of industrial power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree ? 86 percent of them were polled by the Opinion Research Centre , one of the highest levels of support for a policy ever recorded . But the Labour opposition has succeeded in widening the campaign to other issues . Rising prices have supplanted the miners ' strike as the No. 1 issue in the minds of many voters , polls suggest , with the Common Market rising in prominence . " There is no doubt what this election is about , " Labour 's Mr. Wilson said Feb. 13 . " It is about Mr. Heath 's failure in the face of his clear promises in the matter of prices and rents . " It is , he added , about getting " Mr. ' Rising Prices ' out now at a stroke . "                     