@@731964

txt A 31-YEAR-OLD Chicago policenian was in " extremely critical condition " in Cook County Hospital Monday night after being shot in the head by a sniper from a West Side housing project . Patrolman Joseph Cali , assigned to the Wood Street district , suffered a bullet wound in the left temple . He had stopped to write a parking ticket for a car parked in front of the Henry Horner Homes ; 2103 W. Lake St. Dr. Joseph Thornton , senior resident at the hospital , said physicians were deciding whether to remove the bullet lodged in Cali 's skull immediately or wait until his vital signs had stabilized . " HIS CHANCES are very poor , " Thornton said . Sc or es of policemen were sent to the area , where they conducted a door-to-door search for the snipe r . A fire department ' helicopter searched from the air while another fire department illumination truck flooded the area with light . Other policemen , aided by canine units , were searching for four men reportedly seen fleeing from the area . Police said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistant deputy superintendent Carl Dobrich , the shot could have come from almost anywhere in the building at 2111 W. Lake St. , altho . " The trajectory of the bullet does not tend to support the theory . that it came ? from Atte upper floors . " 1/0111ticit also said bricks and bottles were thrown at police while they searched for the expended cartridge in front of the building . One man , Lester McCaulley , 20 , of 1925 W. Monroe St. , was arrested after lie tried to kick a police dog . He was charged with disorderly conduct , interferring with police , and mistreatment of a police dog . said partner , James Kehoe , said he remained in the car while Cali started writing a ticket for the illegally parked car . He saw Cali shot and radioed for assistance . Cali was taken to the hospital in another squad car . Cali 's regular partner , Edward Hely , is getting married Sunday and Cali was scheduled to be a member of the wedding party . CALI AND his wife , Neva , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watch commander , termed Cali " a fine , fine policeman , a real policeman 's policeman . " Cali joined the police department Feb. 19 , 1973 . He has been a Wood Street patrolman since graduating from the academy in December , 1973 . During his years on the force , he has received five honorable mention awards and two letters of commendation from citizens .                     