@@733362

txt ATHENS  --  For 24 centuries the mighty marble structures of the Acropolis have towered above Athens in permanent tribute to the greatness that was Greece . It seemed they would stand forever . But a triple attack by pollution , tourism , and a bungled restoration job have threatened to destroy the Acropolis in less time than it took to build it . The timeless columns and sculptures have been so ravaged , by polluted air that experts are replacing the reliefs with plastic fake s . Stones hewn 900 years before Christ have been ground to dust by millions of tourist shoes . And scares of iron braces intended to save the structures have caused irreparable damage . " IT 'S PROBABLY correct to say that in the last 40 years there has been more damage to the Acropolis than in the 900 years before , " said Dr. George Dontast , director , of the Acropolis . " We are very seriously concerned about its preservation . " Preservation is considered supremely important , because the Acropolis contains some of the finest architecture in history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? , col. 1 Column 1 Acropolis may still survive as plastic // tin , B.C. on a splendid mound of rock which is now surrounded by Athens . Its central structure , a mammoth temple to the goddess Athena , is the very symbol of Greece and has been the model for a thousand subsequent structures ranging from obscure Russian bathhouses to the U. S. Supreme Court building . DONTAST , A member of a government committee charged with the preservation , said the most serious problem Is the pollution that arrived with the Machine age . The use of high-sulfur fuels In Athens has filled the atmosphere with a fine mist of sulfuric acid that is slowly turning the ancient marble into powdery gypsum . : Despite increasingly stringent pollution controls , the atmosphere remains corrosive . It has done irreparable berm to the fine detail of the sculpted reliefs and statuary . It also threatens to weaken the structure of the buildings themselves , including the great columns of the Parthenon , Athena 's temple . OFFICIALS ONCE considered building a great plastic dome over the Parthenon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being expensive , it would close in the grandiose beauty of the temple . Experts were asked for proposals on spraying or painting the stone with preservatives , but nobody could produce an acceptable compound . So Dontast and his colleagues reluctantly decided to replace the real thing with fakes . " It 's not an easy decision to remove the sculptures , " Dontast said . " We 've organized international colloquiums to discuss whether we even have the right to , do it . But the damage has been disturbing , and we must protect them . " , WORKMEN RAVE already removed two important sculptures from the front pediment of the Parthenon , replacing them with fibrous glass replicas . They are a reproduction of the legendary founder of Athens , Kekropas , and the Callirrhoe , the lower part of a reclining female figure . The originals are now in a nearby Acropolis museum . The replicas look better than the originals , strangely . ? " The replicas were made from casts taken by English scientists in the last century , and they are now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not show damage that has been done since . " NEXT TO BE replaced will be the Karyatids , six exquisitely draped female figures which act as pillars for the porch of a temple near the Parthenon . " This will be a much more difficult project because the statues are actually a part of the structure of the temple , " Dontast said . " We will have to take them away without disturbing the rest of the stone . " Plastic glass will not be strong enough , so the replacement maidens will be cast in concrete . Molds have already been taken by an international group of experts aided by UNESCO the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization . " OF COURSE , concrete bas a gray , dead appearance , and that will not do , " Dontast said . " We are experimenting with additives that will give the casts the translucent , glowing appearance of marble . " Dontast is also coping with a severe problem that has grown since 1913 , when a well-meaning builder installed a large number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of the Acropolis . " It was a terrible mistake , because the iron began to rust , and as it rusted it expanded , " he said . " It began cracking the stone . After every rainfall or freeze , we would find that pieces of the structure had broken away . There was a great deal of damage done . " FOR YEAR$ , Dontast and his predecessors have gradually removed the iron and replaced it with bronze . Now metallurgists are recommending that restorers abandon bronze and use titanium . Even after the statues are placed under cover and the rusty iron has been dug out , the Acropolis still must face more than 2 million visitors who annually make the trek up the bill to Greece 's finest tourist attraction . " The tourists are careful and well-behaved , and we welcome them , " Dontast said . " But in many areas , especially where they go in and out , a total of 4 million pairs of feet will tread every year . The stone can not take it . " RELUCTANTLY , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and several other important structures , and they have built wooden ramps and stairs to protect stone where foot traffic is the heaviest . " The wooden stairs are rather ugly when everything else is made of stone , " Dontast said . " We hope to find a better solution . " Air pollution remains the most disturbing threat , and experts fear that it will eventually destroy both the beauty and the structural integrity of massive columns and graceful capitals that can not be removed to a museum . " It 's not money we need , " said Culture Minister Constantine Trypanis , a former classics professor at the University of Chicago . " We need knowledge . We need experts who can understand the diseases of stone and keep the Acropolis alive . "                     