@@734467

txt In announcing that it intended to withdraw its funds from American banks and their overseas branches , Iran declared today that the move was justified on the ground that banking interests were responsible for the admission of the deposed Shah to the United States . Abolhassan Bani-Sadr , the member of the Revolutionary Council directing Iran 's foreign policy , singled out the Chase Manhattan Bank and its chairman , David Rockefeller . " The story of the taking of the Shah to the United States is that he was a middleman for Rockefeller and Kissinger , for Chase Manhattan Bank , " Dr. BaniSadr declared at a multilingual news conference at the Foreign Minstry , where he announced the decision on the assets . Rockefeller 's Role A spokesman for Chase Manhattan in New York declined to respond to Dr. Bani-Sadr 's assertion , saying any comment would be " inappropriate at this stage . " Page A19 . Mr. Rockefeller had already acknowledged that he interceded with the Carter Administration to obtain the Shah 's ad- mission to the United States for medical treatment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any thought that the United States might respond by blocking the funds . Dr. Bani-Sadr said that the idea had come from " workers at the Central Bank " and , indicating that the plan was still in a preliminary stage , spoke of ' " technical problems " that the Central Bank would be asked to iron out before the transfers could be made . " We have approximately $12 billion in reserves and the major part of it is in American banks and in the branches of American banks outside of America , " Dr. Bani-Sadr said . But the feeling that Iran had struck an economic blow at the United States proved to be short-lived . When the word arrived here this evening that President Carter had moved to freeze the funds , the first response came from Dr. Sadegh Ghotbzadeh , the member of the Revolutinary Council who is the director of national television . The American move , he said , showed " that laws are made only for the interests of the United States and it breaks them when it feels that it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American " horror at seeing the feeling of the people of Iran . " The American action on Iranian assets marked the second time in three days that an action by the Revolutionary Council had been pre-empted by Washington . On Monday , the Carter Administration announced that it was halting imports of Iranian oil only hours before the council had apparently planned to announce that it was barring the shipment of oil to the United States . Huge crowds from factories , Government agencies and military units carried banners in front of the United States Embassy today , the 11th day of captivity of 62 Americans and about 30 foreign hostages . They chanted anti-American slogans and waved huge pictures of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , the revolutionary leader . Dr. Bani-Sadr , according to a report by United Press International , said that at least some of the 30 non-American hostages might soon be allowed to leave the embassy . But he insisted that the American hostages would not be freed until the Shah was returned , the report said.1 Treatment of Hostages The hostages were taken when the embassy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves " followers of the Imam 's line . " They were angry because the United States had admitted the Shah . These students have refused to let foreign journalists see the hostages or even to give an accurate count of their number . The hostages have been visited by four diplomats who later issued a brief statement saying only that the captives appeared healthy but tired . But , according to reports in the diplomatic community , the delegation saw hostages who had been kept in the dark for days in rooms with blacked-out windows . The hostages were bound loosely at their hands and feet , according to these reports , and some were kept facing corners . However , the state radio said today that the hostages were now making telephone calls to their relatives . Ayatollah Khomeini has rejected any negotiations for the release of the embassy and the hostages , saying that the Shah must be returned . Proposals From Iran In the last few days , revolutionary authorities have been suggesting methods for his return . They have called on the United States to admit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn over his wealth and property . They have proposed that an international investigative team rule on allegations of specific crimes and , finally , that a trial be held here . At his news conference today , Dr. BaniSadr said , in an apparent allusion to several lingering financial disputes over the huge foreign investments here and over attempts to get some of the capital back , " We will transfer our money to banks in countries which have not bothered us over contracts signed during the reign of the Shah and dragged us from courtroom to courtroom over these things . " Asked what would happen if economic pressure was applied to Iran to release the hostages , he said : " The people have answered this question by now . Still , I 'll respond . We 'll go on an unlimited fast . We do n't mind going on an unlimited fast to gain our economic independence . "                     