@@733582

txt Deputy Mayor Herman Badillo threatened to resign yesterday after Mayor Koch took away some of his authority , then , after a long talk with the Mayor , agreed to stay on . After angrily telling a reporter that he would resign if Mr. Koch stood by his decision to cut his responsibilities , Mr. Badillo gave in to the Mayor at a 45-minute meeting in the Mayor 's office . Mr. Koch had served notice before the meeting that he would not alter his order to have the Director of Operations , Lee Oberst , report to the Mayor instead of to Mr. Badillo . Badillo Unaware of Change Mr. Badillo , who ran against Mr. Koch in the Democratic primary for Mayor and then resigned his Congressional seat to become Deputy Mayor for Management in the Koch administration , was enraged by a memorandum from the Mayor that took the Office of Operations out of Mr. Badillo 's control . He found out about the memo through reading an article in The New York Times on Saturday . The Deputy Mayor 's unexpected blowup came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority within the Koch administration . In addition to his responsibilities in management , Mr. Badillo was made the Mayor 's overseer of education and higher education and was also given responsibility for the Model Cities program and the Community Development Agency . Last week Mayor Koch put him in charge of planning for the South Bronx as well . Shaking a finger at a reporter standing in the Mayor 's press office , Mr. Badillo said yesterday of the memo that took away some of his operations responsi-bilities : " I never approved it , I never would approve it . I never saw such a memo . I came here to'be Deputy Mayor for Management . I did not come to run the South Bronx . " Later , he said : " I do n't care what the Mayor or anyone else says . If that stands , I am no longer here . You can publish that ! " Mr. Koch 's press secretary , Maureen R. Connelly , said that the decision had been made to have Mr. Oberst report to the Mayor because it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South Bronx , considering that it will be the largest single Federal project in New York . The announcement of the South Bronx job for Mr. Badillo contained a paragraph saying that Mr. Oberst , who has been on loan to the city from the New York Telephone Company , had agreed to remain for six to nine months more . The next day a confidential memorandum went cut from the Mayor to all agency heads . saying : " Since Deputy Mayor Badillo will he devoting almost full time to the South Bronx project , I have asked Lee Oberst to report directly to me . The operation 's staff and budget will be increased in order to take on additional assignments under my personal direction . " At first yesterday , Mr. Badillo denied that there was such a memorandum . He said that The Times had made a mistake in reporting it , adding that if there was such a memorandum , he would resign . short time later , after finding out that // The New York Times Herman . Badillo the memo did exist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , he would leave . Even before the meeting in the Mayor 's office , aides to Mr. Koch predicted that matter atter would be resolved once it was explained to Mr. Badillo that a number of people in the city government report directly to the Mayor without the permission of their nominal bosses . They cited James R. Brigham Jr. , the Budget Director , who meets with Mr. Koch even when Philip L. Toia , the Deputy Mayor for Finance , is not present . Mayor Koch issued a statement to the same effect after meeting with Mr. Badillo saying in part : " Lee Oberst will conduct the day-to-day operations of the office . Deputy Mayor Badillo will continue to work with Lee Oberst on general manage . inent matters  --  for example , the development of a better management report on the follow-up on audits. "                     