@@733576

txt American scientists trying to harness hydrogen fusion ? the nuclear process that powers the sun ? have made significant laboratory progress . But skepticism in , Washington threatens to put their efforts on the back burner . Dr. Edwin E. Kintner , acting director of the Office of Fusion Energy at the Department of Energy ( DOE ) , says that fusion 's supporters " are having difficulty convincing those in policymaking positions above and around us that fusion is worth pursuing . " He warns fusion scientists not to underestimate this skepticism , which questions whether fusion power would ever be cheap enough to be practical even if it can be made to work . He adds that policy decisions made over the next few months could seriously affect the strength and pace of fusion development in the United States . This threat comes at a time when fusion re- searchers are in sight of a long-sought goal ? ignition of a self-sustaining fusion reaction . But , the closer laboratory workers have gotten to that goal , the more some energy officials and engineers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be like . What they have seen , admittedly in a hazy way , are costs so huge that electric utilities could n't afford them . William E. Parkins , director of research and technology at the Atomics International Division of Rockwell International , is one such skeptic . He has come up with cost estimates for a fusion power plant of $4,910 per kilowatt of electric generating capacity . Ile compares that with cost estimates of $780 per kilowatt for coal-fired plants , $975 per kilowatt for nuclear ( fission ) plants , and $1,820 for a breeder type nuclear plant . Fusion supporters consider such judgments premature . Dr. Kintner typifies their feeling when he likens the criticism to " having the // From pa ? e 1 U.S. fusion power progress faces threat Wright Brothers cost out the 747 in advance of their first tests at Kitty Hawk . " Nevertheless , the skeptics have enough support within the Carter administration to seriously challenge the present strategy of fusion research , which now emphasizes what is called magnetic confinement . To get a self-sustaining fusion reaction going , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degrees C. and hold it together long enough to extract energy . At such temperatures , the atoms of the gas are electrically charged and can be confined by magnetic force . There are other ways to attack the problem . Hydrogen pellets can be shot together or compressed by laser beams with enough force to ignite fusion . But the main line of research has been with devices that confine and compress the gas with magnetic fields . And the principal type of machine for doing that , which now is being intensively studied around the world , is based on a Russian design and called by the Russian name tokamac . Major progress seen It is work primarily with tokamacs that prompted the International Fusion Research Council , which advises the International Atomic Energy Agency , to state : " In view ofthe great progress achieved in fusion since 1970 , the council is convinced that the time is ripe urgently to make a large and aggressive effort toward the practical demonstration of fusion power at the earliest possible date . " In the United States , an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute of Technology with a tokamac concept called Alcator . It was at the dedication April 7 of a second generation Alcator ( which may achieve fusion ignition ) that Dr. Kintner gave his warning . The skeptics would not shut down the fusion program entirely . But they do question seriously whether it should place so much emphasis on tokamacs . It is power plants based on magnetic confinement that now seem likely to be too expensive to the skeptics . Thus they would reorient the fusion program to explore other ways of harnessing fusion , in effect sending the whole effort back to the basic research stage . Last year , the Carter administration attempted to cut back funds for magnetic confinement work . But Congress later restored them in authorizing $454.4 million for all fusion work in the fiscal 1978 DOE budget . Now the move to cut back is on again .                     