@@733591

txt Since 1962 more than a dozen small earthquakes have occurred along a geological fault , previously considered inactive , one branch of which passes within 3,000 feet of the nuclear power plants at Indian Point on the Hudson River . . Two Columbia University seismologists , on the basis of continuing observations , estimate that in the 90-year projected lifetime of the nuclear plants there is a 5 to 11 percent chance that the facilities will be shaken by an earthquake more severe than their design limits . The contention of the seismologists has been challenged by the Consolidated Edison Company , which owns two of the three reactors at the site . A company spokesman said yesterday that the earthquakes , which are being observed along a fault passing nearby , are inconsequential . The report of the seismologists , to be published in the journal Science , elaborates on data they presented last year at hearings on the aontroversy surrounding safety of the plants . The report is also based on the observation of earthquakes that occurred since the hearings ended . In their assessment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent quakes occurred almost directly beneath Indian Point . In response , a spokesman for Con Ed noted yesterday that at last year 's hearings , Dr. Charles F. Richter , for whom the Richter Scale of earthquake magnitudes is named , had said that the earthquakes reported up to that time were " of minor magnitude and relatively trivial . " Since 1962 , according to the latest tally of the researchers , more than a dozen small quakes have occurred along or close to the Ramapo Fault , which was previously considered inactive . One branch of the fault apparently passes within 3,000 feet of the Indian Point plant . The quakes as a rule were too weak to be felt except by instruments and far too gentle to be damaging . Nevertheless , the researchers believe they indicate the possibility of more serious tremors . The authors of the report are Dr. Yash Aggarwal and Dr. Lynn R. Sykes of the Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory downstream from Indian Point at Palisades , N.Y . Dr. Sykes heads the seismology group at the observatory , one of the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a native of India . Since 1970 , they say , the number of seismic recording stations in the area has steadily increased and they have pinpointed some 33 quakes , many of them on or near the Ramapo Fault . The fault runs 75 miles on a southwest-to-northeast trend parallel to the ridges that cross the Hudson river near Bear Mountain . Its southern branch , known as the Thiells Fault , passes about a half mile from the plant at Indian Point , on the Isouth flank of those highlands . The obi served quakes originate at shallow depth , 1 less than six miles and some less than a mile , increasing the risk of damage from events of moderate severity . The inants were designed to withstand shaking of the severity classed as magnitude VII on the Mercalli scale . In such a quake strong buildings are undamaged but some chimneys fall and people tend to flee their homes . In 1972 the final environmental statement for Indian Point Unit 2 stated : " There are no truly major faults in or near the site . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1976 and 1977 hearings were held before the Atomic Safety and Licensing Appeal Board of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission . Both Dr. Aggarwal and Dr. Sykes testified on behalf of New York State in those hearings , which ended last Oct. 12 with a finding in favor of the plea by the Consolidated Edison Company to operate the plant . The chairman of the three-man board , Michael C. Farrar , a lawyer , dissented on some aspects of the case and a decision by the commission has been deferred while he drafts his dissent . The reactor in question , Unit 2 , was shut down on Feb. 13 for refueling and should be back in operation within a tew weeks , according to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission . Unit 1 has been shut down since Oct. 31 , 1974 , because it did not meet the commission 's revised standards for emergency cooling of the reactor core . Unit 3 , operated by the New York State Power Authority , was operating last week . In 1975 , Dr. Nicholas M. Ratcliffe reported to the commission evidence for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this unit . Dr. Aggarwal and Dr. Sykes note that more people live within 50 miles of Indian Point than in the case of any other nuclear plant in this country . Last night a Con Ed spokesman said the earlier testimony of Dr. Aggarwal and Dr. Sykes had been " discredited as a result of careful examination by geological experts . " In particular the statement cited the testimony of Dr. Richter . However , the new presentation by the two Columbia scientists is based in part on data collected since the hearings ended almost a year ago . They conceded that as a rule the recorded shocks have been too weak to be noticed by residents , much : ess to inflict any damage . The warning of more severe quakes is derived from an analysis of probabilities over the next 40 years , taking into account historic records of heavier quakes in the area . To what extent these occurred on the Ramapo Fault is difficult to estimate , since they predated seismic recording stations . One , in 1884 , was felt from Maryland to New Hampshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 30 locations scattered from eastern Pennsylvania to Connecticut . Foreshocks were felt in Paterson , N .. 1. , and the two seismologists suspect the origin was on the Ramapo Fault . They also believe other shocks observed in the last three centuries occurred along the same feature . The Ramapo Fault , they say , underwent at least four periods of movement from precamhrian time , more than 600 million years ago , to the breaking apart of Africa and North America 150 million years ago . This rupture seems to have reactivated old faults in eastern North America including the Ramapo Fault  --  an activity that continues , though considererably diminished .                     