@@731458

txt Politics are getting interesting again in Britain . The immediate question is whether Prime Minister Harold Wilson made a strategic mistake by deciding to wait for fall for the next general election . Late spring was a viable alternative . But when the decision had to be made , the polls showed Mr Wilson 's Labour Party with a solid 12 percent advantage over the Conservatives . With that advantage presumed safely under his belt , Mr Wilson decided that he could safely wait for fall when people would still ? emcmher the warmth of summer . Now It is much too late for a spring election And It is a basic rule of British politics that one can not he held in midsummer ? because too many people are away on vacation So It can not come now before September or October . And by Moll a new political situation may well have developed . The past week has witnessed two shocks to the Labour assumptions of spring . A new poll shows that 12 percent Labour lead gone with the wind . It now is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  with the Liberals getting the advantage of the Labour decline . And with devastating timing a former Labour Cabinet Minister , Christopher Mayhew , became the first Labour MP since 1945 to change parties . He went to the Liberals as though to underline the change in the polls . And great is the rejoicing in the Liberal camp . These shifts may be transitory . One poll does not make an election , and Mr. Mayhew was the man farthest to the right on the right wing of the Labour Party . His defection had long been expected . There is no clear sign yet that many other right-wing Labour MP 's are thinking of doing the same . *British election // But the British economic condition can get out of hand between now and October . The British had their own economic stabiliazation plan in three phases . The last phase is drawing to its end . By the end of summer there will be no more formal machinery for holding down prices and wages . And the trade unions are getting set to take fullest advantage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is suggested by the fact that last week 1,800 Shell Oil Company refinery workers turned down an offer of a 25 percent wage rise . Can anyone remember when a 5 percent raise was considered more or less normal ? How will the voters react in October to wage rises of between 20 and 30 percent when the inflation is already the thing almost everyone talks about most of the time ? Meanwhile , Mr. Wilson is having more than normal problems holding the quarreling factions of his party together . The left-wingers have been highly critical of Foreign Minister James Callaghan 's handling of negotiations with the European Common Market . The anti-market leftists suspect Mr. Callaghan of wanting to keep Britain in . Nationalization proposed To hold Mr. Callaghan in the Cabinet , Mr. Wilson has had to tell the left-wing Cabinet ministers to keep out of meetings of a party watchdog committee set up at the last party conference just to keep Mr. Callaghan in line . And Anthony Wedgwood Berm continues to send shudders through the business community with ever more proposals for nationalization of something or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And the next poll may reverse last week 's bad news for Labour . And there will be a new budget with some reflationary features ? probably some tax cutting to temper the winds of inflation . But Mr. Wilson 's safe 12 percent lead is newly in question . Instead of a safe election , with the prospect of a working majority in the Commons and five more years to go , he faces an uncertain election in an uncertain economic condition .                     