@@732113

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor City Affairs : ' The Current Crisis Is a Mask ' To the Editor : Default , given the nature of the credit system , would be a disaster for the City of New York . But the effort to avoid that eventuality , or deal with it as reasonably as possible if it comes , has reached such a pitch that other , more permanently demanding goals for the city 's government have been all but totally forgotten . Some of these may be listed as follows : ? First , democratic politics . Electoral politics and democratic processes in New York City have never been especially effective . With the imposition of state control over the city 's finances , they will become a sham . ? Second , administrative rationality . The experiment with " superagencies " war . not a total success , but it was an effort to gain programmatic coherence in the city 's operations . Their dismantlement and the return to a plethora of relatively minor agencies , each jostling with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose to be welcomed only by petty politicians . ? Third , the social budget . This reCity Charter Revision : The Land-Use Proposals To the Editor : Norman Garner 's Sept. 8 letter is in error on a basic issue of proposed charter change . The Charter Revision Commission did not recommend the creation of a Zoning Administrator to handle zoning variances . The commission 's final proposal called for the continuation of the Board of Standards and Appeals . In order to make the board more accountable and sensitive to the land-use needs of the city and its communities , as reflected in the Zoning Resolution , the Charter Commission has proposed the following changes in its chapter on land-use planning : ? Community boards shall be required to hold initial hearings and to make formal recommendations on all land-use issues .. ? The Board of Standards and Appeals shall continue to hear and decide variances to the Zoning Resolution , but it must be prepared to make detailed findings to justify its decisions . ? The City Planning Commission shall he a party to any proceedings involving variances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the courts . ? The Board of Estimate shall be empowered to exercise discretionary review of board decisions to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Zoning Resolution . ? Review of zoning decisions by the courts is preserved . ROY M. GOODMAN Chairman . State Charter Revision Commission for New York City New York , Sept. 9 , 1975 To the Editor : Herbert Hendin 's linking of " the increasing acceptance of homosexuality " with " increasing attacks on the family " lop-Ed Aug. 22 is a specious and irresponsible bit of moral demagoguery . There is not the slightest bit of evidence that the one has anything to do with the other , and Dr. Hendin 's unsupported assertion is merely a reflection of his own unconscious prejudice . In countries such as the Netherlands , West Germany and Denmark , where homosexuality is acceptable , there are no indications that family stability has been impaired . Current " attacks " on the family ( which , as a husband , father and grandfather I deplore as strongly as does Dr. Hendin ) are the resultants of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good , including the liberalization of sexual mores , the waning of the double standard of sexual morality , women 's liberation , the counter-culture movement , rising divorce rates , economic insecurity , and the decline of moral leadership with consequent loss of respect on the part of young people toward symbols of authority . To single out homosexuality as a prime factor in whatever erosion is taking place in family life is a reprehensible and unwarranted piece of scapegoating . Acceptance of the right of homosexuals to exercise their sexual preference in private with conferz. to the real needs of the city , to actual work that needs doing by public agencies . It refers to the aged who without proper care will die simply of despair and loneliness ; to children who , if not taught , will become dull , amoral parasites ; to buildings , parks and roads which , if not maintained , will deteriorate beyond the possibility of restoration , and so forth . We are not measuring these tasks in terms of what they are ; we are talking only about what " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an irony in all this which points to a deeper problem . New York , as a cultural and economic entity , is in many ways rich and powerful . But the city 's political institutions appear unable to allocate available resources to our social hurts on anywhere near the scale required . Why not ? Why the paralysis ? What 's wrong ? The current fiscal crisis is a mask . Where is the root of our discontent ? H. MARK ROELOFS Yorktown Heights , N. Y. , Sept. 8 , 1975 The writer is professor of government at New York University . Intra-City Travel Lament To the Editor : Subway and bus fares have been raised , the cost of a ferry ride has gone up and now there is talk of imposing tolls on all the city 's bridges . Transportation is becoming so expensive that very soon the only way you will be able to afford to go from one borough to another will be to arrange a - package tour through your travel agent . EUGENE SHAPIRO Long Island City , N. Y. , Sept. 6 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Department of Environmental Conservation has announced an early bear-hunting season for part of September and October in the Adirondack Park . We protest this action as a violation of the rights of both the few remaining bears and of the nonhunters who would prefer to see the bears alive . Last year there were l0,000 earlyhear-hunting permits sold and only 73 bears killed , suggesting that their numbers must be very low . The D.E.C. should be made to justify an early bear season this year with data on serious overpopulation of bears and serious threats to human life . And who protects the nonhunting hikers who wish to use the state lands in the fall in safety and peace ? The State Legislature , the Adirondack Park Agency or the D.E.C. , whichever has the power , should set aside some of the state park land as sanctuaries where no hunting is allowed and where the concept of " Forever Wild " is really observed . DASCOMB AND DOROTHY FORBUSH Potsdam , N.Y. , Sept. 3 , 1975 senting adult partners is no more a threat to the security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , women , or any other underprivileged group in our society . Dr. Hendin 's subjective anecdotal conclusion that all homosexuals are unhappy and despairing individuals who cover their pain by denial does not constitute acceptable scientific evidence . There are by now large numbers of controlled objective studies that clearly demonstrate that his generalizations are wrong . To attempt to stereotype all homosexuals is as nonsensical as it would be to do the same fbrallTheterosexuals . Finally , Dr. Hendin 's assertion that the American Psychiatric Association removed homosexuality from its list of illnesses " largely under pressure from gay liberation groups " is equally unfounded . This issue was studied for more than a year , with careful review of the available scientific evidence , by a committee of psychiatrists under the auspices of the A.P.A . ' s Council on Research and Development . Their considered conclusion that homosexuality does not necessarily constitute a mental illness was evaluated and approved by the council and the A.P.A . Assembly of District Branches and only then by the A.P.A . board of trustees . JUDD MARMOR , M.D. President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Productivity To the Editor : In reply to your Sept. 5 editorial on the impending teachers ' strike : Nestled somewhere in a day of five teaching periods , one home room or official class requiring much clerical work beyond the time actually spent with the students , one period on hall , cafeteria , exit or lavatory patrol , one lunch period ( usually about twenty minutes in which to eat unhealthfully fast after the long queue at the cafeteria window service ) , the typical secondary school teacher has the now-infamous " prep . " Some do clerical chores , grade papers and prepare lessons . Others elect to take this work home and so use the time to go to the bathroom , drink a cup of coffee or talk to colleagues . They , in a word , rest . These are fairly sane working conditions the U.F.T. has wrung gradually , grudgingly from the Board of Education over the course of many contract negotiations . I say " fairly " because you should be informed , and I hope you will soon take the trouble ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day most teachers are utterly exhausted , incapable of functioning normally ( often enough this means preparing for tomorrow 's . classes ) for at least two hours . The union movement in the United States is about nothing if it is not ? about sanity at work , and there can be no good reason to succumb to its - loss without a struggle . To continue , your use of the word " productivity " interests me . Teachers have already absorbed about 7,000 ( the figures vary ) layoffs. - Can we really believe that , if we all teach an extra period , more are not to come ? Is n't that what the " boss " and ? his economists have always meant by " productivity " ? In any case , we are not talking now about producing electric toothbrushes or armaments . Children obviously do n't benefit from an overworked , inadequately staffed and loosely supervised system . They desperately want , most of them , a stable , supportive learning environ- ' ? ' ment , not the kind of vague chaos and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But children , in a society that can afford millions in subsidies ? to mismanaged and corrupt weapons manufacturers , rarely come first . Finally and unapologetically , in the greatest tradition of the American working class , to which , by the way , the vast majority of those same children will one day belong , it must not go unsaid that the protection , pure and simple , of a job that one loves , that one has been trained at substantial cost and hardship to do , that one needs to keep body , soul , ? home , family , mortgage and self-respect together is cause enough to struggle . And we will . EDWARD BELLER New York , Sept. 7 , 1975 ? ? Protein and the F.T.C. To the Editor : I read with interest the article on the Federal Trade Commission 's proposal to label protein supplements as being useless or perilous . I agree wholeheartedly that there is no excuse for misleading promotional claims for these products . However , since this is the first time that the F.T.C. has proposed to force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for consumers , I feel that it erred in choosing a rela- ' ? Lively nutritious product . These protein supplements contain high-quality protein from food sources low in saturated fats . The same can not he said ? for many of the alternative protein sources suggested by the F.T.C. ( whole eggs , milk , cheese , hydrogenated pea- ? nut butter , hamburger ) . Also , the protein in these supplements can be utilized by the body for the synthesis of muscle and other body tissues as well - as for energy production , unlike the usual carbohydrate snacks that represent the main nutritional " supplement " for most Americans . I believe that the F.T.C. would do better to require that manufacturers of candy bars and similar foods disclose on their labels that these products contain high amounts of refined ? sugar and saturated fats and are therefore not necessary for most Americans and perilous for many . JEFFREY D. MILLER , M.D. Mahopac , N.Y. , Sept. 5 , 1975 ? ? To Name a Hurricane To the Editor : I used to chuckle self-consciously each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the class the universally accepted , unexamined cliche that hurricanes were given girls ' names because , " like women , hurricanes are fickle . " I do not laugh anymore . I flinch each autumn when I read again about a Caroline or Barbara or Evelyn who has ravaged a seacoast town . To me it sounds more like a man . In fairness to both sexes , it seems to me that weather people should begin to alternate the naming of hurricanes  --  Adam , Beth , Charles , etc.  - -  . ? or think of an altogether non-sexist approach . I think hurricanes are ter- ? rible and should be brought to peo- ? ple 's attention , but not at the expense of women . NANCY MosToW New York , Sept. 5 , 1975 Of Homosexuals and ' Moral Demagoguery ' The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          