@@728979

txt President Nixon will spend Monday and Tuesday stumping thru five states in search of votes for Republican candidates in the Nov. 3 elections , the White House announced today . During his two-day swing , Nixon will speak at rallies in Ohio , North Dakota . Missouri , Tennessee . and Indiana . Altho he wil ! be urging Republican votes for state and local offices , he will concentrate on the Senate races in the five states , where polls indicate the races could go either way . Heavy Final Week Next week 's tour will bring to 10 the number of states Nixon will have visited in sup , port of Republican candidates . He was in Connecticut last Monday and has announced plans to campaign in Vermont , New Jersey , Pennsylvania and Wis. cousin this Saturday . White House officials said the President will have made campaign visits to 16 or 17 states before tile Nov. 3 elections . There will be no more campaigning next week after the Monday - Tuesday excursion , White House Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said , leaving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final . week of the campaign . Programs Need Numbers Ziegler said be believes the President will visit Illinois during the final week of the campaign . Other states where his appearance is considered a certainty are Florida , Texas and California . He also may make campaign appearances in Wyoming , Nevada , Utah , I New Mexico and Arizona . 1 The President is campaigning I actively , Ziegler said , because he feels his programs will have a better chance of being adopted if more Republicans are elected to Congress . This is the first time in more than 100 years , according to Ziegler , that a President has had the opposition party in control of both the House and the Senate during the first two years of his administration . Nixon 's first stop on Monday will be in Columbus , Ohio , where he will address a noon rally on the statehouse steps for Rep. Robert Taft IR. who is running for the Sen a t c against Howard Metzenbaum. a Democratic Cleveland businessman . I Then , Air Force One will fly to Grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ad ! dress an airport rally for Rep. Thomas Kleppe 111.1 , who is trying to unseat Sen. Quentin 1 Burdick ID.I . The next Monday stop will be Kansas City , Mo. , where Nixon will speak in behalf of Missouri Atty . Gen. John C. Danforth , who is running for the Senate against Sen. Stuart Symington D.. After spending the night , In Kansas City , Nixon will fly : to Johnson City , Tenn. , for . a Tuesday noon rally in behalf of Rep. Villiam Brock 1 , who is challenging Sen. Alllert Gore D.1 . The final stop of the two . day trip will be in Fort Wayne , Ind. , where Nixon in a late afternoon rally will urge the voters to support Rep. Richard Roudehush R. in his campaign against Sen. Vance Hartko D.. Nixon then will return ' to Washington . The costs of the campaign trip will be paid by the Republican National Committee , Ziegler said .                     