@@734182

txt Members of an expert committee of the National Academy of Sciences that has assessed the health effects of low-level radiation agreed today that the risks from manmade radiation were small , but they disagreed sharply over how small . the intense disagreement within the committee ? a disagreement that reflects the growing national debate over the risks of radiation ? came at a news conference at the academy when a new report was made public by the Committee on the Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiations , or BEIR . Dissenting members of the committee issued a statement objecting to some conclusions of the report , which in turn led the panel 's chairman , Dr. Edward P. Radford , to challenge the minority to a public debate over the merits of the document , called BEIR III . Risks Called Overblown Yet both Dr. Radford and the dissenters said they felt that the potential harm to the general population posed by manmade radiation , especially that stemming from nuclear power plants , had been overblown . " I do n't think that the alarm about radiation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epidemiologist at the University of Pittsburgh . " It is a risk , it is there , but it is not necessarily the end of the world by any means . " " People do to themselves , perhaps inadvertently or purposefully , things that will increase their risk of cancer much , much more than the effects of radiation would be , and I refer here to cigarette smoking , " he added . The Academy 's public debate over radiation dangers coincided with today 's announcement by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that at least 15 nuclear generating plants have problems with leaks from pipes that carry radioactive water . Page A18 . The numbers in the highly detailed and complicated 800-page Academy report , only part of which was released today , tend to indicate that one-half of 1 percent of the nation 's population will develop cancer from man-made sources of radiation at some time during their lifetime . While that percentage appears to be small , it translates to about one million cases of cancer among the 220 million Americans living today . Deformed Babies Cited Further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that manmade sources of radiation were responsible for about 6,000 of the 350,000 deformed babies born in the United States every year . Reproduced with Yet even these statistics were viewed as being far too high by at least five and perhaps as many as eight members of the 16 committee members who evaluated the health risks . Speaking for the dissenting group , Dr. Harald H. Rossi of Columbia University challenged the scientific basis on which the risk calculations were made . Further , the professor of radiology said that " the available data relating to cancer incidence . . . are either misleading or unreliable " fora variety of reasons . " We believe that , because of these failings , the BEIR III report will contribute to excessive and potentially detrimental apprehension over radiation hazards , " he said . His statement was drafted with the aid of Dr. Edward W. Webster of Massachusetts General Hospital , another member of the dissenting group who attended the news conference . As for risks from nuclear power plants , Dr. Rossi said he felt that their operators had " done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the public is incredibly overconcerned with radiation to the point of superstition . " The opposite view , which will be expressed by antinuclear protesters Sunday in what is being billed as a nationwide series of demonstrations ending in a massive rally and march here , is that any amount of radiation released from power plants is harmful , in part because it can be prevented and therefore is unnecessary . Both the BEIR III report and other documents dealing with radiation that have been made public lately have stressed that most radiation that causes cancer and birth defects stems from natural radioactivity in rock formations and the use of medical and dental X-rays . Other sources include nuclear test fallout and atomic power plant releases . Yet a second report of a National Academy of Sciences committee , one evaluating risks from power plants , has concluded that by the end of the century , 2,000 people will develop fatal cancers because of nuclear power generation . Most of these deaths , it was asserted , will be among uranium miners and workers in atomic fabricating and power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             