@@730473

txt Calling for the maintenance of a strong defense establishment , President Nixon urged Americans last night to " never send the President of the United States to the conference table with anybody as head of the second ? strongest nation in the world . " Challenging , by implication the contention of his Democratic opponent , Senator George , that the defense budget should be cut , Mr. Nixon told 1,500 Republican contributors that " the power of the United States is not a threat to the peace of the world but the guardian of the peace . " The President 's strong defense of his Administration 's policy highlighted his first campaign day in New York City , a day largely devoted to his courting of the ethnic vote here . Mixing government and poli // tics , the President ' coupled an official function  --  the dedication of the American Museum of Immigration in the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty  --  with two obviously political events , a meeting with 32 Jewish leaders and his speech at the $1,000-aplate Republican fund-raising dinner at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the country last night and today . In his speech to the G.O.P. contributors , Mr. Nixon also called for a substantial majority in the November election so he could carry out his domestic policies . " You can give us the opportunity to carry forward exciting new programs on the domestic front , " Mr. Nixon said , after recounting the problem of dealing with Congress without a majority mandate . The President won in 1968 with less than a majority because of the third-party candidacy of George Wallace of Alabama . Ronald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , said that the President had told the Jewish leaders in a 45-minute private meeting that he was working through diplomatic channels but would not engage in " harsh confrontations " with the Soviet Union over the plight of Soviet Jews who have been denied exit visas . Relaying the President 's view , Mr. Ziegler said that " the way to deal with this is not to engage in public confrontation or inject it into the political arena . " The press secretary added that the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it a matter of " extensive public debate " with either the Soviet Union or Presidential campaign rivals . Many of the Jewish leaders Mr. Nixon met with have already been publicly identified as his supporters . He also met in his suite in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel with leaders of Democrats for Nixon in New York , including former Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri and former Deputy Mayor Edward F. Cavanagh , and then met for cocktails with Governor Rockefeller and leaders of the New York Re-elect the President Committee . Even the museum visit had political overtones . The audience of 3,000 , which sat in a broiling sun for nearly two hours to hear the President , was composed largely of members of various ethnic groups , some in their native costume , and hundreds of Roman Catholic parochial and Jewish yeshiva schoolchildren . It was a sight rarely seen as the schoolchildren sat side by side in their uniforms and yarmulkes , All had been invited to the ' ceremony by the heritage division of the Republican National Committee and by the News York Committee to Re-elect the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the audience as were buses for some . A spokesman for the New York re-election committee said that he did not know how much the transportation had cost . The voles of first . and secand generation Americans could be a key factor in Mr. Nixon 's bid to win New York State for the first time in his Presidential campaign career . The ethnic groups , euphemistically identified as " heritage groups " by the G.O.P. , were once largely Democratic during the Franklin D. Roosevelt era , but they become increasingly conservative and Republican as their economic lot has improved . The President alluded to this fact in his brief talk praising the contribution of immigrants to the nation . " They did n't come here forl handouts ; they came for opportunity , and they built America , " he declared . Uninvited , but loudly present , were about a dozen antiwar activists who , just after the President began speaking , held up signs proclaiming " Stop the war " and " Nixon the dike bomber . " They also chanted " Stop the bombing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who stood in an aisle only about 10 yards away from him , but he had to halt his talk when his supporters began a chant : " Four more years . " It drowned out the protesters . Support Acknowledged Mr. Nixon , who seemed ill at ease , waited for the chant of his supporters to subside . Then , looking at the television cameras arrayed on a platform at the rear of the audience , he said , beckoning toward his supporters : " I suggest that on your TV screens tonight , in addition to the six of them , let 's show the thousands here . " Another half dozen protesters on the President 's right periorically interrupted his 10-minute speech until they were hustled away by National Park Service police just as the President concluded . Three protesters , two men and a woman , were briefly detained but not arrested , according to the police . About 300 protesters , largely members or the Youth Against War and Fascism and the National Peace Action Coalition , picketed on Seventh Avenue ' across the street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietcong flags and chanting slogans , also threw rocks and broke the window of a storefront Nixon campaign office on Madison Avenue near 53d Street . Three men and two women , all in their 20 's , were arrested on a variety of charges , including criminal mischief , harassment , resisting arrest and obstructing governmental administration . No injuries were reported . Affairs Raising Millions A full house of 1,500 Nixon supporters opened their wallets and turned out for the Americana dinner . The President 's talk was piped to 25 other dinners in cities across the country . Five other fund-raising events will be held today , including a luncheon in San Francisco and a dinner in Los Angeles . The President is scheduled to speak at both after spending the night here at the Waldorf-Astoria . C. Langhorne Washburn , deputy chairman of the Republican National Finance Committee , said that he expected the dinners to net at least $5-million for the Nixon campaign . About 10,000 people were expected to attend all the affairs The campaigning yesterday was likely to set the pattern for future appearances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no sidewalk campaigning but instead appearances at semigovernmental functions , fund-raising events and meetings with business and civic leaders . New York Republican party aides are trying to have the President appear at least twice more in the state ? at a rally in the Nassau Coliseum on Long Island and also upstate , possibly in Buffalo . He may also return to the city at least once more for an appearance that would be billed as nonpolitical but would help his re-election campaign . The President and Mrs. Nixon flew to Newark Airport yesterday afternoon from Andrews Air Force base , near Washing . ton . They boarded a helicopter immediately for a quick hop to Liberty Island . Following the museum dedication , the President went by helicopter to the Wall Street I Heliport and from there , by motorcade , to the Waldorf-Astoria.                     