@@728715

txt No compromise and no concessions on essentials . That 's the word from Bucharest as Romanians prepare to receive Soviet leaders for the signing of a new treaty next month . The pact is two years overdue ? with no explanation offered for the delay . It 's a fair assumption , though , that Moscow wanted the first draft , initialed last year , to be revised along lines similar to the tighter commitments just imposed on the Czechoslovaks . In the Soviet-Czech treaty there is a clause providing for joint action in case of attack from any source . And , in addition , the Soviets gained an entirely new point : Czech agreement to participate in mutual action to " protect socialism "  --  the euphemism used to justify Soviet intervention to halt Czech reforms . Romania rejects both concepts . For years it has insisted that before any question of joint military action arises , there must be consultation between the parties . It looks now as if Romania may have won this point . ( ) The Soviets yield Russia 's latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made during President Ceausescu 's trip to Moscow last month . Back home , the Romanian head of state scoffed at suggestions he had given away anything . Then , to show what " independence " means , he went off to France and sent a top aide to Peking . Shrewd observers believe Russia has decided to accept Romania 's " principles , " at least for the foreseeable future . Three reasons why : Communist China 's openly declared support for Romania  --  pressure Moscow can not ignore ; Moscow 's reluctance to court another intervention disaster in the Communist international movement : and Russia 's priority interest at this juncture  --  reaching an understanding with the United States in the Vienna SALT talks . 0 Why visit Bonn ? Experts believe Romanian Premier Ion Gheorghe Maurer has two purposes in mind in visiting Bonn this week . ? To seek new credits with which to buy more West German industrial exports to enable Romania to modernize its economy . As the only member of the Warsaw Pact ( except the Soviet Union ) to have established diplomatic relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But Bucharest 's economic planners continually bump up against the established credit ceiling because of Romania 's inability to sell enough goods on the West German market to offset its imports from Bonn . . ? To discuss Chancellor Willy Brandt 's vaunted Ostpolitik , to see how the planned Brandt rapprochement with East Europe fits into the Communist bloc 's desire for a European security conference . Premier Maurer is the highest-ranking Communist official ever to visit West Germany ? except for East German Premier Willi Stoph . Hence , his presence itself is significant . 0 A ! origin ' dream fades The Czech party purge grinds on . For the second time now , the purgers  --  the commissions which rule on party members ' " reliability " ? are themselves being purged for not being tough enough . Party hard liners complain that the commissions still have n't touched what they call " notorious hotbeds of reform , " including some 400 of the old militant factory committees . Still , so rigorous is the tightening-up process that it looks now as if the Czech party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invasion , will be stripped to little more than 500,000 members . And the ultimate disappearance of the last creative and academic groups that made Czech intellectual life outstanding two years ago now seems inevitable . Unions of journalists and other media already are defunct . The writers and the Czech Historical Institute are fighting a losing battle . And yet another " cleansing " of the Academy of Sciences is promised .                     