@@729237

txt The Justice Department filed two suits in- Federal District Court in Hammond yesterday against United States Steel Corp . and E. L du Pont de Nemours &; Co. accusing the two industrial giants of violating , the 1899 Refuse Act by polluting the waters of the Grand Calumet River . The suits ask for court orders permanently enjoining U. S. Steel 's Gary plant and du Pont 's East Chicago works from permitting or causing a discharge or deposit of any refuse into the waters of Northwestern Indiana . ' U. S. Lists Charges In addition , the suits ask the court to direct the firms to take action to eliminate hazards created by previous discharges . According to John Flynn , assistant United States attorney in Hammond , U. S. Steel is charged with discharging a variety of industrial wastes , including cyanides , from its Gary plant into the Grand Calumet River and eventually into . Lake Michigan . Other wastes discharged into the river include iron , oil , phenols , ammonia nitrogen and solids , according to the suit . Du Pont was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the Grand Calumet River from its East Chicago plant . Da Pont Replies In a statement released from its home office in Wilmington , Del. , du Pont said it already has invested more than $1 million at the East Chicago plant to reduce discharges and added that the firm " expects to make whatever additional investment is required to be in full compliance . " " Du Pont has had a major environmental control program under way at East Chicago , " the statement said . " We have been engaged in continuing discussions with the Indiana State Board of Health in connection with our current water quality program which is expected to place us in full compliance with the state and federal standards . " Du Pont claimed it has re ; duced chloride discharge substantially and has completed basic engineering planning on a number of other facilities , protective equipment-and mitamatic monitoring devices . Called Health Hazard Flynn said that U. S. Steel 's Gary Works has been dumping more than 3,500 pounds of cyanide a day into the Grand Calumet River . The kind of waste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indiana Stream Pollution Control Board and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency 's water quality office in Chicago , he said . Both suits said the discharges constitute " a hazard to all living organisms and to human health . " Last March 18 , U. S. Steel 's South Works , 3246 E. 89th St. , and a superintendent at the plant were indicted by a federal grand jury for polluting Lake Michigan in violation of the 1899 law by discharging blast furnace wastes into the lake Sept. 26 thru 30 , 1969 . That matter is still pending . More recently , U. S. Steel agreed to a Jan. 18 court order to eliminate all discharges of pollutants into Lake Michigan from its South Works by Oct. 31 , 1975 . The order , which set four deadlines ' for eliminating various portions of the pollution thru closed or recycling systems within the plant , was worked out by Judge Walter P. Dahl in Cook County Circuit Court .                     