@@734022

txt Prime Minister Shahpur Bakhtiar made new overtures to Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini today . The Islamic leader , however , issued a statement for mullahs to'read throughout the nation calling on the people to " destroy the terrible monarchy and its illegal Government . " ? At a news conference Saturday morning , The Associated Press reported , the Ayatollah said that the Bakhtiar Government must resign or " we will invite and ask for a holy war , " and declared : " We are going to choose a revolutionary council and the chairman of the revolutionary council will appoint a provisional government . I will announce a provisional government very soon . " United Press International quoted the Ayatollah as saying a new constitution for an Islamic republic was " already prepared . ' Dr. Bakhtiar , who has insisted that he will not permit " the reins of the country to be held by anyone but the central Government , " offered to accept Khomeini supporters into what he described as a government of " national unity . " The Prime Minister made the remarks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cheer the Ayatollah As the Ayatollah observed his first Moslem day of worship and rest in Iran since 1964 , thousands of followers crowded into alleys near his residence to cheer him . The Islamic leader flew here yesterday from France , where he spent the last months of his 15 years in exile . The latest Bakhtiar offer to Ayatollah Khomeini followed persistent reports in diplomatic quarters of indirect contacts between the rivals for power . The Ayatollah 's statement through the mullahs rejected as " an absolute lie " the reports that he had been in contact with the Prime Minister and had reached an agreement with him . In the radio interview , Dr. Bakhtiar , who has repeatedly refused the Ayatollah 's demands that he resign , renewed his offer to meet with the 78-year-old Moslem leader . An associate of the Ayatollah reiterated the demand that Dr. Bakhtiar first resign and said , according to The Associated Press , that no Khomeini followers would join the present " illegal " Government . Yesterday , the Ayatollah threatened to give the shaky Government of Dr. Bakhtiar " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in no burry to announce the formation of an Islamic revolutionary council , which would amount to a rival government . Quartered in hack streets of Teheran 's Beharestan neighborhood , not far from the site of the Parliament whose makeup he has denounced as illegal , the Ayatollah stirred roars from a crowd when he appeared fleetingly at a window of a school building where he received advisers , visitors and religious figures . Among his visitors was Dr. Karim Sanjabi , leader of the opposition National Front . In a makeshift sprawling headquarters consisting of the Refs and Aihavi schools , connected by alleys , a highly placed member of the Ayatollah 's entourage said the strategists of the movement , which drove Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi out of the country , now hoped to undermine the legal basis of the Government , which the Shah had appointed . " Ile is going to wait for the members of Parliament and the Regency Council to resign , " said the aide . " Yesterday , 40 more members of Parliament resigned , and if half of it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least 32 deputies in the Shah 's 200-member legislature have publicly announced their resignations , as has one of the nine members of the Regency Council , to which the Shah turned over his powers on leaving for what he described as his vacation abroad . The Ayatollah 's statement today was in line with his uncompromising stand in moving toward the establishment of what he has described as an Islamic republic , in which he and other religious leaders would play important roles . Khomeini Returns to a New Iran In political circles , there was considerable speculation about how the Ayatollah might be affected by his return to Iran , which has changed radically since he was banished . " The only interesting story , " commented an Iranian civil servant , " is what Khomeini said to the other Ayatollahs , and what they said to him , after meeting face-to-face for the first time in 15 years . " Ayatollah Khomeini is a towering figure and has been hailed as " Imam , " a term of great reverence . But Iran has at least six other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known to be more moderate than Ayatollah Khomeini . At the time of the adoption of Iran 's Constitution , in 1906 , the Moslem Shiites split between those who accepted the new secular larder and those who opposed it .                     