@@730435

txt The 59 Chicago challengers who ousted the Daley delegation from the Democratic National Convention in July yesterday were ordered to stand trial for contempt of court by Circuit Court Judge Daniel A. Covelli . Covelli made the ruling before a packed Civic Center courtroom that for a time included Mayor Daley himself . All of the delegates from both sides had been ordered to appear for the session , but Daley and several others were excused by Covelli a few minutes after the court was called to order . Covelli set Nov. 20 for trial and yarned that there would be no further delays until the case is completed . Must Show Cause The ruling means that the challengers must show cause why they should not be held in contempt of court for failing to obey Covelli 's July 3 injunction forbidding the challengers from taking their seats at the convention in Miami Beach . Attorneys for the challengers , led by AId . William Singer 43d and the Rev. Jesse Jackson , head of Operation PUSH- , said at the time that they considered the Covelli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take their seats at the convention . In addition to Singer , two other Chicago aldermen face contempt charges as a result of yesterday 's ruling . They are AId . William Cousins 9th and Ald. Anna Langford 16thl , b oth independent Democrats and Singer delegates . Called Kangaroo Court " The kangaroo court is adjourned , " Mrs. Langford said to Singer moments after the Covelli ruling . Singer was not as harsh in his comments . " It was expected , " Singer said . " We expected such a ruling on the basis of his Covelli 's prior comments . " Covelli had said that while the hearings in the case are in a civil court , " As far as I 'm concerned what 's before me could be interpreted as a criminal contempt . " The arguments by both sides yesterday were similar to those they have used in the long series of federal and county court battles that have followed the March 21 Illinois primary . Jurisdiction Challenged Attorneys Andrew J. Leahy and Robert Tucker , representing the Singer challengers , urged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jurisdiction over disputes within a political party . Leahy argued that for the court to become involved in a party dispute would mean " the opening of a Pandora 's Box with the factionalism being driven in deeper and deeper . " He said the " grave conse-1 consequences " of court interference ' in a political party dispute " deprives the Democratic and the Republican Parties of their right to effectively adopt rules affecting selection of delegates and the right to enforce those rules . " Jerome Torshen , on e of three attorneys representing the Daley delegates , said the only issue the court should consider is whether the defendants " are in contempt of an order issued by this court on July 8 . " " It took us a long time to get to this forum which many courts have recognized as the proper forum for this question , " said Torshen , who recalled the long history of the case originally filed by Ald. Paul T. Wigoda 49th . Describing the " twin pillars " of the United States Constitution and democracy as " the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Torshen told the court : " The defendants , not content to ignore the first , also defied the second . " Rules Called Invalid The Daley delegates have contended that since they were elected in the March 21 primary the party rules that were used to oust them are invalid . The challengers successfully argued before the entire convention that the Daley delegation violated party reform guidelines which said state delegations must reflect their districts on the basis of age , race , and sex . Leahy argued in rebuttal to Torshen that " this is not a voting rights case . It 's a First Amendment case . It 's a question of whether or not the Democratic Party can adopt its own rules and enforce those rules . " Daley Is Excused Daley entered the courtroom thru a rear door only moments before Covelli took the bench and a few minutes later approached the bench on a request by Tors he n . Torshen asked the court to excuse Daley from sitting thru the entire proceeding because of the press of city business . Covelli prompted a ripple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have very much to do , do you as mayor of the City of Chicago ? " Then Covelli added : " Thank you very much Mr. Mayor for coming . You 've set a very fine example for the other citizens by obeying a court order . "                     