@@730651

txt FORMER GOV . Otto Kerner yesterday accused two special agents of the Internal Revenue Service of lying when they testified under oath about their initial interview with him on July 15 , ' 1970 . Kerner 's face was flushed with anger . He sometimes pounded the witness stand as he talked . He said special agents Oliver P. Stufflebeam and Robert Campbell not only lied when they testified as to what he said that day , but they also lied when they said each of them individually made notes of the interview . KERNER , A FORMER cavalry man who rose to the rank of a two-star general , charged into the government 's indictment as he spent the second day on the witness stand before Federal Judge Robert L. Taylor and a jury in Federal District Court . Kerner and Theodore Isaacs , former state revenue director , are accused of conspiracy , bribery , and income tax evasion , and Kerner is charged with perjury before a grand jury and making false state ' ments about his ownership of race track stock . Kerner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a memorandum Stufflebeam and Campbell jointly dictated after the interview . Both testified the memorandum was based on notes they took which they destroyed after the interview . " NEITHER OF the agents took any notes , " Kerner said . " Not one note was taken . If either of them had started taking notes , I would have picked up a piece of paper and I would have started taking notes . " The only piece of paper either of the two men held in their hands during the interview was the letter Stufflebeam showed me which informed me I was the subject of a criminal investigation . He did not make a single note . I was facing both men during the entire interview . " In the memorandum , the agents said Kerner emphatically denied that stocks listed on his income tax returns as " Chicago Corn " was actually race track stock in the Chicago Harness Racing Association . KERNER SAID the agents never once mentioned Chicago Harness to him , either on July 15 or Sept. 24 , 1970 , when he called them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in subpenaing records I had already given them in my desire to cooperate with them . " If they had mentioned Chicago Harness just once my memory would have been refreshed and . there would n't have been a false statement count against me , " he said . Kerner said certain portions of the memorandum were true but as for other portions , the account was untrue . At one point , he said , " I never made that statement , I never made that statement , never , ever . " WHEN CONNOLLY asked Kerner if the agents quoted him correctly when they said he told them he never used a nominee for stock holdings , Kerner exploded again . " No , that is not correct . I did not make that statement . I did say there were shares of stock in racing . I did not say that I never used nominees . That 's absurd . I 've used nominees for years . " Kerner , now a U. S. Court of Appeals judge , was asked about his response to another question by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not show the manner in which the question was asked . One of the agents directly accused me of improper conduct and I got a little irritated . " Kerner said that when a government attorney told him they might bring a false statement charge based on the Sept. 24 interview , he told them : " I 'm not concerned . It 's not like July 15 . I have a witness to the Sept. 24 interview . When the government asked me who it was , I said , ' That 's none of your business . ' " Before Kerner resumed his testimony , the defense put two more judge s , a television sports commentator , a clergyman , a Republican , and a nationally prominent black leader on the stand as character witnesses . Chief Judge Luther M. Swygert of the U. S. Court of Appeals was followed by Judge Roger Kiley , a member of the same court . Others who testified favorably as to Kerner 's excellent reputation for truth , veracity , honesty , and integrity warc . ? Jack Brickhouse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Continental Broadcasting Co . ? Dr. Richard Graebel , pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Springfield of which Kerner was an active member . ? James C. Worthy , former Illinois Republican fund raiser and former assistant secretary of commerce in the Eisenhower administration , who is now a professor at Sangamon State University in Springfield . ? Roy Wilkins , executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , who said he got to know Kerner intimately during 1967 and 1968 when both were key members of the national advisory commission on civil disorders , commonly called the Kerner Commission . DURING THE afternoon sessum , Kerner was led thru a series of hard-to-answer questions relating to his motives in purchasing racetrack stock and whether he received the stock in return for favorably acting on bills in the legislature favored by racetrack interests . Connolly obviously wanted to take the sting out of these questions so the jury would be hearing the same questions the second time when the government begins its cross-examination next week . The line of questioning and Kerner 's answers made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ odds . Kerner placed responsibility for his racetrack dealings and the preparation of his contested income tax return squarely on the shoulders of Isaac s . " I talked to Ted , see Ted , " Kerner said repeatedly in answering questions . Isaacs ' attorney has indicated Isaacs may not take the stand .                     