@@729789

txt The typical building tradesman shows up to work at 0:30 a. m. , half an hour late . By 9 he 's ready to decide " what he wants to do , " and at 10 he knocks off for a coffee break . At 11 it 's time for a beer . Then there 's lunch . On a typical day he puts in three hours ' work . That description , probably exaggerated for effect , does n't come from any antiunion contractor . Instead they are the words of J. Thomas Schranck , president of the AFL-CIO Building and Construction Trades Council of Delaware . " And you can quote me , " he tells a newsman , insisting he tells his Delaware tradesmen the same things . " They cheer and applaud and say Tight on ' , " lie said , but they still are n't working as hard as they should . " Reflect the Attitude Schranck is outspoken , but his words reflect the attitude of many construction union leaders meeting here in convention last week . Others are n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own constituencies but they , too , complain about lack of productivity in the trade , and they say they are beginning to do something about it . The complaints of building tradesmen taking unauthorized coffee breaks , starting and quitting early , restricting the use of new equipment , and even doing sloppy work are old complaints . The trades ' leaders point to a long period of building boom and also blame the contractors themselves for abdicating their management responsibilities in trying to explain the trouble . And the growth of nonunion construetion and slowdown in the industry are forcing the trades ' leaders to begin pressuring themselves for more productivity . " We must tighten our own operations and increase productivity so the union contractor ' will have a better chance to Compete in the marketplace with the nonunion contractor , " Frank Bonadio , president of the - AFL- CIO 's Building and Construction Trades Department , told the construction union leaders at the convention here . Wage Rates nigh Construction wage rates have climbed well above the gains made by other workers and beyond any known productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , construction pay increases averaged 21 per cent a year while manufacturing workers won 7 per cent . The convention delegates even listened to and applauded just politely , to be sure  --  John Healy , president of a major contractors ' association , who told them the pay raise. ; were out of line and productivity was n't moving up . The Empire Fitate Building , he told the union men , was begun early in 1930 and the building dedicated and occupied May 1 , 1931 . " One year and 95 days ' work , including Sundays and holidays . My guess for this proj. ect today would be a minimum of three years , " he said . Construction trades ' leaders say they are acting to step up productivity and beginning to get some results . A new system to handle jurisdictional disputes between unions has cut down these types of strikes . A new set of work rules , accepted by the trades leaders , with the National Constructors Association representing major commercial builders ? states , for example , that " workmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time and shall remain at their place of work until the quitting time . " The new rules say production is n't to be limited by unions nor should there be " restrictions on the full use of tools and equipment , " and that " featherbedding practices will not be tolerated . " Sign of Concern They also state that if a local union does n't furnish qualified workmen within 98 hours  --  and withholding workers could be a way to bring a contractor to his knees ? " the contractor shall be free to obtain workmen from any source . " How well these new rules are working Is debatable . Some union men say they are beginning to take effect while others say they still are ignorcd . But tile willingness of the union to agree to them , and to send officers to argue with locals to accept the new rules , is a sign of concern about productivity .                     