@@730138

txt The Assembly gave final passage today to a bill deoigned to kill the controversial Forest Hills lowincome housing project . The bill , passed by a vote of 101 to 35 , provides that where projects planned by a housing authority have not progressed beyond the foundation stage within five years of the approval by the local legislative body they would have to be resubmitted for review and further determination , as to their approval or disapproval . The bill takes effect immediately . ' However , it provides that it is deemed to have been in effect since Sept. 1 , 1971 . The Forest Hills project was approved in the latter part of 1966 , putting it within the fiveyear provision of the bill . ? If the Forest Hills issue comes before the Board of Estimate the board is expected to vote it down and kill the plan for three 24-story buildings on the site in the middle-class community . In other action , the Senate voted to amend the State Con- , stitution to permit the legalization of new forms of gambling that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly , where the sponsors are hopeful of passage . In another action , the Assembly Codes Committee released a bill to repeal the state 's liberalized abortion law , even though Governor Rockefeller has said he would veto it . ( Details on Page 18 . ) , The housing bill now goes to the Governor , who has not indicated what action he will take . However , during a news conference in March he noted that he was against scatter-site housing , which places lowincome projects in the heart of middle income areas . The Governor said that he favored rehabilitating deteriorating communities to provide areas where integrated living could be accomplished . " I think myself for the long pull that you would avoid exactly the kind of conflict which exists now , " the Governor said at that time . " The community is faced with a very unfortunate , intense situation and I ca n't believe this is going // to be in the interests of that community or in the interest of the larger community . " The Lindsay administration opposed the measure on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction contractors and with the Federal Government . In a memorandum opposing the bill , the city noted that the normal process of financing low-income housing would be reversed if the bill became law , Would Force Many Reviews While sponsors of the measure couched their debate in terms of saving the taxpayers money by forcing the City Housing Authority to move more quickly on projects , the net effect of the bill would be to force Board of Estimate review of a number of projects on the drawing boards . During the debate , which lasted more than an hour , opponents of the bill argued that review of plans by the board would cause a year-long delay in many projects . " More than 9,000 units of housing in my community will be interfered with , " noted Assemblyman Albert H. Blumenthal , whose district encompasses the West Side urban renewal area . " This is one more copycat conservative sham that tells the people they can control what is happening in their community . " Proponents of the measure said that costs for constructing low-income projects were skyrocketing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John T. Gallagher , Republican of Queens , the sponsor of the bill , said that the plans for the Forest Hills project had been changed three times without having been reviewed . He said that the Board of Estimate should have the opportunity to review them and determine if the people in the area wanted the project . Other proponents of the bill argued that situation and the community had changed since the plans were first adopted and that many of the personalities who had made the original decisions were no longer in the same positions . Other actions here included the following : TAX BREAK FOR STEEL The Senate voted final approval of a bill that would aid the Bethlehem Steel Corporation in Lackawanna by reducing its local real estate taxes by about 24 per cent . The measure , sent to the Governor , passed over objections that other troubled corporations would seek similar tax breaks , and that the City of Lackawanna would have to put more of a burden on homeowners , The corporation pays the largest share of the real estate revenues collected by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final approval to a bill sought by the Governor that would permit former convicts to work in stores seining liquor for offpremise consumption . Critics said it was not as beneficial as a broader bill , passed earlier this session , that would permit jobs in restaurants as well , ADJOURNMENT Both houses approved a resolution setting 2 P.M. Friday as the adjournment , date of the Legislature . Shortly before the designated time the clocks in both chambers will he stopped and the legislators will continue to debate any items still on the calendars . Democrats in the Assembly argued against adjournment , charging that many important pieces of legislation must still be acted upon . EMPLOYES AT MENTAL HOSPITALS The Assembly approved and sent to the Senate a bill requiring that the number , ' of nurses and ward attendants at state mental hospitals not be reduced below the number allotted to the institutions at the end of the fiscal year . Proponents of the measure said they ' wanted to assure full staffing even if budgets for mental institutions were cut . There were layoffs last year following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval to a bill putting off until 1974 a regulation of the Public Health Council requiring that water obtained from a ground source be disinfected by chlorination.                     