@@730500

txt The minority Republican member of the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners yesterday charged that the office is privately owned by the Democratic party and lashed out at board officials who disavowed responsibility for election fraud . Marie H. Suthers , testifying before the House subcommittee on elections , made her first public statement since Tribune Task Force disclosures of voting irregularities . She said , " It is our responsibility to keep our own house in order , " and that the board routinely should review ballot applications after each election . Kusper Defends Board Her statements sharply differed from earlier testimony by Stanley T. Kusper Jr. , board chairman , who with Democratic commissioner Francis P. Canary , controls the board . Kusper , as in the past , said also rebutted Kusper 's testimony , saying that his figures show there should be only 260 Republican election ' judge vacancies for the Nov. 7 election . Kusper said that , to date , there are 1,100 G. 0 . P. and 300 Democratic vacancies . Mrs. Suthers told the bipartisan committee that she is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority board member that " I feel I am an authority on the arra // in his testimony that the board has no authority and therefore can not ferret out forgeries and other election irregularities . Edmund J. Kucharski , chairman of the Cook County Republican Central Committee , gance of power in a public office privately owned by one pnlifirai power for almost 50 years . " The office has two Republican and 200 Democrat patronage employees . She charged that employees must check first with Kasper before they are allowed to give her information and material she is entitled to have . Kusper was overheard while calling Mrs. Suthers a liar in whispers in the back of the bearing room several times during her testimony . Tells Gratitude She briefly referred to The Tribune series documenting more than a thousand voting irregularities during the March primary found in board records by undercover reporter William Mullen . Kusper frequently referred to Mullen as the " Tribune spy " during his testimony . Mrs. Sabers said she was " very grateful to outside agencies who have done our job for us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suthers have found and corrected ourselves . " She said that statements denying board responsibility are unconvincing to the public and that " pleas of no personnel and no funds are thin excuses when money and people can be found for things less Important than this . " Kusper bad repeatedly stated that his office tacked enough personnel and investigative staff to initiate such investigations . She said her requests for a larger and trained investigative department has " fallen on deaf ears . " Denies Fraud Charges Kusper denied charges of widespread vote fraud while Mrs. Suthers said " no one in this room is naive enough not to know what finagling has been going on for a long time in too many precincts . " Kusper said it would be " foolhardly " to deny that some " miniscule " irregularities occur . He refused to comment on the forgeries found in board files by reporter Mullen but said it was " irrefutable that blank ballots were returned with valid ones by election judges . This does not imply wrongdoing , he said , after frequently characterizing himself as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand jury has already returned 40 indictments as a result of blank ballots dug up in the board offices by Mullen which were allgededly used to rack up votes . Kusper said The Tribune was " in major part correct " that Democrats served as Republican election judges but attributed it to a Republican party failure to submit enough election judge candidates . The hearing was punctuated thruout the day with partisan political squabbles among committee members that began with Kusper 's opening charge that the vote fraud probe was motivated by partisan politics . Kusper accused House Speaker Rep. Robert W. Blair ER. , Park Forest and subcommittee chairman Rep. Phillip W. Collins ER. , Calumet City of making distorted and misleading statements about vote fraud . As he testified various Democratic members leaped to his defense and Republicans rebuked him for telling " halftruths . At one point Kusper warned Rep. Collins , " do n't bait me . I 've been baited by experts . "                     