@@729881

txt As Sen. Edmund S. Muskie officially plunges into the presidential race he provides clear evidence that his major cam ? paign themes will be the Vietnam war , crime in the streets , and unemployment . In a prepared speech due to be delivered on national TV the night of Jan. 4 , the Maine Senator cited a number of the nation 's needs , as he saw themnealth care , poverty , unfair taxes , poor schools , decaying cities among them ? and com ? merited in each instance , " It is not good enough " Thus , Mr. Muskie , the frontrunner in a contest where many primaries and possible pitfalls he ahead , obviously is going to lean heavily on a variation of the Kennedy " we-must-do-better " slogan as he seeks to gain the presidential nomination The speech was pitched to a high level with Mr Muskie seeking to evoke hope among his listeners in the future of the United States At the outset he said " I believe America can once again be a nation of moral leadership and high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after citing the nation 's ills , he said " We can do something about these problems There is not a single problem we do not have the resources to solve if we bury our fear and quiet cur doubts and renew our search for the common good " Of his quest for the presidency he said : " In this effort , the president must lead A president must find and touch the common chords of our experience challenge us to respond to our best instincts to realize America 's ancient dream ? that somewhere on this planet there can be full justice for every member of a society ' ' He said " I am seeking the presidency not merely to change presidents , but to change the country I intend to lead ? to ask you to make America what it was to Abraham Lincoln ? " the last best hope of mankind . " I intend to ask you to try ? and to be willing to try again if we fail . And I intend to ask everyone of you to pay a fair share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , was an echo of the Kennedy approach of 1960 ? asking the American people to make their contribution . too A declaration-of-candidacy speech is not , by tradition , wholly one that tries to shoot holes in an adversary It seeks to set a tone , to underscore the idealistic thinking that will underlie the campaign In this vein , there were Muskie words like these " That challenge , " he said , speaking of the need to change the country , " 1 , , great ? but we can meet it " We can bring freedom within the reach of every American the freedom to escape pov erty , deprivation , discrimination , and disease .                     