@@729782

txt Millions of Americans can now guess pretty well what their next pay raise will be . It will be the 5.5 percent yardstick set Monday by the 15-man Pay Board appointed Oct. 22 by President Nixon . In setting this general guideline for wage increases in the postfreeze period starting Sunday , public and management representatives had to override the vote of the five labor members . Despite their objections to the new guidelines , labor leaders indicated they will continue to serve on the board ? at least for  - -  the  --  timeheing . A labor spokesman indicated the AFL-CIO executive council will consider the question when it meets in Miami Nov. ' - 17 . However , there is some sus- picion among officials here that the labor ? leaders may be grandstanding for the benefit of their constituents . Within the Pay Board , union executives fought long to obtain generous guidelines for their members . But to leave the Pay Board at this stage would probably deal a blow to labor 's public image . The guidelines set up by the Pay Board provide considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new guidelines are administered with reasonable firmness , they likely are adequate to bring inflation down to the 2 to 3 percent by the end of 1972 , the goal of President Nixon 's stabilization program . The Pay Board 's action put some flesh on the skeleton Phase 2 program announced by Mr. Nixon on Nov. 2 the committee regulating dividends and interest established a guideline of 4 percent for dividend increases following the 90-day freeze on wages and prices which ends at midnight Saturday . Later this week the seven-man Price Commission is expected to establish its guidelines for acceptable price increases . - Also the Cost of Living Council ( CLC ) , which has overall responsibility for the stabilization program , is expected to define the three categories of reporting requirements for corporations and unions . // *Pay Board guidelines likely to stick despite labor protest // Also the Cost of Living Council ( CLC ) , which has overall responsibility for the stabilization program , is expected to define the three categories of reporting requirements for corporations and unions . The guidelines of the Pay Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not specifically exempted . But large firms and unions ( possibly those with 5,000 or ? more-employees-involveri in a contract ) will have to notify the two bodies in advance of wage and price hikes . ? Public impact  --  awaited --  -- A second category ( perhaps those wan 1,000 to 5,000 workers ) will advise the two boards at the time of their action . And a third group ( probably firms with fewer than 1,000 workers ) will not be required to file notification but will be subject to spot checks and surveillance as to their compliance with the rules . Administration economists will be watching closely to see if the Pay Board 's decisions have a positive impact on public confidence in the President 's economic . program . A rise in stock prices would be welcome . It would pump up the wealth of many people and encourage extra spending . The Pay Board 's guidelines were carefully constructed to avoid attempting the impossible in wage restraint . As some anticipated in advance , they generally disallow all wage hikes retroactive into the freeze period . But the board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since most people 's wages were frozen during the 90 days , many would consider it unfair to allow retroactivity . One important exception will enable some teachers whose contracts started at a higher scale in September to obtain their wage hikes retroactively . Workers involved Altogether , retroactive raises affected by the decision involved an estimated 1.2 mil- lion people with average increases of about 5.8 percent . Last week the House ' Banking Committee narrowly voted to permit all wage increases agreed to in contracts written before Aug. 15 to go into effect unless they are " grossly disproportionate " to other settlements . Administration sources express confidence , however , that this amendment to the Economic Stablilization Act of 1970 ? the law authorizing the President 's economic ? program ? will ? hekiUed gnmpwhpre in the congressional process . As a last resort , the President could veto the whole measure . Another prov , ision of the guideline permits " deferred " pay increases ? hikes-scheduled - under existing contracts ? to take place unless " challenged . " Only " interested parties , " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pay Board can make such challenges . This means that certain important pay hikes , such as those scheduled for some 450,000 auto workers in November , will be permitted even though the terms , including cost of living , will exceed the 5.5 percent guideline . In the:auto workers case , it is improbable that management will want to upset their contract won at such cost ' last year . Nor is it considered likely that the public members of the Pay Board will want to challenge such a politically powerful union . Deferred raises involve 5.8 million employees of private companies . who are under contracts covering 1,000 workers or more . It seems almost certain that some of the higher increases will be challenged .                     