@@728512

txt Lieut . Col. Donald J. Crowley , a United States Air Force attach ? kidnapped by left-wing extremists , was released today in exchange for 20 Dominican- political prisoners who were flown to Mexico . Colonel Crowley was freed blindfolded from an automobile this afternoon near a Jesuit seminary in an upper-class residential neighborhood . An hour and a half before his release , 20 prisoners , some of whom had been in jail for more than 18 months for opposition activities , were placed aboard a jet airliner under the guard of more than 300 policemen and soldiers at the Americas International Airport . While the airliner waited on tha runway for word of Colonel Crowley , a Jesuit priest , the Rev. Jose Arnaiz , rector of the seminary , made contact with the kidnappers to assure them the prisoners would be allowed to leave tinder protection of the Mexican Embassy a : - ; soon as the American officer appeared . The Dominican Government authorized tha airliner , which came here under charter to the United States Government from Miami , to leave with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Hugo Polancg Brito , as art escort 20 minutes after Colonel Crowley was taken to National Police Headquarters by a traffic policemen . After sipping a cola drink with the National Police Chief , Gen. Rafael Guillermo Guzman Acosta , and conferring with United States embassy officials , Colonel Crowley went to the residence of the Mexican Ambassador , Francisco Garcia . " My thanks , " Colonel Crowley said , as Ile embraced the Mexican diplomat . Colonel Crowley , 48 years old , a small wiry officer with reddish hair , looked tired and had two days ' growth of heard , but he was unharmed. lie still wore the riding boots , khaki pants and white jersey he had on early Tuesday morning when he went to a polo field to exercise some ponies and was seized at gunpoint by five armed men wearing military uniforms . The kidnappers identified their groun as the " Unified Anti-reelection Command . " a designation indicating their  --  opposition to the plans of President Joaquin Balaguer to seek a second term in the elections of May 16 . ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government did not set free 20 political prisoners , among whom the best known was Maximiliano Gomez . a 25-year-old who fought in the civil war here in 1965 and who is secretary general of the Dominican Popular Movement . a pro-Cuban revolutionary group . Guard for Each Prisoner The prisoners were taken to the Mexican Embassy offices at 2 P.M. under extraordinary police guard . Each of the men , nearly all apparently in their early twenties , was accompanied by an armed guard . Four truckloads of police men armed with submachine guns cordoned off the embassy building . In recent months , members of the Dominican Popular Movement have been arrested frequently and in several cases have been killed by the Dominican police . President Balaguer announced last night that he intended to run for a second term despite the opposition to his plans , which has split his Reformist party and produced a convention decision by the Dominican Revolutionary party , the major opposition party , to abstain because of violence against political opponents of the Government . Colonel Crowley has been United States military attache @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily to work with the officers of the San Isidro Air Base outside this capital , which was a key unit in the civil war in 1965 that brought United States military intervention . Troops Sent by Johnson President Lyndon B. Johnson sent more than 20,000 Army and Marine troops here to protect United States lives and property , but also to put down what appeared to he a successful uprising by military and civilian groups of leftist tendencies that had defeated troops of the San Isidro Air Base and the army . Many members of the Dominican Popular Movement fought with the insurgents in 1965 . They represented only a small group , however , with in the Constitutionalist group that basically was formed by the Dominican Revolutionary party , supporters of former President Juan Bosch . Mr. Bosch , constitutionally elected in early 1963 , was overthrown by a right-wing military revolt in September of that year . Prisoners Reach Mexico MEXICO CITY , March 26 ( Reuters ) ? The 20 Dominicans released in exchange for Colosiel crowlev arrived here today 1.1 , , n , Sall ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             