@@729982

txt Capital punishment was declared unconstitutional today in the State of California . In a historic 6-to-1 vote , the state 's Supreme Court ruled the death penalty illegal , saying that it constituted cruel and unusual punishment . Among those spared by the ruling are Sirhan B. Sirhan , the convicted assassin of Senator Robert F. Kennedy ; John Linley Frazier , convicted mass murderer , and Charles M. Manson , the hippie cult leader . The court ordered that In all cases where the death penalty had been imposed but not carried out the punishment be changed to life imprisonment . 107 Under Sentence In all , 107 persons are under sentence of death in the state ? 102 men at San Quentin Prison and five women at the women 's prison at Frontera in southern California . The death penalty " degrades and dehumanizes all who participate in its processes , ' the court said . " It is unnecessary to any legitimate goal of the state and is incompatible with the dignity of man and the judicial process . " Today 's decision was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus removes any chance for appeal . The ruling was made in the case of Robert Page Anderson , who had been convicted of murder , attempted murder and first-degree robbery , Question Defined The landmark decision We ? prets a section of the Call , fornia Constitution that prohibits " cruel or unusual " punishment and refrains from considering the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution , which prohibits " cruel and unusual " punishment . The question , the court said , is whether the death penalty when judge d ' by contemporary , standards is cruel or has become an unusual punishment . The court found it to be both . The lone dissenter , Justice Marshall F. McComb , said that he believed the death penalty was a deterrent to crime , and that swift justice , including execution , would help to deter ' the rising crime rate . In the majority opinion , writ . ten by Chief Justice Donald R. Wright , the court said : " Our conclusion that the death penalty may no longer he exacted in California consistently with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not grounded in sympathy for those who would commit crimes of violence but in concern for the society that diminishes itself whenever it takes // the life of one of its members . " Today 's ruling was based on a suit filed by the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund , Inc. , and the American Civil Liberties Union . It touched off a sharp controversy across the state . Gov . Ronald Reagan who said that he was deeply disappointed , led the criticism . Attorney Hails Ruling " It 's a case of the courts setting themselves up above the people and the Legislature , " the ' , Governor said . Anthony G. Amsterdam , a professor of Taw at Stanford University and the attorney who argued the case before the court here early last January , hailed the decision . " It is very heartening , " he said , " that in this day when the rhetoric of violence and the rhetoric of law and order are abused on all sides that the California Supreme Court should have had the courage to see its obligation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilized society by putting an end to capital punishment , which epitbmizes man 's inhumanity to man . " Mr. Amsterdam also argued against capital punishment before the Supreme Court of the United States last month . There has not been an execution in the United States for more than four years . And just last month , the New Jersey State Supreme Court also struck down the death penalty . Across the country , some 690 men and women at various prisons are under death sentence . But today 's ruling affects only those in California . In the last 79 years , California has executed 502 persons , 30B by hanging and 194 by gas . Four were women . Ten state legislatures have struck down capital punish . ment . In one of them , West Virginia , the upper house of the reinstate it .                     