@@732286

txt The 24-year-oldeld son of the United States ambassador to Mexico was arrested in Britain and charged with possession of 2.75 pounds of cocaine , The Tribune learned Tuesday . John Thomas Jova was searched and arrested by government customs agents after he arrived Monday morning in Folkestone , on Britain 's southeast coast , on a car ferry from France . After a brief appearance Tuesday in Folkestone Magistrates Court , he was sent without bail to the government prison in nearby Canterbury to await trial Dec. 18 . THE COCAINE be Is charged with carrying , described by British officials as " a large and valuable quantity , " would be worth an estimated ; 60,000 on London streets . Conviction on the charge carries a maximum penalty of a fine three times the street value of the cocaine , or two years in prison , or both . Jove is one of three children of Joseph J. Joys , a career diplomat since 1947 and one of the State Department 's top Latin American experts , who served as ambassador to the Organization of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1974 . British officials said little about the arrest . They refused to confirm reports that Jova was carrying the cocaine in a body belt . CDSTOMS AGENTS In Folkestone refused all comment , referring the matter to a departmental spokesman , and officials at Canterbury Prison would not even confirm - that Jove is being held there . " I know what you want , but you 'll get no information from me , " an officer at Folkston. said . " Do I make myself clear ? " Other officials explained that Jova 's relationship to a top U.S. diplomat makes the case " very awkward . " They refused to say whether the customs department 's diplomatic section has be . come involved in the case . THEY NOTED , however , that Britain has increased surveillance at all its ports on the English Channel and Its airports after an increase in drug smuggling . Jova 's case is likely to be continued , possibly several times , to give officials time to study his background and to determine the destinatihn of the cocaine he was charged with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprised If he gets away with a fine " if he is convicted , the official said . " It 's serious here even for a chap to be carrying enough cannabis Juana ) to make a cigaret . " Folkston is a major target for the government crackdown on smuggling , as are the nearby ports of Dover and Southampton . In two cases earlier this year , arrests were made at Folkestone after drugs were found concealed in the roofs of campers brought over on the car ferry from Calais , France .                     