@@731769

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Emission Control : Henry Ford 's Errors To the Editor : In his rebuttal to your Jan. 18 editorial , Henry Ford 2d made a number of factual errors , in particular his reference to the National Academy of Sciences report " Air Quality and Automobile Emission Control " letter Jan. 30 . To quote the report : " The annual benefits , in monetary terms , from improving air quality from Its present levels to the level of the Federal Ambient Air Standards from automobile-derived pollutants have been estimated to be between $2.5 and SIO billion " ( emphasis added ) . Mr. Ford indicated that " this estimate includes the effects - of pollution from stationary sources . " He is wrong . Mr. Ford also Implies that vchicle turnover is having an impact . Midtown Manhattan has yet to feel this effect . In fact , between 1972 and 1974 carbon monoxide levels as measured by the city 's Department of Air Resources at 45th Street and Lexington Avenue have increased by almost 20 per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards " and that have been replacing " older , dirtier cars " need the additional control required by the Clean Air Amendment of 1970 . Most disturbing to me is the statement that " technology . . . has never been assembled , much less tested " that both meets Clean Air Act emission standards and 7rovides a 40 per cent improvement in fuel economy . In the first place , improvements in fuel economy can be achieved in a variety of ways , few of which affect To the Editor : Without a soul our nation will disintegrate . Unless America grants its Vietnam war-resister sons universal and unconditional amnesty and drastically alters its wasteful life style as world hunger grows , history will soon close its chapter on this particular civilization . A nation 's soul is a combination of pride and hope . We Americans pride ourselves on individual liberty , on compassion for the underprivileged and oppressed , on the rule of law and on the belief that a person can improve his standard of living if he is willing . to work . Real amnesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and offenses on the part of both the proponents and the opponents of the Vietnam war . No other road leads to reconciliation , brotherhood and unity , Politics vs . Economy To the Editor : Finally our Washington representa , tives have publicly assured one another and the rest of the country of the gravity of our current economic situation . Over the next decade , a realization which many more of us may be coming to grips with is perhaps a far more crucial one . That is that our democratic process comes up disappointingly short in terms of a practical and effective means of coping with serious economic situations . The formation of national economic policies has been reduced to interparty and coalitional compromising . Economic policy is of such a fragile nature that once it has fallen victim to such extracurricular political concessions , it certainly must lose some or all of its intended impact . Perhaps the only situation more serious than a depressed economy is a suppressed economist . One . approach toward overcoming this hang-up or at least a possible direction in which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economists , ? which could hand down economic policy and dictate how to initiate it . Policy could then be formulated . without many of the eon , cessions involved in pacifying the regional or corporate constituencies with which every politician is concerned . A constitutional rearrangement of this proportion is even difficult to emission controls . Cut 1,000 pounds from the weight of Detroit 's monsters , and you 've already come close to President Ford 's objective . Eliminate unnecessary and wasteful accessories such as air-conditioning and power steering ( required for today 's bloated passenger cars ) , and you gain further improvements . Reduce engine size , improve automatic transmission design and install radial-ply tires , and you 're there . But even more important , and contrary to what Ford has said , technology does exist that can meet statutory standards and get a substantial improvement in fuel economy . A dual catalyst emission-control system has demonstrated a fuel economy gain more than 20 per cent greater than the Ford Motor Company 's stock 1974 Pinto , which in turn had shown an 8 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1967 and earlier models ) passenger cars of similar weight . It would cost Ford less than $100 to install this system on its production Pintos and would save the motorist close to $500 in gasoline costs over the 100,000 mile lifetime of the car . Why Mr. Ford denies the existence of this system is unclear . Perhaps Mr. Ford would , in fact , like to see " draconian restrictions on the use of cars in . . . cities " as Senator Muskie warned of recently . Maybe then we 'd see some reduction in the level of auto-related poisons in our cities . BRIAN KETCHAM Vice Pres. , Citizens for Clean Air , Inc . New York , Jan. 31 , 1975 We do n't have to argue any more . Let 's close that book . Let bygones be bygones so far as individuals are concerned . We confront pressing crises of inflation and unemployment , of pollution , of dwindling resources , of atomic weapons , of lifeboats ethics , triage ? all challenges requiring our undivided attention . The resisters are not prodigal sons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of our erstwhile misguided leaders in their extravagant expenditures of human life and our tax dollars . It is time for an end to regrets and reproaches from all sides of that unhappy controversy . It is time for a real amnesty . If President Ford refuses to declare it , then Congress must . Our country 's future as a nation worth preserving is at stake . CHARLES 0 . PORTER Eugene , Ore. , Feb. 3 , 1975 consider , but as our economy continues to shave us down , economic policy seems to become more and more a result of desperation than of foresight . The power to tax need not be the power to destroy ; it can become , instead , the power to revive . DAVID M. HARRIS Rowayton , Conn. , Jan. 24 , 1975 To the Editor : Your recent reports on Chinese politics consistently underscore the rise of the " moderates " over " radicals " and the return to " moderation " putatively against Mao 's will . However , a careful examination of the actual composition of the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oversimplified dichotomy of radical versus moderate ( though its utility for complicated politics such as Chinese politics is dubious ) , the Cultural Revolution veterans in the radical group appear to have gained a stronghold , especially in the party . There they constituted a solid ten-member bloc in the 22-member Politburo , unified by their common ties to their common patron , Mao . The moderate group , however , is a coalition of various sub-groups and is therefore susceptible to splits . It includes three semiretired older leaders ( Chu Teh , Liu 2o-ch'eng , Tung Pi-wu ) , Chou and his two close associates ( Yeh Chien-ying , Flawed Carey Plans To the Editor : Gov . Hugh Carey 's tax proposals are less progressive than they may appear . CThe 10-cent per gallon tax on gasoline is regressive , because : ( a ) the wellto-do gas guzzler can recoup two-thirds to three-quarters of this tax via deductions on his Federal and state income tax returns ; in lower brackets , only one-quarter to one-third is recouped ; ( b ) the demand for gas is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumed by suburbanites who drive to work and to shopping centers through necessity , not choice . Not only is a sales tax on a necessity inherently regressive , it will have little effect in reducing gas consumption . CThe proposed additional income-tax bracket would be only mildly progressive , because it , too , would be deductible on Federal returns . CAs a matter of fact , all increases in deductible state taxes represent a form of unilateral " Federal revenue sharing " initiated by a state , since they reduce Federal income-tax revenues and shift them to the state . Taxpayers in upper brackets are least affected , for the tax they owe Uncle Sam is reduced nearly as much as the tax due Albany is increased . ARNOLD J. OLENICK Associate Prof. of Business Staten Island Community College Staten Island , N. Y. , Feb. 1 , 1975 ? To the Editor : Governor Carey 's proposed revision of the state 's Motor Vehicle Registration Law would he seriously in error , both for what it does and does not do . In the first place , current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motor-vehicle registration fees collected by the state be turned over to the state ' 3 Department of Transportation and spent on the construction and reconstruction of highways . These monies are not considered part of the state 's general revenues , and hence the utility of their expenditure is never weighted against the state 's more pressing budgetary needs , such as aid for public transit systems . Secondly , by proposing to tie an : creased registration fee to a vehicle 's rice rather than to its weight , Gov:nor Carey has missed an opportunity : o implement his stated policy of pro:aoting energy conservation . Many recent studies , including a joint study by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Environmental Protection Administration , have established the correlation between heavy cars and poor fuel economy . Had the Governor tied his increased registration fee to a vehicle 's weight with a steeply progressive rate , he could have not only , raised the desired revenues but also sent Detroit a message on automobile weight that could have been a national precedent . ROBERT A. KANDE ! . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Break To the Editor : My sense of frustration rose as I read about the poor bus service . The First and Second Avenue buses are to me run in a deliberately wrong fash= ion . I imagine that the drivers all have coffee at the end of the routes and then start out five or six buses at a time . As a result , you can wait twenty minutes at any time of the day or night only to find that the first two are packed and the last four are empty . It seems logical that they would run every five minutes , but yesterday I was able to walk from 66th Street to 85th Street up First Avenue without one bus coming . This , is scandalous . JULIA JOHANNESEN New York , Jan. 17 , 1975 Li Hsien-nien ) , two prominent party leaders ( Teng Hsiao-p'ing , Wei Kuoch'ing ) ; one party cadre ( Wu Teh ) whose rapid promotion after the C.R. suggests that he may have close ties with the radicals , and three military leaders whose personal ties and ideological orientation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparatus , the moderate group has a better position : seven moderates vs. five radicals among the twelve Vice Premiers . But here again , the radicals form a solid bloc , and four concurrently hold membership of the Politburo , whereas the moderate group consists of assorted party , Government and military rep ? ' resentatives , four of whom are also concurrently members of the Politburo . This looks very much like an elaborate succession arrangement for the aging Mao and Chou , well balanced in terms of old vs. new , radical vs. moderate and also in terms of institutional affiliations and personal tics . The core cf Mao 's master plan is to insure a solid floor for the " radicals " in the party under the comparatively moderate and experienced leadership of Chiang Ch'un-ch'iao . The party will make the major decisions collectively , which will be im , plemented by the administrative branch under the leadership led by Teng Hsiao-p'ing , apparent successor to Chou . The success of this scheme will depend on many unpredictable factors , but it has laid down the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and consensus . However , there is no reason to suppose that the politics of compromise implies the abandonment of all the reforms that came out of the C.R. or the achievements that Chou has closely supported within his limit . HONG YUNG LEE Berkeley , Calif. , Jan. 29 , 1975 Amnesty : The Road to Reconciliation Jonathan WcIJ Peking : The Moderate-Radical Balance                     