@@734030

txt So tar the immediate Soviet reaction to the Teng Bsiao-ping visit to the United States has been predictable ? but the long-term consequences are unclear . Soviet officials say they still want a strategic arms ( SALT ) agreement with Washington and intend to sign one , ? given a successful end to current Geneva talks . This indicates a Carter-Brezhnev summit at ? the end of February or in March . Also in the short term the Soviets demand that the US clarify its own position on SALT , d  --  tente , and disarmament following Mr. Teng 's comments on all three . This is seen here as an effort to saw discord between the US and China by trying to persuade Mr. Carter to criticize China before Mr. Teng has gone home . All this Western sources here say was fairly predictable . Less so is the long-term Soviet reaction ? whether the Kremlin is so deeply upset by the Teng visit and its results that it may cool down d  --  tente with the US on its own account in the next few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some in private criticize the US for allowing Mr. Teng to make anti-Soviet remarks on American soil . ? They go further and argue that Mr. Teng has presented the US with a long-term illusion : lie argues , the Soviets say , that there is a real alternative to d  --  tente and disarmament and that this alternative is siding with China and supporting armaments and war . The , Soviets also are concerned that the US has not done more to stop NATO allies selling arms to China . Soviet officials brush aside the argument that only " defensive " arms are being sold . The distinction is slim , they say . The Kremlin has sought clarification of the US position by having Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynirr ask Secretary of State Cyrus Vance for details . Pravda reprinted a Tass dispatch from Washington accusing Mr. Teng of slandering Moscow in the US and asking Washing *Please turn to Page 16 from Page ' Soviets miffed by Teng remarks ton to state its actual views on de'tente , disarmament , and Chinese calls for a united front against Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that President Carter and Mr. Vance already have made it clear they disagree with the Chinese on SALT and other issues and intend to treat Moscow and Peking evenhandedly . Pravda Feb. 4 criticized the US again for letting Mr. Teng make his anti-Soviet remarks and said no one in the US. had contradicted his " evil-minded " insinuations . Pravda added that it looked as though " anti-Sovietism " was the common basis for references in Washington to " common " views between China and the US . Yet some westerners here feel the Soviets are still trying to assess the exact closeness now between Washington and Peking and are far from saying their last word on the visit or on the future .                     