@@730421

txt The release of three American Prisoners of War by North Vietnam would , White House officials feel , be more a propaganda tactic than a humanitarian gesture . But it would be welcomed for the sake of the men and their families . Officials here and in Washington are trying to avoid comment which would jeopardize it . The timing of the release and the qualification put on it by anti-war activist David Dellinger is particularly suspect . Mr. Dellinger ? who with Cora Weiss , cochairman of the Committee of Liaison with Families of Servicemen Detained in Vietnam , would escort the POWs home ? says that it will take place " in a matter of weeks . " Flood issue raised He adds , and officials do not know how significantly , that the release " could be delayed by the danger of floods in North Vietnam which would upset transportation plans . " He warned against continued U.S. bombing of the dikes . North Vietnamese broadcasts which confirmed Mr. Dellinger 's announcement , however , only cautioned the U.S. not to " distort " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nixon administration was accused of doing this when the last prisoners were released in 1969 . None have been released since . The release of the POWs six or seven weeks before the Nov. 7 election , it now appears , would be a calculated effort to contrast heavy U.S. bombing with a - conciliatory Hanoi attitude . Also , Hanoi appears to be trying to tell the American electorate that it will deal with anti-war Americans , but not with President Nixon . Mr. Dellinger says he would take the POWs directly to their homes . Selection spotlighted The selection of the POWs to be permitted to return was noted here . Two of them have expressed anti-war sentiments in interviews - with both American and North Vietnamese newsmen . The mother of the third has said publicly that " our boys will never come home " as long as Mr. Nixon pursues his policy . The administration would like to downplay the event , both because it feels it is propaganda , but also because it has recognized all along the inflammability of the POW issue in the heat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President , said the President " is pleased " by the prospect of the release . The number being let out of North Vietnam in comparison to the 539 Americans known being held prisoner was described by Mr. Ziegler as " infinitesimal . " In recent weeks the President has stiffened his Vietnam pronouncements as his popularity mounted in ? he polls . ' He has not hinted as strongly about a negotiated settlement . His determination to continue the bombing and mining appears strengthened . South Viet attack blunted by Reds on major fronts By Daniel Southerland Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Saigon Behind the flurry of recent battle communiques , it now has become clear that the Communists have blunted the South Vietnamese counteroffensive on all the main battlefronts . The South Vietnamese have succeeded in retaking several towns in Binh Dinh and Quang Tri Provinces ? usually after the North Vietnamese pulled back . But sizable chunks of those two provinces still remain under Communist control . Backed up by some of the heaviest ' air and naval gunfire support of the war , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Province . Bit  --  aft ? wo months of hard fighting , they have been unable to recapture the now-destroyed province capital . President Nguyen Van Thieu vowed on June 19 that his troops would recapture all of the territory lost to the Communists within only three months . It now seems certain that the government forces will be unable to fulfill that pledge by Mr. Thieu 's Sept. 19 deadline . Recapture of capital The government counterattack into wuang Tri started off at the end of June with the announced aim of first to destroy Communist military units and only later to regain territory . But the Paris talks were about to resume , and the government began to see the recapture of the town of Quang Tri ? the only province capital out of 44 to be lost to the Communists ? as necessary for political and pshchclogical impact . Mr. Thieu sent first the paratroops , and then the marines , into a costly and thus far inconclusive battle to recapture what is left of the town . South Vietnamese spokesmen even claimed at one point ? incorrectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the central highlands , the government troups have failed so far even to make an effort at retaking the defensive positions which they once held to the northwest of Kontum . In Military Region III surrounding Saigon , the government had hoped to reopen the road to An Loc and then &take; the district town of Loc Ninh north of An Loc . But stepped-up Communist attacks in other parts of Region III have apparently forced the government to give up its costly five-month-long struggle to reopen the road . // *South Viet offensive blunted ' on all fronts ' // The government losses on that road , Route 13 , appear to have been as great as those which the government forces suffered in An Loc itself during the lengthy siege of that province capital . One of the reasons for calling off the stalled drive up Route 13 seems to have been growing concern over areas closer to Saigon threatened by Communist attacks . In the countryside , the government still maintains a presence in the vast majority of South Vietnam 's hamlets . It controls all but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Significant results But the Communist offensive , now entering its sixth month , has achieved significant results . The Communists have killed and wounded more " government troops than they did during the great Tet offensive of 1968 . In the current offensive , eight of the government 's 11 regular infantry divisions have suffered severe losses . In addition to these losses , the government 's elite paratroop division has taken a staggering number of casualties , amounting to more than 50 percent of the riflemen in many of its units . The Marine division is in better shape than the paratroop diVision but for weeks now it has been going through the same bruising ordeal which the paratroops faced earlier in Quang Many of the battle losses have been made up thanks to new recruits . But the experienced small-unit leaders who have been lost are not easy to replace . The quality of many of the best fighting units has suffered as a result . Statistics inaccurate It is much more difficult to gauge North Vietnamese losses . They have unquestionably been significant . But the statistics are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them badly with air attacks , " American advisers will often say after a battle . " But there is no way of knowing for sure . " Although the government still occupies most of the populated areas , the Communists have succeeded in pushing the South Vietnamese Army in from the country 's borders . Many of the Communist units which had withdrawn to Cambodia and Laos after years of effort by American troops and the invasion of Cambodia now are back inside South Vietnam . The Communists , have also taken advantage of the current pullback of the government troops to expand and consolidate old base areas in neighboring Cambodia . Inside South Vietnam , the Communists have reopened a number of old infiltration corridors and have begun reestablishing some old jungle-base areas . Troops tied down It is much more difficult to assess what success the Communists have had in another prime objective , which was to use their conventional attacks as a means of helping reactivate their local forces in the countryside . But they have succeeded in tying down government regular troops on several main battlefronts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist efforts in the countryside . It no longer looks like the " go for broke " offensive which Nixon administration officials called it in the early stages . The Communists now are striking with a mixture of conventional attacks and hit-and-run raids . The attacks are much more widely dis- , persed than they were in earlier stages of the offensive . Far from a " go for broke ' ' ' offensive , the Communists are obviously engaged in a long-range , protracted struggle .                     