@@728648

txt Government and private radio stations were dominated today by urgent calls for doctors , medical supplies and food for northern Peru , which was devastated by an earthquake Sunday , but roads blocked by landslides kept the most seriously affected communities isolated . Officials doubted whether some of the mountain-valley communities would be reached by road for days or even weeks . The seasonal fog and the destruction of landing strips blocked efforts to send in supplies by air . The Government officially placed the estimated death toll at " near 30,000 . " Some officials were said to have attempted to minimize the total earlier to calm the public and ease the overtaxed telephone and road systems in the north . Reports from Yungay said that there were only 2,500 survivors in the city in the valley of Huaylas , which had more than 20,000 inhabitants . Cards , also in that valley , was inundated- by the overflow of Lake Llanganuco . Hospitals in Lima Crowded Ships have been pressed into service to bring the more seriously injured to Lima and other unaffected centers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the port of Chimbote on a navy destroyer , bringing 300 badly injured with him . Military pilots found the Chimbote airport usable , even though that city was reported 40 per cent destroyed and 300 of its 200,000 people known dead . Hospitals here were crowded with hundreds more of the injured brought by ship or by air from Chimbote . Chimbote has the same 70 bed hospital it had 15 years ago when the population there was only 4,000 . Military parachute units were unable to take off from Chimbote , about 160 miles north of Lima , to drop medical and other relief supplies because of the fog that rolls in // from the cold waters of thE Pacific during the present autumn in the Southern Hemisphere and becomes trapped by the warm , moist air from thE Amazon rising from the easterr slopes of the Andes . Pilots reported clouds of dust rising to 18,000 feet over parts of the affected region , which hampered surveys . The dust and fog made the dropping of supplies by parachute impossible , air force officials said . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late autumn chill and the year-round cold of the Andean highlands . The few telephone circuits still functioning were overloaded , but the Government radio station and those of mining and oil companies and amateur operators transmitted a steady stream of messages pleading for doctors , who would have difficulty in reaching some of the communities in normal times because of the poor road system of this undeveloped land of towering mountains , deserts and jungle . The first relief planes from the United States landed at Lima 's Jorge Chavez International Airport this afternoon . Three C-130 transports brought two helicopters as well as medical and other supplies . The cargo will be placed on smaller aircraft for shipment to Chimbote , which can not handle large planes . Here in Lima . the quake , which started at 3:24 P.M. Sunday , caused five deaths , four of them from heart attacks . There was little physical damage to buildings other than falling plaster , but panic sent more than 200 to hospitals with nervous and cardiac troubles , city health officals said . The scene in northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Force pilots surveying an area between Chimbote on the Pacific Coast north to Tumbres and two hundred miles to the east . There , Air Force photos showed whole Indian villages and larger towns and cities such as Yungay and Huaraz and Cards either totally destroyed or washed by icy Andean mountain lake waters . Explains Conflicting Figures The epicenter of the quake was 12 miles west of Chimbote in the Pacific . Chimbote , in turn , is just west of the Valley of Huaylas . Peru 's National Geophysical Institute here placed the quake at 7.75 on the Richter scale , and said it was : the strongest recorded in 30 years . Asked to explain conflicting statements on the number of victims , Augusto Zimmerman , chief of the office of information , said the military did not want to be alarmist . Pressed by reporters , he said slowly between deep puffs on a cigarette : " Certainly , the numbers of the victims are in the thousands , unofficially . There are no official figures . There are estimates from reports that have arrived and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us make an unofficial estimate  --  God grant that this wo n't be actually confirmed , because it would be the most frightful tragedy that any country in any part of the world has suffered from an earthquake  --  we would reach a figure near 30,000 deaths . " Officials here said they doubted whether anyone would ever know the full story of the disaster in the more isolated Quechua and other Indian communities , where contact with , authorities has traditionally , been avoided . Officials at the Presidential Palace here are hard put to give population statistics except for ; the larger towns and cities , and ; , even these , they conceded , are . out of date . Peru will hold al census next year , they said . Most of the Indian and other rural Peruvians live in adobe ( hovels that frequently collapse in wind or rain storms .                     