@@732547

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 35 Letters to the Editor Northeast : For Unified Problem-Solving To the Editor : In calling for the establishment of a regional Reconstruction Finance Corp .. Municipal Assistance Corporation Chairman Felix Rohatyn correctly concluded that the economic future of the Northeast depends on our ability to address economic problems irr a cooperative fashion and on a more active Federal involvement in the process . The concept is certainly not a new one , but it deserves renewed attention in light of the precipitous decline of the industrial base of the Northeast . The decline has been felt in more than the central cities . which rival those of Cleveland , Providence and New York City . Laborintensive industries head for the South and Southwest , leaving in their wake unemployment and an ever-growing demand for income-maintenance programs . The New England states have long recognized the special needs for restructuring their economic base . Today , each state provides incentives for the development of new industries . The state funds available for even the best of these programs , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition for new industry and development has caused a duplication of effort which clearly works against the best interests of the region . Recent news that MassachuMonster in action , A.D. 1555 A Loch Ness Solution To the Editor : The Loch Ness monsters story may well have a real historical origin in the emotions of Scots who first saw Viking dragon ships gliding through the mist of their " loch " over a thousand years ago . Dragon figureheads rising high above the low-slung longships , plus the bloody killings and the taking of slaves by the Norsemen , plus the old Norse word ness ( island ) for the water-guarded safe haven islands usually chosen by the Vikings , plus the embroidery of yarns repeated for centuries , may be the real story of the Loch Ness monsters . HOWARD L. OLECK Winston-Salem , N.C. , June 4 , 1976 ? On Exploiting Women To the Editor : In her letter of May 19 , Margaret Patterson has suggested that " New York 's able and well-educated women " act as unpaid magistrates in New York City 's Family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : In a recent Op-Ed article , Abraham Lass , a retired high-school principal , recalled with fondness the school system he knew , a system that he says " rewarded me and my colleagues for what we knew , . . . not for our race or color or nationality . " Today , he says , that has all changed . Alas , I fear that Mr. Lass 's memory is playing tricks on him . Ethnic considerations have always played a part in choosing principals in New York City , and in fact such considerations were once defended as legitimate factors in determining merit . For example , in an affidavit filed in court in a 1948 case , William Jansen. then Superintendent of Schools . said on the record that it is " not in the best interests of the school system " for principals to be licensed or appointed " as a result of competitive examination . " He went on to say that certain personal qualifications for specific schools in specific neighborhoods were important . He left no doubt that he meant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal . He cited the appointment of Leonard Cavello at Benjamin Franklin High School " because he spoke Italian and had a knowledge of and sympathy setts officials are attempting to lure businesses out of New York City is perhaps the best  --  and most disturbing ? example of this lack of unified effort . These factors lead one to conclude that the states of the irrdustrial Northeast should adopt a unified approach to problem-solving ? one which has financial and administrative support of the Federal Government . Unfortunately . Federal decisionmaking with regard to economic development now simply mirrors the fragmented approach of the states . Programs undertaken by one Federal agency frequently nullify the effectiveness of others . As we move into an era of scarce resources , we can ill .. afford this wasteful contradiction of effort . Greater emphasis must be placed on the conservation of capital , energy and materials , and on a more harmonious administration of the existing infrastructure . Toward this end , many suggestions such as Mr. Rohatyn 's have been offered . My own view is that much can be gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's resource-allocation policies , and by creating a federally funded regional economic development bank . These proposals recognize a fundamental reality : We can no longer afford to pretend that the problems next door belong to someone else . MICHAEL J. HARRINGTON Member of Congress , 6th Dist. , Mass . Washington , June 2 , 1976 we offer " travel expenses and lunch money " to the women who volunteer to serve on the bench . This reeks of the taint of antifeminism , volunteerism and an upper-class bias . The need for more judges with more time to spend on each case notwithstanding , I find her idea appalling . She has n't suggested that our well-educated men serve for lunch money , too , realizing perhaps that such men would not do it . Does she really believe that able women are n't already rendering services to their city and communities in various tasks  --  and being paid for their talents ? Furthermore , she seems to imply that such female volunteers would have no need for remuneration  --  the idle rich , if you will ? while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women are the partial or sole support of their families . Helping our " penniless " city on the labors of our women is the worst kind of exploitation . Our city needs assistance , but not this kind . SUSAN ROTHSTEIN New York , May 20 , 1976 ? The Vacant Pedestal To the Editor : Actors and directors are identified with their work . So are authors , architects , fashion designers , glass blowers and other professionals . The public is thus able to connect a work with its creator and to form an opinion about the abilities of the creator . I think the individual or individuals responsible for the new city buses which are designed to speed through traffic without passengers should be identified by name . MIRIAM CHAIKIN New York , June 3 , 1976 Past and Present with the problems in an Italian neighborhood . " He also cited Walter Degnen as a person qualified to be principal of DeWitt Clinton because there were serious disciplinary problems and Mr. Degnan was a " healtheducation man with a fine athletic background " and " because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by saying that " in every instance an attempt is made to select as principal of a high school . . . from the point of view of the special curriculum , social or racial problems and type of school involved emphasis added . . . Mere numerical position on a uniformly administered competitive examination could not possibly furnish the best possible type of appointee for the position of principal of a high school . " Whatever the merits of Dr. Jansen 's views , it distorts reality to suggest that the system is fundamentally different now than it was then . It is different now in only one respect : skin color . Once again , a system which has always worked to benefit various white ethnic groups is suddenly found to lack merit when it begins to benefit people of color . IRA GLASSER Executive Director New York Civil Liberties Union New York , May 26 , 1976 Legitimate Crossovers To the Editor : I am surprised at your May 26 editorial condemning " crossover " voting in primaries as an " adulterated choice . " . It suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John McCormack 's words " were conceived Democrats , were born Democrats , live and die Democrats " ( or Republicans ) . The crossover vote  --  those who voted in the opposite party 's primary in the preceding Presidential year ? is supposed to be made up of two components . The- first is those who see the candidate best expressing their views now in one party , now in another . I would ask , what is wrong with . voting for such a candidate ? Perhaps he is not the most electable candidate , but that is a judgment best left to the voter . If a voter who has previously voted Democratic ( as , in the past , Governor Reagan did ) feels that Reagan 's positions are more important than party allegiance , he/she has as much right to express this with a vote as a normally Republican voter had to seek to end the Vietnam War by voting for Eugene McCarthy or George in a Democratic primary . The second component , supposedly , is those who vote for a weaker candidate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success of their own in the general election . I have not seen any professional study indicating a recent significant vote of this kind , and I consider it one of the most overrated factors in American politics . It is most often cited by party professionals seeking to protect their primaries from independent-minded voters of the first kind who might.place service to the public above party regularity in choosing a candidate . To cast such a vote requires considerable sophistication , lack of interest in any race in one 's own party primary , knowledge of how to get back into one 's own primary in succeeding years and a Machiavellian streak not common in American voters . I can not believe that any significant number of such votes are cast ; and thus for such votes to play a significant role , the candidate would have to be already very close to winning on his own merits . THEODORE CHASE Jr . Princeton , N. J. , May 26 , 1976 ? Our Priceless Swamps To the Editor : In his less than funny remarks on the decision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dredge and fill permits ( Op-Ed June 1 ) , William H. Jack sounds the old theme of man against nature . It is ' a sound out of the past , when man was grossly ignorant of his close relationship to natural forces . Fortunately , it is not a matter of blacks , families , older citizens . us people against ? alligators , sharks , barracuda and Portuguese men-of-war . A mangrove swamp is not a worthless piece of real estate until transformed by dredging and filling into suitable land for habitation but a priceless source of food and energy  --  a portion of which is eventually consumed by man in the form of fish on the dinner table . There are places where it is appropriate to build man 's habitations and other places where it is not . ' We are learning the criteria that make these determinations rational . The next trick is to use them . Mr. Jack 's approach would guarantee horrendous mistakes like many made in the past . The Army Corps of Engineers should indeed be praised for its intelligent use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 20 . For Mr. Jack I would suggest a primer on ecological forces and their influences on mankind . We live in a world infinitely more complex than he seems to realize . In the final analysis , what is good for the alligator is good for man . ALLEN M. FISHER Northampton , Mass. , June 1 , 1976 ? Agnew and the ' Innocents ' To the Editor : William Safire and Victor Gold , former writers for Spiro Agnew , seem to seek atonement for their past transgressions by speculating on recent OpEd pages on " what turned him around ? " That is , what turned their political hero into an anti-Jewish bigot ? Both writers portray Mr. Agnew as a good man gone wrong , thus vindicating their earlier enthusiastic support for the discredited Vice President . Gently beating their breasts and saying a shamanu , the Hebrew equivalent of mea culpa , one refers to himself as an innocent " shnook " ( Gold ) ; the other disclaims responsibility for the " mouth-filling diatribes against the press " ( Satire ) . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innocents led astray can any credence be given to their portrayal of Mr. Agnew as a good man fallen from grace . To those of us who evaluated Mr. Nixon 's hatchet man as the cutting edge aimed at the antiwar forces , civil libertarians and minority rights , his present position is only a logical cort- ' tinuum of his past actions . TEDDY DIAMOND New York , June 1 , 1976 The Times welcomes fetters front readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we e unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters .                     