@@729590

txt In his eagerly awaited report to the New York Stock Exchange , William McChesney Martin Jr . has presented a plan for reshaping the nation 's securities markets into a single , closely integrated , auction market . Several of the recommendations by the former chairman of the Federal Reserve Board deserve strong support , especially his proposals for reorganizing the Stock Exchange board of governors to include ten public members , for extending equal regulation to all exchanges , for eliminating stock certificates and for developing a consolidated exchange tape . But the most critical recommendations of the Martin report are more likely to produce not the integrated market he seeks but a further fracturing of the nation 's securities markets . For Mr. Martin has chosen to try to achieve integration by reorganizing the New York Stock Exchange , the American Stock Exchange and the regional exchanges into a quasi-public monopoly , backed by the powers of government . Contending that the antitrust laws are an " obvious deterrent " to self-regulation by the exchanges , Mr. Martin calls upon Congress to enact legislation granting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antitrust laws . " In our view , the antitrust laws do not prevent any desirable form of self-regulation by the exchanges . They do not stand in the way of such useful functions as enforcement of rules on ethical conduct , full disclosure of information on trading activities and financial practices , capital requirements of member firms or uniform accounting procedures . What the sought , exemption from the antitrust la'vs might do , however , would be to permit the stock exchanges to engage in the most - serious forms of monopolistic practices  --  namely , price fixing or barring outside competition . Mr. Martin would bar from exchange membership all financial institutions including insurance , companies , mutual funds and pension funds . He would , at the same time , require exchange members to give up their own mutual funds , although he would permit stockbrokers to handle pension funds and engage in " all other forms of mono management . " Such an arrangement would still afford a substantial advantage in lower commission costs to exchange members over the excluded institutional investors . ' " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and economically acceptable would be to move decisively toward competitive commission rates . The rates set between financial institutions and stockbrokers would then be closely related to the actual costs incurred by the broker and would eliminate the reasons Why most institutions have sought exchange membership . The Martin report clearly leans against competitive . rate setting on the ground that it would lead to undesirable concentration of economic poWer . The Securities and Exchange Commission and the stock exchanges are urged to wait for more experience and analysis of the " experiment " in negotiated rates before lowering the present $500,000 floor on any single securities transaction . But keeping that level for fixed commissions will cause more institutions to acquire membership on regional exchanges ; over 100 institutions already have done so . The regional exchanges will strongly resist ? any effort by Congress or the S.E.C. to force them to bar institutional members ; and the Justice Department ? as well as their own Senators and Congressmen  --  are likely to be on their side . Large institutional investors and corporations are also likely to continue to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Stock Exchange as long as there are strong financial incentives for them to do so . It is unfortunate that Mr. Martin has set himself against the very economic and financial forces that are working for the emergence of a genuine national securities market . The securities business must have freer competition if a new , more efficient and more closely integrated national market is to come into being . Neither the New York Stock Exchange nor the nation 's investors and businesses will be benefited by an effort to construct a securities monopoly , complete with price fixing .                     