@@729176

txt For a year the guns have been silent in Nigeria . The civil war that gripped the world 's attention is ended ; the Ibos who powered the Biafran secession are resigned ? most of them  --  to working back their passage within a united Nigeria . But the first anniversary of Biafra 's surrender serves as a reminder that three other bloody civil wars have been grinding on almost unnoticed in Africa . These wars are humiliating for leaders of the new Africa and for the 41-nation Organization of African Unity , especially at a time when they are imploring the world to help end white minority rule in South Africa , Rhodesia and three Portuguese colonies . For all three wars involve ethnic and religious clashes comparable to those that helped provoke Nigeria 's agony , comparable even to those behind the black-white confrontation farther south . In the Sudan a Government dominated by the ArabMoslem majority of the north has fought for fifteen years to suppress a struggle for autonomy by the black pagan and Christian mi nority in the south . Two representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York re cently to petition the United Nations for help , charged the Khartoum Government with a policy of " genocide against the four million blacks of the southern Sudan . " The situation is reversed next door in Chad where , even with the help since 1968 of several thousand French troops , President Tombalbaye 's black and largely Christian Government has been unable to crush an insurrection of Arabic and largely Moslem northerners . Faced with France 's decision to pull all its troops out of Chad during 1971 , Mr. Tombalbaye has signed an agreement with several dissident leaders and is negotiating with others ; but there is no indication to date of any peace moves involving the major rebel fighting force . East of the Sudan , the Moslem-led Eritrean Liberation Front , which has struggled for nine years for independence from Ethiopia , recently charged Emperor Haile Selassie 's Christian Government with attempting " mass annihilation of Eritreans . " With their fixation on the white regimes farther south , African governments have made no serious effort to halt these wars . The Organization of African @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did in a fruitless peace effort in Nigeria . African leaders can say with justice that much responsibility for these cleavages in Africa rests with the colonial powers that drew state boundaries to suit their own convenience rather than for ethnic , religious and regional viability . They are less persuasive when they blame the steady exacerbation of old African feuds on " neo.colonialists " or " imperialists "  --  or on unnamed " outside nations and groups , " as Emperor Haile Selassie did with regard to the Eritrean conflict this week . In forming the Organization of African Unity the African governments agreed to live with those colonial boundaries and to strive to surmount them in a collective effort to build peace , prosperity and solidarity . Their effectiveness in extending majority rule to the rest of Africa will depend heavily on their ability to put their racial house in order north of the Zambesi and their success in halting the killing of African by African .                     