@@730992

txt THE CTA braced itself for another day of wildcat bus strikes today , but a bigger walkout was averted last night when members of the rapid transit union agreed to keep working . Thousands of Loop workers yesterday were delayed getting to work and returning home as several hundred of 8,000 bus drivers went on a wildcat strike . Last alight about 100 bus drivers who had stayed home promised to cant:nue their absence from work today . Many , however , had been counting on the added participation of the rapid transit workers , about 3,000 of whom belong to Division 308 , Amalgamated Transit Workers union . IN A MEETING late last night at 32 W. Randolph St. , the rapid transit workers agreed to stay on the job . Of the 130 persons attending , 15 were bus drivers who were shouted down when they tried to persuade the o t h e r s to join the wildcat strike . Leonard Beatty , president of the Rapid Transit Workers union , said the union decided against sending a delegation to Mayor Daley to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Altho he underlined official union opposition M joining the wildcat strike of bus drivers , Beatty said , " Any man may exercise his own prerogative . " The CTA was hit by a number of wildcat strikes yesterday which crippled bus service during the morning and evening rush hours . , THE WORK stoppages began yesterday morning when 471 bus drivers stayed away in support of a strike since Sept. 24 by the Metal Trades Council another CTA union which represents 686 maintenance workers . Another 400 buses stayed in the bus barns during the afternoon rush hours-71 fewer than the morning , according to the CTA . Officials said 30 per cent of the drivers scheduled to work the morning rush hours also were scheduled to work the afternoon rush hours , leading the CTA to conclude that only a few hundred bus drivers actually participated in the strike . Service on the elevated and subway system remained normal thruout the day . Many communters who were unable to take buses switched to the crowded rapid transit service . A CTA spokesman said 9 bus routes , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike . Another 45 bus routes were impaired by as much as 50 per cent , he said . The remaining 95 bus routes were fully operational , he said . The spokesman refused comment when asked whether the CTA governing board was going to take punitive action against the bus drivers who participated In the wildcat strike . THE METAL Trades Council is the only one of the three CTA unions which is free to strike legally . The two unions representing bus drivers and rapid transit workers are prohibited from striking under an agreement with the CTA to defer the contested provisions of their proposed new contracts to binding arbitration . Both unions have worked without a contract since last November . " We have been patient for a long time , but we ca n't keep waiting much longer , " Beatty said before the meeting of rapid transit workers yesterday . IN A MEETING last night in the Church of the Epiphany , 201 S. Ashland Av. , some of the dissident bus drivers indicated they may man picket lines set up by the 11 striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were felt Tuesday , " said Alexander Larkin , a spokesman for the dissident drivers . However , Daniel J. , president of the bus drivers union , said , " I have been assured the drivers are going back to work at the Keclzie and North Park barns Wednesday . It 's a matter of some dissidents misleading the younger drivers on a sympathy thing for the maintenance workers ' strike . "                     