@@730635

txt Lyndon B. Johnson lay in state tonight in the rotunda of the Capitol which was the focus of his life for 30 years and saw his ascent from young congressional aide to powerful Senate majority leader , and finally President . His coffin was placed on the Lincoln catafalque after a plane flight from his native Texas and a slow procession to Capitol Hill . Thousands stood silently along the route of the cortege . After a memorial service in the rotunda , the doors were opened to the public , They remained open thru the night for those who wanted to file by the closed , flag-covered gray coffin and pay their last respects to the 36th President of the United States and last living former chief executive . THE BLUE AND white Presidential jet plane sent by PresiI dent Nixon to bring the body of his White House predecessor to Washington landed at Andrews Air Force Base one the outskirts of the city in early afternoon . Johnson had lain in state in his memorial library in Austin . He died of a heart attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Texas capital . In the cortege were the widow , Lady Bird , and daughters Luci and Lynda along with their husbands Patrick J. Nugent and Maj. Charles S. Robb , and the Nugents ' 5-year-old son , Patrick Lyndon . Patrick , who is called Lyn , saluted as his grandfather 's body was carried into the Capitol . Patrick also had saluted when the coffin was placed aboard the plane in Austin . MILITARY pallbearers carried the coffin down a ramp from the plane between the ranks of an honor guard as a band played " Hail to the Chief " and howitzers fired a 21-gun salute . The funeral procession rendering full military honors started on the capital 's Constitution Avenue . The day was sunny and clear , but a cold wind whipped the flags atop the buildings , flags flying half-staff in official mourning for both Johnson and former President Truman , who died just short of a month ago . PRESIDENT A N D Mrs. Nixon were driven in a limousine from the White House a few blocks distant and joined the funeral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson 's coffin from the hearse to a black-draped artillery caisson drawn by six saddled white horses . A nervous black horse led by a soldier Followed the caisson  --  the riderless horse , with boots reversed in the stirrups and cavalry saber on the saddle , which is the time-honored military symbol of a fallen leader . At the east front of the Capitol where he took the oath of office for his second term just four days ago , President Nixon left his limousine with Mrs. Nixon and offered his condolences to Mrs. Johnson and the daughters as they left their car . THE MEMORIAL service In the rotunda , thronged to capacity in the limited space by members of the Senate and House and invited guests , was brief and given to eulogies by Rep. J. J. Pickle , the Democratic congressman from the Texas district once represented in the House by Johnson , and Dean Rusk , secretary of state in the Johnson administration . After the eulogies , President Nixon  --  who stood during the service between Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. Nixon  --  stepped forward and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wreath of red and white carnations at the coffin . Nixon stood with eyes closed for a few seconds . TOMORROW has been proclaimed a national day of mourning by President Nixon . Johnson 's body will be taken from the Capitol by hearse across the city in late morning for a funeral service at the National City Christian Church , ' After the church service , the body will be returned to Andrews Air Force Base and flown in an Air Force plane direct to the landing strip on the LBJ ranch . Johnson will be buried late tomorrow afternoon in the small family cemetery on the ranch among the graves of his parents and grandparents .                     