@@734183

txt Special to The New York Times SONGKLA , Thailand , May 1 ? Refugees from Vietnam are arriving on Southeast Asian shores in record numbers . Ethnic Chinese are estimated to make up two-thirds to three-quarters of the total . despite repeated denials by the Hanoi Government that it is abetting their departure . And this is happening despite Vietnam 's agreement last month , in talks with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , to facilitate legal emigration to stop the illegal flow . This illegal flow endangers the lives of the " boat people , " creates mounting political problems for Asia 's non-Communist countries and strains their relations with Western nations to whom they look for relief from their refugee burden . Preliminary statistics indicate there were far more refugees in April than expected . More than 2,000 Vietnamese boat people reached Thailand , the largest monthly total ever . In Malaysia , the principal first stop for Vietnamese , more than 10,000 arrived , reversing a threemonth decline . About 100,000 Vietnamese are now in limbo ? on land and on ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 150 , - 000 Laotian and Cambodian refugees have stolen into Thailand , and about 6,000 more arrive each month . In addition to the exodus of Chinese , hundreds of thousands of ethnic Vietnamese have secretly left their country since the Communist victory in 1975 because of the continuing war with Cambodia , tension with China and other political , economic and ethnic pressures . Later this month , representatives of the Southeast Asian nations that receive most of the refugee boats will meet in Jakarta , Indonesia , with the United Nations refugee agency and representatives of the United States and other countries to which Asia looks for a permanent solution . If the refugees were white , Asians say , the West would have accepted them long ago . A diplomat noted that a ship carrying more than 500 Vietnamese was towed out of Thai waters last week and has not been heard from since . He said that if those aboard were white , they would have become the object of an international search . Vietnam is also expected to attend the Jarkarta meeting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living up to its promises to do all it can to reduce the refugee flow . Only last week in Hanoi , in the presence of Secretary General Kurt Waldheim of the United Nations , Prime Minister Pham Van Dong reiterated his promises not to burden Vietnam 's neighbors with a heavy flow of refugees . But the burden continues to increase . A camp for boat people near this town in southern Thailand was moved earlier this year to a larger site , but its inhabitants have already had to build new shanties . The barracks built when the population was little more than 1,000 are badly overcrowded now that the population is nearing 9,000 . The great majority of refugees from Vietnam head for Malaysia , where nearly 60,000 wait in badly overcrowded island camps for countries to offer them asylum . On the grapevine in Vietnam , which is fed by letters from refugees and by foreign broadcasts , Malaysia is depicted as the best place to go . One reason is the mistaken assumption that departure for permanent asylum is quicker from Malaysia . A more justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most of those who land here made an error in navigation , or had mechanical troubles , or were towed in this direction by pirates who robbed them and often raped the women . Watches are rare among the refugees in Songkla , and jewelry on women is even rarer . The pirates also harvest most of the slim tablets of gold , each worth about $250 , that constitute the traditional family savings in Vietnam . Most of the refugee boats have been robbed more ' than once as they approached Thailand . The consensus of refugees here , who include a number of highly educated and politically sophisticated men and women , is that the refugee flow will continue at a high rate , that Hanoi will continue to abet the flow of ethnic Chinese and that ethnic Vietnamese will continue to make their escape only at great risk and in defiance of the Government . One educated refugee from Ca Mau , in southernmost Vietnam , reported seeing 12 to 15 boats under construction near the market in his town . It is generally believed that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portholes , indicating that they are meant for passengers rather than cargo . The man , who worked for American intelligence organizations for 10 years . said they would probably hold 200 to 300 people each . The refugees said the ethnic Chinese do not leave in secret . The boats , are openly loaded not only with supplies for the trip but also with goods that will be needed in Malaysia . Because in Vietnam it is said that salt and building tools are scarce in Malaysia , sacks of salt and many hammers , saws and nails are loaded . Why Vietnam Releases ClInete Often , according to witnesses , relatives of those departing are allowed at pierside with their farewell gifts . The most politically sophisticated refugees say Vietnam helps the Chinese leave both to acquire their gold ' and foreigncurrency holdings and to relieve the country of an economic class for which there is no further use . All refugees forfeit their visible belongings , particularly houses and lands , to the state . But the Chinese , a largely landless merchant and artisan class , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short of convertible currencies , gives the Chinese the choice of leaving for a price or being sent to new economic zones that have infertile land . The refugees say the richest Chinese have probably left by now because the price demanded by Government agents has been dropping . Depending on the region , prices have averaged about seven tablets of gold , sometimes less . Police and Army Are Rivals Vietnamese who did not have important positions in the old regime can sometimes buy Chinese identity cards for two tablets of gold , refugees here said . Other Vietnamese benefit from the Chinese exodus by paying relatively small bribes to the security police handling departures . In addition to the " official " passage money , which is generally believed to go straight to the national treasury , minor officials Odic from the trade whenever they can . As a result , according to wellplaced sources here , rivalry between the police , who handle the transport , and the army , which has no share in it , is great . A source said this rivalry has been worsened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men for the draft . Sometimes this rivalry has led to refugee boats Being sent off by the police only to be re:urned by naval patrols and held up until iigher authorities order their release .                     