@@731392

txt While President Nixon is away from Washington this week in the Middle East , his Watergate legal team remains in the U.S. capital to cope once again with threatening developments on several fronts . Most immediately pressing is in the Washington courtroom of Judge Gerhard Gesell . It could be ominous . On Monday a meeting between the Judge and Nixon lawyers could lead to relaxation of the building tension between Judge Gesell and the President  --  or it could lead , ultimately , to either a contempt of court citation against the President or to judicial decision to dismiss a legal case against former top White House aide John D. Ehrlichman because the President refuses to let Ehrlichman lawyers see po-tenitkevidence : Over the weekend Judge Gesell angrily charged the President with action that " borders on obstruction " of justice and which " is totally offensive to all of our concepts of justice , " for apparently going back on an agreement with the judge and refusing to let the lawyers see notes from Mr. Ehrlichman 's personal White House files . // *As Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case until Monday , apparently in hopes Mr. Nixon would retreat , as in some past cases he has retreated and provided White House tapes . Monday Judge Gesell is to decide what course to take next . The case charges Mr. Ehrlichman and several others with conspiring to violate the civil rights of Dr. Lewis Fielding , psychiatrist of Daniel Ells-berg , in connection with the burglary of the Fielding office by the White House " plumbers " unit . At the moment trial is scheduled to begin June 17 in Washington . However , unless the President retreats , Judge Gesell may decide to dismiss charges against Mr. Ehrlich-man , holding that attorneys were denied access to relevant material helpful to his defense . Or Judge Gesell could decide to hold Mr. Nixon in comtempt of court , charging him with not honoring the agreement . Either action would be another blow to the fortunes of the President as he battles to remain in office . Either action could be expected to convince some members of Congress that legal , criminal grounds exist for impeachment and conviction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire trial , or the trial of Mr. Ehrlich-man , in hopes that the evidence subsequently would be forthcoming from the White House . Just up Capitol Hill from Judge Gesell 's office , developments occur this week in Congress on two fronts . House hearings continue One is the House Judiciary Committee , now slightly more than halfway through its staff presentation of evidence concerning the President 's possible involvement in Watergate-related activities . On Tuesday the committee meets once again in closed session . Thus far committee members have heard chief committee counsel John Doar relate information about the Watergate break-in itself ; much but not all of the staff information about the cover-up ; evidence concerning the government 's settlement of an antitrust case against ITT ; and circumstances surrounding the President 's decision to raise milk price supports and the dairy industry 's sizable contributions to the 1972 Nixon re-election drive . Yet to come is additional evidence on the coverup , including the mysterious 18% minute gap in a key White House tape ; the break-in into the office of Dr. Fielding and to what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the reports of various attempts to politicize government agencies on behalf of the Nixon re-election effort ? including the Internal Revenue Service and the FBI . This last could be a " sleeper " in the impeachment effort , some here believe , if evidence indicated the President were aware of any major effort to use government agencies for strictly political rather than government purposes . Members of the Senate Watergate committee , which is in the final stages of drawing up its report , now have a staff report which asserts a White House effort to " politicize " government departments during 1972 " may rise to the level  --  of a conspiracy to interfere with the lawful function of government , " according to press reports here .                     