@@729611

txt The Controller General of the United States ruled today that funding of foreign military aid , will cease Sept. 1 unless the Nixon Administration meets a demand by Congress for a military-aid document . The ruling by Controller General Elmer B. Staats marked a major victory for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in its continuing clashes with the Administration over access to secret Government documents . Mr. Staats held that the Administration must either provide the committee with its five-year military assistance plans or President Nixon must formally , in writing , give his reasons for withholding the document . Panel Voted Cutoff The Foreign Relations Committee on July 29 voted , 15 to 0 , to suspend all foreign military aid unless the Defense Department provided it with the document , which Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird has insisted does not exist . The committee acted under a provision of the 1961 Foreign Assistance Act , which stipulates that spending for foreign aid will be suspended if , within 35 days , the executive branch has not supplied a doc : ument requested by a Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 35-day period the President forbade the release of the document  --  and gave his reasons for doing so  --  the cutoff of funds would not go into effect . Pentagon Wo n't Comment The Controller General , whose General Accounting Office is the investigative watchdog agency of Congress , is authorized to disallow the spending of funds that have been appropriated in cases in which he finds noncompliance with the law . In his ruling today , Mr. Staats held that it would be a violation of the law if the Pentagon failed to provide the requested document or if the President did not formally refuse to make the information available and did not state his reasons . A Pentagon spokes-I man declined today to co ? i ment on the ruling . Secretary Laird , in a letter to the Foreign Relations Committee on Aug. 7 , said that it was impossible to comply with its request because " we have no document or documents which constitute a current five-year plan for the Military Assistance Program in the Department of Defense . " As a result , he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a cutoff in funds did not apply . Senator J. W. Fulbright , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , said today that Lieut . Gen. Robert H. IWarren , Deputy Assistant See1 retary of Defense , for Military Assistance and Sales , had acknowledged the existence of a five-year plan . " ? Mr .. Fulbright said that General . Warren , testifying before an appropriations subcommittee on June 24 , was asked to supply a , fiVe-year projection of the military assistance program . Mr. - Fulbright - quoted General Warren as , replying that he was not authorized to release such information and that over the years the fiveyear plan for the military assistance program had been considered an internal , tentative planning document . Mr. Fulbright also quoted General Warren as saying &at; " inasmuch as a determination by the President relative to the release of the five-year plan outside of the executive branch is required in these circumstances , the Department of Defense is unable to comply with the subcommittee 's request pending the Presidential determination . " A Two-Year Battle Mr. Fulbright said he felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' Department of Defense has a document or documents which it has repeatedly referred to as a ' five-year plan ' . " For more than two years both the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the General . Accounting Office have sought repeatedly to obtain the plan . The committee has also clashed with the Defense Department over efforts to obtain I other documents , including studies of the Vietnam war and the Tonkin Gulf incident . The Pentagon study of the war was finally made available to Congress this summer .                     