@@731124

txt Shepherds watched their flocks by night and aimed Israeli troops patroled the hills around Bethlehem today as Christmas came to the town where Jesus was born . Israel/ security forces kept a night watch over the hilltop town in case of Arab guerrilla sabotage as Christmas began with midnight mass in an incense-laden grotto , where tradition says the manger of Jesus lay on the first Christmas . Bells pealed from the Crusader-built Church of the Nativity and Christmas reached a climax with a Roman Catholic pontifical high mass . IN THE ANCIENT grotto beneath , now walled in marble and hung with tapestries and oil lamps , Jerusalem 's patriarch , Msgr . Giacomo Giuseppe Beltritti , placed a carved figure of the Infant Jesus on a star of silver and vermilion , marking the spot of . the birth . Hundreds of worshipers , many of them diplomats and dignitaries and all with special invitations , followed the mass in the adjacent Church of St. Catherine . Outside , Arab Christians from Bethlehem and the few foreign tourists who defied Middle East tension to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giant television screen affixed to the wall of Bethlehem 's police station . AWAY from the electric glitter and decorations of Manger Square and the soldiers peering from the rooftops , the olivegroved hills appeared much the same as they must have looked 20 centuries ago . Flocks of sheep wandered over the rocky ground , lamps lit the steep stone alleyways of Bethlehem , and the sound of carols came from nearby Shepherds Field where the Bible says an angel brought the glad tidings . And despite the pomp of the rituals and the garish souvenir shops outside the church , the simplicity of the Christmas message was spelled out by the inscription carved above the grotto : " HERE Jesus Christ was born to the Virgin M a r y . " Moslem residents of Bethlehem , a half-Christian town of 25,000 , ignored the Christmas ceremonies and some went instead to see " Queen of Fist , " a karate film at V --  ** movie theater . Merchants complained about the lack of visitors , and some stood disconsolately out s ide their display windows , filled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Israeli occupation of the Arab town was a stack of Golda Meir notepads next to a pile of miniature Santa Clauses . Bethlehem 's mayor Elias Freij said the October Middle East war slowed the flow of tourists and pilgrims to a trickle , compareit to the 5,000 who came for Christmas last year . The desk clerk at the Palace Hotel , beside the old church , confirmed that " business is bad . Only 15 of our rooms are full and there are no tour groups . "                     