@@728644

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Controlling Inflation To the Editor : Increasingly many individuals are calling for some form of wage-price guideposts or even controls to contain the present inflation . These controls will only serve to mask the unspent inflationary forces in the economy . However , the major underlying force , an overly expansive monetary policy in the form of a 10.1 per cent per year increase in the money supply ( broadly defined ) from January 1967 to January 1969 , will still be there ; and no amount of controls can alter this fact . Furthermore , the imposition of controls could conceivably allow a more expansive monetary policy than we have experienced in the past , since the effects of this policy , in terms of rapid price increases , would no longer be visible to the press or the public . Note that controls would be a golden opportunity for an administration beset with difficulties in acquiring more tax revenue from a reluctant Congress simply to print money to acquire goods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any benefits that might conceivably accrue from them . Judging from past experience there would be no allowance for a shift in the relative prices of goods or labor services , in itself a subtle but important regulator of economic activity . Some goods would pile up while others would be scarce , with the result that black markets would arise ; individuals who in any other time would be considered enterprising capitalists would be viewed as common criminals . The Government might step in , as it has in agriculture , to impose quotas on the production of goods in order to achieve a more proper allocation of resources , a condition much more easily and cheaply obtained under our current free enterprise system . I find it strange that those who wish to limit the powers of our Government on one hand are quite willing to give it extraordinary powers on the other . JACK L. RUTNER Washington , May 29 , 1970 ? Passenger Trains To the Editor : Recent proposals by the Department of Transportation to take over the responsibility for intercity passenger trains are highly commendable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the passenger trains have to be run on tracks maintained by the railroads , the quality of the service will be limited unnecessarily . Nothing has been suggested that will induce the railroads to maintain trackbeds in better condition than is necessary for moving freight . The speed potential of modern passenger trains can not be realized on such roadbeds . If railroad passenger service is to be made adequate , it will be necessary for the Government to take over and maintain tracks . The tracks could then be leased to the railroads for the movement of freight . MORRIS MENDELSON Assoc . Professor of Finance University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia , June 3 , 1970 ? Role in Vietnam To the Editor : With the withdrawal of ground troops within a year to eighteen months a more or less definite commitment , there is one lever at our command which we can use to influence the combatants . It is the size of the residual support force we leave in South Vietnam . We can urge the South Vietnamese Government to enter into good faith negotiations now to end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some power with the Vietcong , because we feel that the South Vietnamese people want peace and are willing to take their chances on having some of the former enemy in their midst . If the South Vietnamese do not choose to negotiate in good faith they will have to " go it alone " in eighteen months . If they do negotiate in good faith and the Vietcong remain intransigent , the U.S. will provide a residual support force to aid their army until such time as the enemy does become reasonable . To the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong we can say it is politically feasible for the U.S. to maintain a volunteer residual support force in South Vietnam for a number of years capable of lending sufficient aid to the South Vietnamese army to thwart a military takeover . If the North negotiates in good faith now they may achieve some measure of power in South Vietnam . If they do not choose to negotiate in good faith they may have to wait forever . This approach vv mid use muscle not to impose any form of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face reality and work out their own solution . The U.S. should not pressure either side to go more than half way . If a compromise settlement is achieved the U.S. can be thankful that the conflict will have moved into the arena of peaceful evolution , regardless of which side comes to dominate . JOHN S. MOORE Boston , Mass. , June 6 , 1970 Unions ' Tradition To the Editor : There is something sad about the spectacle of hard-hat construction union members attacking young people who are protesting for peace . Labor unions have traditionally been on the side of freedom and civil liberties . Samuel Gompers and John L. Lewis taught their members that labor unions often suffered the quickest and the most from tyranny and intolerance . My father and I were loyal union members for over fifty years . We each walked the picket lines in the 1930 's when it was a dangerous thing to do . We saw violence used against us when we tried to speak up for the rights guaranteed us under the Constitution and the laws passed by Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spectacle of labor union members forgetting their proud heritage and joining the forces of intolerance to beat up people who are exercising their right to dissent . These young people ask only that we stop the senseless killings in Vietnam and act the great democracy we are . I hope that the labor unions will return to their former position of defending the rights of the weak and upholding  --  the individual liberties guaranteed by our Constitution . DAVID DOBSON Louisville , Ky. , May 28 , 1970 ? Example to Youth ? To the Editor : After reading about the small voter turnout in the New Jersey primary election , one can begin to realize how silent " the silent majority " can be . Where were they when they could have been showing youth how our democratic process really works ? PATRICK T. WALSH Westfield , N. J. , June 3 , 1970                     