@@733262

txt The floodlights glared , and the cameras clicked . Teng Hsiao-ping joked with reporters before sitting down for 2'J , hours with U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance . For the twice rehabilitated Vice-Premier Aug. 24 was a day in the limelight . But when it was all over , there was still no sign of a break in the complicated issues blocking normalization of American relations with China . After three days of talks totaling 10 hours , both sides carefully refused to characterize the negotiations as showing progress . Both agreed to call the talks " useful and serious . " But the Chinese refrained from adopting Secretary Vance 's evaluation of the sessions as " frank and thorough . " Both sides expressed hope that normalization would move forward . But at an evening banquet attended by both Mr. Teng and Mr. Vance in the 200-year-old summer palace , toasts by both sides refrained from signaling any concrete steps forward . " I also look forward to the movement forward of the relations between our two nations . , " declared Mr. Vance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward full normalization of relations , " said Mr. Teng. // Sven Simon Teng ? clicking cameras , cautious words The cautious diplomatic phrasing and the refusal of an official American spokesman to characterize the talks as showing progress suggested still unresolved differences over the issue of Taiwan . Cutoff demanded China has demanded that the U.S. sever diplomatic relations with the island country , withdraw its 1,400 soldiers there , and end the mutual security treaty between them that dates back to 1954 . The Carter administration has hinted its willingness to comply with these requests , but insists that China recognize a continuing American interest in the peaceful solution of the problem . The Vance party is thought to be sounding out ' the Chinese on how they would react to a lower-profile security commitment to Taiwan ? including such things as continued arms shipments and economic aid . But so far spokesmen for the Peking government have insisted that continued arms shipments would constitute outside interference in China 's internal affairs . But even if both sides are still split over this issue , it remains to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to agree to disagree . Carter position The Vance party is thought to be eager to convince the Chinese that President Carter is sincere in a desire to normalize relations ? but that specific political problems with American public opinion and with Congress limit , at least for now , his freedom of action . The American delegation thus has been ex- pected to probe for ways to promote increased , if still limited , cooperation , such as negotiating financial claims between the two countries , exporting technological assistance to China , and perhaps easing trade restrictions . But as of this writing neither side would reveal whether there had been any progress in these areas . The meeting between Mr. Teng and Mr. Vance could be said to symbolize the continued rise of the former 's political star . It was the first major foreign-affairs task undertaken by Mr. Teng since July , when he was rehabilitated for the second time from official disgrace . Warm greetings Confident and smiling , the sometimes caustic , often witty Vice-Premier warmly greeted a line of American journalists with the firm handshake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what you write . Some is accurate . Some is not , " he declared with a grin . Mr. Teng and Mr. Vance then adjourned with their assistants to a conference room in the Great Hall of the People . There the Chinese leader prefaced the opening of serious talks with reminiscences on his days as a revolutionary in the 1930s ? and with a discourse on the value of self-reliance . In a related development , Reuter reported Aug. 24 from Taipei , Taiwan , that U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Richard Holbrooke was due to arrive there Aug. 26 to brief Taiwanese leaders on Mr. Vance 's visit to Peking . Announcement of the Holbrooke trip was credited to the Taiwan Central News Agency . Mr. Holbrooke , who was expected to stay on Taiwan only one day , was with the Vance party in Peking.                     