@@730281

txt " Varu-Varu " anyone ? Or how about a " Rilio " or a " Minsk Spring " ? Or " Violets " maybe ? No , these are not brand names of suft drinks or perfumes . They are new Soviet ballroom dances which Kremlin cultural authorities are vigorously trying to sell to the nation 's young people . The dances are bouncy and graceful and , as one might expect , thoroughly devoid of the often wild , uninhibited , gyrations of Western youth . Occasion for a demonstration of the ww Soviet offerings was an All-Union Competition of BallroOm Dancing just held here . Organized by the Ministry of Culture , this was the first competition of its kind and represented a massive official effort to interest youth in dances which are considered morally wholesome and aesthetically pleasing . Three-day competition A total of 91 couples from all parts of the country took part in the three-day contest , which was preceded by competitions at city , provincial , zonal , and republic level . All 15 republics sent contestants , and ages ranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different categories , ? contemporary Soviet , foreign , and historical . In the foreign category were such oldtimers as the quickstep , the Cha Cha , and the slow waltz . In keeping with the dance styles , the girls wore spike heels and knee-length dresses with flaired , multi-petticoated skirts that were more reminiscent of the 1950 's than 1972 . Their partners sported dark tuxes. // *Kremlin propaganda // How successful the regime will be in introducing new , uniquely " Soviet " dances is a moot question . Soviet young people have been twisting , shaking , and rock-androlling along with their Western counterparts  --  and no sooner does a new trend appear in the West than they hasten to imitate it . Crowds missing Sophisticated Muscovites , at any rate , did not storm the gates to see the recent competition . On opening day , the mass event drew only 1,200 spectators or so , mostly organized groups of schoolchildren . By the final day , July 2 , when the , winners performed , the crowd had almost tripled . But even then the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filled to capacity . " I do n't understand why there were so few people , " commented a dance instructor from a provinci-1 Russian city . " I guess Moscow just has too many a ttr a ctions . " Enthusiasm apparently ran ' higher in the provinces . " When the zonal competitions were held , " said the teacher , " about 7,000 young people showed up to watch , and the militia was called out to keep order . " The young woman told me that when she went to a rural town to organize an amateur dance ensemble , some 1,000 youths applied . She selected 100 , she said , and one couple even competed in the Moscow finals . Not enough teachers " The problem in our country is that there are n't enough instructors , " she said earnestly . It was not surprising that the Baltic republics , where the youth tend to be in the swim of western culture and are more accustomed to ballroom dancing , took many of the high honors in the contest . The two top winners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and another pair from Vilnius . Significantly , too , it was the more Western-flavored dances which elicited the loudest cheers from the audience . One popular number was , a lively new Lithuanian number called " Rilio , " performed to a modest rock beat . Some current features The dance contained some current Western features , such as the side-toside shake of the head , and the couple dancers were dressed in colorful , modern style . But most of the Soviet dances seemed to be " ballroomized " versions of folk dances , with heavy use of the Polka step , hand clap , and similar elements . However pleasant some of the dances , it all struck an outsider as a rather artificial effort to turn the clock back at a time when Soviet youth are yearning to catch up with . the mainstream of international culture . .                     