@@733991

txt Thousands of demonstrators continued their protests against Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi in Teheran today , and the leader of the opposition National Front said he expected the violence to persist even after the Shah had left the country . There was tumult in the capital as supporters of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , the Moslem leader in exile in France , thronged streets already choked by traffic . The traffic jams came as motorists returned to the streets after an increase in oil production eased the city 's fuel shortage . The demonstrators were friendly toward the troops who patrolled the streets . Some kissed the soldiers , giving them flowers , and chanted , " Greetings to our brother soldiers ! " Reuters reported from Teheran that some soldiers waved pictures of Ayatollah Khomeini , while others accepted red carnations from demonstrators and stuck them into the barrels of their machine guns or pinned them on their tunics . Karim Sanjabi , the leader of the opposition National Front , predicted tonight that rioting and violence would continue after a regency council takes over the powers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking at a news conference at his villa here , expressed muted criticism of the council , but indicated that the front would not press its criticism until after the Shah 's departure , which is expected this week . He also said he had not been consulted about the formation of a Council of the Islamic Revolution that Ayatollah Khomeini says he has formed to pave the way for a transitional government . Dr. Sanjabi 's remarks , his first public comment on the regency council and the Islamic Council , underscored the widespread fears here that disorder and confusion would continue after the Shah leaves . Religious Leader to Return These fears have been compounded by Ayatollah Khomeini 's statement in Paris yesterday that he planned to return here at some unspecified date and " supervise and direct the government . " There was some noisy debate in Iran 's ornate assembly building in downtown Teheran today as members of the lower house of Parliament began discussing the merits of the new civilian Cabinet and of its Prime Minister , Shahpur Bakhtiar . The debate is to be continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go in Dr. Bakhtiar 's favor . The Prime Minister told an interviewer that he did not fear being swept out of power if Ayatollah Khomeini returned to Iran . " I am too heavy to be swept away , " he said , adding that the " army can not be against me . " Negotiations Break Down When he was putting together his Government earlier this month , Dr. Bakhtiar and his aides expressed hope that Dr. Sanjabi and his National Front , a coalition of opposition groups , would work with the new Government and the regency council . But negotiations broke down for reasons that are still unclear . Dr. Sanjabi , who is 73 years old , seemed solemn and subdued tonight in the Parliament building as he answered reporters ' questions in Persian , which was translated by an interpreter . Dr. Sanjabi spoke by lantern light after the power failed in much of the capital , cut apparently by power workers as a sign of protest against the Shah . Asked whether the anti-Government riots and violence would continue once the Shah departs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aide added that this was because the Bakhtiar Government had been imposed on the people and that the opposition was not satisfied with it . " This regency council , which has been selected and appointed by the Shah , could not have any stronger positions then the Shah has had , " Dr. Sanjabi said . But it was evident that the National Front does not plan to emphasize its criticism of the council before the departure of the Shah , which is its first priority at present . The nine-member regency council , which includes Dr. Bakhtiar , is largely made up of elderly members of the Iranian Establishment . The formation of the rival Islamic Council by Ayatollah Khomeini was announced here yesterday in a communiqu ? from the Moslem leader . In Paris yesterday , it was reported the council 's members would include Dr. Sanjabi . But at the news conference , Dr. Sanjabi said , " I do n't know what Ayatollah Khomeini has in mind . " He added , " I have no idea as to when he will decide to come back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here or not ; I do n't know . " Dr. Sanjabi acknowledged that he had not spoken with the Ayatollah by telephone but it was understood that National Front aides had been trying to find out , by telephoning intermediaries in Paris , what it was the Moslem leader had in mind . Though Dr. Sanjabi did not say so , it was evident that the pronouncements of the Ayatollah about the Islamic Council , whose other members have not been identified , had nettled and jolted the front . Asked whether the Ayatolllah 's activity might trigger a military coup here , Dr. Sanjabi said he hoped not and asserted , " The army has the same position as the people and Ayatollah Khomeini . " Inhabitants of the southern town of Masjid-e-Suleiman reported today that six army conscripts had been shot and killed today by other soldiers after the conscripts tried to join civilians in mounting a demonstration in favor of Ayatollah 1 Khomeini . Nonviolent demonstrations in favor of I Ayatollah Khomeini and against the Shah I were reported in a dozen other Iran cities in addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both support and criticism of Dr. Bakhtiar . One deputy from the northwest poised this rhetorical question to the new Prime Minister , " Do you promise that you will not pour Iranian oil revenues out I into the pockets of the Americans under the pretext of buying arms ? " There was no reply from Dr. Bakhtiar , who is to speak on Tuesday . Iran 's oil production reached 500,000 barrels , more than double what it was last week when the protest strike by anti-Shah oil workers was at its height , but it was still substantialily less than Iran 's domestic needs . Oil exports remained suspended . ;                     