@@728729

txt Britain 's new Government put tax cuts and labor-union reform at the head of its program today . As they said during the election campaign last month , the Conservative party leaders indicated that they would try to tackle inflation by the unorthodox method of a production boom . This may mean tax cuts by fall , rather than when the regular budget takes effect next spring . The first intentions of Prime Minister Heath and his colleagues were made known , as is traditional , through the voice of the sovereign . Queen Elizabeth II gave the program to the new Parliament in her Speech From the Throne . Inflation Curb Sought " At home , " the Queen said , " my Government 's first concern will be to strengthen the economy and curb the inflation . " She added : " Rising production and steadily growing national income must provide the resources for improving the social services and the environment in which we live . " The energy and enterprise needed to achieve this will be encouraged by reforming and reducing the burden of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from unnecessary intervention by Government . " It was necessarily a general speech , but it said enough to suggest definite changes from the outlook of the newly deposed Labor party . There was an emphasis on free enterprise , competition and economic growth . Commercials Are Coming Among other things , Britain plans to have commercial radio for the first time . Until now the British Broadcasting Corporation has supplied the only radio service , free of advertising . Housing subsidies are planned , to be directed to those in greatest need . Local councils , which build a large share of all the homes in this country , plan to offer them for sale as well as for rent . The Conservatives also plan to carry out a promise to write a new immigration law putting Commonwealth citizens on the same basis as other foreigners . This will eliminate certain privileges for those in the Commonwealth but not essentially change the amount of immigration , now greatly reduced because of resistance to colored immigrants ? those from India , Pakistan , Africa and the West Indies . The Queen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was shown in color on television for the first time . There she was on her throne in the House of Lords , facing ranks of peers in scarlet and ermine , judges in wigs , bishops in their robes . The commoners , including Mr. Heath and Harold Wilson , now leader of the Opposition , were summoned from their chamber and stood at the back . Thy . speech was handed to the Queen by the new Lord Chancellor , Lord Hailsham  --  a symbol of the fact that it is written for her . Diamonds sparkled from Elizabeth 's neck as she read , slowly , for nine minutes . She seemed a bit strained ? perhaps reflecting the comment of her grandfather , George V , that one of the worst imaginable ordeals was to deliver somebody else 's speech while balancing a two - and - one - half pound gold crown on your head . After the pageantry , the members of the Commons trooped back over there and got down to their business , politics . Within a few minutes the noble platitudes had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first promising not to lead a " fractious " Opposition , denounced many items in the Government program . He spoke of a " sell-out to the commercial radio lobby . " He said there would be " outright opposition " from Labor to the sale of council houses in areas of great housing need . He had hard criticism for the long-planned Conservative reform of labor law . Among other things the Tories wantto encourage legally enforceable labor-management contracts and to provide Government power to delay wildcat strikes . The two leaders clashed also . on foreign policy ? an area in which the Queen 's speech had had little to say . It also seemed to treat with great care the areas in which the Conservatives , while electioneering , proposed change . Thus the Queen 's speech mentioned only the consulting of Persian Gulf leaders on common interests , rather than maintaining British forces there . It vaguely promised talks with Commonwealth friends on , stability in Southeast Asia . It did not mention arms for South Africa . But Mr. Wilson , assuming that the Government will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have disastrous effects on relations with the Commonwealth . He added that Bri- ' tain 's world standing must be rooted in morality and idealism. - Mr. Heath said that Britain had important interests in both South Africa and the black African counties . She would never " condone racist practices , " he said , but she should not follow unrealistic policies ' that harm Britain and do no good in Africa . Actually , Mr. Heath is not ready to announce any new policy toward South Africa . In this and other areas , word is being put out that the Tory Government will be " deliberate . "                     