@@734259

txt Letters CAROL BELLAMYMAX SPECTORDAVID LINEBAUGHJOHN NICOLOPOULOSHENRY HARRISONGIORGIO pg . A14 Letters The  --  Mayor 's Plan to Close . City Hospitals To the Editor : Your unqualified editorial support of the Mayor 's plan for closing hospitals reflects the same rush to judgment that characterized the Health and Hospitals Corporation board 's hasty approval on June 28 . The health and fiscal interests of New Yorkers were , ill-served by adoption of the plan only one week after its release . Public hearings and input from health planning agencies should have come , before the board 's action , not after . We must close hospitals and restructure our health services . Unfortunately , the Mayor 's plan does little more than shut aging facilities . By failing to address alternatives to hospital use such as ambulatory care and nursing homes , and by not moving to eliminate duplicate specialty services , the Mayor has missed an opportunity to cut costs and improve services at the same time . I see four basic problems with the Mayor 's approach . First , and most serious , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The residents of East Harlem would have municipal To the Editor : William Pfaff , in his June 22 Op-Ed article , characterized President Carter as " a scientific man seeking for certitude in an area of human experience , that of political conflict , which lacks mathematical or material certitude . " This assumption of Pfaff 's ? that history can not be treated as a science ? is at the root of the philosophical differences that exist between the capitalist and Marxist worlds . To Mr. Pfaff " the fascination of men 's political life lies in its final insolubility , its originality and insoluble mystery . " But Marxists do not regard the political life as an " insoluble mystery . " Their dialectics incorporate both the external world and that of human thought as part of the whole process of progression through the unity of opposites . " Men , " said Marx " make their own history , but under circumstances di rectly found , given and transmitted from the past . " Mr. Carter 's perplexity arises from the fact that he is To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment of SALT II will kill the treaty . But Senate amendment of the U.S.-Soviet guidelines for SALT III might meet the real concerns in the Senate about the inadequacies of SALT II and insure its ratification . The guidelines for SALT III should be amended to define lower ceilings on missiles with MIRV 's and on the Russian heavy missile , the SS ? 18 . This would lessen the threat to Minuteman , the American land-based missile , and lessen the need for the MX missile . A Russian commitment to fewer SS-18 's could be matched by an American commitment to defer MX . A reduction in missiles with MIRV 's will enchance deterrence ? for both the United States and the Soviet Union . SALT II would become a prelude to arms retraint rather than arms expansion . DAVID LINEBAUGH Washington , July 2 , 1979 outpatient services cut by about 130 , - 000 visits a year ; the . Lower East Side by 70,000 . There is no discussion of how more than 300,000 outpatient and emergency room visits in ' the voluntary hospitals marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . remaining institutions . At least 2.5 million New Yorkers now live in medically underserved neighborhoods . They look to hospitals for basic medical services . In fact , about 25 percent of all encounters with physicians occur in outpatient clines and emergency rooms . To slash , outpatient services , in this context runs counter to our number one . health planning priority ? providing basic medical care to the unclersertred . It will also result in higher hospital bills since many outpatients with untreated ailments will eventually require hospitalization . Second , the possibility for major cost savings and increased efficiency by converting acute care hospital beds into long-term nursing care facilities was not even considered . Recent surveys in New York City found more than 1,000 patients waiting in hospital // Tom La Podulo enmeshed in contradictions that are inherent in a political system which makes a fetish of the denial of necessity . In pursuit of the principle of the free market , the ' President refused to impose controls on wages and prices and in consequence reaped the whirlwind of a crippling inflation . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his search for certitude . It is Mr. Carter , the protagonist of free enterprise , who is lost , for there is no certitude to be found in an unscientific society . MAX SPECTOR Maspeth , N.Y. , June 25 , 1979 Turkey 's Flexibility To the Editor : In reference to the June 20 letter from Altemur Kilic , Deputy Permanent Representative of Turkey to the U.N. , on Cyprus-Aid to Turkey linkage , in which he claims that " The lack of progress in the matter ( Cyprus ) was not due to Turkish intransigence ... , " I would like to point out that the only token of flexibility of the Turkish side of which we know has been their recent willingness to admit the resolutions of the U.N . as one of the talking points for the resumption of the intercommunal negotiations in Cyprus . In this connection , I would like to remind your readers that the operative Resolution 3212/1974 was adopted unanimously with Turkey present and voting . This was five years ago . JOHN NICOLOPOULOS Dir. , Press and Information Service Consulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beds to be placed in nursing homes . For each waiting patient the public was forced to pay an average hospital bill of $250 a day instead of $50 a day for nursing home care . Third , the Mayor 's program ignores the proliferation of expensive , specialty care in teaching hospitals on Manhattan 's East Side . Many services in these hospitals ? open heart surgery , nuclear medicine , neurosurgery , CT scanners ? are duplicative and often exist more for teaching purposes than for patient needs . Finally , I am deeply concerned with the process of implementing the recommendations in the Mayor 's proposal . Many of the key elements in the plan ? the closing of private hospitals , consolidation of municipal ' facilities under voluntary auspices ; opening Woodhull Hospital , the establishment of new ambulatory services ? require formal approval by ? local and state health planning agencies . The notable exceptions appear to be H.H.C. 's decision to surrender operating certificates for Metropolitan , Sydenham , Greenpoint and Cumberland Hospitals , where only written approval by the State Commissioner of Health is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's plan should be submitted for formal approval or amendment in its entirety . Governor Carey must , at long last , face up to his legal and political responsibilities and create a clear-cut mechanism for implementing whatever final plan emerges . I urge that this process be in place by September . With patient and fiscal stakes so high , we must proceed carefully ' to close hospitals in a coordianted and evenhanded fashion . Otherwise , , patient care will needlessly deteriorate , anticipated cost savings will not Ma= terialize , and proposed closings may not survive the inevitable Court challenges . CAROLHELLAPAY President , New York City Council New York , , June 29 , 1979 Safety in Numbers To the Editor : Prof. William Vickrey 's solution ( letter June 29 ) to the " natural gregariousness of buses ... would be the installation of a Computerized , Automated , Bus Spacing and Dispatching System . " What Professor Vickrey fails to consider is the absolute fear which has overcome not only all of animate life in New York , but inani mate life as well . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the computer , but there are limits even to computers . Fear and apprehension are not easily computerized , so that pressing a bunch of indifferent buttons will no more alleviate the huddling , of buses than it will prevent the only six elevators in a building from taking their flights to heaven all at the Larne time . To give you further proof of the terrible anxiety ( which is indeed justified ) that permeates the buses , there are sections of town no bus ; no matter how brave , will dare venture into . Can you find a 7th Avenue bus that will run below Houston Street as twilight falls ? On Saturdays and Sundays that fear is so overwhelming that none will dare go beyond Houston Street at any time of day . Fear , of course , is not always rational . Soho and Tribeca are peaceful places , generally , but try to convince anyone that any place is safe . these days , and you 'll have a most convincing argument on your hands : So do n't be too harsh on buses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company of peers . HENRY HARRISON New York , Awe 30 , 1679 Mr. Carter 's Search for Certitude Upper East Side Historic District Should Be Rejected To the Editor : The New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission , together with a committee of dedicated New Yorkers , is at present promoting the designation of a 63-block section of the Upper East Side as a historic district . In this area many new high-rise apartment houses stand among the 4- and 5-story buildings which used to be the residences of New York society . A historic district designation unrelated to a clear , effective downgrading of zoning density , however , may significantly damage the goal it is trying to promote , because of the actual procedures and methods of our city 's real estate and building industries . The transformations that have taken place in these areas in the last 20 years have occurred because the high floor area ratios of the zoning law and the successive assemblage of various small properties into lots of approximately a half-block size translate in our zoning system into an invitation to towers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metropolitan areas has proven that maintenance of an esthetic " character " is steadily related to a ceiling on the height of future buildings . This is visible in Paris inside the ring of boulevards , in Madrid 's Historic Center , and in Rome 's Renaissance Quarter . Nobody wishes to tear down a building in order to rebuild approximately the same square footage for speculative or investment ventures . New construction occurs only when exceptional owners wish exceptional architectural situations of high presThe Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . tige . Then sophisticated architects arrange for projects where free unrestricted creative imagination can work much better without the burden of bureaucratic restraints , concerned with " taste , " " style " and details ? and , perhaps , community interpretation of them . The real character of the entire area under consideration , or at least the part of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the small size of the properties and the low level of the roofs ( low for Manhattan ? 4 or 5 floors ) . A strong social force is also the recollection of the original elegance of these addresses . None of these elements would be preserved by declaring this area a historic district . On the contrary , the design directive of the district would leave it in conflict with the height permitted by the zoning law within the various blocks . It would foster architectural solutions which I would find damaging to the character itself . Towers would be erected with " as-of-right " designs with:tit variances , a few feet back of a screen wall preserving the designated facades as a stage set . The real character of the district , its airiness and light which permits trees on the sidewalk , the feeling of residential harmony within the high windows , the small facades with their different personalities would be lost anyway . The preserved facades would satisfy history buffs , but would be no better than reproductions . Apart from these esthetic considerations , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility of the commission design decisions and studies for 63 city blocks , with the consequent burden of analyzing projects on over 100 acres of land without the staff or means necessary for this job , at a time when the city is fully unprepared to assign to them the large funds needed . I regret to say that I oppose the designation and I urge that it be rejected . GIORGIO CAVAGLIERI N.Y . State Preservation Coordinator of the American Institute of Architects New York , July 3 , 1979                     