@@729508

txt The sharp rise in consumer prices last month is an unpleasant reminder of what inflation is continuing to do to the value of the dollar . Announcement that the price ? index went up six-tenths of 1 per cent in May came just after President Nixon 's chief economic adviser , Dr. Paul W. McCracken , gave the first official word that the Administration is dissatisfied with the way its economic " game plan " is working out . The economy is growing too slowly to bring unemployment down below the 6 per cent level it reached last December . With large numbers of graduates and veterans entering the labor force , the jobless rate may even rise . The May jump in prices does not necessarily negate scattered signs earlier this year of some slowing of inflationary trends , but it is accompanied by other worrisome portents . The money supply has been climbing at an annual rate of 11.6 per cent since the end ' of 1970 , and at an even faster rate in the past three months . Such rates of monetary growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expectations are driving up the cost of money , further jeopardizing the slow economic expansion . Some banks have just boosted their prime lending rates , but others have held at the old rate under Administration pressure . However , the clear indication given by Chairman Arthur F. Burns that the Federal Reserve Board means to slow down the excessively rapid growth rate of the . money supply is likely to put additional upward pressure on interest rates , at least in the short run . Meanwhile , the wage-price spiral is unchecked . Excessive wage boosts are intensifying both inflation and unemployment . Although the Administration increasingly expresses its unhappiness over inflationary wage-price actions as it did over the recent jump in aluminum wages and prices  --  its sporadic statements have no perceptible effect . To get out of the inflation - unemployment bind , a change in basic Administration policy has become essential , with action to curb the leapfrog of wages and prices as its first element . An effective incomes policy needs the full support of the President and his top aides . Its starting point should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to prevent a final round of wage - price boosting before restraints can be put in place . During the freeze period a high-level stabilization board appointed by the President could work out procedures to assure business , labor and the public that inflation will be equitably but firmly brought under control . The overhaul of economic policy also requires a major shift of emphasis from monetary to fiscal . Faced as it is with large budget deficits , the Administration has been hesitant to offset any slowdown in monetary growth with a more stimulative fiscal policy . The big current deficits , resulting basically from a sluggish economy , are not particularly stimulative . These deficits , now likely to exceed $20 billion in both fiscal 1971 and 1972 , are attributable largely to revenue shortfalls . With faster growth , the deficits would shrink . The nation 's urgent social problems imply that extra fiscal stimulus should come primarily from expenditure increases sharply focused on aiding the poor , the unemployed , the staggering cities and other areas of acute need , rather than from tax cuts . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax reductions , should they be needed to provide additional support for a stagnant economy . We have long favored a more flexible fiscal policy for economic stabilization . But for the immediate future , we believe the President should use expenditure programs to attack acute problems , as he has done in making known his intention not to veto the public service employment bill but to use it for creating jobs for veterans . The nation 's growing social and environmental problems leave no shortage of useful targets for a fiscal policy appropriate to the times .                     