@@732515

txt The Lebanese . Parliament has this weekend elected a new President against a background of machine-gun and mortar fire . But will he be able to heal his country 's deep and cruel wounds ? The Israeli Cabinet is weighing this weekend its crucial decision on Jewish settlement in territory captured from the Arabs in the 1967 war . But can it come up with a decision that will neither undermine its position at home nor add to the obstacles in the way of an overall Israeli-Arab settlement ? In terms of such a settlement , events in Lebanon , Israel , and the United States ( where the presidential election campaign is galloping forward ) all suggest there is little likelihood immediately ahead of moving the Middle East significantly toward any compromise between Israel , its Arab neighbors , and the Palestinians . In some ways , the situation is more explosive than for many months . Yet it is at the same time more in flux than for many months , and to that extent not without hope . For all the grimness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a President-Elect , Elias Sarkis , backed by the Lebanese Christian right and President Assad of Syria . He has also the support of those of his Muslim countrymen who are Lebanese nationalists first and Arab nationalists second . Against himare Palestinians and Lebanese Muslims on the left of the political spectrum . The Palestinians oppose Mr. Sarkis because he is Mr. Assad 's candidate and they suspect Mr. Assad of wanting to keep a tight rein on them . Lebanon 's Muslim leftists are against Mr. Sarkis because ( 1 ) they suspect this patron , Mr. Assad , of being a U.S. tool ; and ( 2 ) the self-prclaimed spokesman of the left , Kamal Jumblatt , was left out as a power-broker in the new President 's election . Palestinian disappointment in Syrian President Assad has led to something of a rapprochement between Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) leader Yasser Arafat and // * Lebanon and Israel : tension races hope // Egyptian President Sadat . Mr. Sadat has reciprocated by bringing up in the UN Security Council the question of Palestinians living under Israeli occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sadat has hitherto shown no inclination to encourage the tearing apart of Lebanon . One of the remarkable aspects of the Syrian involvement in Lebanon so far is that it has not provoked direct Israeli intervention as had once been expected . The general assumption is that the United States sees the Syrian initiative as the most likely course to preserve Lebanon 's unity and integrity ( a U.S. aim ) and has therefore persuaded Israel to keep hands off . There is a suggestion ? not confirmed ? that in return for keeping Israel out , the United States has gotten an undertaking from Syria that it will renew without haggling the mandate of the UN peacekeeping force on the Golan Heights when it expires at the end of this month . In Cairo Saturday , the weekly Rose AlYoussef reported that Mr. Assad had informed both the U.S. and the Soviet Union of its willingness to go along with renewal of the mandate for six months . No source was given for this informition . It could be argued that with its hands full in Lebanon , Syria has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on its line with Israel and so lessen the likelihood of hostilities there at an unpropitious moment . But Israel ? which has always indicated its willingness to keep the UN force in place provided no price were demanded of Israelis for doing so ? has its hands full , too . Significantly perhaps , Israel 's immediate problems , like Syria 's , are with the Palestinians . In Israel 's case it is those Palestinians living under Israeli administration , primarily on the occupied West Bank pf the Jordan but also to some extent in Galilee , in Israel proper . The West Bankers are up in arms because of Jewish settlement in their midst , encouraged by youthful Israeli religious nationalists and ( West Bankers argue ) condoned by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin 's government .. The latter is faced with the immediate need to decide what to do about a group of settlers which defied government orders and set itself up near Nablus , one of the most nationalist of all Arab towns on the West Bank . Firm action against them could split the Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Failure to act could produce heightened unrest among West Bankers , who only last month showed the way they were prepared to go by electing to the leadership of municipal councils either communists or nationalists ready to associate themselves openly with the PLO . ( There had earlier been a move in the same direction in the Arab town of Nazareth within Israel proper . This has been followed by an unprecedented stirring among Israeli Arabs this spring against compulsory purchase of their land by the Israeli Government . ) Whatever the Israeli Government 's immediate decisions , these developments are forcing it to recognize and address itself to the Palestine dimension . And just like the quiet renewal of the UN peacekeeping mandate on the Golan Heights ? if it comes to pass ? that could be a plus in the search for peace , despite the gunfire in Lebanon .                     