@@730001

txt ' President Nixon , if he is reelected , seems almost sure to face two more years of Democratic control in the Senate . In fact , it appears probable that he would go through his entire eight years in the White House without once seeing the Senate in Republican hands . No President in this century has served two terms with the upper house continuously under opposition control . A detailed study of the 33 Senate races that will take place this year , overshadowed by the Presidential race but significant nonetheless , indicates that the Republicans will be fortunate to maintain their present minority of 45 seats . The Democrats hold 55 . ( James L. Buckley , Conservative-Republican of New York , caucuses with the Republicans , and Harry F. Byrd Jr. , independent of Virginia , with the Democrats ) . Republican and Democratic politicians in several key states and in Washington said with remarkable unanimity that Democratic gains of one to three seats were more likely than a . standoff . A ranking Republican official commented that he would be surprised not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breakdown after Nov. 7 he 57-43. as seems entirely possible , the Republicans would have to make an off-1 year gain of eight seats in 1974 ? unprecedented in recent political history for a party controlling the White House to take control of the Senate for the final two years of a second term . A number of Senators appear vulnerable this year , but at the moment , only three seats seem more likely than not to change hands . They are those of John Sherman Cooper , Republican of Kentucky , who has announced his retirement ; Karl E. Mundt , Republican of South Dakota , absent from the Senate for two years following a stroke , and Claiborne Pell , Democrat of Rhode Island , who trails John ' H. Chafee , Secretary of the Navy , a Republican , in the polls . Some Republican incumbents who seemed to be in deep trouble a few months ago have bounced back . Among these are the following : Jack Miller of Iowa . Mr. Miller , a supporter of the Administration 's unpopular farm policy , had expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Culver dropped out of the race , leaving the Democrats without a prominent candidate . 9 Robert P. Griffin of Michigan . Economic troubles in the state had seemed to imperil Mr. Griffin , but the busing controversy and Administration aid to the auto industry have put him back into a slight lead . 9 Mark 0 . Hatfield of Oregon . Mr. Hatfield had seemed doomed either in a primary with Tom McCall , the popular Governor , or in a general election race with Representative Edith Green . But both Mrs. Green and Mr. McCall decided not to run and Mr. Hatfield became the favorite . Of the 14 Democratic seats at stake this year , nine are in border or Southern states . The Democrats are favored to retain all nine , but stiff primary fights are expected in several of them . North Carolina Contest In North Carolina , Senator B. Everett Jordan , who underwent cancer surgery last year at the age of ' 74 , will run against Rep ? resentative Nick Galifianakis . In Arkansas , Representative David H. Pryor , a 37-year-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 76-year-old chairman of the Government Operations Committee . In Louisiana , the dean of the Senate , 81-year-old Allen J. Ellender , may be challenged by outgoing Gov . John J. or State Senator J. Bennett Johnston , who was narrowly beaten in the 1971 race for Govrnor . In Georgia , David H. Gambrell , appointed in 1971 to fill an unexpired term , may have primary opposition from one of a half-dozen candidates . Over-all , the new Senate is not likely to be much more conservative or more liberal than the old . In the 19th century and the first half of the 20th , the coattail effect  --  the pulling power of the men at the head of the ticket  --  had a substantial impact on Senate races in Presidential years . But that has declined substantially in the last two decades . The great Eisenhower sweeps of 1952 and 1956 , for example , produced Republican gains of one and zero seats respectively ; the Johnson landslide of 1964 produced a Democratic pickup of two seats . Nor were there major changes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nixon 's performance at the polls this fall seems unlikely to affect many of the Senate races . Nineteen Republican seats will be contested in 1972 . Of these , seven appear reasonably safe : Colorado ( Gordon Allott ) ; Delaware ( J. Caleb Boggs ) ; Massachusetts ( Edward W. Brooke ) ; New Jersey ( Clifford P. Case ) ; Alaska ( Ted Stevens ) ; South Carolina ( Strom Thurmond ) . and Wyoming ( Clifford P. Hansen ) . Republican incumbents hold clear leads , according to the study , in five states : Illinois ( Charles H. Percy ) ; Iowa ( Mr. Miller ) ; Nebraska ( Carl T. Curtis ) ; Oregon ( Mr. Hatfield ) , and Tennessee ( Howard H. Baker ** Democratic seats appear safe in the following six states : Arkansas ( Mr. McClellan ) ; Louisiana ( Mr. Ellender ) ; Mississippi ( James 0 . Eastland ) ; North Carolina ( Mr. Jordan ) ; Minnesota ( Walter F. Mondale ) , and West Virginia ( Jennings Randolph ) . The Democrats seem to be ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Georgia ( Mr. Gambrell ) ; New Hampshire ( Thomas J. ) ; Oklahoma ( Representative Ed Edmondson is expected to hold the seat of Senator Fred R. Harris , who is retiring ) , and Virginia ( William B. Spong Jr . ) . That leaves seven battleground states where the outcome seems in doubt at this point , and three where the seat seems likely to shift parties . Here is a rundown on the battlegrounds : IDAHO  --  Senator Len B. Jordan , a Republican , is retiring . A bruising Republican primary between Representative James A. McClure , a conservative , former Gov . Robert E , Smylie , a moderate , and possibly others , is in prospect . The probable Democratic candidate is Dr. William E. Davis , president of the University of Idaho at Moscow . KANSAS  --  Senator James B. Pearson , a Republican , won reelection in 1966 with only 52.1 per cent of the vote . Farm-belt discontent could hurt this time , particularly if Gov . Robert Docking decides to make the race . He has delayed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Margaret Chase Smith , a Republican , almost decided to retire . But she elected to fight for survival against a Republican rival , Robert A. G. Monks , a 38-year-old millionaire , and against Representative William D. Hathaway , a Democrat . Senator Edmund S. Muskie 's name at the head of the ballot would hurt her , so the Republicans are attempting to bar straight-ticket voting . MICHIGAN ? Mr. Griffin has rebounded . His Democratic opponent is likely to be either Frank J. Kelley , the State Attorney General , or former Mayor Jerome P. Cavanagh of Detroit . Neither is considered especially potent , and Mr. Kelley has been waffling on the locally explosive school busing issue . MONTANA ? Senator Lee Metcalf , a Democrat , who was re-elected over a lackluster opponent with only 53.2 per cent of the vote , will be hard put to defeat former Gov . Tim Babcock if Mr. Babcock decides to run . Otherwise , he will have less trouble . NEW MEXICO  --  The retirement of Senator Clinton P. Anderson after four years has thrown the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a businessman and former candidate for Governor , and former Representative Thomas G. Morris , Democrats , and former Gov . David F. Cargo and Peter Domenici , a lawyer , Republicans .. TEXAS ? Senator John G. Tower , a Republican , will be opposed by either Barefoot Sanders , former legislative counsel to President Johnson , or former Senator Ralph W. Yarborough , trying to come back two year . after he lost his seat . Mr. To an s given the edge by most observers . If the election were held today , the new Senator from Kentucky would probably be State Senator Walter Huddleston , a Democrat , who manages a radio station in Elizabethtown . He has the backing of Gov . Wendell Ford . Now that former Gov . Louie B. Nunn has said that he will not run , the Republicans have no candidate with Senator Cooper 's appeal . In South Dakota , the favorite is Representative James Abourezk , a 41-year-old Capitol Hill freshman with a reputation for liberalism . He is a Democrat . The Republicans will choose from among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yankton , and State Attorney General Gordon Mydland seemingly in the lead . Mr. Abourezk is running ahead of all Republicans in state polls . Finally , in Rhode Island , Mr. Pell will undoubtedly gain on Mr. Chafee , but the popular former Governor is considered the probable winner by politicians in the state . The Vietnam war is likely to be an issue , with Mr. Pell , an antiwar member of the Foreign Relations Committee , seeking to capitalize on Mr. Chafee 's role in the Pentagon .                     