@@728554

txt President Nixon , who flew 5,000 miles from Washington , and the three astronauts of Apollo 13 , who flew a quarter of , a million miles from the moon , met today at Honolulu International Airport to celebrate the successful conclusion of the aborted moon-landing mission . Flanked by the three astronauts , who had flown to Hawaii from Pagopago , American Samoa , the President awarded them the Medal of Freedom , the nation 's highest civilian award . " Greatness comes not simply in triumph but in adversity , " the President said . " It has been said that adversity introduces a man to himself . " Although the Apollo 13 mission was aborted following an explosion in space Monday night , the President described the voyage as " a successful mission . " Lovell Speaks for Crew Capt . James A. Lovell Jr. , speaking in behalf of the other Apollo 13 astronauts ? Fred W. Haise Jr . and John L. Swigert Jr . ? thanked the President and the ground crew in Houston to whom , he said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are glad to be here , " Captain Lovell said , " and we are glad to be part of America . " Mr. Nixon flew to Hawaii , with Mrs. Nixon and the families of the astronauts , from Houston , where the President had awarded the Medal of Freedom to the members of the Apollo 13 mission operations team . Mr. Nixon planned to stay pvernight in Honolulu at the Xahala Hilton Hotel . Speaking at the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston before Air Force One took off for the rendezvous with the astronauts in Hawaii , the President , asserting that he spoke " not just for Americans but for people all over the world , " hailed the Apollo 13 mission as a tribute to human courage and an example to the world . " We recognize it was not a enough and self - possessed enough to make the right decision . Their extraordinary feat is a tribute to man 's ingenuity , to his resourcefulness and to his courage . " In Houston , the President spoke from a raised wooden platform in front of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind him was an engineering mock-up of a lunar module , installed during the night . Despite overcast skies , there was a festive tone to the occasion . A band from Sheppard Air Force . Base entertained with a medley of military songs and children skipped and played in the background . , Mr. Nixon shared in the enfailure , " the President said of the aborted moon-landing mission . " The three astronauts did not reach the moon . But they reached the hearts of millions of people in America and in the world . " Standing before employes and their wives and children at the Houston headquarters of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , Mr. Nixon said . that telegrams and letters expressing relief at the successful conclusion of the mission yesterday had poured into the White House in " unprecedented " numbers . These messages , he said , constituted proof that " people of all religions , all faiths , all political beliefs were on the trip with these men . " Medal of Freedom Following his remarks , the President presented the Medal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ team . The award was received in behalf of the ground crew by Sigurd A. Sjoberg , director of flight operations at the Manned Spacecraft Center . Mr. Nixon was flanked on the outdoor speaking platform by the families of the three Apollo 13 astronauts and by Dr. Thomas 0 . Paine , Administrator of NASA , and members of the Apollo 12 and 13 mission operations team . When the President rose to speak in Houston , a group of about 25 demonstrators from the National Welfare Rights Organization began shouting slogans against The war in Vietnam and the compulsory employment provision of the new Federal welfare reform bill . The group was quickly isolated and taken away from the site of the ceremony . There was no resistance . The Medal of Freedom citations that were presented to the mission operations team read in part : " The men and women of the Apollo mission operations team performed a miracle , transforming potential tragedy into one of the most dramatic rescues of all time . Years of intense preparation made this rescue possible . The skill , coordination and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it happen . " Three brave astronauts are alive and on earth because of their dedication , and because , at the critical moments , the people of that team were wise thusiasm , which for him had begun early yesterday , when he watched the perfect splashdown of Apollo 13 on television . Aides recalled today that they had never seen him more preoccupied than he was yesterday . They said that , during the final 15 minutes of the flight , he had done a little dance step in front of the television set , gestured with his arms , and repeatedly yelled words of encouragement . It was then that he decided to leave Washington for a quick trip to Houston , Honolulu and San Clemente , Calif. , where he will deliver to the nation a situation report on Vietnam on Monday night .                     