@@734354

txt Letters BOB ECKHARDTROBERT F. O'BRIENLAURA Z. HOBSONFRANCIS J. KILROYRICHARD W. EVANS ... pg . A26 Letters To Reverse the President on Oil Decontrol To the Editor : On July 26 , the President sent each member of Congress a letter strongly urging oppositidn to a House amendment to the Department of Energy Authorization Act " designed to repeal the program of phased decontrol , " which he commenced on June 1 . Well , Mr. Carter is talking about my amendment . And it is not one that I alone support . The principle , contained in a resolution by Representative Toby Moffett and myself , was approved by the House Democratic Caucus on May 3 . The President knows that I am not now raising publicly a matter which I have not raised with him at an earlier time . On March 29 , when he invited about 20 of us to the Oval Office to ask our advice on energy policy , I urged him to permit the Energy Policy and Conservation Act 's controls on domestic crude oil to remain in effect until they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , we have come to know a great deal more about the effect of energy costs on inflation in the Consumer Price Index , yet the President ignored our warnings and began phasing out controls on June 1 under the discretionary authority granted to him by EPCA . In the last three months , energy costs have added between 4 and 6 percentage points to the rate of What Milk Price Curbs Do for New Jerseyans To the Editor : It is unfortunate that The Times has editorially condoned unregulated milk pricing in New Jersey ( " Let Milk Float in New Jersey , " Aug. 28 ) . New Jersey , through reasoned application of milk price minimums , has been able to maintain lower-cost milk than any of its neighboring states and to provide jobs for many in the milk industry . Your approval of abolishing milk controls ignores the legitimate needs and aspirations not only of New Jersey 's farmers but also of others who have been able to obtain work in the milk industry . As attorneys representing Teamsters Union members in southern New Jersey , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this state bodes nothing but further lost employment for New Jersey . The evils of unregulated competition have been known for more than 100 years . ROBERT F. O'BRIEN Camden , N.J. , Aug. 29 , 1979 Mondale Solution To the Editor : Here 's one way to stop the Kennedyfor-President bandwagon and /or a Republican victory in 1980 : One week before the New Hampshire primary , let President Carter unselfishly resign ; that would make Mondale President . Everybody knows that an incumbent President will be renominated and re-elected . Especially if he 's as able , forceful and qualified as Fritz Mondale . LAURA Z. HOBSON New York , Sept. 6 , 1979 To the Editor : In your thoughtful Aug. 24 editorial " The Bills for World War II , " you cite some facts . Overlooked were some more facts , which are : P.L. 95-588 ( Veterans Pension Improvement Act ) effective Jan. 1 , 1979 , did correct the anomaly of the V.A . terminating disability pensions because of past Social Security cost-of-living increases . The law will prevent this ever happening again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are prohibited from reapplying for restoration of terminated disability pensions because spouses ' Social Security income is now countable as veterans ' income . inflation . That means that inflation is at a double-digit rate because of these energy price increases alone . If Congress ; in the light of the dire economic consequences of the greatest energy inflation in our history ? which will inevitably be exacerbated if the rate of inflation is not stemmed ? somewhat modifies the President 's program , it would not be repudiating the program 's major parts , because by far the larger part of the revenue from the windfall profits tax would come from taxes after Sept. 30 , 1981 . The significant facts are : ( 1 ) The tax between now and 1981 would reTo the Editor : In his Sept. 4 column on the credit markets , Robert Bennett reports an expected tightening of the Federal Reserve 's monetary policy this month . Raising the prime rate and thus the cost of money to businesses and individuals is designed to lower the money supply and control the rate of inflation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this action , under our present state of affairs , may backfire completely . For several years now the American economy has functioned around continuously upward-spiraling prices . Increases in the cost of energy , materials and labor have become standard . As a result , the mechanism for passing this cost along to customers operates very quickly and efficiently , with New Year 's Day To the Editor : The kids went back to school today . Driving to work this morning , I passed them fresh , alert and smiling as they left home to begin a new term . Many wore their new fall outfits . Mothers , also bright with anticipation , accompanied some of the younger children . Despite their claims of the joys of summer , most children , I think , were happy to have order returned to their lives . My four children also went off , and at home I shared their excitement . New years may begin on Jan. 1 , but for most children between 5 and 17 the first day of school is the first day of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sept. 5 , 1979 The attitude of the Administration toward dividing " worthy " and " unworthy " veterans shows a failure to live up to the obligation of taking care of disabled veterans . There was no limit placed on the service required when the Government called them to arms . When you suggest integrating veterans ' benefits " with other social welfare programs " you are falling into the trap of undermining this obligation to the nation 's war veterans . I agree , Congress has some time to put veterans ' programs in order before the storm . Let 's hope they get at it now . FRANCIS J. KILROY New Hyde Park , L.I. , Aug. 25 , 1979 trieve less than half of the windfall profits enjoyed by the oil companies during that time , and ( 2 ) most of the additional costs to consumers would be the result of the increased price of old oil , which would not encourage new discovery . I feel we simply can not afford an additional $25 billion drain of purchasing power resulting from accelerated decontrol between now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $11 billion or $12 billion during this year and next as a result of D.O.E . ' s " tilt " rule , which benefits the refiners , and a further increase of comparable magnitude for retail gasoline margins under D.O.E . ' s existing program . The President is right when he says that we must reduce our consumption of foreign oil and thus our dependence on the OPEC cartel . However , we can not achieve this goal through the impoverishment of our people and the concomitant enrichment of a few giant oil companies . While he has shown great sensitivity to the need to recover a substantial part of the windfall from decontrol , I remain unconvinced that there is any practical way to do this ? as is required in our current economic circumstances ? except by preventing the windfall in the first place . BOB ECKHARDT Member of Congress , 8th Dist. , Tex . Washington , Sept. 10 , 1979 every expectation that price increases will be reasonably well received and in turn passed along . An increase in the cost of business capital is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prime rate is not , as conventional wisdom has it , anti-inflationary . Given a climate where a rapid inflationary spiral is habitual , an increase in the prime rate serves as a spur to inflation . More drastic means are necessary to fight inflation successfully . An increase in the prime rate would be an effective measure in the presence of strict price and wage controls . An alternative might be a direct decrease in the money supply through limiting government expenditures . RICHARD W. EVANS Philadelphia , Sept. 4 , 1979 Needed Contacts With the P.L.O . To the Editor : I agree with Bayard Rustin " To Blacks : Condemn P.L.O . Terrorism , " Op-Ed Aug. 30 that P.L.O . terrorism , like all terrorism , should be condemned . But to say that " any links with the P.L.O. , no matter how limited , would give legitimacy and tacit approval to ttie rule of the gun " rules out all possibility of communicating with the people who most need to be dealt with . If any negotiations with Israeli terrorists , of whom Prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , there would perhaps have been no Israel . Whatever the merits and demerits of creating new nations at this time in history , when we need world government , the fact is that groups united by common origins and beliefs do need autonomy and will struggle , as Israel struggled , to get it . Nonviolent struggle and a federation of semi-autonomous states would obviously be best , not only for the Middle East but for the world . Meanwhile , however , if we do not try to negotiate with and influence those who use terroristic acts and threats , and who rely on " the rule of the gun , " we will not able to communicate with any national government or nationalistic group in the world ? including ourselves and Israel ? with the possible exception of Costa Rica . ANN MORRISSETT DAVIDON Haverford , Pa. , Sept. 3 , 1979 A Nation 's Debt to Its Disabled Veterans Raising the Prime Rate , Feeding Inflation Peru 's Uphill Fight Against Unemployment and Hunger To the Editor : I have read with concern the Aug. 24 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written under the pseudonym of Jose Carrizo . Because of the fragmentary presentation of the Peruvian economic and social situation , the article tends to give readers of The Times a distorted image of actual developments in my country . ' It is true that because of various factors , which the author of the article does not bother to explain and which have a dramatic impact upon those sectors of the population with lesser means of support , Peru is facing many serious difficulties of an economic and a social nature . It is also true that , among the more acute problems , undernourishment and unemployment and their resulting health and financial effects on the families of laborers and peasants are most prevalent . But what has not been mentioned in the article is that the fundamental objective of the structural reforms introduced by the Government of my country has been and continues to be the setting up of foundations upon which to build a more equitable society that will foster the well-being of the Peruvian people . Unfortunately , the possibilities of development in a country like Peru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial and financial conditions , and for this reason any government 's efforts are met with obstacles which are not possible to remove with mere good will . For reasons which are well-known , the Peruvian Government was forced to adopt very drastic measures of austerity , including a reduction of important services and a limitation on food subsidies in order to improve the financial situation and insure the economic recovery of the country . These services and subsidies were beyond the state 's fiscal capability and were in the long run self-defeating , as they contributed to increased inflation . However , through other measures , the Government hopes to alleviate the effects of the policy it was obliged to impose because of lack of resources as well as to encourage an increase in production and investments so as to widen the opportunities of employment and allow an equitable distribution of the ensuing benefits . Those who point to the serious problems and sacrifices which Peru is facing should also contribute suggestions concerning the most effective means to attack the causes that have brought about the chronic situation encountered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honestly recognize that the efforts of those governments engaged in securing an authentic democracy , free from injustice and misery , can only achieve the objectives they seek with the full cooperation of all nations toward the establishment of a new international economic order which will insure the wellbeing of mankind as a whole . ALFONSO ARIAS-SCHREIBER Ambassador of Peru Washington , Aug. 30 , 1979                     