@@732960

txt " ALL I REMEMBER is seeing that Rave ( Ravenswood train coming closer and closer . Just before impact , 10 or 15 feet , I went to emergency . I heard it the emergency brake go dawn on the track . but it did n't hold . " I should have been able to stop , but I could n't , and it was going to hit , and I could n't understand why . " Thus did Chicago Transit Authority motorman Stephen A. Martin , 34 , describe the final moments before the crash of his Lake-Dan Ryan elevated train into a Ravenswood train Feb. 4 . That crash ended with four cars toppling from the tracks and 11 persons being killed . IN A TAPE recorded statement taken from his hospital bed Monday night , Martin said that after the impact " the train kept sliding , so I made the sign of the cross and took the fall . " Martin 's lead car and the three cars behind it fell off the elevated curve at Lake Street and Wabash Avenue . Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sherwood Levin , and Gerald Strawser , a local investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board , which is investigating the crash . In the interview , Martin said he applied the normal train brakes before going to the emergency brake but both failed to hold . Fie also denied knowledge of four marijuana cigarets police say were found in his shoulder bag after the crash . MARTIN SAID he was " coasting " traveling at 10 miles an hoar around the curve when he saw the Ravenswood train ahead . The Ravenswood train had stepped just short of the CTA platform at State and Lake streets . He said he applied the train 's emergency brakes shortly before impact . Martin 's description of what happened contradicts the version given by CTA officials who blamed the crash on " human failure . " James , acting CTA chairman , said after the crash a preliminary CTA investigation showed that mechanical equipment was working properly . L. Ulit , . / 01 Ill Lib . JJIU .1,1 ? 11 , . 11 stopped about 300 feet behind the Ravenswood train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control center  --  in apparent violation of regulations . EARLIER , discussion had been centered on the workings of the CTA 's socalled fail-safe system which would automatically brake a train but which allows a motorman to resume operating the train as long as he does not exceed 15 m.p.h . Martin , who was talking with difficulty during the interview , said he was looking out the side door in the cab as his train struck the Ravenswood tram . Martin has been in Northwestern Memorial Hospital since the crash with a fractured pelvis and other injuries . He said that , if he had applied the emergency brakes in the curve , the force of the sudden stop might have toppled the train oft the tracks . MARTIN SAID he was carrying a brown shoulder bag containing his identification , but when asked by Levin if he had ** in the bag . Martin replied , " No , I did n't . " Police investigators and staff members of the Chicago Crime Commission said they found four hand-rolled cigarets in the bag as they were sorting through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blind spot in the lower left corner of the motorman 's cab . He said vision is obscured by a tele. phone and an instrument panel . MARTIN ALSO said he never received a steady red light that is supposed to warn him to slop the train for another train ahead . Levin said Martin never received a steady red light , only a flashing red light . Martin said the flashing red light on the control panel was a normal procedure in that location  --  to warn him to operate the train at 15 m.p.h . " I had a flashing 15 , which Is normal for that curve , " Martin said . " I never got an audible signal . I should have . I should n't have been able to move . " Levin said there might have been problems with the Ravenswood train which interfered with the normal warning system so that it did not alert Martin to stop his train .                     