@@732160

txt U.S. Defense Secretary James Schlesinger is back in Europe once more to preach the gospel of " stalwart defense " and of standardization of military equipment . It is all part of his ongoing effort in behalf of the U.S. to keep up the West 's alliance of democratic nations ? no easy job in time of economic recession and political detente . Recession tempts members of the alliance to cut defense expenditure , and detente with the Soviet Union can be represented as lessening the need for any kind of alliance at all . Standardization of weapons within the alliance ? often advocated but never implemented ? would be one of the most telling ways of slashing costs without impairing military effectiveness . So there is special interest in the announcement made by the British Government that it is scrapping development of two British missiles in order to buy an American and a French-German one . Cost was the major factor . ( Earlier , British defense cuts eliminated many stations and positions around the world in order to concentrate the national defense effort on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What Mr. Schlesinger would like to see , is a level of defense expenditures that will at least suffice to compensate for the erosion caused by inflation // * U.S. tries to save NATO // He also loses no opportunity to preach more effective use of existing resources . This means standardization of weapons and weapons delivery systems , and a more rational system of procurement so that the 15 alliance members can get the maximum value for their shrinking dollars , pounds , or marks . Progress has been slow . But there has been an evolution in the attitude of France , which does not participate in the NATO military structure but which is eager to sell arms to its European partners . In June , the French Mirage jet fighter plane lost its competition with General Dynamics F-16 to win the " sale of the century " from Belgium , the Netherlands , Denmark , and Norway . The French plea was that Europeans should " buy European " in order to preserve their own aircraft and munitions industry . But as Belgian Prime Minister Leo Tindemans suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , efforts to establish a genuinely European aircraft industry have come too late . France has scarcely been a good model of Europeanness in this field , and Mr. Tindemans said that if the French did not participate in a proposed new interallied procurement agency , " all possibilities would be lost . " The French , while refusing formal participation , seem to be moving toward some form of association . Mr. Schlesinger may explore French thoughts further during his current tour , which will end in Paris next week , after visits to Britain , Denmark , and West Germany . Politically , detente is still the catchword in East-West relations . But there is increasing questioning within NATO as to whether detente favors the Soviet side more than the Western . SOviet forces in Eastern Europe continue to be strengthened . The Soviet Union has not eased up on people-to-people contacts with the West , despite the much-ballyhooed Helsinki summit in the summer .                     