@@728461

txt Chicago police have been probing waterfront racketeering involving missing cargo worth a quarter of a million dollars in the last shipping season . Targets of the two-month investigation at Lake Calumet harbor have been terminal officials , dock supervisors and cartage companies linked to crime syndicate figures . A special port security unit uncovered the scheme to smuggle tons of merchandise from warehouses and cheat the government out of thousands of dollars in unpaid duties . Police were ordered to patrol Lake Calumet harbor by Mayor Daley after TRIBUNE disclosures last year that widespread thefts and terrorism by longshoremen had forced importers to use other ports on the east coast and Great Lakes . The latest investigation shifted to some terminal operators reportedly working in collusion with cartage companies after at least several million dollars in imported goods turned up in the dock warehouses at the end of the shipping season altho they had never been reported missing rx stolen . The merchandise represented " short landings " or unclaimed goods and were supposed to be turned over to United States customs officials for disposal . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goods from Lake Calumet harbor . The investigation has shown that at least five truckloads of merchandise were taken from the south side docks . Scheme Is Explained The scheme , according to police , involved port checkers who would declare less than the full amount of goods landed at Lake Calumet harbor . The unreported goods , in turn , were secreted in the terminals and at the end of the shipping season illegally sold along with damaged or salvaged imports . A top police official , who estimated the dollar value of the merchandise , said the reports of shortages were delayed intentionally or in some cases not even reported to port authorities . Many Chicago merchants were forced to file insurance claims at the end of the shipping season , unaware the " missing " cargo was hidden in the warehouses . Since the investigation began , certain terminal operators have refused to cooperate in the probe and have denied police access to shipping records and receipts , it was disclosed by investigators . The terminal operators lease Capt . Verner Soballe storage space from the Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At least three cartage companies , including one operated from a south suburban home , are prime targets of the investigation . The lack of shortage reports was the primary reason why police were at first unaware that thefts were occurring . " We did not look for the merchandise because we did not know it was gone , " one investigator noted . The inquiry began in December when a man was arrested in connection with the theft of three barrels of meat casings from a waterfront terminal . Other Agencies Involves Capt . Verner Soballe , city seaport commissioner , refused to comment on the investigation , saying it would be premature at this time . However , Soballe said that his investigators have been cooperating with other government agencies in the probe and that the matter " does look suspicious at this time . " An Illinois legislative committee report released last summer charged that the United States customs service was lax in attempting to stop waterfront thefts.                     