@@733106

txt The feeling grows here that some headway is being made toward breaking the U.S.-Soviet impasse on limiting strategic nuclear arms . Taken together the pointers coming from the current talks between U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko indicate a pattern of intensive discussion . This is a marked change from the Vance-Gromyko talks in Moscow March 28-30 when the Soviets rejected two U.S. proposals without any discussion at all . But it is not yet known how fast or how far the talks are proceeding . The U.S. spokesman refuses to use the word " negotiation " ; he sticks instead with the word " discussion . " He thus shows the caution with which the U.S. has surrounded the talks so far . Nor is it yet possible to judge the kind of progress that realistically can be made here or how many more meetings might have to be held to achieve the momentum needed to reach a new strategic arms agreement . The current freeze on offensive nuclear weapons expires Oct. 3 . The stakes are very high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fields . Even a limited degree of agreement to keep on talking , on the // From o a ? e 1 Arms talks advance other hand , would go a long way toward arresting the slide in U.S.-Soviet relations in recent months . So far the signs here are more positive than they were in Moscow . 1 . So far , Mr. Vance and Mr. Gromyko have held five full hours of private talks on strategic arms . All three proposals put on the table in March were covered : the two U.S. ones that the Soviets rejected in Moscow , and the single Soviet proposal the U.S. rejected . 2 . At this writing late May 19 , both sides had paused to reflect on the exchanges to date , in the words of U.S. spokesman Nodding Carter III . They are to pick up the arms . talks again Friday ( May 20 ) after a late afternoon session May 19 on the Mideast . 3 . The two hours and 40 minutes of discussions held in the morning of May 19 were full , businesslike , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opening talks May 18 as businesslike in tone . 4 . The strategic arms talks may extend into Saturday , May 21 , thus indicating even more room for discussion and perhaps negotiation . Newsmen here were advised that Mr. Vance would not leave Geneva before noon May 21 . But he would leave some time Saturday in order to consult with President Carter on the visit to Washington early the next week of Prince Fand of Saudi Arabia . 5 . Meanwhile , chief U.S. strategic arms negotiator Paul Warnke continued to work with his Soviet counterparts on a communique summing up his week of talks here on secondary issues . These include how to verify that each side is complying with any new overall agreement . How to ensure against transfers of weapons by either side , and how to agree on the data base for continued discussions ? that is , how to agree on methods of counting arms . The impression is that Mr. Warnke 's talks have gone reasonably well . The U.S. spokesman here stressed that a full range of issues had been discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least willing to talk about elements of the comprehensive plan for deep cuts suggested by the U.S. in Moscow . The only Soviet reaction so far has come from the official news agency Tass . At this writing Tass had failed to describe the talks in any way . Diplomats usually consider such lack of mention as a negative sign . Tass adopted the same lack of description during the ill-fated Moscow talks . Tass confined itself to saying May 18 that a meeting had begun to continue the Moscow talks . The object was preparing a new longterm agreement on limiting strategic nuclear arms . A more positive sign was that Tass linked this with the signing May 18 of a renewal of the U.S.-Soviet space agreement . The original agreement , signed in 1972 , expires May 24.                     