@@733245

txt Who were those looters and burners who rampaged through the darkened streets of New York City during last month 's blackout ? It was first assumed by many that they were mainly the unemployed , especially black youths . Then Brooklyn District Attorney Eugene Gold reported that in his borough , nearly half of those indicted during the blackout were employed and that many of the jobless were in special training or study programs . Now a survey of more than 2,000 of the 2,700 people arrested in the Bronx , Manhattan , and Brooklyn for blackout-related crimes shows that those arrested were of much the same cross section of New Yorkers who are arrested for crimes on any other day or night of the week . If anything , more of the blackout defendants had jobs than the city 's average criminal , and fewer of them were on welfare . The report just put out here by the independent , nonprofit New York City Criminal Justice Agency , in conjunction with Nicholas Scop-*Please turn to Page 13 From page 1 N.Y . looter profile  - -   - -   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , found that : ? Some 45 percent of them had jobs . When this was compared with arrests during a non-blackout period ( a sample week in the previous June ) , it was found that only 30 percent of all those arrested in the same three boroughs had jobs . ? Some 40 percent of the blackout-related defendants were unemployed , compared with 57 percent of those arrested during the June sample week . And of these , only 10 percent were on welfare , compared with 16 percent during the nonblackout June week . ? The remaining 14 percent were students ? much the same proportion as for the June week . ? The proportion of women arrested for blackout-related crimes ( 6.7 percent ) was less than half the normal rate as indicated by the June sample ( 16.6 percent ) . The report appears flatly to contradict opinions widely voiced by black leaders up to now that the . July 13-14 looting spree was closely related to the mass unemployment afflicting ghetto dwellers , especially black youths . Caution on interpretation However , the Criminal Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephone interview against overinterpreting this preliminary report . " It does not support nor does it undermine theories about the origins of crime , " he said . In particular , he pointed out , some of the figures look a little different when similar geographical areas are compared ? rather than simply comparing the blackout arrests ( which occurred in specific ghetto areas ) with the three-borough-wide June sample . Take , for instance , prior-arrest records . Some 65 percent of those picked up during the blackout had been arrested before ? a lower proportion than for the three boroughs as a whole the previous week ( 70 percent ) . But when the same comparison was made within identical areas the difference in prior-arrest records disappeared . Backgrounds contrasted The same phenomenon was visible when the study compared the ethnic backgrounds of those arrested . During the blackout , 65 percent of those arrested were black , compared with 60 percent in the June sample over the whole three boroughs . But when only identical areas were compared the difference again evaporated . What this appears to mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar to those who are arrested in the same ghetto areas at other times of the year . That in turn appears to reflect the fact that such areas have a high crime rate most of the time ? which may , or may not , be related to the high levels of unemployment there . The earlier . less comprehensive study made by District Attorney Gold of 176 people showed that 98 percent of these had jobs and earned an average of about $7,000 a year . Some 91 percent were unemployed . And 11 percent were students . Mr. Gold , however , added that about one-third of those unemployed were in some form of training or poverty program . ?                     