@@728371

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times Quality in Education To the Editor : Many educators believe that President Nixon was forthright and wise in publicly vetoing the Health , Education and Welfare appropriation bill . They hold this view not on the basis of his moot justifications that the veto is " in the vital interest of all Americans in stopping the rise in the cost of living . " They base their stand on the more realistic justification that " the increased spending ordered by Congress for the most part simply provides more dollars for the same old programs without making the urgent new reforms that are needed . " Editorial Feb. 2 . This should have been the President 's premise , rather than the pocketbook appeal . President Nixon suggested that " we 're entitled to get more out in terms of quality " from the vast sums we are spending for education . He would have done well to specify in detail the need of educational revision , . in goal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before vast new sums of money are drained into euphoric promotion of profitless programs derived from moribund socio - educational concepts , values and theories . He could have listed some of the educational questions that should be answered specifically before shapeless appropriations are increased . I know of communities where school authorities declined , on the basis of nonexistent need , munificent sums allotted them under titles of various educational acts , to purchase equipment for instance , or hire " paraprofessionals . " But they were pressured by local politicians and well - intentioned citizens into accepting and then conceiving ingenious ways of " educational " expenditure . What we need in education today is an honest and unemotional review of our educational commitment based upon criteria derived from reality . LEON MONES East Orange , N. J. , Feb. 5 , 1970 The writer was formerly chief examiner for Newark 's Board of Education . U.S. Policy on Israel To the Editor : While the spirit of your editorial " The United States and Israel " ( Jan. 27 ) is generally commendable , several points remain illusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nowhere in the Nov. 22 , 1967 , U.N . resolution is the term " negotiation " used , nor is the form defined by which agreement is to be reached . What precisely is meant by a United States-Israeli partnership in Israel 's defense ? Is our country to be a partner in defending Israel 's present post1967 expanded borders ? This " partnership , " including arms supplies , is a dead - end street . The response to U.S. arms for a militarily superior occupier , Israel , will be more arms from the U.S.S.R. to involved Arab states while simultaneously American influence among all Arab nations will decline because of our role as supplier to Israel . The predictable outcome is rising Soviet power and presence throughout the Middle East . Not arms but withdrawal of occupying forces is the key to peace . The U.S. commitment to Israel is derived from the longstanding policy of territorial integrity and political independence for all Mideast nations . If we do not abide by that tenet now , how could we morally require Arab withdrawal from Israeli territory should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman The American Committee for Justice in the Middle East Boulder , Colo. , Jan. 31 , 1970 ? State Aid to City To the Editor : In his Jan. 30 letter , the Majority Leader of the State Assembly displays the callousness with which urban needs are met in Albany . He writes that New Yorkers and particularly their Mayor have no reason for complaint about the amount of state financial aid given to New York City . Because , he adds , having 44 per cent of the state 's population and contributing 43 per cent of its revenues , the city receives 45 per cent of " all state aid . " Does the Majority Leader believe we are unable to read ? " Aid " has no denotative or connotative connection with " revenue . " KENNETH R. STOW New York , Jan. 31 , 1970 ? Mitchell 's Record To the Editor : The time has come to recognize that Attorney General John Mitchell is not a middleof-the-road moderate . At least in terms of his disregard for the Bill of Rights , he must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  notwithstanding the constitutional right to bail . He has asserted the power to wiretap on his own say-so , and without obtaining a court order . He tried  --  unsuccessfully ? to emasculate the Voting Rights Act , and to delay still further the implementation of school desegregation ? fifteen years after the Brown decision . Over the objection of the Secretary of State , the Attorney General ordered the denial of a visitor 's visa to a Belgian Marxist scholar , thus reviving memories of the 1950 's , when our xenophobic visa policy led to widespread condemnation by the scientific and scholarly world . Most recently , Federal grand juries , which could only have been convened at the direction of top echelons of the Justice Department , have been investigating contributors to a newspaper advertisement soliciting funds for the defense of Eldridge Cleaver . More ominously , they have been subpoenaing newspaper and television broadcasters to obtain information concerning Black Panthers and various radical groups . Despite the fact that widespread public protest has resulted in some apparent modification , the chilling effect of these activities on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executives and the public , is so inevitable that it can hardly be unintentional . The unforgettable events of the Washington moratorium demonstration reinforce the picture of a partisan antagonist rather than an impartial chief law-enforcement officer . At first the parade permit was resisted , then truculently granted with loud public warnings of imminent violence . When the weekend events were completed with spectacular nonviolent success , instead of congratulating the leaders ? or remaining silent ? he condemned the entire demonstration because " . of a relatively minor incident outside the Justice Department . Perhaps any gathering of large numbers of persons who disagree with him is so unsettling to the Attorney General that he has visions of the Russian Revolution . Mr. Mitchell has demonstrated that for all his political acumen and professional success , he lacks the understanding of the constitutional liberties of Americans which , of all persons , the Attorney General must have . Whether he be Republican or Democrat , Wall Street lawyer or Main Street lawyer , conservative or liberal , strict constructionist or otherwise , we need an Attorney General who does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his resignation and replace him with someone who believes in the Constitution and justice , as well as law and order . MARVIN M. KARPATKIN New York , Feb. 5 , 1970 The writer , a lawyer , appears frequently in civil liberties cases . ?                     