@@734369

txt Despite President Carter 's appeal for restraint , reaction to Soviet activity in Cuba threatens spinoff effects that go well beyond any adverse impact on the new SALT treaty . Congressional staff specialists think enough of a scare has been generated by reports on a Soviet troop presence in Cuba to ensure at least two effects : ? New pressures for more defense spending in Congress . ? The end of any lingering chance that the Soviets might be granted most-favored-nation trading status by the United States at the same time as China . Such status provides tariff reductions and long-term credits . Some experts also think proponents of a greater capability to project American power now are likely to be heard from . Those in Congress who lost an earlier battle for the funding of a nuclear aircraft carrier may be emboldened , for example , to push once again for this project in view of the new intelligence pointing to the piesence of a Soviet combat brigade in Cuba . In the administration view , all such reaction would be totally out of proportion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brigade consisting of 2,500 to 3,000 men does not constitute a military threat . But given the current political atmosphere in the US , officials acknowledge that widespread side effects are conceivable . One congressional specialist said the proponents of draft registration of 18-year-olds may eventually gain ground , thanks to the flap over Cuba . A draft registration amendment comes up for consideration in the House of Representatives this week . But the great immediate danger , as officials in Washington see it , is that both the US and the Soviet Union may lock themselves into public positions from which it is difficult to retreat . President Carter obviously is trying to lessen that danger by placing the stress on the need for quiet negotiation with the Soviets // From page 1 New impacts of Soviet role in Cuba seen The President called on the nation Sept. 7 to react to the reports on Soviet troops in Cuba " not only with firmness and strength , but also with calm and a sense of proporition . " On Sept. 8 , the President told a group of newspaper editors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own merits and not be linked with Soviet activities in Cuba or elsewhere . The ideal solution , from the US point of view , would be for the Soviets to remove whatever combat troops they might have in Cuba . But Carter administration experts on Soviet affairs think the widespread publicity given to the issue makes such a withdrawal highly unlikely . The publicity , including demands from some senators that the troops be removed , has placed Soviet credibility on the line . Withdrawal would mean a tremendous loss of face . " There is no chance whatsoever that the Soviets will withdraw their troops under this kind of public pressure , " said Dimitri K. Simes. director of Soviet Studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies at Georgetown University . Administration officials are privately critical of Sen. Frank Church ( D ) of Idaho , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , for the role he has played in stressing the seriousness of the Soviet troop presence and giving it high visibility . In their view , when Senator Church , who has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet troops and de clared that the SALT treaty could not be ratified without it , he was " grandstanding " for his constituents in Idaho . The officials note that Senator Church is a target of conservative critics in his home state and may have difficulty being re-elected next year . Speaking on the CBS television program " Face the Nation " Sept. 9 , Senator Church said that if the American response to the Soviet troop presence in Cuba was not appropriate , it would be " an invitation to interventionism " and a signal to the Soviet-backed Cubans that they are free to interfere in events wherever they please . The Senator declared that President Carter had many options available to counter the Soviets , one of which would be to deny them most-favored-nation status . Another possibility , he said , would be to deploy American troops elsewhere in the world , apparently as a counterweight to the Soviets . He said he did not consider the denial of US grain sales to the Soviet Union to be an appropriate response to Soviet actions . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Soviets from other countries . Former President Gerald Ford , meanwhile , has added his voice to that of Senator Church and others in calling for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Cuba . Speaking at a convention in Atlanta , Mr. Ford said he resented suggestions that Soviet troops had been stationed in Cuba even before he left office and that his administration had failed to detect them .                     