@@733881

txt KANSAS CITY , Mo. ? President Carter confirmed Thursday that the Egyptian and Israeli governments have turned down proposed language for an IsraelEgypt peace treaty that their negotiators had written and which he personal . Iv liked . tits comments at a news conference here indicated new differences with Israel 's Prime Minister Menachem Begin and underscored doubts an early accord can be reached , despite the administration 's optimism of only a week ago . Israel , sources said , has demanded a further weakening of the language linking an Egyptian-Israeli peace to future negotiations on the status of the Israelioccupied West Bank . Egypt is understood to want stronger language . Begin was reported haying considered and then deciding against cutting short his current Canadian visit to return to Israel to deal with the fresh difficulties . WHEN HE does return home Sunday , sources said , Begin may take his two chief negotiators  --  Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Defense Minister , Ezer Weizman  --  with him . The Israeli prime minister sounded cautious when asked in a Canadian interview if he thought a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we hope so , of course . But as far as euphoria is concerned , we always warned there should n't be any exaggeration . " Carter said there had never been any doubt in anyone 's mind that a premise of the Camp David negotiations was a comprehensive peace settlement , not just between Israel and Egypt but one that would include a solution for the West Bank of the Jordan River , the Gaza Strip , and ultimately for the Golan Heights . " There Is a difference of opinion between the two leaders about how specifically it should be expressed in the Sinai treaty , " he said , adding : " I PERSONALLY favor the presently negotiated language , which in the preamble does say that both nations commit themselves to carry out the comprehensive peace agreement as we agreed at Camp David . " Carter disclosed that " on more than one occasion " the negotiators reached agreement only to have their work " partially undone " by Israeli and Egyptian leaders at home . IN JERUSALEM , an Israeli Foreign Ministry official conceded the Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials in Washington denied they would be suspended . In Cairo , one of the top Egyptian negotiators at the peace talks with Israel said " certain Palestinian leaders " from the West Bank region Jordan are willing to join the negotiations but are waiting for the right moment . In an interview with the Egyptian weekly magazine Al Mousawar , Osama Baz declined to name the Palestinians , but he said there are " intense " and 1 " continuous " contacts with leaders on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . Bin has been the liaison between the Egyptian government and the Palestinians .                     