@@734085

txt Nations , like people , are seldom on their best behavior during adolescence . The same mixture of inner turmoil and outward aggression that characterizes bepimpled youth can be observed collectively in most societies undergoing the metamorphosis into unified nationhood . For a brief period in the middle and late Seventeenth Century , even Sweden . that paragon of highminded moralizing , acted the beast , grabbing most of the Baltic Coast and terrorizing Poles , Prussians , Danes , Finns , Norwegians and Russians until Czar Peter The Bookshelf " Germany , 1866-1945 " By Gordon A. Craig . Oxford University Press . 825 pages . $19.95. the Great knouted it into submission . Only then , deprived of most of its empire , much of its population and all of its great power status , did Sweden gradually learn to appreciate the virtues of neutralism . France , from Cardinal Richelieu to Napoleon Bonaparte , was the juvenile delinquent of Europe , plundering and enslaving weaker neighbors , persecuting and sometimes slaughtering internal minorities such as the Huguenots , and generally behaving like the worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the- point where a Louis XIV could murder as many Protestants as he Would have liked ; in lieu of SS thugs , modern transport and gas chambers , all Louis had to work with was horse-propelled dragoons and a leavening of local bigots . Similarly , antiCatholicism in England from the time of Henry VIII through the ( debatably ) Glorious Revolution of 1688 had physical limits imposed on it that had little to do with the humanity or toleration of the majority of English rulers , politicians , clergy and common folk . The means simply did not exist for systematic tyranny and persecution on a modern scale . For the ugly side of national growing pains to take on truly monstrous proportions , greater material " progress " was necessary  --  better communications to distribute propaganda messages and orders to kill ; the complex mechanical and electronic paraphernalia of the modern police state ; bigger and better equipped armies and security forces ; and advanced methods of planning and record keeping for manipulating human beings by the millions . All of these things , at least in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third of the Nineteenth Century ; the refinements , of course , continue to this day . Hence nations coming of age in modern times have set new records of barbarism . In the last few years alone , we have seen the all too familiar pattern of jingoism , tyranny and genocide re-enacted in a number of " emerging " Third World nations . notably Uganda , Cambodia and Bangladesh . But for unsurpassed scope of beastliness , one must look to three major world powers , Iwo of them European : China , Russia and Germany . All three became modern , centralized states at the same time that they began the transition of modern technology . The last chapters in Chinese and Russian excess may still lie ahead but Germany provides us with a case study of the complete cycle , having now evolved ? if only in its western twothirds  --  into a mature , responsible member of the world community . It is this case study that makes Professor Gordon A. Craig 's magisterial new history of Germany from 1866 to 1945 not only an instructive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into potential dangers of rising nationalism around the world today . " The brief history of united Germany . which lasted only seventy-five years and died in the rubble of Berlin in 1945 , demands attention , " Mr. Craig tells us , " . . . not only for what it has to teach about the role of fear and cupidity in human affairs , about the seductions of power and the consequences of political irresponsibility , and about the apparently limitless inhumanity that man is capable of inflicting on his fellows , but because it also has much to say about courage and steadfastness , about devotion to the cause of liberty and about resistance to the evils of tyranny . " Prof. Craig , probably the most gifted historian of Germany currently writing in English , gives us a gripping , highly cultivated review of this fascinating morality play . His book is not glossy . casual reading , but it is rich in understanding , and liberally laced with well-chosen quotes from German politicians . scholars and poets tall admirably translated as well as rendered in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prussian-dominated Second Reich forged by Bismarck and frittered away by Kaiser Wilhelm ; the tragedy of the doomed Weimar Republic ( a republic sadly lacking in republicans  --  even Thomas Mann complained in 1918 that , " I do n't want the trafficking of Parliament and parties that leads to the infection of the whole body of the nation with the virus of politics . . . I do n't want politics . I want impartiality , order and propriety . " ) ; and the rise and fall of that most brilliant and warped of modern demagogues , Adolf Hitler . An important contribution of Prof. Craig 's is the emphasis he gives to intellectual corruption in Weimar Germany . Hitler was far more than the creation of street thugs and Dr. Goebbels 's admittedly masterful propaganda . Even the industrialists and the General Staff , so often blamed for his rise to power , were reluctant and rather belated bedfellows . His greatest asset ? besides the humiliation of the Versailles Treaty . the economic chaos of the Twenties and Thirties , and his own acute political opportunism  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Leftist artists , satirists and trendsetters like Brecht , Mann and Tucholsky did their best to undermine Weimar through ridicule and contempt while rightist members of the intelligentsia  --  frustrated would-be leaders like Oswald Spengler  --  lent spurious philosophical authority to Hitlerian doctrines of brutality and tyranny . In discussing Spengler and . another leading rightist Intellectual of the period , Arthur Moeller van den Bruck , Mr. Craig limns certain ugly characteristics still observable in many Western elitists of both political wings : " Both were cultural pessimists in the tradition of Nietzsche . . . both were opposed to ' the frightful form of soulless. purely mechanical capitalism which attempts to master all activities and stifles every independent impulse and all individuality ' . . . both were convinced that a society dominated by these forces and by the debilitating philosophy of liberal democracy was degenerate and doom-laden ; and both called for the creation of an elite of heroes to save Germany from this impending fate . " They got their wish soon enough although , like all Camelot. % the Teutonic model failed to live up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too late did the German people realize that it is precisely the mundane , limited nature of parliamentary democracy ? which leaves individual " souls " ( not to mention bodies ) in the hands of their original owners through basic constitutional guarantees  --  that protects modern society from the tyranny of selfappointed saviors and supermen . All of which may explain why West Germany today is one of the most stable and committed parliamentary democracies in the world , and one of the most successful examples of capitalism ? the two things both Spengler and his counterparts on the left most loathed . As Prof. Craig points out : " Adolf Hitler was nothing if not thorough .... Because his work of demolition was so complete , he left the German people nothing that could be repaired or built upon . They had to begin all over again , a hard task perhaps , but a challenging one . in the facing of which they were not entirely bereft of guidance . For Hitler had . bequeathed to them the memory of horror to help them with their choice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ponderous classic , and must reading for those interested in the future of the democratic West as well as the darker side of the German past . Aram Bakshian Jr. , currently a Communications Manager for Union Carbide , writes frequently on culture and history for European and American publications .                     