@@734080

txt American diplomats are concerned about the - spinoff-  effects of a continuing Egyptian-Israeli negotiating deadlock on the Carter administration 's ability to exert its influence both at home and abroad . President Carter placed his personal prestige on the line in an unprecedented way in his attempts to bring the leaders of Egypt and Israel together . Now , as the diplomats see it . that prestige is being undermined by a combination of factors to which must be added the President 's apparent inability to overcome the final barriers to an Egyptian-Israeli peace agreement . Although Prime Minister Menachem Begin 's final meeting with President Carter during his current stay in the United States had not taken place as of this writing . it did appear that the Israeli leader was sticking to his principles . He gives every sign of opposing the latest American ideas for an Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty . The next move would appear to be up to Egypt . US Ambassador to Egypt Herman Eilts left Washington over the weekend for urgent consultations with President Anwar al-Sadat . It was not clear what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But one US diplomat described Mr. Eilts 's main task as that of " holding hands " with the Egyptian leader . What the Americans can not afford to do , apparently , is simply call off the peace initiative which resulted in a climax of fanfare and , it would seem , unwarranted euphoria at the end of the Camp David summit meeting last September . Everything must be done . in the American view . to revive the peace process . But President Carter acknowledged March 4 that there had been no progress in his private conversations with Prime Minister Begin on the previous day . In the background was a disagreement between Israel and the United States over the urgency of the situation . American diplomats believe that time now is of the essence and that // From page .1 Mideast snag weakens US power abroad events in the Middle East may be pushing Egypt , in stages , toward a renewed accommodation with " radical " elements in the region . Indefinite standoffs , they say , have a way of unraveling in that part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but war  --  and another oil embargo against the United States ? are what US diplomats see at the end of the line if the situation is allowed to drift . And the pressure comes not just from " radical " elements in the Middle East but also from conservatives . Prince Saud al-Faisal , the Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia , America 's No. 1 oil supplier , indicated in an interview published March 4 that Saudi Arabia may be prepared to establish diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union . In what might be more of a warning to Washington than a move to accommodate the Soviets , the Saudi Foreign Minister said that what threatened the region and its stability was not the upheaval in Iran but the " Zionist danger . " The way to reestablish stability , he said , was to have Israel withdraw from occupied territories , return Jerusalem to the Arabs , and recognize the right of Palestinian self-determination . At the same time , Mana Said Oteiba , president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) , was reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil production to make up for losses suffered in Iran if the West agreed to press for the creation of a Palestinian . state . It was thought likely that this comment from Mr. Mana , who is Oil Minister ' for the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) , reflected the view of the influential Saudis . But Israel does not accept the argument that time is running against its interests or against those of the US . Prime Minister Begin said as much on March 4 in an interview on the ABC television network program " Issues and Answers . " Mr. Begin said that the next step in the peace process had to be further discussion be- tween Egypt and the US and some time out for " very serious reflection . " " We have to negotiate again , and I do n't see any tragedy in it , " said Mr. Begin , who added further on in the interview : " Why do we keep a wristwatch about the peace treaty ? . . . I do n't adopt this theory of now or never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process not be allowed to lead to a Palestinian state and that Egyptian-Israeli treaty documents not permit Egypt to give precedence to its previous treaties with other Arab nations . One American analyst put forth the view that the American feeling of urgency was related in part to pressures which might be generated by US presidential election politics . He said that the US has a " window " of about six months during which President Carter could afford to put pressure on Israel but that as the 1980 election draws closer counterpressures from the influential American Jewish community might begin to limit the President 's ability to maneuver . " History has shown that the Israelis have been able to sit tight and have things go their way , " said another American diplomat . " but the price for us has been extremely high , especially during those cyclical bursts of violence which seem to be a permanent part of the picture in the Middle East . " The diplomat went on to say that if Egypt and Israel fail to reach an agreement that leads to solving basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another war , and the Israelis will win . . . . But once again the price to us will be extremely high . Only this time , if there 's an OPEC embargo , we 'll see entire sectors of our economy slow down , if not shut down . " He concluded : " The impossible thing for Begin is to relinquish the Israeli claim to sovereignty over the occupied territories . . . . At the moment , I just do n't believe he can go that far . "                     