@@728968

txt Two masked men armed with submachine guns kidnapped Pierre Laporte , Quebec 's Minister of Labor and Immigration , from his front yard today . The kidnapping took place minutes after the Quebec and Canadian governments offered the kidnappers of James - R. ' Cross , senior British trade commissioner in Quebec , safe conduct to a foreign country if they released the 49-year-old Briton . In Ottawa , the federal Government said that a foreign country had agreed to accept the kidnappers , but it did not specify which one . The Front for the Liberation of Quebec had said that Mr. Cross would be killed if its demand for the release of 23 prisoners was not met by 6 P.M. today . There was no immediate word as to his fate . Premier Put Under Guard The abduction of Mr. Laporte , who was seized as he was tossing a football with his son and a nephew in front of his suburban home , shocked an already disturbed city and province trying to enjoy a three-day weekend . Monday wilt be Canada 's Thanksgiving Day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Bourassa and his family ; Similar protection was expected to be given to other ministers . In a televised seven-minute message to the Cross kidnappers that began at 5:34 P.M. , J8r5me Choquette , , Quebec 's Minister of Justice , . refused their demand for the release of the 23 prisoners . ' Echoing the view expressed earlier in the week by Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau , Mr. Choquette said that no society could let " the decisions of its govern- , Imental institutions and courts be put into question or erased by blackmail . " Speculation-on Kidnapping Mr. Choquette Acknowledged that he was speaking for the federal Government , which took charge of negotiations with the front soon after Mr. Cross was abducted from his home Monday morning .. The kidnapping of Mr. Laporte , who is 49 years old and has two children , was generally interpreted as the front 's answer to Mr. Choquette . However , there Was no confirmation that the Laporte kidnappers were affiliated with the front , an organization of young French Canadians dedicated to a Socialist revolution and . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the kidnappers had been poised near the Laporte home in sub // urban St. Lambert , on the south shore of the St. Lawrence River , waiting to hear Mr. Choquette on the radio or to get a message from higher Authority telling them to proceed or turn back . About 6 P.M. the minister 's wife was looking out a window and saw her husband taken away . Mr. Laporte was driven away in a blue Chevrolet whose license plate number was given to the police . Later , the police said that the minister had been transferred to a taxi driven by confederates of the men in the blue car . The police set up road blocks around Montreal and a massive search for both vehicles . Mr. Laporte , who was Minister of Culture in the Liberal provincial government of Jean Lesage in the nineteen-sixties , sought the leadership of the province 's Liberal party in a convention last January . He campaigned as a federalist but was defeated by Mr. Bourassa , who is also a federalist . Mr. Laporte was first elected to the Quebec @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has held several portfolios over the years and is one of the more experienced members of the Bourassa Cabinet . Mr. Choquette , in his television message , told the kidnappers of Mr. Cross that if they released him and chose to remain in Canada they could expect " clemency " in the courts . He also hinted that some of the 23 prisoners might be paroled . The prisoners are front members who have been convicted or accused in the last seven years of armed robbery , involuntary homicide , bombing end conspiracy to kidnap . Mr. Choquette stressed the provincial government 's commitment to social reform and appealed to the front to " release Mr. Cross immediately " as " a gesture of absolute good faith . " Ottawa has been playing for time all week as the Montreal police searched for the kidnappers and Mr. Cross . The kidnappers have demanded that the police hunt be stopped . In repeating that demand yesterday , the front said : " When we decided to kidnap the diplomat Cross , we calcugated all the possibilities , including that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the repressive police forces find us and try to intervene before the British diplomat Cross is freed , you can be certain that we will defend our lives dearly and that J. Cross will be liquidated on the spot . " Some Demands Dropped The kidnappers have withdrawn their earlier demands for $500,000 in gold and the identification by the police of the informer who exposed a front cell last June . They have continued to insist that the " consenting political prisoners " be given air transport to Algeria or Cuba , together with those of their wives and children who wish to accompany them . Newspapers and private citizens have expressed fear that regardless of the outcome , the Cross kidnapping will lead to what The Montreal Star approvingly called " stringent measures " against terrorism and , as a result , more violence by the front . Some 9,000 sticks of dynamite have been stolen in Quebec this year and a few days ago several cases of rifles were stolen from a freighter tied up at the St. Lawrence River city of Trois Rivi  --  res . Yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seven statements issued by the kidnappers since Monday was questioned for several hours at police headquarters . Later he found his apartment had been searched and four front documents removed . According to the building superintendent , the search was made by the police on the strength of what is known here as an oral warrent . The Journal de Montreal , a French-language daily , protested what it said was the confiscation by the police of the film of the photographer who was waiting to take pictures of suspects picked up for questioning in the kidnapping .                     