@@729540

txt The Australian Embassy told the State Department today that China had expressed interest in participating in a new Geneva conference on Indochina . Gough Whitlam , leader of the , opposition Labor party in Australia , said that Premier Chou En-lai , in a conversation , had expressed his country 's willingness to participate in any renewed Geneva conference . Mr. Whitlam , who concluded a 12-day visit to China as head of a Labor party delegation today , communicated the substance of his conversation with Mr. Chou in a cablegram to Prime Minister William of Australia and later discussed it at a news conference in Hong Kong . Mr. Whitlam did not enlarge on Premier Chou 's ideas about a new Geneva conference , but he said that " administrative arrangements would have to be more in an Asian framework . " He did not specifically say this was Mr. Chou 's view . U.S. Participated in 1954 The first . Geneva conference on Indochina , held in 1954 , ended the fighting between France and the Indochinese Communists , known as the Vietminh . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietminh and the South Vietnamese , the United States , the Soviet Union , Britain and China . The United States and South Vietnam did , not sign the agreements but acceded to them . The Nixon Administration withheld formal comment on the Australian information , which was conveyed to the State Department this morning by an embassy official . The State Department spokesman , Charles W. Bray 3d , said that " the Australian Embassy has discussed with us here reports of a conversation the leader of the Opposition apparently had with Chou Enlai and these are the sole source of Mr. Chou 's views so far as we are aware . " Quick Action By Chinese Administration officials noted that Peking  --  after having ignored or even opposed previous attempts to settle the Vietnam war through negotiations , including earlier proposals offered by Hanoi and the Vietcong  --  moved within 48 hours to endorse the peace plan presented on July 1 in Paris by the chief Vietcong delegate , Mrs. Nguyen Thi Binh . An editorial in Jenmin Jih Pao , the Communist party newspaper , said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Vietnam question . " - In view of that and the con // versation between Mr. Chou , and Mr , Whitlam , Administra-1 tion officials commented pri- ; vately today that " a concerted I peace offensive " by Hanoi and Peking might be in the offing. ; The emerging Impression here ; is that Peking and Hanoi are ; engaged in a major diplomatic ' and propaganda campaign tol force President Nixon to respond favorably to the latest Vietcong proposals . A related impression discussed by officials here is that Peking has resolved to he a major partner in whatever settlement is 00-tained . In the judgment of some officials , Peking also appears to he seeking to pre-empt Moscow 's role : in sponsoring a new Geneva conference . Although the Soviet Union , which with Britain is a permanent cochairman of the Geneva conference , has supported the Vietcong peace plan , it has not called for a new session . Diplomatic observers a also noted that the Chinese moves in Indochina followed relaxation in Chinese-American relations . Peking has welcomed a United States table-tennis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nixon Administration has lifted the embargo on trade with China , but officials were wary of relating the ChineseAmerican diplomatic thaw with the latest Indochina moves except as manifestations of Peking 's determination to reassert Itself internationally once again . Mr. Whitlam , in his message to Mr. , said that in his view the Chinese supported the Vietcong plan , which , he said , gave the United States " an honorable:opportunity for early disengagement , " The plan provides for the release of American prisoners of war timed with the withdrawal of all United States forces from Vietnam after Washington has set . a final date " in 1971. " it also calls for the ouster of President Nguyen Van Thieu as the prelude to a new " national unity " government in Saigon . Although the Administration Was not prepared -- to . comment on the substance of the - proposal , Mr. Bray made a. point of recalling that President Nixon urged an Indochina peace conference when he presented the . United States peace plan for Vietnam on Oct. 7 , Mr , Bray quoted from the speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internationally supervised cease-fire throughout - Indochina , said that " an international conference , is needed to deal with the conflict in all three states in Indochina . " Emphasizing that Mr. ' Nixon said that the " essential elements " of the 1954 and 1962 Geneva accords " remain valid , " Mr , Bray recalled - the ' President 's staterent that " we shall ' accept the results of agreements reached between those states . " . However , Mr. Bray and other officials stressed that the Unitled States was in no position to . ' comment formally on Mr. Chou 's views - pending an- official declaration by . Peking and the completion of the current review of foreign policy ? at  --  the Western White House at San ' Clemente . Calif , Mr. Bray also noted that the . Chinese . view , as conveyed through Mr. Whalen ' ' , was not specifically addressed to United States participation in-an Indochina . conference . Other officials said that whatever decision the United States reaches on an Indochina conference , it would he directly ! related to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials said that while the ( San Clemente review . was in ' progress , the United States delegation would confine itself to further " probing " of the Communist peace plan . The United States has refused to set a date for withdrawal and has made it clear that it would not force out President Thieu . The officials here ? . believe that the Vietcong proposal is designed to influence both the outcome of the South Vietnamese presidential election on Oct. 3 and President Nixon 's policies in the interim . Mr. Nixon is facing all those pressures as he conducts his , policy review with Secretary of State William P. Rogers ands the White House special assistant for national security affairs , Henry A. Kissinger . who returned yesterday from conferences in Saigon and Paris . The White House press secretary , Ronald L. Ziegler , said the Administration was not prepared to present a full counterproposal in Paris but wanted to continue exploring ' the " ambiguities " in the Vietcong plan . This process , expected to be lengthy , will be directed , beginning next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Ambassador to South Korea , who has been chosen to replace David K. E. Bruce as the chief delegate in Paris . The domestic . pressures on Mr. Nixon were illustrated by an appeal by Senator Edward M. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , for a " mutual and immedite cease-fireby both sides " in Vietnam pending the exploration of the Vietcong proposals in Paris . " I believe that the recent Paris offer is the best opportunity we have had in many months to move the Paris peace talks off dead center , " he said in a statement .                     