@@729201

txt " We have maintained a credible posture . We have never given out false information at any time . " The speaker was Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird who carrying supplies to base at Khe Sanh. was being taken heavily to task this morning by 102 high school students on the credibility of the Nixon administration in the wake of the seven-day war news blackout just ended . Laird was basking in the euphoria of the lifting , seven hours earlier , of the blackout on the mass sweep of 29,000 allied troops in northwestern South Viet Nam near the Laotian border . But the high school students were not satisfied . Ask Pointed Questions How do we know that blackout was n't imposed so only good news could be released in the end ? When is the credibility gap going to be reduced ? What is the difference between instructors and advisers if they are Americans in Cambodia ? This was the tenor of the questions , as tough as those of many veteran newsmen over the last week . Laird defended the news embargo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have maintained a credible posture , " and explained his positions on American military instructors and advisers . But it was a 50-year-old black Air Force combat ace of the Korean and Viet Nam wars who got the standing ovation after Laird had left the plat ' form for his handling of questions Laird had n't had time for  --  questions from the embargo to drug use and racial problems in the military to political dissent . General Fields Queries Brig . Gen. Daniel James Jr. , fielding questions from " that cat in the cool pink shirt " and " this young lady in the back row , " told the youngsters that if they " wanted to demonstrate and throw bricks , 0 . K. " " But if you feel the other way , it 's not enough just to stand there in the middle and do nothing waiting to see which way it 's going to go , " be said . " Richer you 're with us or you 're not . ' Us ' means us concerned loyal Americans who are aware of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her hand while she gets over them . We want to treat the illness but not kill the patient ; in short , to work within the system to correct it . " Gen. James , as deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs , had introduced Laird to the 102 students from 50 states who were here on a week-long youth program approved by Senate resolution and financed by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation . Laird Gets Applause Laird , after a 30 - minute speech emphasizing the winding down of the war and 20 minutes of questions , called an end to his part of the program while many hands were still waving in the air . He had been bard-pressed ; the students bad been polite . They applauded him at the end . But there were a lot of unanswered questions . After a 10-minute break , Gen. James offered to try to handle some of the remaining questions . With ease , but not without taking each youngster seriously , he fielded questions on race , drugs , prisoners of war , strategy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn . What Foe Wants to Know " What are the responsibilities and duties of the allied force on the Laotian border ? Will the South Vietnamese go into Laos and , if so , will there be U. S. air cover ? " one boy asked . " That is exactly what the enemy would like to know right now , " Gen. James shot back , and all 102 of the students broke into an extended round of applause . Gen. James , a graduate of the Tuskegee Institute , flew 101 combat missions in the Korean war and 78 in the Viet Nam war , many o fthem over the Hanoi-Haiphong area . In one flight , he led during an operation called Bolo MIG , seven Communist ** were destroyed , the highest total kill for any single mission of ? the Viet Nam war .                     