@@731034

txt The failure . of the United States to provide advance word to its allies of yesterday 's worldwide troop alert contributed today to a sense of bewilderment in European capitals about - the United . States . There were no official complaints about what some called a snub , but there was substantial private grumbling . Accordingly , there was acknowledgment in several European capitals that the Middle East crisis had created a series of new embarrassments , if not tensions , in Europe 's relations with the United States . Attitude Toward Airlift ' " The United States does n't seem to consult Europe on its moves on cooperation with the Soviet Union and now it 's not consulting on the moves on confrontation , " a European analyst remarked today . " There 's a growing feeling that the Americans are not going to consult us no matter what they are doing . " Among some American officials there is a feeling that Europeans are trying to have it both ways ? that European officials seek to divorce themselves from the American policy of support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil , but now complain that they were not informed about Washington 's latest move yesterday . Underlying some . American unhappiness over the role of Europe in the Middle East crisis is the way most allies detached themselves from the American resupply airlift to Israel . Britain and some other allies of the United States in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , with the notable exception of Portugal , made clear their opposition ? in some cases without being asked  --  to allowing American planes bound for Israel either to fly over or land on their territories . Even in the midst of worldwide tension over the alert yesterday , West Germany showed rare public anger against the United States over the shipment of arms to Israel from American bases in West Germany . Bonn reiterated its policy of strict neutrality and asked the United States to stop the shipments " from and over " West German territory . The word on the sudden decision in Washington on the " precautionary alert " was passed on to European officials only well after the orders had gone out , Then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and far from adequate . Sir Alec Douglas-Home , the British Foreign Secretary , avoided detailed replies to questions about the alert in the House of Commons yesterday . He said today that Britain had been informed in yesterday 's " early hours , " called the information an " intimation " of what was happening and added that he did not feel that " consultation " was required because the Americans were not proposing any specific actions for the NATC allies . The tone of Sir Alec 's re marks was reflected in other capitals where officials were careful to avoid any public criticism of the alert itself . The unease arose more from the lack of prior warning and the paucity of details on why i- , was needed . In Brussels today , for ex ample , some NATO official voiced private anger abou- , what they called the " lack o real consultation " and expressec the view that the episode re fleeted once again how the superpowers handled crises over the heads of all other nations " Never mind not being consulted , " a diplomat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the major military decisions in the United States . " Officials of the Atlantic alliance emphasized , however , that they supported the substance of the action taken by Washington even though they still have not been provided all the , reasons behind it . The general feeling was to give President Nixon the benefit of the doubt on the need for the alert . Donald Rumsfeld , the United States delegate to NATO , met yesterday morning with the North Atlantic Council to discuss the Washington decision . But some who attended passed word that the information was " very vague . " Mr : Rumsfeld met again with the council this morning , In contrast with the reluctance of officials to question the alert , the European press pounded away at President Nixon today . The Daily Mirror , the mass-circulation newspaper here , asked whether the emergency was genuine , whether it was overblown or whether it was a " ploy to divert attention from the scandals that are engulfing " the President . The French press was particularly bitter , with newspapers ' expressing shock at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a " false alert " and ' dangerous theatrics . " The counterview came from the nationalistic Daily Express in London . " Thank God for America ! " it said . " That must be the reaction of all sane , peace-loving people to Russia 's ' decision to back down from uperpower confrontation in The Middle East . "                     