@@734307

txt President Carter has selected Moon Landrieu , the former Mayor of New Orleans and an early Carter supporter in 1976 , as the new Secretary of Housing and Urban Development , White House officials reported today . And according to urban affairs sources Mr. Carter has offered the only remain ' ing unfilled Cabinet post , that of Secretary of Transportation , to Neal E. Goldschmidt , the Mayor of Portland , Ore. , with whom the President is scheduled to meet tomorrow at the White House . These sources said that they had been informed by White House aides tonight of the offer to Mr. Goldschmidt . Meeting in Oval Office Jody Powell , the Presidential press secretary , declined to confirm the appointment of Mr. Landrieu this evening , but a White House aide said that it was his understanding that he had accepted the job at a late afternoon meeting with Mr. Carter in the Oval Office . After the meeting , Mr. Landrieu left the West Wing with the President and walked to the Executive Mansion . It was unclear-tonight whether Mr. Goldschmidt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation post . According to the sources , he said that he was coming to the White House to talk with Mr. Carter about it . Replacement for Mrs. Harris If he is confirmed by the Senate , Mr. Landrieu would succeed Patricia Roberts Harris , who was selected last week to replace Joseph A. Califano Jr . as Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . Mr. Landrieu , a former president of the United States Conference of Mayors , was Mayor of New Orleans from 1970 to 1978 and is credited with opening the city 's government to blacks . He was also a strong supporter of Federal revenue sharing and of aid to New York when the city was stricken with its financial crisis . Mr. Goldschmidt , if he accepts the offer to become Secretary of Transportation , would fill the vacancy created by the forced resignation of Brock Adams . Mr. Adams 's temporary replacement is W. Graham Claytor Jr. , the Secretary of the Navy , who is slated to replace Charles W. Duncan Jy. as Deputy Secretary of Defense-after Mr. Duncan becomes the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today was that of Jerry Apodaca , the former Governor of New Mexico , as secretary of education when Congress establishes the new department . Former Teacher and Coach Mr. Apodaca , 45 years old , is a former high school teacher and coach . Elected Governor in 1974 , he was a supporter of President Carter in 1976 and is a close as .. sociate of Tim Kraft , the White House special assistant for political affairs . Mr. Apodaca 's name reportedly was submitted secretly to high officials of the National Education . Association and received their approval . Bills to create the Federal education department have been approved by both houses of Congress and a conference committee . People in the Mexican-American community here maintain that Mr. Apodaca is in line for a Cabinet position , but they had assumed that it would be the Department of Housing and Urban Development ? what they called a seat set aside for a minority-group member . In keeping with the Administration 's push to bring more Hispanic-Americans into Administration positions of higher visibility , the United States representative to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J.E . Tones , has been approached by the White House about his availability to become White House coordinator of Hispanic affairs or Secretary of Transportation , according to sources in both the State Department and the Hispanic community . Those sources said that Mr. Tones had indicated and interest in either position . The White House staff job has been vacant for about six months since Joseph W. Aragon resigned to enter private business . Mr. Torres was the Hispanic community coordinator in Los Angeles for the Carter campaign in 1976 and was appointed in 1977 to . be UNESCO ambassador . Before that he was a campaign coordinator for Gov . Edmund G. Brown Jr . of California . Until 1974 , he was an official in the United Auto Workers union . Justice Department Position Open me source familiar with the search for sub-Cabinet level personnel said that the Administration was also looking for a Hispanic-American to occupy a high position under Attorney General-designate Benjamin R. Civiletti in the Justice Department . Hispanic-Americans are the country 's second-largest minority group , after blacks . There is a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenge the President in the 1980 Democratic primary elections , and in Texas , the home state of John B. Connally , a leading contender for the Republican Presidential nomination .                     