@@734131

txt Letters JOHN METCALFESTANLEY BOSWORTHTHOMAS M. MCKENNAJAMES H. TULLY JR.ABRAHAM L. PO ... Letters Nuclear Risk/Benefit Fallacy The Naysayers Will Not Succeed To the Editor : Stories about the recent nuclear excursion at Three Mile Island have featured a curious phrase from those who insist that this incident does nothing to cast a doubt on the inherent safety of nuclear energy . They speak of " risk/ benefit analysis . " The term suggests that our life as well as our language is being restricted to a sort of accountant's-eye view of reality . Risk/benefit analysis is quite useful in closed systems and provides good answers to questions in the format : " Will installation of this power line yield more money than it costs ? " However useful and persuasive risk/benefit thinking may be when weighing , say , Con Ed 's capital risk against revenue benefits , it is not legitimate to elevate these small virtues into universal truths . In the case of Three Mile Island , risk/benefit is clearly not applicable . Outside closed systems , risk/benefit becomes illegitimate because it balances a localized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even if the use of fission to generate electrical power had reduced utility bills , the saving would be a poor compensation for the quarter of a million Pennsylvania residents who fled their homes . In addition to fright , inconvenience and expense , these people have been ' granted an enduring concern about their health , the safety of their foodstuffs and the value of their property . If these displaced citizens had been volunteers , risk/benefit might have retained some validity even after the benefit turned into a bubble . However , their choice in the siting of Three Mile Island was restricted to " voting with their feet , " and even that was soothed by repeated assurances of safety . . There is no need to erect a cartoon mushroom cloud over Middletown to demonstrate that risk /benefit analysis can not be applicable until the people who endure the risks do so voluntarily , and get all the benefits as well . Otherwise , risk /benefit analysis would seem to counsel seizing the assets of utilities and disbursing the wealth to the populace . Many would thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bear the ( crushing ) risk . JOHN METCALFE Pittsburgh , April 3 , 1979 To the Editor : The recent catastrophe at the Three Mile Island reactor has served to remind us that doubtless the caveman burned his hands a few times subsequent to the discovery of fire . It has also created a special kind of energy as a generation of militants awoke ( in overheated bedrooms ) to rally to the cause . They drove down from their country homes . They flew in from Florida and the Caribbean . They pullulated around Harrisburg waiting , watching , chanting a dirge which preceded a non-happening . It is to be regretted that these carrion birds of defeat were not vouchsafed their meal on this occasion . They need but wait , however , gird their flaccid loins and wait because somewhere , at some time , something will go wrong . A spaceship will fail to achieve reentry , and they will demand that we relinquish cosmic dreams . There will be an authentic meltdown , and they will exact a new ice age as punishment for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They will not succeed . There seems to be a kind of primordial drive which allows civilization to lurch forward despite its naysayers . The apocalypse is merely a convenient dream for the smugly comfortable , feeling guilty at their ill-gotten gains . Others must sometimes burn their hands ? they must do so if the fires are to be kept burning . STANLEY BOSWORTH Brooklyn , April 5 , 1979 What Decentralization Why the State Capital Gains Tax Was Cut Would Do for H.R.A. To the Editor : Roger Wilkins 's March 30 article on the complexity of the Human Resources Administration suggests that the " experts " feel it is impossible to manage this rambling bureaucracy . Since the so-called separatiot of services from income maintenance over 12 years and five commissioners ago , there has been a golden opportunity to decentralize authority for services to the local district level , where coordination and integration of day care , special services to children , services to adults and families , etc. , is most effective . The most recent charter revision reinforces this approach and sanctions its accomplishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and committees , including those associated with the Community Council of Greater New York and H.R.A. itself , have suggested this decentralized approach to service delivery , but there has been no basic change . Why ? Essentially because , while the leadership of H.R.A. has been preoccupied with the financial assistance aspects of the agency , which represent over 90 percent of the funds , the service departments have become large and entrenched bureaucracies , each protecting its own turf . They have resisted any reorganization which brings them together on a decentralized basis at the neighborhood level . Until this is done , however , the person needing social services in the community will continue not to know where to go or even what is available , much less expect some meaningful help . The cornerstone for the prevention of child abuse , delinquency , family breakup and other social ills is a rationally planned , accessible and comprehensive neighborhood-based Service system . It can be done , but the longer we wait the harder it gets . THOMAS M. Executive Director State Communities Aid Association New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your recent brief milk shortage , a letter from Dr. Harley Gordon gave readers some erroneous information regarding the value of milk in the diet . If it is true that only humans drink the milk of other species , it is also true that we are the only ones to cook our food . Man not only consumes a wide variety of foods but also has learned how to select those foods for optimum health . And most health authorities recommend milk and other dairy foods in our daily diets throughout life . Is it nutritionally necessary , Dr. Gordon ? Milk and dairy foods ( excluding butter ) provide , according to U.S. Department of Agriculture figures , 75 percent of the calcium , 39 percent of the riboflavin , 35 percent of the phosphorus , 22 percent of the protein , 22 percent of the magnesium , 20 percent of the vitamin B-12 , 13 percent of the vitamin A value , 11 percent of the vitamin B-6 , 9 percent of the thiamin , as well as many other nutrients in lesser amounts . And most milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calories in the food supply is contributed by milk fat . While milk allergy does exist in infants , health authorities place the incidence at 2 to 6 percent . And this allergy to milk 's protein is typically outgrown by age 2 . Regarding the metabolism of milk sugar , Dr. Gordon asserts that " many children and most adults ... develop cramps and gas when any significant . quantity is taken . " Yet the American Academy ' of Pediatrics has recently reviewed the literature on this socalled lactose intolerance and concluded that milk consumption should not be discouraged . And extensive research demonstrates that the majority of adults can constune nutritionally useful quantities of milk . As Dr. Gordon states , the question of To the Editor : Your March 27 news article about a change in the Federal tax rate on capital gains and New York State 's relation to that change reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of the role and responsibilities of the State Taxation and Finance Department . The thrust of the article was that the department was legislating a tax cut in response to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the case . In many instances the state tax system conforms to the Federal system . For example , when changes are made in Federal tax returns which are used as a base for computing state tax returns , it is the statutory duty of the State Taxation and Finance Department to interpret those changes and to determine how they will affect state taxes . By state law , the state capital gains tax is computed by adding 20 percent to the Federal rate . When the Federal Revenue Act of 1978 reduced the Federal capital tax rate from 50 percent to 40 percent , it was the obligation of the State Taxation and Finance Department to interpret that change for the state 's taxpayers . Our analysis determined that under the requirements of state law the effective new state capital gains rate would be 50 percent rather than 60 percent . This was based on the 20 percent add-on to the new Federal rate . This interpretation was made on Nov. 1 , 1978 , long before differences arose between the Governor 's office To the Editor : Recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had with one of your correspondents . English , however , is not my native language , and I am afraid that as a result I may have created a wrong impression about the situation of refusenik scientists in the U.S.S.R. diet and heart disease has not been determined . But the fat content of milk is quite low in proportion to nutrient contributions and in comparison with many other protein-rich foods . Moreover , the butterfat level of milk can be chosen by consumers at the dairy case . Dr. Gordon 's final point is that feed consumed by dairy cows could " be better used for feeding of humans . " The fact is that most feed used for dairy cows is not fit for human consumption . The dairy cow 's unique digestive system allows her to convert grass , straw and hay into high-quality milk . Dairying , in fact , has been cited as one of the most efficient , ecologically sound forms of food production . Dr. Gordon 's letter should be put into perspective , lest readers be led to jeopardize their diets by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manager , Nutrition Information National Dairy Council Rosemont , April 2 , 1979 ana me state Legislature on proposals to reduce the state capital gains tax rate . Immediate action by the department was necessary because the new Federal rate was already in effect and a ruling on state capital gains tax had to be promulgated to cover November and December of 1978 . We fully recognized then , and of course still do , that it is the prerogative of the State Legislature to enact laws which would change the state rate . However , under existing law , the department had no choice other than to make its ruling and to come to the conclusion which it reached in November . Finally , it should be fully recognized that the State Taxation and Finance Department is run by the Tax Commission independently of the Governor 's office . The Governor fully understands this and has never attempted to interfere with or influence the duties and prerogatives of the commission . JAMES H. TULLY JR . President , State Tax Commission Albany , March 29 , 1979 Lion Persuader To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program : Beseeching businessmen to restrict their profits is as effective as telling a lion to be tame . ABRAHAM L. POMERANTZ New York , April 4 , 1979 I did not mean to imply that the American scientific community has an exaggerated notion of the difficulties my colleagues face . Indeed , it tends to underestimate the severity of the problem . I did have access to scientific journals in the Lenin Library while I was a refusenik . To suggest that I did not , as was done during the interview , would be an exaggeration . Many other refuseniks , though , do not have the same opportunity . More importantly , refusenik scientists are cut off from other forms of normal scientific activity . Lecture halls , laboratories and conferences are in general closed to them . Interaction with Soviet colleagues who are not refuseniks is impossible . These deprivations , combined with continuing personal harassment , make scientific work extremely difficult . I remain deeply concerned about the fate of my colleagues who are still in the U.S.S.R. Particularly distressing is the possibility that the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of such people as Profs . Aleksandr Lerner , Naum Mei. man and Jacob Alpert also gives me cause for grave concern . Science can make important contributions to modern society . But it can best do so under conditions of freedom for individual scientists . It is for this reason that the international scientific community has a particular responsibility to aid colleagues in the U.S.S.R. , Argentina and other countries where they are denied fundamental rights . BENJAMIN LEVICH New York , April 5 , 1979 In Defense of Drinking Milk Scientists Handicapped by Moscow                     