@@728931

txt The House overwhelmingly I approved President Nixon 's drug abuse bill today after upholding a bitterly fought " no knock " provision that would al-1 low federal agents to break into homes to seize evidence . Tbo bill , a key measure in Nixon 's anticrime package , was expected to win early acceptance by the Senate , which passed a similar but more limited bill several months ago . The House vote was 341 to 6 . Vote " No Knock " Provision Both bills would provide stiffer penalties for pushers , including a possible life sentence for those involved in organized crime , but would reduce the punishment for first offense possession of any drug from a felony to a misdemeanor . The " no knock " provision would allow narcotics agents with warrants to enter private premises unannounced if they felt there was danger of evidence being destroyed or risk to their lives . Administration forces beat back nit attempt to kill the " no knock " provision on a 119 to 60 nonrecord vote . The House Commerce Committee chairman , Rep. Harley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the leading opponents of the provision , said it could result in " hundreds and thousands " of police being killed . " If somebody tried to knock down my door , I probably would take a gun and shoot him , " he said . Another controversial proposal that was added to the bill on the floor would allow ' judges to impose an additional 25-year prison sentence on " special dangerous offenders " convicted of drug violations . Call It Unconstitutional The sentence , which could be imposed on the basis of evidence the defendant would not be allowed to contest , was termed an unconstitutional infringement of individual rights by opponents . The administration  --  b aeked amendment was adopted , 147 to 61 . The House rejected by voice vote an attempt by the House Select Committee on Crime to amend the bill to give the attorney general authority to limit production of amphetamines or " pep pills . " The House bill would double most penalties for drug pushers . It also would provide $165 million over three years to expand rehabilitation programs and authorize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs . None of these provisions is in the Senate bill . Like the Senate measure , the bill would give the Justice Department more authority to control imports and exports of drugs and require licensing of Kona fide drug handlers such as manufacturers , distributors , doctors and researchers .                     