@@732116

txt As part of a vast reorganization of city government , the Beame administration has decided to dismantle all of the nine superagencies set up by former Mayor John V. Lindsay . The plan to eliminate the super agencies , which were created with great fanfare in the nineteen-sixties as a device to , streamline government , became known yesterday as the city 's Budget Bureau began drawing up quotas of high-level appointees to be dismissed . Mayor Beame has . already committed himself to dismantling three of the superagencies  --  the Health . Services Administration , the Human Resources Administration , and the Housing and Development Administration . Legislation to do this , proposed one year ago , is still pending in the City Council . The other superagencies now facing dismemberment are the Environmental Protection Administration , the Finance Administration , the Economic Development Administration , the Transportation Administration , the Municipal Services Administration and the Parks , Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration . The decision to take the superagencies apart ' was prompted by the city 's fiscal crisis , even though the amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  was unclear . " The economics of it has n't been worked out yet , " said the Mayor 's press secretary , Sidney J. Frigand . Mr. Frigand suggested that more than economics played a role . He said that the Mayor " has always been uncomfortable with the superstructures . " " He feels that in some instances , the effectiveness of a commissioner has been blunted . Under a strong administrator , the commissioner has been kept in his shadow . " Melvin N. Lechner , the city 's // Budget Director , ordered his budget examiners yesterday to contact each of the superagencies and negotiate how many managerial-level positions should be dropped . Each administration will lose from six to 30 people , he estimated . " We 've come up with our figures , and now we are talking to the agencies to get their input , " Mr : Lechner said . " Our object is to move away from the superagency concept . Weisl Protests The planned cutbacks drew a strong protest from at least one administrator . Edwin L. Weisl Jr. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration , who was told to eliminate seven people and saw it as political retaliation on the part of City Hall . " This is their revenge for my letting go the political hacks that I fired a month ago , " Mr. Weisl said . " They are using the reorganization as a cover . We have already gotten rid of our deadwood political appointees , and we 're receiving no credit for having done so . " Last month , responding on his own initiative to the city 's fiscal plight , Mr. Weisl let go five appointees who had been hired , he said , because of their political connections . The Administrator has also refused to continue relatives of politicians on the payroll as summertime help . Mr. Weisl said that he was told yesterday that among those he must dismiss is Adele Auchincloss , a deputy administrator earning close to $35,000 a year . Mrs. Auchincloss , has gained a reputation as a " good government " activist as head of the Parks Council . She is the wife of Louis Auchincloss , the novelist . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it looks good on paper , " Mr. Weisl said . In the restructuring of the city 's agencies , its government would apparently return to something along the lines that prevailed during the Robert F. Wagner years , when there were more than 50 agencies , headed by commissioners mostly of equal stature . Tnus , the Environmental Protection . Administration , for example , might be split into its three basic component parts , with separate agencies for sanitation , air-pollution control and water supply . The reorganization , which would require new City Council legislation , will be accomplished in consultation with the Mayor 's new Management Advisory Council , headed by Richard R. Shinn , the president of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company . Mr. Beame discussed the topic with Mr. Shinn during an hour-and-a-half meeting yesterday . The superagencies were horn in December , 1966 , when Mayor Lindsay unveiled long-promised legislation , designed , he said at the time , to increase governmental efficiency and reduce costs . If the legislation establishing them  --  changes in the City Charter  --  failed to pass , Mr. Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to do so for one of the agencies , the Human Resources Administration , which never met with Council approval and exists by virtue of mayoral fiat . Critics of the superagencies have charged that they have ended up by simply adding another layer of bureaucracy and further removing the delivery of city services from the people . A former Representative , Mr. Lindsay 's goal was to restructure the city 's government to match more closely the Federal structure with which he was familiar . Mayor Beame , reared in the traditional structure of independent departments reporting directly to the Mayor . has never felt at home in that reorganization.                     