@@733804

txt DERRY , Pa. ? A helicopter dropping prizes at a church festival Monday fell into a crowd of about 500 persons , its rotors killing seven festival patrons and injuring 18 others . The three occupants of the helicopter survived the crash . The accident occurred at a parking lot at the St. Joseph Roman Catholic Church in Derry Township on the final day of the church 's annual three-day Labor Day Festival . The church 's pastor , the Rev. John Wilt , said one of the dead was Mary Lou Allison of Derry , . whose husband , Lee Allison , was a passenger in the helicopter . Also aboard the helicopter were the Mains ' daughter , Beth , 12 , and the pilot , Pant Nelson . BILL BLAIR , 14 , who was at the festival , said the helicopter crashed after it had made two passes over the parking lot , dropping Ping-Pong balls marked with prize numbers into the crowd . Blair said that on the third pass , the helicopter 's engine stalled . " When it hit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people up , " he said . " I ran over to help , but I could n't take it . There were bodies and blood everywhere . " Miss Nelson , who was under treatment for shock , said only that the engine " quit . " " THERE WAS blood all over the Photo on page 3 parking lot , " said Bill Costanzo , managing editor of the Latrobe Pa . Bulletin . He said the helicopter " fell right into the crowd . " " It just happened so quickly that I do n't think people had a chance to scream , " said Don Johnston , 51 , who said he and his 5-year-old son were about 15 feet away when the helicopter crashed . " It was a mess . It was a terrible sight to see . " I thought he was going to land and I thought , Tow can he land in a crowd of people ? ' He was in trouble , and I did n't even know it , " Johnston said . COSTANZO SAID the helicopter went through one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " One eyewitness said there were bodies flying all over the place , " Costanzo said . " A couple of bodies I saw had to be kids . " Thirteen injured were admitted to a hospital at nearby Latrobe . Five others were treated at the hospital and released . Derry Mayor Michael Gianni said he visited the festival about five minutes before the accident and the festival " was packed . " ALTHOUGH POLICE first said it appeared the pilot had struck a utility pole on an approach that was too law , Dave Kountz , a Federal Aviation Administration investigator , said late Monday that the pilot , Miss Nelson , reported engine trouble may have caused the crash . " The pilot indicated the possibility that the engine might have failed , " he //                     