@@731932

txt Letters to the Editor JEAN-JACQUES DEMORESTISRAEL KUGLEREDWARD EARLYMARTIN E. GOLDR . BRUCE CARRBET ' Letters to the Editor Of Vietnam , the U.S. and an Army that ' Proved Wanting ' To the Editor : In the wake of collapse in South Vietnam no point seems more obvious but less voiced than the following : The U.S. military , and especially the Army , proved wanting and incapable of adjusting . Of course , one can impugn American foreign policy , something the defense complex does daily with a vengeance . But clearly , national defense exists to protect and promote global political objectives and must mold itself to them . In Vietnam the Army failed the Government . Its General Staff shone with a lackluster reminiscent of France in 1940 . The restructuring that is implied should be as , thorough as that which faces the C.I.A . A policy based on partial disengagement and detente requires an alert and imaginative armed force flexibly adapted to contemporary warfare . At present the nation is at the mercy of a retarded Army , or more precisely one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country 's moral stance and with the infinitely more practical and inventive tactics employed by the adversary . The massive use of aerial and artillery bombardment and other " softening-up " measures combined with an incredible wasting of materiel has been demonstrated to be intolerable ethically , unjustifiable economically and ludicrous militarily . In many circumstances today , no way exists of waging warfare without constantly committing the infantry to infiltrate and attack . Fighting in close quarters by extremely mobile small units is in the nature of things . This means that the Army must be ready to jeopardize the lives of its foot soldiers  --  there is no alternative . If the Army is reluctant to do so , and in Indochina it had , because of conscripts , excellent reasons to be reluctant , then it should avoid engagement from the outset . But when the Army did at last withdraw , its consummate blunder was to foist upon the South Vietnamese command tactics and materiel which had already failed us and eventually failed them . The argument floating around the Yossarlan Pentagon tnat , warier ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be used to measure the Army 's intrinsic soundness is specious at best . The Army is no paper tiger , but it is dangerously close to becoming a stuffed one . Our other allies may have some reason to doubt our word ; henceforth they have even more reason to question its efficacy . For the Army 's sake and the country 's security , major reform is in order . JEAN-JACQUES DEMUREST Tucson , Ariz. , May 2 , 1975 ? To the Editor : The reported seizure of the headquarters of the Vietnamese Confederation of Trade Unions in Saigon and the denunciation of its leader Tran Quoc Buu by the Hanoi Communists in South Vietnam should give us pause . This free trade union movement , now being extinguished , was critical of the Thieu regime and sought to develop a broad-based political movement grounded in democracy and genuine social reform . When conditions for South Vietnamese workers proved to be intolerable and could not be settled by negotiations , Buu led his members , even in such critical areas as the docks and railroads , out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would bring . He saw the decimation of the trade unions in the North and the destruction of all political opposition , including that of the extreme left , led by Ta Tu Thau . One may argue whether the U.S. should ever have been in Vietnam . Is n't it , however , a form of racism to excuse Hanoi 's destruction of all dissent  --  unions , political parties , universities and the press  --  on the grounds that the Vietnamese are " different " ; that they are " developing " ; that Ho Chi Minh was a " benevolent father-figure " ? Democracy is a universal value , and freedom-lovers will continue to seek its extension at home and , all over the world . ISRAEL KUGLER Long Island City , N. Y. , May 5 , 1975 ? To the Editor : Now that the fighting has stopped , will it be " business as usual " ? How many more wars have to be fought , how many more refugees have to be resettled , before the politicians of the world find more practical solutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vietnam war , how often was the conflict on the agenda of the United Nations Security Council ? How often did the SecretaryGeneral offer to mediate the conflict between opposing factions ? Of what use was the U.N . in stopping one of the bloodiest wars in history ? Of course , the ineptitude of the U.N . can be traced to the failure of the big powers to make use of it . Now that the rain has stopped , it is time to repair the roof . The United States should take the lead in urging an ongoing debate in the General Assembly on ways and means to prevent war . A solution may never be found , but the effort must be made nevertheless . If another WA. " must ever be fought , it must be the ultimate recourse . Now is the time to search for alternatives . Too often we wait until the first shot is fired . EDWARD EARLY Stamford , Conn. , May 4 , 1975 When a Justice Falls Ill To the Editor : Justice Douglas ' present serious illness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Supreme Court demonstrates the longoverdue need for an institutional solution to the problem of absences on the Court . The illness of a President that prevents the discharge of his duties has been seen as a national problem serious enough to require a constitutional amendment . While a justice 's absence is not as serious a problem , it does hamper the Supreme Court 's opera1 : , ions and its decision-making capabilities . The average sitting justice is not a young person , and justices are much more likely than the President to become seriously ill at some stage because their appointments are for life . Moreover , the fact that the Court has nine justices makes it nine times as likely that some justice will be ill at any one time . To solve the problem Congress , working with the Court , should establish a system that would allow either the President or the Chief Justice , after receiving a written request from a disabled justice , to appoint an acting justice from among the judges of the Circuit Courts of Appeal . If a disabled justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide by majority vote that he is unable to discharge his duties , thereby empowering a temporary appointment . Later , if there is disagreement , the Court by majority vote could also decide whether the justice is able to return to his duties . Under this system we will be able to temporarily replace a disabled justice and continuously keep the Supreme Court at full strength . MARTIN E. GOLD New York , April 30 , 1975 Concorde Acrobatics To the Editor : I am a captain for a major airline and have flown out of J.F.K. for over twenty years . I have read with interest all the letters and articles appearing in The Times regarding the British-French Concorde . I would like to give a professional pilot 's opinion of the noiseabatement departure procedure planned for the Concorde and secondly to mention a point of caution I have not seen in any of the articles or letters . First , a 23-degree bank at one hundred feet constitutes nothing less than low-level acrobatics at J.F.K. Everything I have read indicates that runway 31 left will be the departure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently used departure runway at J.F.K. and will take the Concorde over water quickly if the pilot really does execute the breath-taking maneuver described . However , what are the plans for the Concorde when there is a strong northeast wind and runway 4 left is the service runway ? The heading of this runway is toward a densely populated and highly noise sensitive area . Are we to believe the flight will be canceled ? Secondly , there are still very determined individual and business interests that want the United States to build and operate its own SST and in quantity . If the Concorde operates into the United States , this is going to give these interests the wedge to reopen all the issues . The only way to prevent the Concorde from being a harbinger of an American SST is to bar it completely and finally from this country . R. BRUCE CARR Wilkes-Barre , Pa. , May 1 , 1975 To the Editor : In a recent column on " The Price of Palestine Peace , " C. L. Sulzberger proposed a joint Soviet-American guarantee of Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Coming from so intelligent and well-informed an observer , such a proposal is hard to understand . It ignores some palpable realities : Israel does not wish to be guaranteed by anyone . It wishes to negotiate peace with its neighbors , for peace depends oat neighborly relations , not on great-power guarantees . Israel has for years been offering to negotiate with its neighbors all outstanding issues , including the Palestinian problem , without pre-conditions . Its Arab neighbors have rejected the very concept of face-to-face negotiations with Israel . Yet , only a freely ne. - gotiated peace can be a durable peace . Israel has no confidence in the Soviet Union , which has no diplomatic relations with Israel , harasses the Jews who wish to emigrate there and has , with sophisticated weapons , enabled the Arab nations to renew their attempts to destroy Israel , Moreover , it should be remembered that the SoThe Cars Americans Buy To the Editor : With any luck at all for the consumer , Detroit will finally realize that not only are Americans not buying American cars because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . models when we do buy because we can no longer afford a car that will self-destruct in two or three years . I think what the severe decline in Detroit sales and the rise in me sales of foreign cars simply means is that Americans are demanding inexpensive , quality American cars . So far they seem not to exist . What the American consumer is buying are cars which give consistently good gas mileage ( over twenty miles per gallon in the city ) , cars with good guarantees , cars with good long-term performance ( more than two or three years ) and cars which Road Test and Consumer Reports tell us are less likely to be suicidal . Maybe in five years the American consumer will get what he is asking for . In the meantime the American automotive industry has no right to be surprised . It 's back to the drawing board . BETTY MAUCERI New Haven , May 6 , 1975 viets had advance knowledge of the Arab attack against Israel in October 1973 ? they evacuated Soviet families from Egypt several days before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Government , in clear violation of the U.S.-Soviet agreement on detente reached in May , 1972 , according to which the two powers pledged themselves to do everything possible to prevent situations that might lead to military confrontation . ( This has been confirmed by the London Institute for Strategic Studies in a recently released study . ) Sulzberger quotes , in support of his views , Ben-Gurion 's declaration of his willingness to exchange the pre-1967 frontiers for a real peace with the Arabs , But Ben-Gurion defined peace as " cooperation between Israel and the Arabs , economic , political , cultural cooperation . " Where today is a single Arab leader who would offer such a peace to Israel III return for the territories won ? In view of the failure of Henry Kissinger 's latest mission , the United States should reassess its diplomatic efforts and do two things that are fundamental to achievement of a genuine peace : ( I ) It should respect Israel 's right to make its own decisions on the question of its survival , and ( 2 ) it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiate directly with Israel . Otherwise Israel can not gain the confidence to hand over the territories that at present form a strategic buffer zone of inestimable value , notwithstanding all attempts to minimize their worth . This is the real crux of the problem , and it has been entirely overshadowed by Henry Kissinger 's mediation efforts , based on the premise that direct negotiations are impossible  --  an attitude so destructive of the only real hope for peace in the region , it is astonishing that neither the nations of the world nor the international press has taken the problem up . EDWARD LOWINSKY Milan , Italy , April 27 , 1975 Israel : U.S.-Soviet Guarantee Wo n't Do .                     