@@734440

txt Letters to the Travel Editor SOL KAMINSKYELIZABETH CHRISTMANLEONARD J. PANAGGIOROBERT BADNERZACHARY M. BAKER Letters to the Travel Editor Handicapped Travelers To the Editor : Having lost both legs in Germany during World War H , I am interested in the recent advances made for travel by the handicapped . I travel extensively as sales manager of the Celanese Corporation and as secretary of the National Amputation Foundation and experience nothing but grief on my arrivals at La Guardia Airport . At La Guardia there are two areas for pickup , one for private limousines and taxicabs and the other for the private civilian population . Naturally , the easiest place for pickup upon arrival is where only the private limousines and commercial industry can get to . On several occasions when my wife has tried to pick me up at the airport , she has been handled rudely by the police and was unable to get into the limousine area . The officers stationed there simply motioned her on . I have discussed this with police officials at La Guardia who promised that they would handle this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows a pass for special parking in New York , he or she would be allowed to enter this area . I thought I would pass this on as one of the problems I have upon arrival at La Guardia . I do not have this problem on departure since all cars are allowed to drop off passengers . SOL ICAMINSKY New York E. Boyd Schroeder , supervisor , Aviation Consumer Services of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey , replies : Because of heavy traffic conditions which prevail at La Guardia Airport , access to the central terminal building arrivals ( inner ) roadway is normally restricted to public transportation vehicles . However , we do have a procedure which enables the handicapped , or those meeting the handicapped , to gain access to this roadway up to 30 minutes prior to flight arrival time , by simply showing the police officer at the roadway entrance suitable identification of the type normally carried by handicapped individuals . It is our understanding that Mr. Kaminsky 's wife encountered difficulty because she endeavored to enter the roadway one hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the La Guardia inner roadway access procedure , as well as information about other services and facilities available for the handicapped at Port Authority airports , are described in the special publication entitled " Facilities and Services for the Handicapped ? Newark International , La Guardia and Kennedy International Airports . " The booklet is available upon request to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey , Room 65N , No. 1 World Trade Center , New York , N.Y . 10048 . To the Editor : The article entitled " Disabled Blaze New Trails in the Wilds , " by Julianne Corty ( Travel Section , Oct. 21 ) , about a group of nature-lovers and humanitylovers , able and disabled , taking a journey into the wilderness for a week must have lifted many hearts . Julianne Corty wrote her story with admirable toughness ? no sentimentality or condescension . She made the travelers and the journey come alive for a reader with her vigorous scenes of action and her telling details of character . " A strong healthy elk of a man , a wounded yearling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it wonderfully heartening to read of the zest and courage of both the leaders and those they led on this odyssey . I commend Julianne Corty for writing about the trip , and even more for taking part in it . ELIZABETH CHRISTMAN South Bend , Ind . Providence To the Editor : Richard J. Walton 's " A Native Returns to Explore the Old Streets of Providence " ( Travel Section , Oct. 19 ) does credit to one of this nation 's interesting cities . Unfortunately , the thousands of motorists driving the interstate highways which encircle the downtown section do not realize they are passing close to what is considered one of the nation 's best preserved historic al eas . Mr. Walton stated that the Old State House is still used as a courthouse . It now houses the office of Rhode Island Historic Preservation Commission and the Rhode Island Heritage Commission . Incidentally , in addition to Stephen Hopkins , William Ellery of Newport signed the Declaration of Independence . The " narrow river " referred to is not paved over . Actually this section between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street Bridge , which connects the older section with the commercial district . When a motorist drives over this or a pedestrian crosses , he is traversing the world 's widest bridge ? 1,147 feet ? a curiosity that has long attracted visitors . LEONARD J. PANAGGIO Rhode Island Department of Economic Development Providence Mr. Walton replies : The information provided me on June 11 by Mr. Panaggio 's own office said : " The Old State House , meeting place of the General Assembly , from 1762 ( while Hopkins was Governor ) until 1900 , serves today as the Sixth District Court and is open to the public from 8:30 to 4:30 , Monday through Friday . " I should have said that Stephen Hopkins was the only signer from Providence Plantations , then rather distinct from ( and a rival of ) William Ellery 's Rhode Island , which is why the official name is the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations . I knew of the Crawford Street Bridge ( although I had forgotten it was the world 's widest ) but it always looks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a street with glimpses of the river beneath . I guess this is a matter of definition . Trains to Utica To the Editor : The article " First Public Trip on Revived Adirondack Train " ( Travel Notes , Oct. 21 ) only mentioned one Amtrak train daily going to Utica , N.Y. , a train which arrives at midnight and leaves the passenger with an 18-hour layover . In fact , there are four trains daily departing from New York to Utica , one of which arrives at 5:22 P.M. , giving the traveler only a 38-minute wait before boarding the Adirondack train . ROBERT BADNER New York The four trains Mr. Badner mentions leave New York at 8:45 A.M. , 12:45 P.M. , 5:45 P.M. and 6:45 P.M. and arrive in Utica at 1:50 P.M. , 5:22 P.M. , 10:22 P.M. and 12:02 A.M. , respectively. ? Editor . Twin Cities To the Editor : The article , " What 's Doing in the Twin Cities " ( Travel Section , Oct. 21 ) for some reason neglected to mention Minnesota 's other great orchestra , the St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O'Shaughnessy Auditorium . This versatile and highly talented ensemble , the only full-time professional chamber orchestra in the United States , tours widely ( visiting New York annually ) and twice represented the United States on cultural exchanges in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union . Its young musical director , Dennis Russell Davies , has created an avid Twin Cities constituency for chamber music , including both the classical and modern repertoires . Mr. Davies is leaving the Chamber Orchestra at the end of the current season and will be succeeded by the well-known violinist and conductor , Pinchas Zuckerman . ZACHARY M. BAKER Brooklyn , N.Y .                     