@@728882

txt The start of the Labor Day weekend was marked by a Government report that the nation 's jobless rate last month rose to 5.1 per cent while the average worker 's purchasing power declined . The Administration has hailed the report that the wholesale price index declined in August by 0.5 per cent as a " dramatic " sign that it is winning its battle over inflation . A long list of earlier disappointments makes it advisable , however , to reserve judgment on whether price stability is really on the way . Mr. Nixon 's economists blame the stagnation of productivity for much of the Administration 's failure to arrest inflation during 1969 and the first part of 1970 . Output per man-hour showed virtually no increase until the second quarter of this year , when it began climbing at an annual rate of 3.1 per cent  --  about in line with its long-term growth trend since World War H. Administration economists are now staking much of their hope for a continued slowing of inflation on continuing improvements in productivity . The turnaround in productivity during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise in unemployment . With fewer men at work and the trend of real output moving sideways , output per manhour of labor rose . If the economy recovers even moderately during the months ' ahead but unemployment increases slightly  --  as Administration economists expect  --  productivity will continue to show gains . But it is most unlikely that the improvement in productivity can be sharp enough to rid the system of its chronic inflationary trend . In the second quarter , major union collective bargaining settlements continued to escalate ; for wages and benefits combined , they averaged 10.9 per cent annually over the life of the contract  --  and 17.1 per cent in the first year . The large number of construction agreements negotiated in the spring undoubtedly did much to push up the quarterly average , but it is clear that a 3 per cent national rate of productivity improvement will scarcely dent the inflationary impact of such settlements . The automobile wage negotiations , now nearing the showdown stage in Detroit , represent a crucial test of the Administration 's theory that a moderate boost in unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturers have offered the United Auto Workers a new contract calling for an increase of 7.5 per cent in wages and fringe benefits in the first year and 3 per cent in each of the next two years . The union spurned the offer as a " hiccup . " The Administration is steering clear of direct involvement in the Detroit talks , but its general admonition to industry has been that the best way to avoid overcostly agreements is to take a strike . That seems to leave it up to General Motors or Chrysler , the prospective union targets , to choose between the distasteful alternatives of an inflationary settlement or a long and expensive strike . The absence of anything resembling an official incomes policy thus makes employers in this and other strongly unionized industries the involuntary guardians of wage-price stability , with Government in an ostrich role on the sidelines .                     