@@732840

txt Cticacro Tribune Pave Service " The elector is to the body politic what the appendix is to the human body . While it does 110 good and ordinarily causes no trouble , it continually exposes the body to the danger of political peritennis . " ? Sen. Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts WASHINGTON  --  Rep. Edward Derwinski and Sen. Birch Bayh have been trying  --  and failing  --  for 14 years to change what they sec as the anachronistic and chancy system the United States has used for nearly two centuries to elect its Presidents . Learned authorities on the Constitution , political science professors , the American Bar Association , the AFLCIO , and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People have urged reform . According to public opinion polls , at least 80 per cent of the electorate favor a change Presidents have given their endorsement . Even computer runs are cited as evidence that Americans are playing a dangerous game by-preserving the Electoral College whereby voters mark their ballots for presidential electors they most likely never heard of and these surrogates elect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still batting a thousand and , so far , the reform team has managed only a scratch hit toward its goal of a constitutional amendment . Which means that James Earl Carter Jr . really was n't elected President on Nov. 2 , even though he did get 51 per cent of the popular vote and an electoral vote majority . Strictly speaking , referring to Carter as the " President-elect " is premature . because he wo n't be constitutionally elected until Monday , when the 538 members of the Electoral College assemble in 50 state Capitols and the District of Columbia and cast their votes . And even then he wo n't be entirely cleared for that once-in-a-lifetime moment when he steps ' forward at high noon on Jan. 20 at the Capitol 's east front and takes the oath of office as the 39th President . BEFORE THAT HAPPENS , file Senate and House must assemble in joint session Jan. 6 for a ritualistic canvassing of the Dec. 13 Electoral College vote . ? Certificates attesting the electoral vote totals for each of the 50 states and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood chests and checked by two senators and two House members , designated as tellers . Only then will Vice President Rockefeller , as president of the Senate , ceremoniously in , tone that Carter was elected by a 257- , to-241 majority over Gerald R. Ford . A few days later , Rep. Derwinski E. , Flossmoor and Sen. Bayh D. , Ind. will drop joint resolutions in the hopper and try again to get the okay of Congress for a constitutional amendment to change this presidential election process . Derwinski has been pushing for a modification of the electoral vote system that would wipe out its winner-take-all feature , the primary target of most critics . All states and the District of Columbia pick their electors by popular vote . By state law , with the exception of Maine , the presidential candidate with the most popular votes wins every one of the state 's electoral votes . Whether the popular vote winner has a margin of one vote or a million , he still gets all the electoral votes of that state . DERWINSKI 'S PROPOSED amendment would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided into congressional districts , and the candidate winning the popular vote in each district would get its electoral vote . The popular vote winner for the state as a whole would be awarded two additional electoral votes . Maine adopted this system in 1969 . But Bayh , who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee 's ConstitutLi on al Amendments Subcommittee , wants the entire Electoral College system eliminated and Presidents elected solely by direct , popular vote . Bayh sees nothing worth keeping in the two-headed presidential election process devised by the Founding Fathers nearly 190 years ago and spelled out in Article II of the Constitution . " It 's not only archaic and useless , but undemocratic , inequitable , and dangerous , " Bayh pays with considerable fervor . " Only by sheer luck have we survived in 1976 another round of electoral vote roulette without the popular will being thwarted . ? " IN LANDSLIDE elections like those In 1964 and 1972 , there is no problem . But in close elections such as those in 1960 , 1968 , and 1976 , computer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the winner of the popular vote will also he the winner of the electoral vote . " States have the same number of electoral votes as they have United States representatives and senators , which can mean the minimum of 3 for small states such as Delaware to several times that number for big , heavily populated states such as California with 45 . ' What Bayh has in mind when he talks about the clear and present danger of the electoral vote system subverting the popular will Is that it makes it possible  --  and actually has done so in two past presidential elections  --  for the popular vote winner to lose to a rival who manages to collect a majority of electoral votes . THE CONSTITUTION IS clear on that point . It says that the candidate with a majority of electoral votes wins the prize , period . Bayh says simple arithmetic shows just how close Jimmy Carter came to joining Samuel Tilden 18761 and Grover Cleveland ? 1888 as presidential alsorans who won the popular vote majority but lost the electoral vote . Carter received 40,276,040 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's 38,532,630 , a close but decisive  --  enough victory . However , Bayh points out with pencil and paper , a miniscule reversal of fewer than 4,000 votes in Ohio and about the same number in Hawaii would have shifted those states and all their 29 electoral votes to Ford and made him the winner with an electoral vote majority of 270 . John F. Banzhaf III , a Washington lawyer and mathematician , has made a computer study of the Electoral College system and concludes that direct , popular election in which each vote has equal weight is the fairest way to choose Presidents . ACCORDING TO Banzhaf , his calculations show that voters in such states as California , New York , and Illinois have a 21/2 times greater chance to affect presidential elections than voters of smaller states . Election of a President by an assembly of electors frequently is cited by historians as evidence of the Founding Fathers ' skepticism of wholly unfettered popular democracy . Derwinski , Bayh , and other frustrated reformers , however , lay the Electoral College 's creation more to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not he dominated politically ? by bigger states . THE LAST congressional debate on electoral reform reflected Southern and Western states ' fear of being overpowered by heavily populated Northeast and Midwest states still persists and is the most formidable obstacle in Congress to voting out a constitutional amendment for ratification by the states .                     