@@731767

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor To the Editor : Dr. Hankoff 's admonition of the press and others in not being more astute in identifying Wilbur Mills ' alcohol problem until his own public admission letter Jan. 231 , and the apparent amnesia of the media , his colleagues and constituency , both prior and subsequent to this disclosure , illustrate the collusion of silence that surrounds those who are found to he at fault , and those who share in the perpetuation of that fault . One of the prominent features of the disease of alcoholism is the massive denial of its existence on all levels ? a denial which seems particularly intractable within those cultures and professions where drinking is considered a necessary , if not obligatory , form of social discourse . To label someone an alcoholic can only he seen as a betrayal of one 's own allegiance to a code that sanctions and harbors a variety of drinking habits wherein the line between social drinking and a drinking problem becomes obscured . The identifier , by rocking the normative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why , indeed , to the less- or even non-intoxicated companions of the drunk driver allow him to drive when extensive publicity has shown that over 50 per cent of auto accidents are alcohol-related ? Why is an executive not confronted by his colleagues when the company 's survival is being affected by his " Monday morning condition " ? Death in the Subway To the Editor : Perhaps the latest subway death will finally cause the Transit Authority to change its methods , which are exposing New Yorkers to death every day . Michelle Reives was apparently pushed into the path of an oncoming " A " train from the platform she had been standing on . One can imagine the train barreling into the station , unable to stop , and the engineer helpless to avert killing her . The trouble is , there is no reason why those trains have to speed into stations , only applying their brakes after the front car is half-way down the platform . As more and more workers crush onto the platforms to go to work and return home each day , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knocked off by the crowd . Many of us have surely had the heart-stopping experience of being shoved from behind at the edge of a platform as a train was bearing down on us . It is high time that the Transit Authority issued directives to its engineers to bring their trains to a crawl before they enter a station . That way they would have no trouble stopping if someone fell into their path . Surely the minute delays this would cause in train schedules would be worth the added safety . Slower stops might also mean less track and car maintenance ? who knows ? DAVE LINDORFF New York , Feb. 3 , 1975 To the Editor : Richard R. Howe 's letter ( Jan. 26 ) is the latest to assail Section 2 of the 25th Amendment more for what it is not than for what it is . It is not an ideal method for securing Presidential succession ; it is a practical and constitutionally consistent method of doing so . Consider : 1 . Presidents have never been elected directly by the people . The Framers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution , interposed the Electoral College to confer a necessary official approval on the popular vote . In 1824 , 1876 and 1888 the Presidential nominee with the greatest popular vote failed of election in the Electoral College . To persuasively challenge the 25th on the ground that a Vice Presi , dent minted by its operation can become President without a direct vote of the people , we must first correct the now-outmoded existence of the Electoral College . Failing that , the procedure established by the 25th is consistent with the way we choose Presidents . 2 . Vice Presidents are not . truly elected directly . In fact , they are elected at all only in the sense that a vote for a party 's Presidential nominee is ipso facto one as well for its Vice-Presidential nominee . Originally this was not the case . Art . II , Sec . I provided that the person with the second largest number of votes for President would be Vice President . But the development of political parties made this device impractical as the runner-up would necessarily be the Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard on the heels of It is difficult to accept the notion that men of unique talents , in any profession . whose very calling depends upon the ability to ferret out underlying issues and problems , to probe beyond the superficial and to grapple with reality , should suffer spontaneous and ubiquitous loss of their perceptual powers and intuition when it comes to the more obvious symptoms of alcoholism . This would include Representative Mills ' own colleagues . It is equally difficult to accept the platitude that men whose tendency is to deal rather straightforwardly with the feelings of others are suddenly affected by the conscience of altruism and concern for the repercussions of stigma on themselves and others . It is only when the behavior of the maverick drinker becomes so grossly deviant he no longer poses the threat of identification that he can be conveniently labeled and safely dealt with  --  at least as an unavoidable duty . To continue to examine , however , invites the hazards of self-examination . In fact , one could have a diagnostic hunch that where there is the kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defy the very acceptance of ignorance , there exists , to some degree and in some form , that very problem itself . To cover up the cover-up is not necessarily an abdication of responsibility . The need to forgive , whether it be Nixon or Mills , is not without the need to be forgiven oneself . ROBERT DELACEY New York , Jan. 28 , 1975 The writer is a psychotherapist . To Race a Bus To the Editor : I support your campaign to make the New York bus system responsive to the needs of the people living here . Not only is the bus system a mystery to most New Yorkers , it appears to be operated in a somewhat perverse manner . We all have noticed that drivers seem to take delight in pulling away from stops in time to leave a dashing passenger on the corner . But the ultimate delight seems to be in excluding them entirely from getting on the bus at the end of the line . For example , the 79th Street crosstown bus run ends at 81st Street and West End @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , none can get on . Those people living on 81st Street or a block or two north , being repulsed at 81st and Vest End , are forced to engage in a race with the bus as it goes down West End and then turns east on 79th Street toward the first stop at 79th and Broadway . Needless to say , the bus often wins the three-block race . Indeed , in rainy weather , the bus ' record is nearly perfect . I have asked many drivers why riders can not get on at the end of the line . The answer , uniformly acceptable to them , is that the rules do not allow it . The ream for the rule is another matter . An arcane one as far as the drivers are concerned . RICHARD E. RIEDER New York , Jan. 27 , 1975 Aaron Burr 's near miss at a Presidency that was clearly understood to belong to Jefferson in 1800 , and gave us the system that has endured to the present . Eight times before Gerald Ford has a non-popularly elected Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic legitimacy . In fact , the electorate is probably relieved to have the new hand on the tiller immediately , especially in the modern era , Consider the hobbling of the President pro tern Mr. Howe suggests , in office only until a new election can be held . Finally , consider that we are a republic . In such a government the electorate invests its elected repre , sentatives with the authority to exercise their best judgment on its behalf . Having Gerald Ford , who was subjected to the intensive scrutiny of both houses of Congress , come to office seems considerably more desirable than , say , the chances we 've taken with the previous eight succeeding Vice Presidents . The hard truth is that the political system that produces Presidential nominees has not yielded continuously inspired leadership . All objections taken , the 25th provides a reasonable way for securing Presidential succession in the context of our experience . It should not be lightly abolished in favor of an interim direct election , an awkward method untested in our history , and one which might conceivably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. PUN ER Pleasantville , N. Y. , Jan. 27 , 1975 Independistas ' Last Straw To the Editor : The F.A.L.N. 's Jan. 24 killing , maiming and injuring of innocent people was not only an act of savagery typical of fascist mentality but also a desperate attempt to revive a cause gone sour . CrivookThe notion of an independent Puerto Rico , still held by those who would turn that Commonwealth into a Castroland , has been overwhelmingly rejected by the Puerto Rican people and will continue to be . Realizing this , the independistas clutch at one last straw : creating an image of raging Puerto Rican terrorism in the public mind which will create antagonism between mainland United States and Puerto Rico . As the desired exacerbation of feelings grows , they believe it would provide a more fertile field for increased numbers of converts to their cause . But this notion will backfire , as Americans in Puerto Rico and on the mainland will see that such tactics no more characterize Puerto Rican politics than similar terroristic acts elsewhere characterize the people in whose name the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily destroyed , is a precious thing . Those who believe that its taking is justified by political ends are no more civilized than Attila the Hun or Adolf Hitler . HAROLD H. OSMER Asst . Professor of History St. John 's University Staten Island , N. Y. , Jan. 25 , 1975 ? Indochina Military Aid : In Lieu of Tax Dollars To the Editor : President Ford is , on one hand , asking for $522 million in military aid for South Vietnam and Cambodia and , on the other , attempting to save a similar sum by increasing the cost of food stamps to poor and hungry Americans . Perhaps there is a better and more equitable way . Let the Treasury collect voluntary contributions for military aid to South Vietnam and Cambodia , such contributions to he tax-deductible , not unlike contributions for disaster relief to Nicaragua . This would afford those who support this noble venture in Southeast Asia the opportunity to demonstrate that support and would eliminate the necessity to impose this financial burden on food-stamp purchasers , who , of all citizens of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baltimore , Feb. 3 , 1975 ? Pension Reform Flaws To the Editor : The Pension Reform Act of 1974 includes glaring discriminatory provisions which should be the subject of immediate reformation . The Keogh Plan enables self-employed persons to create their own retirement penisons via a tax-deductible contribution to an approved plan limited to $7,500 per annum . For those not self-employed , and not covered by any other pension , the law permits a tax-deductible contribution to an approved plan limited to $1,500 per annum . It is obviously inequitable to permit those who are self-employed to enjoy a deduction five times greater than that which a non-self-employed individual is permitted to take . Further , there are vast numbers of persons who do not fall into the act 's definition of self-employed but for all . intents and purposes are self-employed . For example , commission salesmen whose earnings are solely generated through their own unsupervised efforts are not considered to be self-employed if their earnings are reported on a W-2 form , subject to withholding taxes . In addition , scores of individuals are covered by financially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and which the , can not upgrade . The act does not permit such persons to provide properly for retirement by creating supplemental tax-deductible plans . ? If they are covered by any plan , regardless of how inadequate , they are ineligible . If the purpose of this needed legislation was to enable all working individuals to provide for their own retirement , it is imperative that Congress move expeditiously to clarify the ambiguities and remove the inequities of this act . Such progressive modifications would save the Government the monumental cost of providing additional old-age benefits to those now ineligible to provide for themselves . CHARLES L. GOLDFNRERG New York . Jan. 23 , 1975 Alcoholism : The Collusion of Silence In Defense of the 25th Amendment                     