@@730917

txt THE THREATENED widespread shutdown of Chicago area gasoline stations fizzled yesterday , altho many stations in scattered areas closed . Motorists , taking no chances , filled their tanks-for the weekend . The leader of the dealers ' protest , Robert Jacobs , secretary-treasurer of the Illinois Gasoline Dealers Association , admitted the shutdown was not as effective as he had hoped , but ' he hailed as a " great victory " a f ede r al court order which curbed a gas price rollback scheduled for Sept. 1 . Jacobs called for the threeday closing beginning yesterday as a protest to the rollback order by the Nixon administration 's Cost of Living Council . The order required retail gas prices to be set back to a Jan. 10 level with a 7 cent-a-gallon profit margin . Jacobs said , " This is a great victory for the legitimate representatives of gasoline dealers and makes our protest worthwhile . " Jacobs and Jerry S. Cohen , attorney for the National Congress . of Petroleum retailers said yesterday 's court order in effect lifts price controls scheduled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealers . Jacobs ' group is the largest member of the association . Government attorneys said they would seek an appeals court order to delay the federal decision . ? RALPH PORCELLI , head of a rival dealers ' association , the Gasoline Retailers Association of Metropolitan Chicago , refused to support the closings and said during the week that 99 per cent of the stations would remain open . Jacobs blamed Porcelli for thwarting the dealers ' protest and added , " I am dismayed by the way he torpedoed this effort , especially when he claims to be an industry person . " Jacobs said that most closings were in the north . and northwest sides and in the suburbs . He warned that if only 40 per cent of the stations closed there would be a run on the other 60 per cent and they would be forced to close someRirie Saturday because of supply shortages . A similar move in Indianapolis failed to receive much support . A motor club reported that 500 of 800 stations in the Indianapolis metropolitan area remained open . Altho the closings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicity surrounding the threatened shutdowns , and the determination of the " standup " dealers who did close , served to spotlight the ? plight of service station operators who feel they are victims of inequitable price rulings . Random surveys showed that roughly 75 per cent of the service stations were open in Chicago and suburbs . The Chicago Motor Club reported no change in their original survey on Thursday that more than half of their affiliated stations would be open as normal .                     