@@729831

txt If Indian forces maintain their recent rate of advance , the war in East Pakistan  --  now known here as the People 's Republic of Bangla Desh  --  may soon be over . As of Dec. 9 , Indian attacks were steadily closing in on Dacca , which is the East Pakistan capital and presumed location for a final Pakistan military stand . Although no Indian ground forces were yet within striking distance of Dacca , that city is known to be ringed by bands of Mukti Bahini , East Bengali freedom fighters , some of whom operate in the city itself , some in the surrounding countryside . With Indian main forces still separated from the city by wide rivers which provide natural defense barriers , the possibility of an Indian paratrooper attack in Dacca is not ruled-out. ? Airborne-troops- captured the northeastern town of Sylhet in a surprise move of this sort . Potential pathways Dacca now is being approached from four directions . In each of these directions the Indian Army has been cranking out steady gains in recent days . The fall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Brahmanbaria in the northeast all open potential pathways toward the capital . An Indian force is reportedly heading north also from Chandpur . The key maneuvering now is to take river fording points that will enable mobile units to continue their drives . Pakistani troops which have suffered reverses in earlier engagements are reported trying to make their way toward Dacca  --  which is not an easy assignment . Not only are they hampered by continuing Indian armored thrusts and unopposed Indian air attacks , but they also face the same river-crossing obstacles . Dacca is located about 15 miles north of a V formed by the juncture of two enormous river systems which in turn are portions of the Ganges River near its mouth . These broad water barriers impede access to Dacca from east or west other than by ferries or bridges which are easily blown up in the face of attack . Only from the north or northeast is the capital city readily approachable , and even there some river obstacles are encountered . How many retreating Pakistani units can reach Dacca before they are cut off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morale when they do arrive can only be matters for speculation . But so far Pakistani resistance at the main outlying towns seems to be less than expected . Whether or not the same pattern will emerge in the forthcoming battle for Dacca can not be forecast at this stage , of course . But Indian military leaders plainly are hopeful that Pakistani forces can be persuaded not to make an all-out , last-ditch stand at Dacca  --  or that if they do the forces will be found less large than expected . The quick victories registered in the first week of the war give India little reason to accept the United Nations General Assembly call for a cease-fire and mutual troop withdrawal . All indications are that New Delhi will reject the UN resolution on grounds it is impractical and unlikely to solve the problem .                     