@@732468

txt Syrian troops crossed Into Lebanon Friday and seized three border checkpoints from leftist forces in what appeared to be a major escalation of Syria 's efforts to impose its own brand of peace on its wartorn neighbor , official Lebanese and Palestinian sources said . The checkpoints were along the " Arafat trail , " the route long used by Palestinian guerrillas to smuggle weapons into southern Lebanon . AT LEAST 50 persons were killed and 110 wounded over the last 98 hours as new fighting flared across Lebanon , raising the toll for nearly a year of civil war to more than 16,600 dead and 39,150 wounded . The new Moslem-Christian clashes threatened the precarious truce on the day of a crucial Parliament meeting on which American , French , and Syrian peace efforts hinged . Saturday 's meeting , beginning the process of electing a now president , was diverted to a villa between Moslem-controlled western Beirut and the eastern Christian sector because continued fighting ? downtown made it impossible to meet there . RELIABLE AND official Lebanese and Palestinian sources said a " large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as one armored brigade  --  crossed three miles over the eastern border and captured the town of Masnaa 35 miles southeast of Beirut after a brief clash with leftist Lebanese army troops . The sources said pro-Syrian forces also entered Lebanon H. miles farther Tribune Ma south and captured the border post o Dier Al Aachayer , controlling access to the Arafat Trail . Other pro-Syrian forces captured Abboudiyeh In the north , the sources said . Clashes between leftists and pro-Syrian forces wearing the uniforms of the Saiqa Palestinian guerrilla organization were also reported in the Bekaa Valley . ANOTHER SYRIAN force  --  also estimated to be up to an armored brigade in strength  --  crossed Into northern Lebanon and-took up positions facing those of leftistlebanese troops'around the northern port of Tripoli , 50 miles from Beirut , the sources said . The sources expressed some surprise at the developments which , despite . past Syrian threats to invade Lebanon to restore peace , comp unexpectedly on the eve of what appeared might have been the beginning of a political settlement to Lebanon 's crisis . They said the troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least  --  much beyond the checkpoints they captured . SYRIA ALSO was reported to have imposed a complete blockade of Lebanon to stop arms from reaching the Palestine Liberation Organization . There was no independent confirmation of the report from the Beirut correspondent of Egypt 's semi-official Middle East News Agency . The mountain battle erupted when a Syrian food convoy came under sharp attack in the Bekaa Valley near the border region 35 miles cast of Beirut as Syrian trucks tried to resupply the surrounded Christian town of Zahle , authorities said . United States intelligence sources say about 2,000 regular Syrian troops also are in Lebanon . If confirmed , their presence would underline the importance Syrian President Hafez Assad attaches to obtaining a lasting peace , a goal he has lent his personal prestige and sought through repeated cease-fire initiatives . SYRIA ALSO IS reported to fear that a deteriorating situation in Lebanon could draw in Israel and touch off a widespread Mideast conflict . The latest Lebanese truce , the 20th in nearly a year was violated almost as soon as it got off the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moslem majority for more political and economic power in Lebanon and.resistnnce to these demands by the Christian minority until the Palestinian guerrillas are reined in . Syria has been donating flour and other food to Lebanon , helping Christian and Moslem areas alike . It also has been using Palestinian guerrillas from the Syrian-sponsored Salmi group to rein in leftist Moslems , to prevent arrival of armed shipments , and to give time for a negotiated settlement to the civil war . SAWA COMMANDOS seized an arms shipment at Beirut international airport Thursday night , setting off a running battle with radical Palestinian guerrillas for whom the arms were shipped from Libya , newspaper reports said . On the political front , President Ford 's special peacemaking envoy , L. Dean Brown , predicted to newsmen that Christian President Suleiman Franjieh will relent and resign one Parliament , elects his successor . This is the No . I leftist condition for continuing the 10-day cease-fire expiring Monday . " I think the general pattern of the future is generally accepted , " Brown said after touring a  --  Red Cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  