@@728713

txt The wild bay stallion panics as the strangers approach . Eyes rolling , he races desperately around the corral that is his prison , tripping over wires , crashing against the fence . He had come down from the arid mountains near here and was drawn to a familiar salt lick that had been fenced , its gate left open . Entering , he tripped a wire and the gate slammed behind him . When the gate opened again it would lead to the back of a truck . There would be other corrals then , and , finally , the last stop at a petfood plant . Trapped and sold for six cents a pound on the hoof , shot and left to rot on the range , driven off cliffs , the mustang is a slowly vanishing symbol of the American West . Descended from stock brought to the New World by the Spanish conquistadors and the settlers who came after , mustangs once roamed the Great Plains by the hundreds of thousands . No more . As barbed wire and the plow marched across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Exterminated as a pest by ranchers , driven into dry country where pasturage is hard to find , his numbers dwindled . Today about 17,000 mustangs are left in 11 Western states , about half of them live in Nevada , many in the arid moonscape of that state 's southern region . Conservationists ? and some repentant " mustangers " who have slain many of the animals in the past  --  are now working to preserve those that are left . They will have to work fast ; Stan Routson , Nevada state inspector of brands , expects the mustang to survive only about eight years more in his state . " A National Monument " " The mustangs are definitely going down the drain , " says Tom Holland , a retired Utah rancher who heads the National Mustang Association , which wants to set up a 68,000-acre preserve near here . " Horses helped build and conquer America ; and the wild ones left on the range ought to be a national monument . Instead they 're treated like garbage , like so many empty beer cans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be because of economics and the animal 's lack of status as an endangered species . The Federal Government does n't recognize it as such because , strictly speaking , the mustang is not a distinct species , just a horse of mixed parentage . Old mustang hunters , however , view him as a wild animal in the truest sense of the word ; they have seen mustangs leap over cliffs rather than be caught or starve themselves to death when trapped in corrals rather than eat the food profferred by captors . Mrs. Velma ( Wild Horse Annie ) Johnston , a Reno secretary who has been a strong champion of the mustang , says : " No one wants to be responsible for them . They 're not an edible animal and they 're not a trophy animal . They 're in limbo . " Mrs. Johnston was instrumental in obtaining a 1959 Federal law that forbids the use of planes and motor vehicles in rounding up mustangs on Federal land ( 86% of Nevada is Federally owned ) . A bill introduced in Congress earlier this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up and maintain preserves for mustangs and burros , but the fate of that is uncertain and the 1959 law is the principal protection now available . Holes in the Law The 1959 law has ended the massive roundups of the past , when hundreds of mustangs were driven over cliffs or rounded up and sold by teams of hunters in jeeps , trucks , and airplanes ; about 100,000 of the wild horses were removed from Nevada in the four years after the end of World War II , for example . Still , the 1959 law is poorly enforced and has holes in it . " You 're not going to get the FBI out here to enforce it , " says Mr. Routson , the Nevada brand inspector . " And the county commissioners are elected by ranchers , who want that land for cattle . " Many ranchers lease grazing rights from the U.S. Bureau of Land Management , paying a fee based on how many cattle the bureau estimates can be supported on a given tract . In the Nevada badlands , where cattlemen joke that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to stay alive , every tuft of green is precious  --  and the mustang is a wide-ranging rival for available , pasturage . So ranchers and others still trap and kill mustangs legally and illegally . The anti-motor vehicle provision of the 1959 law is evaded by mustang hunters who release their own branded horses into a mustang herd  --  and then chase and round up the whole lot using jeeps and trucks . If anyone gets curious , the hunter can argue that he was just after old dobbin . There is some evidence , though , that as the mustang population has dwindled , the ranchers have softened . Says Walter Clutts , head of the Las Vegas chapter of the National Mustang Association : " Fellows who rode them off cliffs by the hundreds are starting to support our program . They look out the window and they do n't see them anymore . Deep in their hearts they love them and they want to see some around ; it 's hard for a rancher not to have some feeling for horses . " Ellis ( Cougar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personally involved in the capture and extermination of some 10,000 of the animals , says he repented years ago when it struck him that his children might never see a mustang . Retired rancher Holland , the Mustang Association president , recalls a similar change of heart . " Back in the fifties , " he says , " there was one horse , a white mare . We chased her for three years . We got to calling her Native Dancer . The last year we chased her , she was with a colt . We finally caught her , but it took three relays of men And horses and an eight-mile run . Now , that horse was the goingest concern I ever come across , and it about broke my heart when we shipped her out for pet food . "                     