@@730181

txt Arthur Herman Bremer , the 21-yearold former Milwaukee busboy who is accused of shooting GO . George C. Wallace , was portrayed today as tired , hungry and down to his last $2 by the time he reached the Maryland shopping center ( where the Governor was struck down Monday afternoon ; Sources close to the investigation said today that Mr. Bremer was on the road for several days before the shooting and appeared to have reached " the end of his rope " ' n his dogged pursuit of the Wallace campaign . Mr. Wallace remained at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring , , Md. , today , still paralyzed , from the hips down but beginning a program of physical therapy . Details on Page 43 . The suspect , who is being held in the Baltimore County jail under $200,000 bond , has reportedly told investigators that he did not eat for several days and was ' sleeping in his ramshackle automobile for several nights before the shooting . He , also said that his car repeatedly broke down on his long drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alabama Governor addressed a rally Saturday , to the shopping center in Laurel , Md. , where the shooting took place , the sources said . In addition to the .38-caliber snub-nosed revolver found at the shooting scene , the Prince Georges County police have discovered hidden in Mr. Bremer 's car a Browning 9-mm. automatic pistol equipped with a wooden stock and a clip of ammunition . The discovery of the second weapon was disclosed today when the county police filed a report of their search of the car with the court in Upper Marlboro , Md . Police sources declined to say exactly where the gun had been found , but they confirmed that the police had dismantled most of the car in the search . The seats , tires and other parts of the car were laid out neatly under a canvas cover this afternoon in a lot ; behind the police academy in Forrestvine , Md. , where the search was conducted .. ' Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Secret Service examined the interior of the car Tuesday but apparently did not discover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contents of the Bremer car , filed in United States District Court here , said that agents had discovered copies of " R.F.K , Must Die , ' and " Sirhan , " both books about Sirhan B. Sirhan , the former Palestinian refugee who was convicted of the 1968 assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy . The books were checked out of the Milwaukkee Public Library by Mr. Bremer on May 5 . " R.F.K. Must Die , " by Robert B. Kaiser , gives Sirhan 's ac'count of the . Kennedy shooting and alleges that the assassination was the result of a conspiracy . Federal investigators here Said that , on the basis of the contents of Mr. Bremer 's car , it appeared that he lived in the car perhaps as long as two Weeks . ? Several pillows and blankets were found in the back seat , along with a wash cloth and towel , an electric razor , toilet kit , and a suitcase and a garment bag filled with several changes of clothes . In addition to a George Wallace campaign poster found on the rear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered about the interior . Flyer Found A George campaign flyer was found on the outside of the left windshield , apparently under the wiper blade . Investigators here said that the flyer might have been put there while Mr. Bremer ' was attending the Wallace rally in Laurel . ' They specifically said they , had " no evidence whatsoever " that Mr. Bremer might have been stalking Senator or any of the other Presidential candidates . - The car also yielded a variety of road maps and travel guides , of the Ohio and Pennsylvania Turnpikes , a Rand-qzmcq#Nally road atlas and a tour guide to motels on the Ohio Turnpike . On the floor behind the front ' seat , covered by a hand towel , : the agents found a Westinghouse tape recorder and a portlable radio , equipped with a spe ? : vial band to pick up police , broadcasts . They also discov'ered a pair of powerful bino. lculars and three clips for an ! automatic pistol . A film developing kit and empty film canisters were found in the back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends in Milwaukee ; have reported that photography ! is one of his hobbies . Bob Dylan Record The agents also found a copy ' ! of his birth certificate , several notebooks , a clipboard , some ; : song books and a Bob Dylan ; ! record album , " The Times Are ? Changin . ' One investigator described the car 's interior as a " real squirrel 's nest , the home away ' from home for somebody who looks like he 's been on the road ; : for a very long time . " While upwards of 200 F.B.I . ' agents have continued their efforts to reconstruct the move ' ments and motivations that led Bremer to the Laurel Shopping Center last Monday , the young ? suspect has been held under close Federal guard in the Baltimore County jail in Towson , a suburb of Baltimore . He has been visited by his court-appointed attorney , Ben . jamin Lipsitz of Baltimore , and yesterday by his father , William Bremer , and his younger brother . Roger . Reliable sources said thn.t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lie arrived at the prison yesterday but changed his mind after a talk with Mr. Lipsitz . Prison sources said that Mr. Bremer 's mood had been alternately subdued and angry . At times he has refused to speak with his jailers and at other points he has railed at them and spat on anyone who came near him , they said . . The sources said that he became incensed Tuesday afternoon when a doctor he had requested failed to appear immediately . Mr. Bremer knocked his cell furniture against the bars , the sources said . Mr. Bremer is being kept in an ordinary 8-by-10-foot cell in the main section of the threestory jail , constructed in 1957 to serve as an office building .                     