@@733015

txt W A S HI N G T ON API  --  Kickback schemes are present " in every aspect of the Medicaid system " and a law against them is not being enforced , a Senate committee reported Saturday . The Senate Committee on Aging , in the latest of many congressional attacks on the federal-state health program for the poor , said : " There is new and mounting evidence that the Medicaid program is not only inefficient but riddled with fraud and abuse . " However , only one case has been prosecuted successfully under a 1972 law against offering or accepting Medicaid kickbacks , the panel said . The committee 's report said many pharmacists are forced to pay nursing home operators a certain percentage of the price of nursing home prescription drugs in return for the business . WHILE THE KICKBACKS are most frequent in nursing homes , " increasing evidence points to hospitals , medical practitioners , clinical laboratories , and other suppliers , " the committee said . The report , a summary of the committee 's more than 50 hearings on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of evidence of widespread kickbacks In California , New York , Florida , Illinois , and Wisconsin . The report said : " Kickbacks . have the effect of increasing the cost of the Medicaid program . They undermine the quality of services which are offered , // Medicaid riddled with kickbacks ' // since operators become more concerned with rebates than with care . " TILE . COMMITTEE SAID it sent a questionnaire to all California pharmacists and 200 others around ttie country . " Sixty-three per cent of all pharmacists responding indicated an actual experience , or a positive belief that kickbacks were widespread , " the report said . The panel reported written comments from pharmacists from all parts of the country " with actual names of pharmacists and nursing home operators . " " In some cases , they made incredible admissions relating to their participation in forced profit-sharing , allegedly to secure and maintain a nursing home account , " the report said . A FEW OF TILE comments said pharmacists are responsible for kickback schemes , the committee said . One comment was : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important members of our association . Sorry , I 'm too small now . " The committee said the policy of allowing the nursing home to act as the middleman between the pharmacy and the Medicaid program " creates an inviting atmosphere for abuse . " The committee ' said that under this arrangement Medicaid administrators do not know what they are paying for . " The bill does not come from the pharmacist , but from the nursing home , and it is often unitemized , " the report said . " Close scrutiny of a bill is extremely difficult , if not impossible . "                     