@@729575

txt The two moon-exploring astronauts of Apollo 15 blasted off the lunar surface today , in the first televised launching from another world , then rejoined their orbiting command ship two hours later . Col , David R. Scott and Lieut . Col , James B. Irwin of the Air Force thus ended in a spectacular instant , at 1:11 P.M. , Eastern daylight time , nearly three days of man 's most extensive and fruitful explorations a the earth 's mysterious and desolate satellite planet . After a link-up with the command ship in lunar orbit , the astronauts overcame what was thought to be a possible oxygen leak in a spacecraft hatch that delayed by two hours the discarding of their spent lunar landing craft . The hatches were rechecked , resealed and then found to be secure for the rest of the mission . In a Storm of Debris For the lift-off from the moon , which was watched by millions of television viewers around the world , the lunar module 's upper half shot up from its four  --  legged base , scattering a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Um of lunar dust . There was no fiery color to the rocket exhaust because there is no air on the moon . The getaway was quick , unlike the launchings from earth , because of the weak lunar gravity and the absence of friction from any atmosphere . From the lunar module , at the time of lift-off , came the recorded strains of " Off We Go Into the Wild Blue Yonder . " The television camera that gave the earth a picture of the blast-off was left on the moon , mounted on the front of the astronauts ' lunar Rover . It was apparently not damaged by the exhaust of the lift-off . Last Ride on Rover Before they left the moon , the two astronauts took one last ride on Rover 1 , their fourwheel lunar runabout , bouncing west over an undulating plain to look down into a milewide canyon called Hadley Rifle . What they saw took many scientists by surprise ? and could alter theories on how the moon 's large basins were formed . Colonel Scott reported seeing " well-defined " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This indicated to scientists here at the Manned Spacecraft Center that the moon 's basins , called seas , had probably been formed by many lava flows over a long period of time , not by a single event . Dr. Joseph P. Allen 4th , the scientist  --  astronaut who acted as capsule communicator , said at a news conference that the layers that Colonel Scott saw and photographed were like " leaves of the history book of that part of the moon . " The scientists were also eagerly awaiting the return of some 175 pounds of rocks and soil that the two astronauts gathered during their three // surface excursions , which lasted , a total of 18 hours and 3T minutes . One of the rocks , a ' crystalline anorthosite , may be a fragment of early lunar crust . After they lifted off the moon , Colonel Scott and Colonel Irwin steered the lunar module , Falcon , into orbit and to a smooth rendezvous and docking with the command ship , Endeavour . The two ships linked at 3:10 P.M , " Welcome home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Force , the command module pilot , radioed to Falcon . " It 's nice to be aboard again , " Colonel Scott replied . Major Worden had been orbiting the moon , operating a variety of scientific and photographic experiments , while the other two astronauts were on the lunar surface . Colonel Scott and Colonel Irwin boarded Endeavor and carefully transferred their cargo of rocks . Then the possible trouble with the hatch cropped up , just as they prepared to jettison the lunar module . Rising oxygen pressure in the I tunnel between the two ships indicated to Mission Control that there might be a slight leak in either the hatch of the lunar module or that of the command module . Consequently , the flight controllers ordered the astronauts to delay the jettison maneuver for one more orbit of the moon , from 8:15 P.M. to 9:04 P.M. This gave them time to re-enter the tunnel and run a " hatch integrity check . " From the results of the check Mission Control was then " satisfied that we do have a good seal on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were then separated . The astronauts fired maneuvering rockets to pull the command ship away to a safe distance . The lunar module was then sent crashing into the moon two hours later to set off seismic waves that should help scientists to determine the nature of the moon 's interior , Orbiting for 2 Days The three astronauts then settled down to a planned two clays of circling the moon . They are to operate a number of remote-sensing instruments , release a small satellite to be left in lunar orbit ' and photograph some 20 per cent of the moon 's surface for detailed mapping purposes . Apollo 15 is scheduled to racket out of lunar orbit Wednesday afternoon and head for earth and a splashdown in the Pacific Ocean Saturday afternoon . Before their departure from the moon , Colonel Scott and Colonel Irwin completed their third walking : and driving expedition across the lunar surface . They cruised 6.4 miles in Rover 1 , bringing their total distance covered to 171/2 miles . The two moon explorers depressurized Falcon at 4:52 A.M. and spent 4 hours and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour less than originally planned . They had fallen behind in their schedule yesterday when their surface excursion was delayed by troubles with spilled water , a broken antenna and some bubbles in Colonel Irwin 's space suit water cooling system . Big as Football Fields For a time it appeared that the astronauts would not get far on their third trek . They had an exasperating struggle trying to remove a 10-foot core tube they had driven into the lunar surface . Once , as his patience wore thin , Colonel Scott radioed Mission Control : " You never did tell me that drill was that important . Just tell me that it 's that important , and then I 'll feel a lot better . " He was assured that it was important . And when he finally pulled out the core , with its samples of soil reaching 10 feet deep , Dr. Allen made the austronauts feel better by saying : " That 's undoubtedly the deepest sample out of the moon . " Next , the two men dusted off their roving vehicle and drove west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for observation . By 6:30 A.M. , the astronauts had reached the rim of the mile-wide canyon . They drove down the gentle slope from the first rim until they came near an inner rim , where the drop toward the floor 1,200 feet below was more precipitous . They found large blocks of , rock on the side . The soil was so soft that their boots sank in four to six inches . Looking across to the west wall of the canyon , Colonel Scott made what scientists call one of the most important observations of the mission . He saw " maybe 10 very well-defined layers " in the canyon wall . At a news conference later , Dr. Allen , a physicist who accompanied the astronauts on most of their premission geology field trips , said that that " one sentence alone was perhaps worth the trip . " For , he explained , it indicated to scientists that the moon 's great basins , such as the Sea of Rains near the Apollo 15 landing site , were probably formed not by a single lava flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before Apollo 15 , most scientists assumed that the Sea of Rains and other basins were formed by molten material from a single massive meteorite impact . The layering of the canyon wall , Dr. Allen said , " told us that there were several episodes " of lava flows over the plain , each occurring thousands or perhaps millions of years apart . The astronauts took stereo photographs of the layering effect for geologists to analyze . " I 'm really surprised that the bedding layering is as obvious , " Colonel Scott reported . Another finding near the canyon rim also stirred the hopes of scientists . The astronauts found a large , hard and apparently crystalline boulder that they said could be a chunk of lunar bedrock . Colonel Scott collected a fragment from it . Scientists Not Sure Scientists here were cautious in their interpretation of the discovery . They said it was probably not the same type of crystalline rock that the astronauts found yesterday at the foot of the mountains , a rock that geologists believe may be from the early lunar crust . Returning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning sun beaming down on the Appenine Mountains and was reminded of " my favorite Biblical passage from Psalms . " " I 'll look unto the hills from whence cometh my help , " he said , quickly adding , " but , of course , we get quite a bit from Houston , too . " Back at the landing site , the astronauts completed work with the core samples and stationed the Rover 's television camera on a rise about 300 feet east of the lunar module  --  the camera 's vantage point for televising the lift-off . Then Colonel Scott stood before the television camera and canceled the first stamp of a new issue dedicated to American achievements in space . After the rifle and the mail , the two astronauts returned to their lunar module and repressurized the cabin in preparation for lift-off . Repressurization occurred at 9:42 A.M.                     