@@734362

txt WASHINGTON ? Detection of a Soviet military command center near Havana similar to one in East Berlin led CIA analysts to conclude that the Soviet Union had stepped up its military presence in Cuba , The Tribune learned Tuesday The command center pulls together various Soviet activities on the Island nation , including a sensor station to monitor United States air traffic and mtellite launchings , according to one high State Department official . The construction of the command center added a further mystery to the already perplexing situation . There is no fear that the Soviets are planning an invasion of the U.S. , but there is concern that they might be gearing up to intervene in Latin American trouble spits . ANIECIC ' IN OFFICIALS insist there L no clear eqic'ence as to what the Soviets hope to gain by the action . Meanwhile , President Carter and top foreign policy advisers met Tuesday afternoon to plan options for dealing with the Soviet activity . The meeting included Secretary of State Cyrus Vance , National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski , Secretary of Defense o be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and CIA Director Stensfield Turner . Administration officials said the policy experts recommended that Carter wait for a Soviet reply to protests over the troops ' presence in Cuba before taking any action . The Soviet command center was first described in a top secret assessment by the Central Intelligence Agency made available to Vance and others last week , according to sources familiar with the events . The CIA report triggered a protest to the Soviets , who have not yet replied . THE REPORT concluded the Soviets had consolidated their operations on the island in a center between Havana and Los Palaclos to the west . It confirmed that the Soviets had installed for the first time a combat unit in Cuba . Sources said the intelligence estimate was plagued by uncertaintities , such as the possibility of counting men and equipment more than once . However , the sources insisted there were solid grounds for claiming the Soviets had 2,000 to 3,000 troops in Cuba in addition to the 1,500 to 2,000 Soviet military and advisory personnel normally stationed there . Only a month ago , the CIA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Cuba . Low-level analysts in the intelligence community , iwwever , expressed suspicions that the Soviets appeared to be far more active than in the past . An intensive effort was ordered to check this out . The suspicions reportedly were based on communications picked up by sensing devices as well as some photographic evidence . Spy planes and satellites were ordered to provide new photographs . Putting together all the sources of information , the CIA then radically changed its estimate of Soviet activity . IT DECIDED THE Soviets had established a command center rarely seen in their armed forces . The only other // From page one Russ use Cuba like East Berlin // known cases including East Berlin , are confined to areas on the West 's doorstep . The U.S. has asked the Soviets precisely what their intentions are . State Department officials do not rule out that the Soviet military buildup might be an effort to become a factor in continuing unrest in the Caribbean , in which Cuba has promised to play a revolutionary role . When Vance returned from a vacation on Matha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assessment was on his desk . He conferred with the President and then ordered the No. 2 man In the Soviet Embassy summoned to the Stale Department . The Soviet ambassador was away . WHEN TOLD OF the U.S. concern , the Soviet diplomat , Viadillen Vasev , scoffed at the CIA estimate and the U.S. reaction , sources said . Vasev denied any buildup of Soviet combat troops . In a 25 minute meeting with Undersecretary of Stale David Newsom , Vasev said even if the Soviets had added combat troops in Cubs , it would not violate any U.S.-Soviet agreement . The State Department , in announcing the presence of the troops , confirmed that no specific agreement had been violated . Vance was expected to give some indication at a Wednesday press conference as to what action , if any . the Carter administration will take . State Depart . ment sources said the U.S. has made no direct threats to the Soviets so far , such as linking a troop withdrawal to American grain sales to the Russians . Vasev was told by Newsom that the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Limitation Treaty before the Senate . Sen. Frank Church ID. , Mont. , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee an , nounced Tuesday postponement of furi Cher SALT hearings so this committee can deal with the Cuban situation . A White House spokesman said as recently as Tuesday that SALT II was considered to be separate from all other aspects of U.S.-Soviet relations . // Yugoslav President Josip Broz Tito addresses the nonaligned summit in Havana Tuesday . Behind him is Cuban President Fidel Castro . with whom Tito has expressed differences on Third World policy toward the Soviet Union .                     