@@733212

txt Letters pg . 25 Letters China : Still Better , We Can Just Do Nothing ' To the Editor : John K. Fairbank 's argument OpEd July 27 that the U.S. should end its security treaty with the Chinese Government on Taiwan is far from convincing , He begins with his favorite theme that China is " incomprehensible " but then goes on to assure us that nonetheless the lessons of history are clear . Yet in this case again , as in 1966 , when he was stoutly defending President Johnson 's Vietnam policy , Professor Fairbank seems to identify the lessons of history with little more than a simple spirit of realpolitik . Thus he cheerfully advises us to go with the big guy and pokes some goodnatured fun at the little guy , describing Taiwan as " run partly by martial law and partly by our college graduates " and even comparing it to Hong Kong as something " left over from the imperialist expansion of the 19th century . " Taiwan , however , is not a leftover of any sort : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding record for economic progress , political stability and cultural vitality . From all accounts , the people on Taiwan today are concerned not with escaping any residual evils of imperialism but with retaining their freedom from rule by the People 's Republic of China . If Taiwan has martial law , what kind of law is there in the P.R.C. , a partly beneficent government with possibly the world 's worst record on " human rights " ? Rather than sharing our President 's laudable if somewhat uneven concern with " human rights , " however , Fairbank is most anxious that we have smooth relations with Peking , and these are impossible , he holds , unless we help implement the " one-China ideal . " In his view , this ideal is an ancient axiom so basic for the Chinese that anything less than its absolutely immaculate realization will fail to assuage their irredentist passions . I do not think , though , that such an absolutistic political style has been demonstrated in Chinese history . On the contrary , what has been demonstrated is a profound capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in retaining the security treaty we are backing " one side in an ongoing civil war . " This is ' hyperbole , not analysis . There is no such war today , except in legalistic terms , and Taiwan 's commitment to retake the mainland is symbolic only . He worries that failing to meet the P.R.C. 's conditions on Taiwan will force the P.R.C. to harden its policy toward us , but the P.R.C. is militarily backward to an extreme degree and thus dependent on U.S. power lit its confrontation with the U.S.S.R. He assures us that Taiwan ' will thrive even without the security treaty , but accompanied by the decision to withdraw from Korea , abrogation of this treaty could dangerously , affect the balance of power in the Far East . He writes as though the U.S. must choose between abrogating the treaty and proclaiming the principle of selfdetermination , but still better , we can just do nothing , letting events evolve naturally without coercion and intimidation from Peking . The Taoists called it wu-wei ( non-action ) . So there is rio reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , betray our own moral sense out of some misguided spirit of realpolitik , and we should not let corifused feelings of guilt about " impedeism " lead us ' to assume that morality and history are always on the side of the Communists . We should firmly back a nation that wants to stay free of Communist rule , that is our ally and that stands as a model of modernization for the third world , and we should adopt toward the P.R.C. a realistic policy of coopem tion without ' capitulation . ' THOMAS A. METZGER Assoc . Professor of Chinese History University of California , San Diego La Jolla , Calif. , Aug. 5 , 1977 Of Forced Retirement And Delayed Benefits Toward Worldwide Energy Management To the Editor : Spurred by complaints against forced retirement at 65 , a Congressional subcommittee recently recommended legislation to ban compulsory retirement at age 65 . Concerned over long-range financing problems of Social Security , the Carter Administration reportedly is studying raising the Social Security normal retirement age from 65 to 68 . The two problems differ greatly . Forced retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy of their experience . But raising the Social Security retirement age would victimize the enfeebled and those whose skills are no longer in demand  --  a far larger group . The great bulk of Social Security retirees file for and receive benefits before they reach 65 . So in the latest data reported ( in the March 1977 Social Security Bulletin ) , of the 1,132,000 persons filing in the last reported year , 807,000 of the applicants ( 437,000 men and 370,000 women ) were 62 to 64 years old . This pattern has persisted ever since Social Security retirement below age 65 became available for men in the 1960 's . A study some years ago showed that most men retiring under age 65 did so because of ill health or because they were already out of a job . These before-65 retirements result in lower benefits . A person retiring at 62 receives a benefit 20 percent less than he or she would receive at 65 . " Normal retirement age " is the age at which a person retires with a full benefit . Setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If it means taking the amounts now available at age 65 ant making the first payment at 68 , those retiring at ages 65 , 66 or 67 would get less than they do now ? and those retiring below 65 ( most retirees ) would suffer even greater reductions . Most of these people have not been forced into retirement by compulsory retirement under private pension plans , which cover under half the private work force , leaving out those in the poorer paying jobs . Compulsory retirement at age 65 ( and under some plans at younger ages ) is unfair and wasteful and should be banned . However , it is a very different thing  --  adversely affecting a larger , different and less fortunate group  --  to raise Social Security 's normal retirement age in order to save money . MERTON C. BERNSTEIN Walter D. Coles Professsor of Law Washington University St. Louis , Aug. 2 , 1977 To Conserve Water To the Editor : Your recent article on the Colorado River was fascinating . The lesson of it is : If fresh water is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles for cleaning streets , flushing toilets and filling swimming pools ? The sea water could pass through a filtering system to get rid of all the pollution that people put into coastal water . The salt-water swimming pools would have a sophisticated angle : thalassa therapy ! One note : Our toilet ' flush systems take much too much water ; the French ones use much less , and are as efficient . ' MARGUERITE ITTEL ? Jackson Heights , N.Y. , Aug ; " 8 , 1977 To the Editor : Peer ahead as we will , there seems only a dark void in the nuclear energy tunnel . Scientists offer no light when they say they can not as yet tell us how to get rid of the radioactive waste from nuclear energy plants . Producing electricity now while producing poison and bequeathing it possibly beyond the next dozen or more generations in an unpredictable world is morally wrong . Locai action such as by the State o , California ( news story July 31 ) has initiated the moratorium on nuclear plant construction that morality and common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be nationwide and worldwide . President Carter has given moral leadership by deferring the reprocessing of fuel that produces plutonium To the Editor : " Think Metric " is a fine slogan and a good idea , but those who are preparing us for the day of conversion are going about it in the wrong way . They are not teaching us to thin : : metric , but rather to " translate from metrics . " The most efficient way to learn a foreign language is to immerse yourself , in it . The most self-defeating course is to translate , word by word . It is the same when we try to ? think in terms of metrics . Every time a radio announcer tells me that " it is 85 , degrees outside , or 29 on the Celsius scale " he is wasting my time . The only practical way to think centigrade is to deal with it in terms of itself . For a couple of weeks last winter my children and I limited ourselves to talking centigrade . I drove them out To the Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined with the manifest inability of the police to deal with a wide range of lesser crimes dramatically underscores the need for increased police protection . Demands made on the police today regularly exceed their capacity to respond , or to respond effectively . Hence , crimes ? even relatively serious crimes ? go unpunished , and their perpetrators grow bolder and more numerous . I urge that the following questions in particular be kept in mind by New York City voters in this election year : What is , such and such- candidate 's stand on crime ? Will he , rather than lay off more police , strengthen the police force ? Will he give the police the necessary moral , financial and logistical support so they can to do their job ? Action , not ' misleading rhetoric , must handy for making bombs . Now the curbing of the directions and appetites we have been enjoying dictates Welting beyond and more widely . than to one leader , one Administration , one country , however vital these may prove . A substantial worldwide program . for management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all Civic and industrial elements of Ameri : can society owe it serious attention : ? For the short range , greater use ? Of coal seems our best trade-off ; Wait wind and geothermal systems must meet the future . The basic step , re ' - mains to be taken for as sane and safe a World as now possible : ' a Moratiaritini on development of all nuclear power plants . ? VICTOR H : ALLEN -- Pleasantville , N.Y. , Aug. 2 , 1977t. to the school bus when it got as low as 10 below . We rejoiced when the , temperature climbed to zero . But we never allowed ourselves to translate into centigrade . As a result , the various numbers soon took on meaning : ? " During this period , a 13-year-old friend of ours heard us describing the experiment in non-conversion and said , " That 's neat . But then how can you tell how cold it really is ? " We have since returned to the Ulla of Fahrenheit , because that is the system under which our country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnecessary . Conversion will be nowhere near as traumatic as we seem to fear . It will be somewhat like jumping into the lake for a swim . You ca n't keep on inching your way in . Eventually you 've got to take the plunge all at once . KARL RODMAN Wallkill , . , N.Y. , Aug. 9 , 1977 be the touchstone here . To be effectirr ? a solution obviously must . be of an order commensurate with the magnitude and gravity of the problem . The first duty of government is the protection of life and property . It-is not to administer to conceived social wants , of their nature insatiable . It is not to foster the illusion that government can give something for nothing . New York City voters , wake .. up ! Either you will vote for a candidate who will really do something about crime and has the kind of meaningful programs to back up his promises , nor you will vote for a candidate who only talks tough on the issue . If you do the , latter , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what wee u New Yorkers have got is a city v : ; ith a richly earned reputation as crime capital of the world . Lou NovEtr , ri-ib Brooklyn , Aug. 6 , 1977 How Not to Prepare for the Metric System A Question for New York 's Mayoral Candidates Slow . Boats ' to 66th St. To the Editor : buses on Columbus Avenue practice what I call the slow-boat-toChina policy , They creep ; along the avenue trying to make every red light so as not to arrive too early at the checker 's station on . 66th Street . If I board a bus I . expect to be taken to my:destination , at normal city , , speed and not at snail 's pace . Slim the traffic ? , There is n't any on upper Columbus , Avenue . ENKA PULVERMANN New York , hug . 5 , 1977                     