@@730043

txt Major Democratic candidates defying the nation 's strongest political organization could find hope yesterday in absentee voting figures indicating a large turnout of party switchers for tomorrow 's election . There is little doubt that the chances of the challengers have improved . But veteran observers still doubt that the magic in the figures is potent enough to beat the City Hall , machine . Many Dem Ballots James Machinis , who is in charge of absentee voting for the Election Board , said that ballots returned by mail or voted hi the board office include 5,892 Democrat and 704 Republican . After final ballots are received in the mail , the final figures are likely to be 8,600 Democrat arid 1,100 Republican . Daniel Walker started his antimachine war for governor soon after completing his assignment as chairman of the victorious campaign for Sen. Stevenson in November , 1970 . Walker has spent more than $500,000 in his campaign . Stevenson , nevertheless , is supporting Lt. Gov . Paul Simon , the choice of Mayor Daley 's slatemakers for governor . Sim- ' on was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V. Hanrahan was endorsed for a second term by Democratic slatemakers on Dec. 7 but was dumped Dec. 20 in favor of Raymond K. Berg . Donald Page Moore is running against both Hanrahan and Berg with support from the Independent Voters of Illinois , which is also working for Walker . Lure G. 0 . P. Voters Many less important contests in the Democratic primary also are luring normally Republican voters to take Democratic primary ballots . This was permitted by a recent federal court decision . The court order , which will be posted tomorrow in all polling places under the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners , which includes Cicero , Berwyn , Stickney , and Lyons , opens the way for any voter to take either party 's ballot regardless of previous or future party affiliation . More than 200,000 Illinois registered voters under the age of 21 are now eligible to vote under new laws . Cook County election officials estimate 148 , - 000 of them are on the rolls here . Dem Ballots In Suburbs The absentee voting figures for Chicago show that more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican ballots . In the 1968 Presidential primary the ratio was little more than 3 to 1 . The heaviest absentee voting is by residents of the 5th Ward , the Hyde Park area , where State Rep. Robert Mann is hoping to win renomination after the regular organization slated two blacks for the pair of House nominations . Thomas King of County Clerk Edward J. Barrett 's staff reported that absentee ballots now on hand for the suburban part of the county number 3,083 Democratic and 1,501 Republican . This 2 to 1 ratio favoring Democratic ballots is contrary to the 3 to 1 ratio in favor of Republicans in 1968 . King said he believes suburban participation at the polls will increase about 25 per cent . Translated into the higher registration totals , t his would mean a suburban turnout greater than four years ago by 80,000.                     