@@732665

txt President Ford signed into law Saturday a major energy bill that will increase gasoline prices up to one-half cent a gallon and provide $2 billion in long-term guarantees to encourage energy-saving by large - users . The new law also extends the life of the Federal Energy Administration for 17 more months , until Dee . 31 , 2977 , It provides a variety of incentives to produce more domestic oil , including lifting crude-oil price controls from wells producing less than 10 barrels of oil a day . SUCH " STRIPPER " wells account for about 15 per cent of the nation 's oil production , and the incentives translate into $1 billion a year added to the price consumers pay for domestic oil products , according to congressional energy specialists . The specialists said that in the case of gasoline , this will account for an increase for consumers of about one-half cent a gallon . Stripper well production was free from federal price controls before enactment of an energy law last December . The exemption contained in the new law allows stripper well prices to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW LAW also provides Incentives for energy conservation in industry and homes , such as : o Up to $2 billion in federal loan guarantees to small businesses , universities , hospitals , local governments , and others to install energy-saving equipment , with a limit of $5 million for each applicant . ? A three-year $200 million program of grants to help low-income families insulate their homes . ? A three-year $200 million demonstration program to encourage other home owners to insulate their homes to save fuel . ? About $105 million for state conservation grants to give owners of houses and other buildings information about energy-saving methods . THE BILL STARTED out as a simple extension of the life of the Federal Energy Administration , but as it made its way through Congress a number of energy conservation measures , some of them part of the President 's conservation program , were added .                     