@@728399

txt column missing Edward A. Martell . Dr. Martell , a former program director of the Armed Forces Special Weapons Project , headed the study group for the Colorado Committee for Environmental Information . The committee is a nonprofit group of 25 persons , mostly scientists , that deals with the impact of technology on man 's environment . Dr. Martell is a West Point graduate who now works with the National Center for Atmospheric ? research , in Boulder , Colo . A.E.C. officials , when questioned about the Martell report , said the commission had never attempted to conceal the fact that what it called minuscule amounts of plutonium were released through the ventilation system during normal operation of the plant . They conceded , however , that until the recent investigation by the Colorado committee , the commission had not conducted adequate ground sampling to detect any buildup of plutonium in the soil of the environs of the plant . In what officials described as a step to " contribute to public confidence " in the safety of the plant , the monitoring and ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials today began two days of private meetings in Denver with the Colorado committee , a representative of Gov . John A. Love and Lloyd ? Joshel , general manager of the plant . An A.E.C. spokesman said a joint statement would be issued after the meetings . Fire Was Investigated Following the fire last May , a special investigating board was appointed by A.E.C. officials . The board stated , " There is no evidence that plutonium was carried beyond the plant boundaries " at the time of the fire . Dr. Martell , however , reported that of 20 earth samples taken from two to four miles cast of the plant , nearly , all showed plutonium " of Dow Rocky Flats origin , " as opposed to deposits of plutonium and strontium-90 left by worldwide nuclear bomb tests . The deposits ranged " from five to 300 times " the readings obtained in areas far removed from the plant , Dr. Martell reported . Deposits were heaviest at the surface of the soil but were found at all levels down to five inches , indicating a long series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The estimated total plutonium deposited in off-site areas which we have examined so far is in the range from curies to tens of curies , " the report states . " Depending on the amounts deposited nearer the plant , and in other areas , the total could be much greater . " Stack smokestack effluent data furnished by Dow Rocky Flats indicates that the total stack release during the past year , including that from the May 11 , 1969 , fire , was lessli than one millicuric . " The actual off-site accumulation of plutonium is at least 1,000 times greater . " Maj Gen. Edward B. Giller , an Air Force officer who is in charge of the commission 's Division of Military Applications , said the commission was in " reasonable agreement " with United Press International The Atomic Energy Commission 's Rocky Flats atomic bomb plant , 16 miles from Denver with the Colorado committee 's report of the levels in the ground . Where the commission and the scientific group differ is in assessing the public health hazard represented by the 1 tonium and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount released by the plant was " very , very small " ? , far below the permissible levels recommended by the International Committee on Radiation Protection  --  and therefore did , not pose a public health hazard . Even the amounts of plutonnium found in the soil by the Colorado committee , A.E.C. officials said , were well below the permissible radiation concentrations for plutonium . Furthermore , they said , once plutonium reaches- the soil , it does not pose a particular health hazard . Plutonium , which was once described by an A.E.C. commissioner as a " fiendishly toxic " substance , is one of the most toxic materials ever produced by man . Its lethality comes from its alpha radiation , which can damage  --  the tender tissues inside the body . To be lethal , however , plutonium must be ingested or inhaled into the body , either through food or from the air . In the oxide form , plutonium is chemically inert and once in the soil does not tend to be absorbed in the food chain , as do some other radioactive materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in the environs of Denver to be dangerous therefore , A.E.C. officials said , people would have to eat the dirt  --  and large amounts of dirt , in view of the low levels of plutonium in the ' soil . In an interview in Boulder on Monday , Dr. Martell said he . submitted the report to the Atomic Energy Commission rather than making it public immediately because he felt it was the proper way to handle a scientific matter . He had planned to make the report public next week , after the Denver meetings . During the interview , Dr. Martell said that all testing was not completed when the report was submitted in January . Later findings , he said , indicated readings of plutonium spread by the wind as far as 15 miles from the plant . He estimated that 200.000 to 300,000 persons live in the area immediately downwind . There were no reports of any tests taken inside Denver . Dr. Martell expressed most concern about the suburbs of Westminster , Broomfield and Arvada . The scientists taking part in the study with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shea , J. 3 : Kraushaar and Robert H. Williams . Professor Kraushaar teaches physics at the University of Colorado . The three other men are all physicists in the aeronomy laboratory of the Environmental Science Services Administration , a Federal agency . Dow did not find any traces of plutonium , the report said , because its tests and monitoring devices were not sensitive enough and because soil samples were not taken . Whether the plutonium now being observed in the soil comes from routine operation of the plant or was accidentally released during the fire last May is uncertain and probably not determinable , A.E.C. officials said . General Giller said , in an interview , that most of the plutonium observed in the soil probably came from normal operation of the plant . Because of its toxicity , plutonium is fabricated in remotely controlled chambers that are kept slightly below atmospheric pressure . As part of the air pressure and ventilation system , air is pumped through the chambers and then exhausted through ventilation stacks resembling smokestacks . Filters in the ventilation stacks are supposed to pick up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some plutonium escapes up the ventilation stack . " You ca n't run an atomic processing plant and guarantee that one molecule wo n't escape , " General Giller observed . The amount released , he said , is so small that once it is diluted in the air it can not be detected by air monitoring devices maintained by the commission on the perimeter of the plant and in downtown Denver . Dr. Martell 's group found plutonium by specifically testing earth samples for it , rather than only measuring the radiation plutonium gives off . High readings were also found in water along Walnut Creek , which runs on the north side of the plant and feeds into the Great Western Reservoir , a water supply source for the suburb of Broomfield . The report suggests that the water was contaminated by liquid plutonium wastes from the plant but that further study is needed . Plutonium oxide , formed when the element burns , is regarded as a. " high specific activity " radioactive substance , in that it gives off heavy radiation dosage for its size . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead , the plutonium particles would be caught up in the prevailing westerly winds that this time of year are measured up to 120 miles an hour coming over the eastern edge of the Rocky Mountains . They kick up giant dust clouds , often gently sandblasting automobiles in the Rocky Flats area . The report recommends better offsite monitoring , more extensive tests to determine the full extent of past plutonium releases . a review of existing standards for workers breathing plutonium oxide , the creation and maintenance of complete medical records on all plutonium workers , and , an . end to . discharge of liquid wastes containing plutonium . " In the not too unlikely eveht of a major plutonium release , " it said . " the ' resulting largescale plutonium contamination could require large scale evacuation of the affected areas , the leveling of buildings and homes , the deep plowing or removal of top soil and an unpredictable number of radiation casualties among the people exposed to the initial cloud or the more seriously contaminated areas . "       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     