@@734132

txt LETTERS TO THE ** ISLAND EDITOR Nurse-Teacher 's Role : Another View Unfortunately , Sylvia Levin , in her recent Opinion Page article , " These Are My Children From 8 to 3 , " was so involved with drama that she omitted the essence of what she had to say . Her position was made clear by the note following the article , and herein lies the rub . She is obviously concerned for her job , but nowhere does her article give any justification to the fact that only a school nurse-teacher could become the savior of the students she encounters . Nothing she described could not be handled as well by a hospital-trained nurse . What gives Sylvia Levin the right to assume that human decency , compassion and understanding would not be as much a part of a nurse 's being as it is of hers ? As a mother and former teacher , I have had experiences with nurseteachers , and as a frequent hospital patient , I have had them with registered nurses . Each can do her job well and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the school nurse is one of the least involved in pupil personnel , and if Sylvia Levin is truly an exception , it still does not make her indispensable . A student is the teacher 's responsibility from 8 to 3 first and foremost , and despite the allusions presented , very few students even contact the nurse-teacher in a school day . DOROTHY B. RoSENcRANs Great Neck A ' Backdoor Approach ' To Nassau Sales-Tax Rise Frank Lynn 's perceptive article , " New Reasons Given for Nassau Sales-Tax Request , " on the possible one-cent increase in the Nassau County sales tax is a warning signal to taxpayers that our local officials have yet to make the budget cuts necessary to bring the cost of local government to a more realistic level . A sales-tax increase is a perfect backdoor approach for those politicians like Francis T. Purcell and Alfonse M. D'Amato who have preached tax relief while continuing to allow the cost of Nassau government to rite . An increase in the sales tax will hurt efforts by local businesses to stay alive . The number of boarded-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase and spread to other communities , as shoppers venture out to Suffolk County and into New York City . Furthermore , a sales-tax increase will allow local officials to sweeten already sweet contracts with the police , and fund pet projects that were cut back in last year 's budget crunch . And , for the Supervisors , who are running for re-election this November , what could be better ? Let 's put off until after the election what might hurt us now . Yes , Nassau County is in deep financial trouble . We had a S7 million deficit in the 1978 budget , and that deficit will grow in 1979 . There is no money to pay for mandated police salary increases ( through binding arbitration ) , and only $400 to pay for Civil Service raises ( per worker ) . And the Board of Supervisors , which brought us this mess by adopting a disastrous 1979 budget , wants to cop out by raising the sales tax . Our officials obviously did not get the message of the tax revolt : Cut government expenditures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , the County Executive and Supervisors would rather squeeze more tax money out of us . Our state legislators and Governor must not allow this to happen ? even if they trick us by attaching the increase to a New York City aid bill . Such a tax increase will destroy the community , and allow Mr. Purcell , Mr. D'Amato and company to continue to talk like tax cutters , while acting like taxmongers . I say " not another cent " for Nassau . RICHARD M. KESSEL Bellmore Dance Scholarships In Suffolk In the Long Island Journal of March 18 it was stated that the Seiskaya Ballet School was apparently the only six-daya-week school that offered scholarships to students hi need in Suffolk County . Rainbow Music and Dance Studio , whose main office is in Sayville , also offers scholarships to students . The scholarship programs include a teacher training program , dance company workshop and lessons . The scholarships are awarded on basis of ability and financial need . DEBBIE PUNZI Sayville Good Business At Glen Cove Square In regard to " Renewal Plan Falters in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stralight . Since my mother , Ann Melil ' lo , and I are co-owners of the Fashicr Cove-Village Boutique Ltd. in the Vii lage Square in Glen Cove , I feel quali fled to voice my viewpoint and experience . If more shopkeepers in the Village Square had been interviewed , ont would have heard a far more optimistic view , since many merchants there are not only doing well but are expanding We at the Fashion Cove have been it business at the Village Square for over a year now and can say that we 've had an excellent year indeed . We 've lived in this city over A5 years and it 's a heck of a nice place to live , work and shop . MADELINE FLORES Glen Cove Brookhaven Laboratory And the Environment While Simon Perchik 's recent article on Suffolk County ( " In a Throwaway Age , a Throwaway County , " Opinion Page is appropriately labeled opinion , it is regrettable , nevertheless , that it includes many errors . Mr Perchik 's zeal about the maintenance and improvement of the quality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his viewpoint would be more credible if he had his facts straight ? in particular , his references to radiation contamination originating from Brookhaven National Laboratory . Contrary to his assertion , the Peconic River has never been used to cool the core of a nuclear research reactor at Brookhaven , nor has the Peconic ever contained high levels of radiation as a result of Brookhaven 's operation . In fact , at the laboratory boundary , our additions to the radioactivity naturally present in the river are less than 1 per cent of the permissible Federal and state guidelines and art detectable only by very sensitive radiation monitoring techniques . The same applies to fish taken in the same location . Downstream , the levels in water'and fish are indistinguishable from those that would be present if the laboratory did not exist . Fishing and clamming are indeed forbidden at the mouth of the river . But this is due to sewage pollution , and has nothing whatsoever to do with the laboratory . , Similarly , the E.P.A. , the State Department of Conservation and almost everyone but Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a farm near ( but not adjoining ) Brookhaven National Laboratory are completely unrelated to our operations , past or present . Rather they are related to soil characteristics , farming practices and the local variations of fallout from past nuclear-weapons tests by the Soviet Union , China and the United States . Incidentally , these " high " levels are comparable to those found at several upstate New York locations , not associated with institutions using radiation , and trivial compared to the ratuoactivity present in milk due to naturally occurring potassium-40 . Over the years , Brookhaven has spent a great deal of effort to ensure that its impact on the environment is negligible . Our annual environmental monitoring report is widely distributed and publicly available . We invite its examination and welcome any discussion of its contents . R. CHRISTIAN ANDERSON                     