@@732312

txt THE COVER of Richard Welch . Central Intelligence Agency officer murdered Tuesday night outside his home in A t hens , Greece , was exposed two months ago by a radical Washington publication which named him and about 20 other persons as CIA station managers around the world . Outgoing CIA Director William Colby Wednesday defended Welch as " a dedicated American , " and said those who revealed his identity are " paranoid . " Counterspy , which started as an anti-Viet Nam War pamphlet three years ago , is published by a group called the Fifth Estate . It numbers among its contributors former CIA agents who have published books and articles detailing and critIcizing " CIA activities . COUNTERSPY LISTED Welch as a CIA representative in Peru . But a few weeks ago , the Athens Daily News printed a list of persons , including Welch , described as the top ILIA operatives in Greece . Welch , 46 , was listed in the U.S. Embassy directory in Athens as special assistant to Ambassador Jack Kubisch . Several masked gunmen shot Welch as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Athens villa Tuesday night . Welch and his wife were returning from the ambassador 's Christmas party . The driver of Welch 's car said the assassins wore handkerchiefs over their faces and one of them spoke briefly to Welch in Greek before shooting him . THE EDITORS of Counterspy , In a statement , denied allegations that their publication was responsible for Welch 's death . They said Welch died " as a direct result of the worldwide hostility that the CIA has helped generate against the United States , " and warned that more such incidents could occur " if the CIA continues to intervene in the affairs of other countries . " Colby , in a responding statement , called this " a shocking attempt to use the death of a dedicated American as fuel for irresponsible and paranoiac attacks " against intelligence operatives . " I am sure that true Americans will repudiate this cynical effort , " Colby said . Other U.S. intelligence sources flatly blamed Counterspy for Welch 's death . " They set him up for murder , " one said . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection with his more recent post in Athens . So , he was a marked man . " DAVID PHILLIPS , a CIA veteran who worked with Welch In South America . said Welch was " a brilliant , multilingual officer and scholar , one of the most prominent of the younger Denier officers in the agency . " President Tad , In a message to Welch 's widow , Marla , expressed his most sincere condolences . " Be said Welch 's " dedicated service to his country and selfless contribution to the U.S. foreign policy objectives throughout his career " will never be forgotten . " In your time of grief , you have the deep sympathy of the grateful American people and their President , " Ford added . Within hours of the Welch killing , the CIA asked persons whose names also have been published as operatives whether they want protection , intelligence sources said . The murder brought new warnings from persona in the intelligence comma-laity that dlielosures of CIA operation " and personnel could have tragic comeguences . IT ADDED new fuel to the controversy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they have found out about the activities ? many of them admittedly questionable ? of the CIA and other intelligence agencies . Last month , the Senate Intelligence Committee . in an interim report detailing CIA involvement in foreign assassination plots , named some of the persons Involved , despite ? last minute appeal Brom Colby that this could endanger them . Welch way - hot- among those named In the report . In Athens , Creek authorities posted extra guards ? to protect all American and Russian diplomats . Border points and international airports were gut under tight surveillance . Police sources admitted there are no flues to'the Identity of Welch 's killers .                     