@@729221

txt ? Chile 's first hundred days on the road to socialism have shown President Salvador Allende Gossens to be clearly in charge of his left-wing Government . The President , a Marxist , is putting into practice programs that are strongly influenced by Marxist thinking . They show a class bias in favor of workers and peasants and against the wealthy and propertied whom Dr. Allende identifies as his political enemies though he is a physician and of the upper middle class . Nonetheless , except for the agitated rural scene , the Government , which assumed office last November , has moved with considerable caution in pursuing its goals of creating a workers ' republic for the President , a shrewd and seasoned politician , and his advisers seem to feel that gradualism is the safest way . Speaking at a news conference last week , Dr. Allende said : " I am not the hypocrite to , say I . am President of all Chileans , although all merit respect under the law . I am the Comrade President of Popular Unity , and my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are some Chileans who would like to see me fried in oil , " he added . The critics include hundreds of farm owners whose properties have been seized by peasants and who are awaiting expropriation by the agrarian reform corporation , as well as businessmen facing ruin and large stockholders in private banks who are watching the Government gain control of the banking system through stock purchases . Michael Fusslocher , a young farm owner who heads an association of rural employers in Cautin Province , where there have been many land seizures , summed up the reaction of many proprietors who are bewildered and frustrated by the political situation . " It would be fun to watch the train go by if you were not tied to the tracks , " he said . Nationalization of the banking system and an accelerated agrarian reform were major campaign pledges by Dr. Allende , as was the full nationalization of the copper industry , the country 's main economic resource . The Senate has approved a constitutional amendment clearing the way for nationalization of all basic mineral deposits , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investments . " That can not be considered an act of aggression against the United States , " Dr. Allende said . ' They must understand our need to plan our economy and make the most of our basic resources for Chile . " The law , imprecise on compensation , leaves a good deal of leeway to the President . " We do n't want to follow the road of unjust appropriation , " Dr. Allende said , suggesting that there was a dis // position to negotiate with the companies . Therefore , while the goals of De . Allende 's program for economic and social change are clearly radical , the style of his revolutionary regime is nonviolent , undramatic and concerned with legal niceties and respectability . The most influential men around the President are cleanshaven lawyers and economists who wear business suits and carry briefcases . Marxism is for many of them a technique for changing a private-ownership society to socialist purposes rather than a creed inspiring revolutionary emotion . The President , who Is 63 years old , is a man of stubborn determination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He waited 18 ' years to bring the left to power by electoral means , from his first presidential candidacy , in 1952 , until his fourth attempt last year . A Relentless Gradualist In his personal style Dr. Allende could be called a relentless gradualist , and he has put that imprint on the first stages of his six-year term . Under his leadership the Government  --  a coalition of popular unity that includes the strong Communist party as well as his own party , the left-wing Socialists  --  does not want the pace of its actions for change to be forced by impatient radicals , who exist in the coalition parties and on the extremist fringe of the left . The young radicals of the Revolutionary Left Movement who are ideologically in favor of armed revolution and seem frustrated because Dr. Allende reached power through elections , are behind many of the peasants ' land seizures . The Government has used those seizures to justify a speedup in expropriations of farms under the agrarien-reform program . Jac : : : cis Cherchol , Minister of Aar:ma:e ? e , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has expropriation decrees for 130 estates and large famas . New farms are seized almost . every day by rural workers , claiming labor disputes with owners , or by peasants who want more land than their tiny subsistence plots . The Government has refused to use policemen to evict the invaders , and in some cases the seizures have been led by Socialist or Communists in peasant unions , creating a pro : ; - lem for Dr. Allende . Debilitating the Opposition In politics the tactics of Dr. Allende 's coalition are not to destroy or repress the nonMarxist opposition , including the independent press , but to debilitate opponents 1 : . : ; ; i : : ; 11 legal instruments of powee and populist electoral methem , , Dr. Allende 's strong i ion of his presidential role has shown that he is the final arbiter of disputes within the coalition and that he does not take orders from any party , including the Communists . There are no autonomous ministries in his Government and he stays on top of all ? major decisions , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been some question whether the disciplined Communists would dominate through its appointees . Many Communists are in key positions , particularly in the economic area , but there have been no conflicts between them and the President . Economic policy is primarily based not on sweeping expropriations but on indirect manipulation of prices , wages and credit , plus administrative pressures and inducements , that are bringing all important private business as well as banking activities under the control of the state planners . In any case , the executive has enormous powers to intervene in the economy without having to ask Congress for approval . The executive powers are being used to reduce private business to a situation of dependence on state credit , licenses and production plans . No Rubber-Stamp Congress These low-key but effective methods are dictated in part by the fact that Congress is controlled by an opposition of moderately leftist Christian Democrats and right-wing National party senators and deputies . As a result Dr. Allende does not have a rubber-stamp legislature to approve laws , such as the establishment of a system of neighborhood popular courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Government parties expect to harvest electoral gains from their economic measures . About 3.5 million Chileans  --  including , for the first time , 18-year-olds and illiterates  --  will be eligible to vote April 4 in municipal elections that are considered a national test of the Government 's political strength . In addition , there will be the election of a senator to fill the seat vacated by Dr. Allende when he became President . This is a head-on contest between Adonis Sepulveda , a Socialist backed by all the Popular Unity parties , and Audits Zaldivar , a Christian Democrat who was Minister of Economy in the last Government and who has the backing of the National party as well . The economic strategy of Pedro Vuskovic , Minister of Economy , has been to freeze prices of consumer goods as well as raw materials while allowing wage increases of 35 to 60 per cent for workers . In cases of arbitration of wage disputes , the Government has taken the side of the unions . Some Relief from Inflation That has given wage-earners some relief from inflation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With prices being held down , at least temporarily , the purchasing power of working-class families will tend to go up before election day . For businessmen , including small shopkeepers and manufacturers , however , higher wages and costs , including increased taxes , will have to be absorbed without raising prices , Mr. Vuskovic argues that with more demand from working-class families , sales will go up arid profits will be maintained through higher volume . Many businessmen disagree , but they are not allowed by law to close their factories or stores - ? even if they are losing money . The Government refuses to permit layoffs , and a few plants , among them the American-owned Northern Indiana Brass Company 's subsidiary , that tried to suspend production , were taken over by a state administrator and a workers ' council . Business leaders agree that this foreshadows the organization of all private business along lines laid down by the State Planning Board and the State Development Corporation . Those agencies , as well as the state banks , are under the control of Mr. Vuskovic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the United National Center for Latin America here and who headed the Institute of Economy of the University of Chile until he joined Dr. Allende 's campaign team last year . Flow of Credit Restricted " With the private banking system being taken over by the state , there will be no independent source of credit , so it will be necessary to sign up with the Government or disappear , " said a manufacturer of plumbing fixtures who is already operating in the red . The uncertainties created by economic policy have brought ' private investment to a standstill . The construction industry has been particularly hurt , partly because several thousand finished housing units were occupied by invaders . The unemployment level has grown from 6 per cent to 8 per cent here in the capital , a metropolitan area of three million where close to 100,000 people who had jobs last year are out of work . More than half of Chile 's manufacturing industries are here . The rise in unemployment has produced protest marches on the Ministry of Labor , which is headed by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15-man Cabinet . But with the central labor union controlled by Communists and Socialists , the protest has not produced any general labor pressure on the Government . Luis Corvaldn , Secretary General of the Communist party , explained that under previous non-Marxist governments it was correct for unions to press for the highest possible wage increases . Now that the workers have their own Government , he said , demands for increases and other aspirations should be moderated to avoid causing it problems . When Dr. Allende has made public appearances to watch a championship boxing match or the decisive game of the Chilean soccer competition , he has been well received by the predominantly working class crowds . He also has the support of the Radical party , which reaffirmed its stand behind the agrarian reform , On the other hand , the party said it was prepared to fight to protect the interests of the medium and small farmers by excluding family farm units from expropriation . The smallest of those units is defined under the present law as 176 acres of irrigated land . That is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which has just elected the leader of the young radicals in the party , Carlos Altamirano , as its Secretary General . Mr. Altamirano , a Senator who has traveled frequently to Cuba , said at a news conference that the farm seizures were perturbing but that the need for land was great and that basic family units should be expropriated in some cases . Dr. Allende will have to weigh the effects on the coalition of a continuation of the rural strife , which lie has said was his most serious problem so far . Referring to Mr. Altamirano and the supposed impatience of the young Socialists for more drastic revolutionary measures , Dr. Allende said : " If Senator Altamirano believes that we should be going faster , I ask him , ' Why should we go faster ? ' " After a three-hour meeting with the President , Mr. Altamirano said there was no substantive divergence between them on the Government 's performance so far .                     