@@728594

txt More than 15,000 anti-war protesters staged an orderly rally yesterday afternoon in the south end of Grant park after a virtually uneventful march from two assembly points in the heart of Chicago 's downtown . So orderly was the Grant park gathering , at the statue of Gen. John A. Logan at 8th street , that many of the marchers began to leave almost as soon as they had arrived  --  despite fervent pleas by the initial two speakers for a " general consumer and workers ' strike . " The appeals for a so-called community-wide strike in protest to the movement of United States troops into Cambodia were voiced by Jack . Spiegel , co-chairman of the Chicago Peace council , which sponsored the rally ; and Staughton Lynd , the controversial history professor . Kent State Represented Among other speakers were two students , John Thomas and Debbie Moreland , of Kent State university in Kent , 0. , where four students were shot to death Monday in a confrontation between students and national guardsmen . Most of the participants in the Grant park rally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who came for the gathering in support of the national demonstration in Washington . There were a few student representatives from as far away as Arizona State university . The early dispersal of the crowd in Grant park , however , indicated that few were interested in such speakers as Spiegel and Lynd . By the end'of two hours of speaking , the crowd had dwindled to fewer than 500 . , Some of the rally sponsors , however , said an apparent lack of interest may have been due to the hot humid weather and o . strong southwesterly wind which muted the public address system . Carnival Spirit Prevails In general the Chicago march and , rally took on the tone of a funeral procession with a touch of carnival spirit : Here and there , there were young persons in weird cosmines . Hut there also were many in the over-20 generation , such a s the . mother who wheeled along a child in a little red wagon . And there also were acme older men and women of sedate ? dress  --  perhaps some who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For the mass march to Grant park . the crowds began gathering at noon at the Federal balding plaza and . the Civic center plaza . The Civic center , ringed by helmeted policemen . was an ' especially active area . atilt ? there were no disorders .. Some of the more . active youths clambered tip the Picasso statue to wave red flags with the peace symbol . A dozen X'iet Cone flogs were waved in the crowd . And there were several American flags , one carried proudly by a young Negro boy . The shallow pool of the Civic center plaza served a functional as well as aesthetic purpose as some of the students , such as those who had walked from the Chicago Circle campus , took off shoes and stockings to cool their feet . The longest preparatory march was by 400 students from the University of Chicago , who had spent three hours walking the eight miles from their south side campus to the Civic center . On the other hand , students from Northwestern university relied on an easier  --  and Ines-. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students acted on the advice of their . student F M radio station , WNUR , and took chartered buses  --  for a round trip fare of 25 cents , as compared with $1.10 on the Evanston CTA elevated train . ' Traffic Is Blocked For the march to Grant park , traffic was blocked off in Dearborn street south to Jackson boulevard . east in Jackson to Michigan avenue , and then south in Michigan to 8th street . There were policemen  --  about 10 to a block  --  along the route of march . Altogether , there . were 2,000 policemen in the downtown ' area , most of them out of sight on reserve in such places as the Grant park ' underground garages . Also standing by were approximately 5,000 national guardsmen , but there was no necessity for them to leave the Chicago armories . Hold Friendly Chats Thruout the march and rally , students and other protesters were observed engaged in friendly chats ith policemen . At the end of the Grant park rally . student marshals shook hands with policemen and thanked them for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a special detail of students busily . went about picking up leaflets , and placing the debris in park district waste containers . In Gary . 180 persons . mostly students from the Gary campus of Indiana university and local high schools , marched about ' ' three miles from the Glenbard area of Gary to Seaman hall , Sixth and Washington streets , ! where a rally was held , Main ! speaker at the rally was Mayor Richard Hatcher.                     