@@733936

txt China will consider a long-term trade agreement with the United States now that relations between the two countries are to be normalized , Li Chiang , China 's Foreign Trade Minister , said here today . It also plans to accept direct foreign investment from overseas . Mr. Li said . Foreign businessmen in general will be allowed to invest in Chinese companies or set up their own companies , factories and plants inside China , and Peking will accept government-to-government loans for the first time , according to Mr. Li . In the United States , businesses are already vying for a share of what they see as a vast emerging market in China , especially for factories and oildrilling equipment . Companies with interests in Taiwan maintained a business-as-usual attitude , although some did express concern about what effect their ties to the island would have on possible future investment on the mainland . Page DI . Reversal of Previous Policy Mr. Li 's comments , at a news conference at the Chamber of Commerce here , put an official seal of approval on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They came three days after the announcement of the planned normalization of relations between Washington and Peking on Jan. 1 , with the Peking Government formally recognized as the sole legal government of China . In Tokyo , meanwhile , Leonard Woodcock , the chief United States representative to Peking , said the United States would be " pushing as fast as possible " for agreements on trade , shipping , civil aviation and other areas . Japanese officials said earlier this month that the Chinese had decided to widen commercial ties significantly , notably by allowing joint ventures with Japanese companies , permitting the opening of Tokyo offices by Chinese companies and even making a major change in laws designed to protect foreign inves // tors and to give them patent protection . And in both Europe and the United States , plans for major projects in China have been announced in recent months . Statement Breaks Ground But Mr. Li 's statement was the first in public by a high-level Chinese official on how far China would open its doors and to what sort of foreign participation . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign investment . The amount of equity that a foreign business will be allowed to take in a Chinese company has not yet been decided on , Mr. Li said . When asked if 49 percent would be the limit , he answered with a smile that the question was still being studied but that " what you mention is not far from being right . " Nor has it been decided how long foreigners will be allowed to own assets inside China , said Mr. Li , a heavy-set , gray-haired , bespectacled man , who appeared at the crowded news conference in a Western suit . The Foreign Trade Minister noted that the total volume of foreign credit needed for China 's ambitious plan to modernize its economy by the end of this century would amount to " several tens of billion of United States dollars . " To raise this huge volume of credit China will accept government-to-government loans , Mr. Li added . Trade with the United States will take on a faster pace now that the relationship between the two countries is to be normalised , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of industrial and agricultural products . Details are still being worked out by the different departments in Peking , he added . China would also welcome trade with Taiwan , the Chinese official said . Oil Agreement Reportedly Near At least one major United States oil concern is reportedly very close to securing an agreement on joint develop .. ment of an offshore oil field with China . The minister also said that foreign companies would be able to open offices in Peking as soon as the accommodation problem is solved . " We are speeding up the building of houses , " he said . China will also send commercial representatives to other countries , according to Mr. Li . He also mentioned at the conference that China had not considered issuing any bonds in Hong Kong or in Europe , a matter on which there had been speculation in this colony 's business community .                     