@@728538

txt The State Senate , after more than two hours of quiet but emotional debate , voted 31 to 26 today to accept an Assembly bill that strikes the state 's 140-year-old ? abortion law from the books . Cardinal Cooke issued an appeal on behalf of the Roman Catholic bishops of the state for Governor Rockefeller to veto the bill , but the Governor said in New York that he would sign the bill tomorrow morning . Today 's vote successfully ended a bitter and tenacious campaign begun in 1966 by a Manhattan Democrat Assemblyman , Albert H. Blumenthal , to reform the law passed in 1830 that permits an abortion only to save a woman 's life . The new law makes an abor , ons a matter between a woman and her doctor up to the 24th week of pregnancy . After the 24th week , the new law would allow an abortion only when necessary to save the woman 's life . However , abortions generally are performed during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy . Started in Colorado Today 's vote added New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national wave of abortion reform , beginning with a 1967 Colorado reform law , and is considered a key to possible reform in other states . Emotions continued to run high in the Senate debate today , but they did not reach the depth and scope of the eighthour session on March 18 when the Senate passed an even more liberal version of the reform bill  --  one without the 24-week time limit added in the Assembly . The vote today was identical to that of March 18 . Senate Majority Leader Earl W. Brydges , a Niagara Falls Republican whose opposition to reform in past years prevented consideration of such a bill , openly wept as the bill passed . Mr. Brydges , whose craggy features and gritty voice generally reflect complete control , rose to end debate on the bill by reading from what he described as " The Dairy of an Unborn Child . " He began to read of a child on the day of conceptionwhen ? " it is already determined even that I will love flowers . " His voice broke and television lights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm sorry , Mr. President , " he stammered , " I try to keep myself under control ... I can not read it all , sir , but I want to read the final entry in this diary , dated Dec. 28 and it says , ' Today , my parents killed me . ' " He dropped to his seat , trembling . Debate Lacks Conviction Except for two of the 13 other speeches , debate lacked any of the conviction that words would sway votes . Fighting to the end , Senator James H. Donovan , Oneida County Republican , pointed an accusing finger at his colleagues and said : " Your hands will reach into the womb with the doctor and you are going to kill , K-I-L-L , when you pass this law . I urge you in God 's name not to do this . . . Instead , kill this bill and you will please the people of New York . What 's more , you will please God . " Senator Thomas Laverne , Rochester Republican , who like Mr. Donovan is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to vote for the bill , responded angrily to the religious tone of Mr. Donovan 's argument . " How dare anyone say because I believe this way everyone else should believe this way , " Mr. Laverne said . " I have been told I am obviously not a good Catholic . . . Even that I am a phony . . . But many do not support the church on this issue , 60 per cent of the Catholics in my district do n't agree with the church on this issue . " " I do n't think , " he concluded , " I have the right to force my morality on anyone else . " The new law , which will take effect July 1 , has raised a number of hopes and fears , all of which have been expressed during the three major debates during this session . Primarily , supporters hope the law will end the illegal abortion business that has resulted in the death or mutilation of the women involved . These same sponsors , however , warn against what they call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause a major reduction in welfare case loads  --  especially in aid to dependent children . One reason cited for this is that medical societies and hospitals in those states ? as in New York ? generally oppose broadly liberal laws and devise regulations that make abortions difficult to obtain even under reformed laws . Doctors to Make Rules The New York State Medical Society has announced that it will devise rules designed to control abortions under the new law , in part to head of the possibility that the state will attract many women from less liberal states and lead to " abortion mills . " Hospitals also are expected to discourage abortion practices , primarily because of limited and overcrowded facilities . Assemblymen have already moved to further restrict the new law by amendments they hope to pass next week . The amendments would limit abortions to " licensed hospitals and clinics " and provide that no doctor or hospital can be cited for malpractice for refusing to perform an abortion . The malpractice amendment is designed . to calm fears of some Catholic doctors and hospitals that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or face lawsuits . Supports . of abortion reform , including women 's lobbies and minority group coalitions , are expected to begin campaigns now that the new law is passed to offsset any attempt by medical organizations to restrict the law with their own regulations . One lobbyist said today that the campaign would probably take the form of " a person-toperson education and pressure program aimed at individual doctors rather than a struggle with the medical associations . "                     