@@729962

txt In a stormy reaction to Wednesday 's attack on Mayor Lindsay by Rabbi William Berkowitz , president-elect of the New York Board of Rabbis , other Jewish spokesmen yesterday condemned and defended the rabbi . The heads of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations and its affiliate , the New York Federation of Reform Synagogues , assailed Rabbi Berkowitz for making the low-income housing project in the Forest Hills section of Queens " a partisan political issue " and " a Jewish issue . " At the same time , leaders of the National Council of Young Israel and the Queens Jewish Community Council , in supporting Rabbi Berkowitz , expressed // Jews Here Split by Attack on the Mayor Cnotinued From Page 1 , Col , 1 strong opposition to the housing project being built in the middle-income neighborhood . Rabbi Berkowitz had asked for a halt In construction of the project , pending discussion and reappraisal . He called it " a City Hall sellout , " and part of the Mayor 's aspiration 's for the Presidency . At City Hall , the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Marvin Schick , his administrative assistant and liaison man with Jewish groups , In which Mr. Schick listed ninny things the Mayor has done for Jews in the city . In another aspect of the Forest Hills dispute , Simeon Golar , head of the city 's Housing Authority , remarked , befere making a speech dedicating a lowincome project on the Lower East Side , that the Forest Hills project was not a matter for compromise . He said he was opposed to suggestions put forth by top aides to Mayor Lindsay of a meeting between black and Jewish leaders . " Forest Hills , " lie said , " is not a matter to be bartered between blacks and Jews . " Mr. Golar said he felt certain that the Mayor had not suggested a meeting between blacks and Jews . But one person who attended a secret meeting with Mayor Lindsay last week at Gracie Mansion said the Mayor had suggested this idea , adding , however , that he would not support any suggestion unless it had black support . The joint statement attacking Dr. Berkowitz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Union of American Hebrew Congregations , with 700 Reform synagogues in the United States and Canada , and by Rabbi Robert J. Marx , director of the New York Federation of Reform Synagogues , which has 120 congregations in the city . In finding Rabbi Berkowitz 's position " objectionable , " the statement said : " Rabbi Berkowitz has made Forest Hills project a partisan political issue . It is not . To attack the Lindsay administration for its housing policies that are part of a national program is to divert the real issues of our time into an instrument for potitical President-making . The tensions in our society are too sensitive , the problems too complicated to reduce them to such oversimplification . " In defense of Rabbi Berkowitz , the National Council of Young Israel , which says it has 150,000 members , issued a statement through its president , Nash N. Kestenbaum , say-ing : " The hurried attack on the Jewish communities and leadership by those professionals who so foolhardedly support this project reveals the mentality of the classical Jewish liberals . They are always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . universalism and invariably wind up supporting policies that are harmful to the Jewish community . " Also in support of Rabbi Berkowitz , the Queens Jewish Community Council , through its president , Dr. Alvin Lashinsky , said : " It has been our experiences to date that overwhelmingly the ' middle-class community is opposed to the massive ? Forest Hills low-income project . It has been ' condemned by urban plan-ners as not scatter-site housing . " The Queens Interfaith Clergy Council , in calling for support of the project , issued a statement through its president. , the Rev , Samuel R. Holder , saying : " Knowing many of the members ? of the Board or Rabbis and having had many very close . contacts with them I can say that these statements do not reflect the feelings of the Board of Rabbis . This kind of statement only fosters animosity and harmful polarization . " Mr. Schick 's memorandum in defense of Mayor Lindsay 's record of ? helping Jews in the city , included the police assigned to protect synagogues , a $1.5-million grant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , campaigns to eliminate discrimination against Jews for religious observances , job training , assistance in claycare centers , summer camps and Jewish studies programs in the City University system . In another aspect of the For'est Hills dispute a few dozen men , women and children protesting the project sat in at the ' office of Donald H. Elliott , ( chairman of the City Planning Commission , on the 15th floor of 2 Lafayette Street , Mr. Elliott was not in the office during the protest , which ran from 11 A.M. until 4 P.M.                     