@@730637

txt The Viet Nam peace agreement will permit 145,000 North Vietnamese troops to remain in South Viet Nam , but th e United States is confident that the force eventually will be reduced , Henry Kissinger said today . ' The President 's national security affairs adviser briefed reporters on details of the agreement that was announced last night by President Nixon . Kissinger said the pact does not suggest the North Vietnamese have a legal right to be there , and it prohibits any reinforcements or replacement of them by Hanoi . Consequently , Kissinger Insisted , the force will be reduced if t he Communists adhere to the terms of the agreement . IN A WIDE-ranging , two-hour discussion , Kissinger hinted strongly that the massive bombing of North Viet Nam in December played a key role in reaching the agreement . " There was a deadlock in mid-December to_the ef ore the bombing and rapid movement , when the talks resumed in January , " Kissinger said . " We carried out what was considered to be necessary at the time to demonstrate that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Kissinger said In discussing the bombing . There was little cordiality when the talks resumed on Jan. 8 , he said , but by the second day of the talks , it was apparent that there was a different attitude on the part of the North Vietnamese and the agreement then was reached in a short period of time . UNDER TERMS of the agreement , all American prisoners of war will be returned within 60 days , with the first group of them released within 15 days , he said . United States forces will be out of South Viet Nam within ' 60 days . An international forde of more than 1,100 persons will supervise the cease-fire which begins at 6 p. m . Saturday Chicago time . The U. S. Navy , which only a few weeks ago was dropping mines in North Vietnamese harbors , will send mine sweeping task forces into North Viet Nam Saturday night to start clearing away the mine fields . Kissinger said it was hiS " firm expectation " that there will be a formal cease-fire in Laos " within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de facto cease-fire in Cambodia whichihe said will take a little longer . Kissinger refused to provide any details to support his Optimism concerning an end to the fighting in Laos and Cambodia . The agreement calls for the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Cambodia and Laos , and bans the use of those countries as entry points for foreign troops into South Viet Nam . THE ESSENCE of the agreement is to leave the political future of South Viet Nam to negotiations between Nor th and South Viet Nam , Kissinger said . Altho the question of whether there is one or two Viet Nams was skirted , the agreement does call for the eventual reunification of the two countries . It leaves the means and the timetable to negotiations between Saigon and Hanoi . In the meantime , however , the 17th Parallel , the current boundary between North and South Viet Nam is cited as a provisional boundary . Under terms of the agreement , it can not be violated by military forces of either side . The question of civilian traffic across the 17th Parallel also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AGREEMENT calls for establishment of a nongovernmental counc 11 of national reconciliation and concord , appointed by Saigon and Hanoi , to assist in reunification efforts , and to organize elections . The Issue of civilian prisoners being held by Saigon also is to be negotiated by Saigon and Hanoi within 90 days , Kissinger said . It is difficult to s e pa rate political prisoners from those who are being held on criminal charges , he explained . Kissinger emphasized that , under the terms of the agreement , the government of President Nguyen Van yhieu , will remain in office until elections are held . Kissinger repeated American determination not to impose a coalition government on South Viet Nam . The agreement has fulfillea 1J . S. promises not to impose such a government , he maintained . THE PACT also permits the U. S. to provide unlimited economic aid to South Viet Nam and to replace Its military equipment that is destroyed or worn out on a one-for-one basis . That same replacement formula is applied to the equipment for North Vietnamese troops still in South Viet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nam , whether it is for the forces of the North or the South , must come thru one of three specific entry points that will be supervised by international personnel . What can not be replaced are North Vietnamese troops in South Viet Nam , according to the agreement . There are no restrictions in the agreement concerning American forces in Thailand or ships off the Vietnamese coast , Kissinger said . However , he said he expects that both forces will be reduced as peace comes to the area . Kissinger expressed confidence that an international conference to guarantee the agree , ment will be called within 30 days . The Soviet Union and China are expected to participate , he said . . BECAUSE OF the animosity between the two sides , there will be two separate peace agreements signed in Paris on Sa lay , Kissinger explained . T1 .4 ; reements are identical exc , , , for the preamble . Secretary of State William Rogers will sign them for the U. S. In the morning , he will sign one that includes all participants in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Viet Cong . In the afternoon , he . will'sign one with North Viet Nam alone . During the morning session , Saigon and Hanoi will sign on separate pieces of paper , at the back of the agreement , so as to give no official indication of recognizing one another . The text of that preamble does not mention North Viet Nam or South Viet Nam , but refers only to " the parties . " " While the two Viet Nams shall settle the war ) in an atmosphere of reconciliation , they have not yet reached that point , " Kissinger said with a smile . " In fact , they do n't even recognize each . other 's existence . " " This procedure of signing separately ) has aged us all several years , " he cracked .                     