@@730208

txt The Environmental Protection Agency announced today that it would permit the Ford Motor Company to ship its 1973 models provided they can meet preliminary pollution tests . The company 's failure to meet the agency 's standards had threatened to prevent Ford from beginning all new-car production because the 1973 models could not be sold or driven until they got a final certification . William B. Ruckelshaus announced that conditional certificates of compliance would be granted provided initial test re- , sults indicated that the cars would meet the standards over 50,000 miles . Mr. Ruckelshaus , the chief of the Environmental Protection Agency , emphasized that the cars so shipped would have to be held by dealers in storage until durability tests proved they would meet the 50,000-mile emission standards . He also said that they could not be sold or driven on the highways until they were given final certification . If the cars did not qualify after the 50,000-mile test , Mr. Ruckelshaus said , the company would have to repair or modify the antipollution devices , or even recall them from the dealer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move averted , temporarily at least , the threat of a shutdown pending retesting that might have thrown 450,000 workers out of work for a month or more . The Issue arose last month when Ford reported that some of the maintenance on its test models had not been reported to the E.P.A . But , the troubles with Ford may not be ended with today 's Government announcement . This is because . the E.P.A . now asks Ford to pass much stiffer anti-emission tests at the 4,000-mile mark than other car makers must pass . This is to insure that the new Fords will pass the 50,000-mile tests . But there is some serious doubt that Ford can pass stiffer 4,000-mile emission tests than the other auto makers . The E.P.A . chief said he was confident that the Clean Air Act of 1970 , which prohibits the shipment or sale of cars in interstate commerce without a certificate of compliance with Federal antipollution standards , gave him the authority to issue such a conditional certificate . He cited Section 206 of the act , which states : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner as he deems appropriate , any new motor vehicles . . . to determine whether such vehicle .. . conforms with the regulations prescribed under Section 202 of this act . If such vehicle or engine conforms to such regulations , the Adminis. trator shall issue a certificate of conformity upon such terms , and for such period ( not in excess of one year ) , as he may prescribe . " Mr. Ruckeishaus and the E.P.A . lawyers emphasized to . day that the phrase " upon such terms " was the legal basis for his decision to relieve by administrative action , rather than by a request for legislation , the situation in which the Ford Motor Company finds itself . On May 18 , Mr. Ruckelhaus announced that two days earHer the company had informed him that it wished to withdraw its application for certification of the 1973 models because it had discovered that under durability tests some ' of the employes had performed maintenance on the prototype test cars that had not been reported to the agency , The maintenance included alteration of carburetors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tinkering , with various parts , including the antipollution devices . " Mr. Ruckelshaus said the E.P.A . would not have objected to some of this maintenance ? other than on the antipollution device  --  if it had been reported . This announcement created a critical situation for the company and for E.P.A . Production on the 12 " engine families " of the 1973 models -- expected to total one-half million cars  --  was due to begin July 17 . The durability tests over 50,000 miles require three and one-half months . Threat of Long Delay A re-run of the tests would mean that Ford could not start producing and shipping cars ? providing they got certification ? until mid-September , two months after the scheduled mid-July start of production . Mr. Ruckeishaus said today at his news conference that it was estimated that a shutdown pending re-testing would have thrown 136,000 Ford workers and 144,000 other workers ? employes of suppliers of parts and truckers ? out of work for a month or more . To avert this " economic dislocation , " he said , and also to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure was set : CA , determination of whether a conditional certificate would be issued would , be made after a 4,000-mile test , which would take 10 to 14 days . " The purpose of the test would be to determine the " rate Of ? deterioration , " or efficiency , of the'antipollution devices , and thus toproject whether the cars would meet the 50,000-mile standards . But Eric Stork , an E.P.A . Associated Press William D. Ruckelshaus at Washington news session on Ford compromise . engineer , explained that to insure that the projection would justify the granting of a condiitional certificate , the following ' factors had gone into the test that the Ford cars must meet after 4,000 miles : First , the E.P.A . engineers had taken the average rate of I deterioration of other makes of 1972 models and compared them with Ford 's . ( In 1972 , the average of other makes of test vehicles was 5 per cent below Ford 's on hydrocarbon emissions , and 15 per cent below on carbon monoxide emissions . ) Second , this percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far available on 1973 models . Finally , a " margin of safety " was factored in . , The result , he ' said , was that Ford test cars would have to show an efficiency after 4,000 miles substantially greater than that required for all 1973 models . Mr. Ruckelshaus said he thought there was " a 90 per cent chance " that Ford would meet the test for conditional certification . He also said that his agency would monitor the new test runs closely . He also said that E.P.A . ' s investigation had disclosed that the Ford test cars had " received unscheduled , unauthor- , ized and unreported maintenance to a degree as to make this data unacceptable " in determining the rate of deteriora-tion , Consequently , he said , an entirely separate question had arisen , namely whether there had been violation of that provision of the Clean Air Act making it a criminal offense to knowingly make false statements on documents required to be filed under the act . Mr. Ruckelshaus said this aspect of the situation was being " fully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how his agency could prevent dealers from selling cars before they were finally . certified , Mr. Ruckelshaus and George Allen , an E.P.A . lawyer , said that such a sale would be illegal , and that the buyer would have no legal title to the car . There is a potential penalty of $10,000 for each car sold without certification .                     