@@728308

txt Vice President Agnew conferred privately this morning with President Chiang Kai-shek of Nationalist China less than 24 hours after Mr. Agnew said the United States would seek " meaningful dialogue " with Communist China . There were no initial reports from the meeting on how Generalissimo Chiang , who contends that his government is ruler of the mainland , reacted to the Vice President 's comments yesterday . Communist China , the Vice President said , " is a country of over 800 million people . They ca n't - be ignored . " Mr. Agnew , speaking with newsmen en route Taiwan , said : " The United Sates should not sit still in a stance of armed preparedness . " It should , he went on , make " initiatives to develop an atmosphere that will allow us to reduce the amount of military spending and use some of our money in some of the programs so desperately needed in the areas of the environment , the cities and the like at home . " Taiwan Reassured ' The Vice President said that the Chinese Nationalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain the goal of returning , had no cause for alarm over United States efforts t ? . send out diplomatic and trade feelers to the Communists . After lapding , here , Mr , new received a tumultioirs44. ception from thousands of Taipei residents who lined his motorcade route for about two miles . ' They , grinned , cheered , saluted , waved ' Welcoming bart-i hers and twice clustered around the Vice President when he got out of his limousine to watch cloth dragons dance in the street . The warm welcome contrasted with an attack three days ago by the Foreign Ministry here , which assailed the Nixon Administration 's announcement of Dec. 19 that it was partly lifting an embargo on nonstrategic trading with Communist China by American companies overseas . The Nationalists charged that the action would further aggravate tensions in this region . ' Initiatives ' Required Mr. Agnew , in his comments to newsmen traveling ( with him on a 10-natron ' trip through Asia , said that the trade maneuver and earlier efforts to re-establish unofficial diplomatic contacts in Poland with representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy to attempt to lessen tensions wherever possible . The Vice President said he expected the issues to come up in the private conversation with General Chiang , but he strongly defended the United States initiatives . " I think diplomacy , modern diplomacy , requires that initiatives be taken with any , // Agnew Supports Policy of Dialogue With Peking // country , " he said . ' We do n't always want to exist at arm 's length and a hostile attitude with ' the rest of the world . " He said that the Administration 's overtures were a small first step , made with the hope that they might lead to , additional steps by Communist China " to lessen the terrible tensions that , exist nthis part of the world . " At the same time , he said , be would:attempt to ; - convince ' General . Chiang that there was : no diminution in : the United States posture of support for the Government on Taiwan . " There 's just a matter of different mechanics , " he added . The Vice President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his arrival . at Sung Shan Military Airport . Standing on a platform with Vice President C. K. Yen , Mr. Agnew said the United States would honor its defense commitments to the Republic of China and its other allies in East Asia . Despite the negative tone of the . Foreign Ministry announcement , on the eve of the Vice President 's arrival in Taipei , there was nothing negative about the reception Mr. Agnew and his wife received on , the city 's downtown streets . Seven cloth dragons undulated among the crowds lining the motorcade route and fourteen bands played merry tunes . Children waved small United States and Chinese Nationalist flags . The Vice President borrowed a Chinese Nationalist flag himself as he moved along the edge of the crowd and he stood , smiling , waving it in the air as the crowd cheered . At another point , he peered beneath the head of a green dragon and , when a young boy peered back , shook his hand . Earlier , Mr. Agnew ended a one-day visit to South Vietnam with a prediction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stir up antiwar protests in the United States . Mr. Agnew said he believed that the enemy would " strike when they think it would be most effective in the United States to sway public opinion against the war . " The Vice President , fresh from a visit with troops in the field and a chat with the South Vietnamese President , Nguyen Van Thieu , yesterday and another helicopter trip today to a field hospital , told reporters as his Air Force jet flew to Taiwan : " I wish everybody in the United States would have a chance to spend one day in Vietnam and look around . I think it would make a great difference in the attitude at home . "                     