@@728633

txt Along Embassy Row here in Washington the concern is no longer about Cambodia and its aftermath ; it is about what the economic recession in the United States will do to American foreign-trade policies . Shoe workers picketing the White House demanding quotas on foreign shoes are symptomatic of what lies ahead . There always is an isolationist inclination in trade policies whenever there is economic trouble at home . Historically , this seems paticularly true in the United States . There is a widespread assumption through American trade unions that foreign goods are produced by " cheap foreign labor . " The facts do not always bear out the assumption of wide differences in production costs . But that is beside the point . In such matters it 's what people think that counts ; not what the facts are . There is a rising demand for higher trade protection in the American trade unions . Historical experience would seem to indicate that it will continue to rise in direct proportion to economic conditions in the United States . If the stock market and industrial production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the demand for trade protectionism also can be expected to rise . The implication to friends and allies is something they are all thinking about . It is particularly important to such trading partners as the British and the Japanese who depend for their economic existence on expanding markets . Are their American markets going to be squeezed in by the new trade isolationism ? If so , should they begin right now to look for other markets ? And what will this mean on the political side of foreign policy ? // *Trade pressures rise ; U.S. ponders allies // Already , Cambodia is all but forgotten . It has been pushed aside largely because the diplomatic community is satisfied by this time that the move into ' Cambodia was never intended to be an expansion of the Vietnam war , but only a rearguard incident in the general process of American disengagement - from Southeast Asia . The residual question about Cambodia is merely over how much extra time it - actually has bought for the " Vietnamization " process . The official White House line is eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a difference to the Saigon regime . It might make all the difference between survival and disappearance . But this remains to be proved by the results . Cambodia appraised More importantly , it seems reasonaoiy clear now that Moscow and Peking , as well as friendly capitals , have appraised Cambodia as part of the American withdrawal , not as a return to an expansionist policy . Neither Moscow nor Peking has reacted in any bold way . Both have been cautious and restrained , and have continued along familiar policy lines . The Chinese Communists , expectedly , did call off the third round in their talks with Americans in Warsaw . It would have been embarrassing for them to be seen talking with Americans while their propaganda appartus was grinding out a Grade B propaganda attack on American policy . And the Russians made some quiet propaganda hay at American expense , but did not alter their existing policies in any basic way . They continued the strategic-weapons talks in Vienna as though nothing untoward had happened ; continued to pour verbal abuse on the Chinese ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European countries . They seemed to be operating on the assumption that Cambodia was a plus for them ; to be harvested most richly by doing nothing themselves . Lessons learned ? The Russians do seem to have learned to avoid the heavy-handed gestures and reactions which so often in the past tended to boomerang against themselves . Here is a case where they were shrewd enough to keep quiet and allow the American move into Cambodia to undermine Western Europe 's confidence in Washington 's wisdom . A little ham-handedness in Moscow would have been appreciated in Washington . But the essence of the matter is that by this time friend and unfriends alike all agree that Cambodia did not represent any new departure in American policy , but merely an episode in the disengagement process under the " Guam doctrine " which has been going on ever since President Nixon assumed control of American foreign policy . Hence , others could turn to other matters . Highest concern of the moment among friends is the state of the American economy . In embassies and in foreign offices , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copies of books about what happened in Washington , and particularly in American trade policy , after the stock market crash of October , 1929 . Pressure causes concern The all too unhappy fact is that Washington plunged into protectionist trade policy . And it became even more , not less , protectionist or autarchic in Franklin Roosevelt 's time . President Hoover did his best to resist the pressures for protectionism so long as he remained in the White House . But President Roosevelt 's first important move in foreign policy was to scuttle the London economic conference of 1933 . His original trade policies were almost as autarchic as were those devised in Nazi Germany by Hjalmar Schacht . The pressure for revived protectionism already is a matter of extreme concern at the State Department , for obvious reasons . It would injure most those countries whose friendship is most important to the United States  --  Britain in Europe , and Japan in Asia . These are the main offshore bases for American military power . Without their alliance , American military power would be vastly reduced in influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alliance of both , the United States would be hard put to keep a major role in Europe and Asia . Nothing would reduce the United States more quickly to the rank of second-rate power than to lose those two allies . And nothing would undermine the alliance more certainly than an American return to trade protectionism at the expense of those two countries .                     