@@734109

txt Zbigniew Brzezinski left here today without winning Saudi support for the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty . But a senior American official said that the delegation led by Mr. Brzezinski , President Carter 's national-security adviser , had been given a pledge by the Saudi Arabians that they would refrain from any " precipitous " economic or political boycott of Egypt and would not join the Arab " rejection front , " which has advocated strong action if the proposed treaty is signed by President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt .. The senior American official , who participated in all the talks held between the Americans and Saudis yesterday and this morning , said the relationship between the two countries was " very sensitive now and both sides are clearly going through a period of assessing " their mutual interests . Agreement Called a Mistake ' The official , who asked that he not be identified , spoke in an interview at the Riyadh airport minutes before Mr. Brzezinski 's departure this morning . He said the Saudis had told the American delegation that they viewed the agreement between Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement outside the Arab framework , " which they described as a " mistake . " The American delegation had hoped to persuade the Saudis that President Carter 's approach to solving the Mideast crisis should be given a chance to succeed . The American official said the Saudis had told Mr. Brzezinski they were particularly unhappy with the treaty 's failure to produce an Israeli commitment to withdraw from most Arab lands occupied in the 1967 war . Other areas of the pact with which the Saudis expressed unhappiness were its failure to insure the Palestinians a homeland of their own and to pledge the return of all of Jerusalem , regarded by Moslems as the third-holiest place after Mecca and Medina , to Arab sovereignty . ' Comprehensive Solution ' Needed Later today , Foreign Minister Saud alFaisal emphasized in a statement broadcast on the state radio that peace , security and stability in the Middle East could only be reached through a solution acceptable to " the Arab Moslem nations and the Palestinian people , " based on a " comprehensive and total solution . " Another high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once the treaty between Egypt and Israel is signed , " it will be even more difficult to get the Israelis to budge on these issues no matter how much American pressure is brought to bear on them . " The difficulties encountered here by Mr. Brzezinski are the result of what many Saudis say is sagging confidence in the ability of the United States to pursue a forceful foreign policy . Saudi officials interviewed today and yesterday said their confidence in American power had been shaken by lack of support for the Shah of Iran , which one Saudi official said was characterized by " the constant wavering of the Americans . " The Saudis were also unhappy with what they see as a weak American response toward the perceived Soviet encroachment in this area , in the Horn of Africa , Angola , Somalia and lately in the Yemens . Saudi officials say it is precisely this upheaval in the region that restrains them from withdrawing all financial and political support from President Sadat , despite the strong resentment felt here against him because of the peace talks with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a permanent blank check by the Americans , " said the Saudi official interviewed tonight , commenting on what he described as " our dilemma . " Yesterday 's talks , according to both American and Saudi spokesmen , also touched on the issue of regional security , but there was no agreement there either . The Saudis have taken the position that they would not like to see any American or other foreign military presence in the region , though they have told the Americans to be more forceful in standing up to the Soviet Union . But one American diplomat said , " The problem is that the Saudis are not clear on what they want us to do . They ask for nothing specific but are unhappy with what we have offered . " Both the loss of focus and widening discord in Saudi-United States relations were evident in the comments both sides made , on their talks here today . Mr. Brzezinski 's party issued a statement in which it appeared the Americans were straining to find points of agreement between the two countries , falling back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two nations . " The statement said that the talks " have widened understanding of complex and difficult issues . " The Saudi Foreign Minister , in his statement , said the talks were " characterized with the spirit of clarity and frankness . " But the Saudi press , which is heavily subsidized by state advertisements and receives regular directives from the Government , showed no restraint in assailing " American weakness " and the peace treaty . Editorials here yesterday and today threatened the application of sanctions against Egypt that were agreed at a conference last November in Baghdad among Arab nations opposing the IsraeliEgyptian peace talks , if the treaty is signed . // timans on the occupied West Bank of the River Jordan and the Gaza Strip . " As Mr. Brzezinski left for Cairo late this afternoon , he said , " Our talks focused on movements toward a comprehensive peace settlement , common longterm regional interests and more immediate security threats . " The Americans arrived here from Saudi Arabia at noon today and spent two and half hours with King Hussein and other top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal court and one of the King 's closest advisers . stressed the " frankness " of the talks , which is normally the diplomatic word for disagreement . There were " basic differences of approach " between the United States and Jordan on the main issues , according to high official Jordanian sources . Officials said that Jordan would not participate in the second stage of the Euptian-Israeli negotiations because it had never been a party ' to the Camp David talks and because it believed in a comprehensive settlement within the framework of the Untied Nations . Likewise , Amman does not share the American view that the principal security threat to the Middle East is the Soviet Union and radical Arab leftists . " We think that the main threat is Israeli occupation and expansion , the sense of alienation and discord that creates climate conducive to outside exploitation of the situatuon. " a senior Jordanian official said after the Brzezinski meeting There was no sign that the Americans had succeeded in detaching Jordan from the Arab camp of opponents to the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty to from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Against Egypt Backed On the contrary , sources close to King Hussein stressed that if there was an Arab meeting after the peace treaty was signed , Jordan would attend and would help carry out the resolutions of last November 's Arab summit meeting in Baghdad , Iraq , that called for political and economic sanctions agair.st Egypt . Nevertheless , the Jordanian source emphasized that the Baghdad resolutions were not meant to be punitive and were not directed against the Egyptian people . Along the same line , it is not likely that Saudi Arabia will go so far as to withdraw its financial aid from Egypt , according to informed Jordanian sources . Saudi Arabia gives $2 billion a year to Egypt and this aid is said to be crucial . Official sources said that specific questions of military aid for Jordan had not come up in today 's talks . Asked whether the United States had offered Jordan any " inducements " to soften its stand , a hieh Jordanian official said , " I do n't see what inducements could make us or other Arabs change our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the atmosphere of the talks was friendly ' and informal . President Carter 's son Chip Carter , who went with the delegation as a sign of the President 's personal concern , had lively conversations with the King 's two teen-age sons , Abduliah and Feisal . " The important thing is that neither the Jordanians nor the Saudis have shut the door , " American sources said . Brzezinski Briefs Sadat Spec:a ! to The btu Yr , * Trines CAIRO , March IS ? Zbigniew Brzezinski , President Carter 's national security adviser , arrived in Cairo tonight and briefed President Anwar el-Sadat on the unwillingness of Saudi Arabia and Jordan to drop their opposition to Egypt 's peace treaty with Israel . After the SO-minute meeting , Mr. Brzezinski told reporters that he and Mr. Sadat had discussed " the existing situation and the attitude of the different countries toward the progress that has been made toward peace . " In a gesture of reassurance for Mr. Sadat , Mr. Brzezinski promised publicly that the Carter Administration " will continue our efforts to make sure that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Brzezinski contended that his current mission had left him more convinced than ever that the forthcoming peace treaty would be " both the beginning and the cornerstone of a comprehensive peace " rather than a bilateral settlement , as Mr. Sadat 's Arab critics have charged . But he gave no details to support his optimism . Well-informed Cairo diplomatic sources said they had not expected Mr. Brzezinski to persuade either Saudi Arabia or Jordan to support the latest peace efforts fully . Jordanians Refuse to Back Israeli-Egyptian Treaty                     