@@732736

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor World Economics : In Lieu of a ' Safety Net ' To the Editor : In your Oct. 4 editorial on the Administration 's proposed Financial Support Fund ( " Without a Net " ) , you point out that this $23 billion safety net is not the best way to finance the deficits the industrial countries are currently experiencing . You suggest that instead Congress should concentrate on the I.M.F . and pass the amendments to the Articles of Agreement . As chairman of the House subcommittee that dealt with both of these bills , I want to endorse your comments while correcting one key fact . Congress did pass the legislation late Friday night . The Senate , putting practicality before draftsmanship , withdrew several compromise amendments and passed the I.M.F . bill in exactly the same form as the House passed it , insuring that it would go to the President before adjournment . Without the cooperation of Senators Sparkman , Proxmire , Stevenson , Tower , Percy and Helms , and the work of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I.M.F . is a far more flexible To the Editor : Even as implementation of the national immunization campaign against swine influenza has begun , debate over its merits continues ( editorial Sept. 27 ) . In general , proper emphasis has not been given in these public discussions to the fact that there are really two programs being implemented . One , directed at the general population , involves the use of monovalent swine influenza virus vaccine to prevent a potential epidemic of swine influenza this winter . This unique program , aimed as it is against a possibility which appears more and more unlikely , is the one which has elicited all the controversy . The second program , which for the most part has received little attention in the press , will undoubtedly prove to be much more important . It is directed at the millions of Americans who because of age or chronic disease are unusually susceptible to severe complications of influenza . The use of influenza vaccine in this population has long been accepted public-health policy . The vaccine which has been produced for this population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virus ( VicSilent Parents To the Editor : It is a terrible thing to stand by and watch the New York City school system get cut and slashed . Our public schools , particularly the intermediate , and high schools , are losing art classes , guidance teachers , sports programs and , of course , the main thing : the requisite number of teachers to do the job adequately . And strangely enough , we , the parents and taxpayers , are standing by silently , whimpering but not complaining vociferously . Is this because we have been brainwashed about our city 's fiscal plight ? There can be no doubt that New York City is in a financial plight , but there can also be no doubt that one of the greatest things New York had going for it is ( or was ) the public schools . I can speak as a parent of three . Our oldest , Jessica , 18 , attended public schools throughout , graduating just this past June from the High School of the Performing Arts . Her experiences were good , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cuts . She is now at Tufts University . Our next daughter , Nina , just transferred out of Tilden High School in Brooklyn , as the combination of Inadequate program and shortage of teachers became too much to bear . She is enrolled at Brooklyn Friends . Naturally , we hate the idea of spending $2,700 a year , but feel we should and must under the circumstances . She now becomes part of the city statistics of another white student leaving to go to a private school . Tilden is now about two-thirds nonwhite , and probably by the end of the 70 's shall be almost all non-white . Erasmus High School in Brooklyn had exactly the same pattern . Unfortunately , the statistic of " non-white " is The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . mechanism for remedying present payments problems than a short-term safety net designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would hardly be equitable to set up a safety net for the rich countries while remaining as unresponsive to the same needs of the less-developed countries as we were at the recent UNCTAD meeting in Nairobi . It is particularly fortunate that the legislation passed when it did , on the eve of the I , M.F. 's annual meeting in Manila . Otherwise , it would have appeared that the U.S. was unable to support the changes that had been previously accepted by the U.S. and other I.M.F . members at the interim meeting last January in Jamaica . We have now shown by our action that we are ready to increase our commitment to stabilize the international economic system . THOMAS M. REES Member of Congress , 20th Dist. , Calif . Washington , Oct. 4 , 1976 The writer heads the House Subcommittee on International Trade , Investment and Monetary Policy . torte ) which has caused influenza throughout the world in the last eighteen months . Although swine influenza virus has not been isolated from human cases since the events at Fort Dix In February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently in the Southern Hemisphere , where June , July and August are the winter season ) . If there Is anything concerning this controversy that is clearly predictable , it is that there will be influenza this winter , probably due to Victoria-like virus . It would be tragic if disagreement over the mass immunization program against swine influenza resulted in loss of public confidence in influenza vaccines in general . Debate regarding the wisdom of a mass campaign against a virus which is unlikely to be a problem may be appropriate . ( Along with others , I have believed that production and stockpiling of vaccine would be more prudent . ) However , such controversy should not obscure the urgent need . to immunize persons at great risk against strains of influenza virus that are prevalent . ( Prof. ) JEROME L. SCHULMAN , M.D. Department of Microbiology Mt . Sinai School of Medicine New York , Oct. 1 , 1976 equated with cuts , slashes and poor school performance . Where are our parents ' protests ? Have we lost all heart ? Are we lying down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported to have said that New York State paid the highest per capita amount of any state . But we know as a fact that our school system is deteriorating . And , yes , I should add that our son , Joseph , 13 , is now in his second year at Brooklyn Poly Prep . Another $2,700 . How long can we last in Brooklyn before we , too , like friends of ours , move to the suburbs ? When the public schools become all non-white , how then shall we integrate the schools to give quality education ? SAMUEL P. SPORN Brooklyn , Oct. 1 , 1976 ? How to Cut Police Costs To the Editor : The policemen of New York City have seen their current pay fall behind that of their counterparts in other major cities and are understandably upset . But New York City , still facing severe fiscal problems , can not afford to increase policemen 's salaries . One proposal to cut costs is to reduce the present two-man patrol cars to one-man . The Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association protests , arguing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject the men to undue hazards . A way out of this impasse would be to make this project voluntary . Those who choose to drive a patrol car alone should receive a 20 percent hazardous-duty premium . This would be offered with the understanding that there be no decrease in miles driven or equivalent standard of performance . The basic salary and fringe benefits would not be affected . A patrol car that now costs the city $40,000 in current payroll would , under this plan , cost only $24,000 . Patrolmen , in their turn , would be given an opportunity to increase their paycheck without adversely affecting the city 's financial situation . Thus both parties stand to gain . SELINA L. WANG New York , Oct. 4 , 1976 The People 's Choice To the Editor : Undoubtedly President Ford would agree with Governor Carter 's notion that the Government should be as good and as honest as the American people . Although this sentiment may be politically soothing , it avoids an unsettling truth , namely , that we are not better and possibly worse than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not want honesty but rather desire candidates who tell us what we want to hear . If Americans desire leaders with Integrity , we must have citizens who desire integrity . Contrary to popular rhetoric , we do not want politicians to speak our minds . Until we respect candidates who advocate clear positions that differ from our own , we will continue to elect officials who render vague statements that please everyone and say nothing . It is anticipated that less than half of our good citizens will vote in November . Undoubtedly , we 'll get what we deserve , and we deserve what we 'll get . JERROLD S. MAXMEN M.D. New York , Sept. 28 , 1976 ? On ' State Terrorism ' To the Editor : The present U.N . General Assembly will take up the question of terrorism and involved will be the question of whether the world community ? should condemn terrorist acts by governments as well as by individuals or resistance groups . Terrorist incidents like the holding of hostages at Entebbe are criminal , but the responses of the media and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions about the ability of America to work fairly for peace in the Middle East . If we are to deplore the terrorism of the Palestinians , then let us deplore Israeli terrorism . State . terrorism is usually much more devastating than that of resistance groups . As M.I.T. Prof. Noam Chomsky writes , the term " terrorism " should cover the " bombardment of refugee camps or peasant villages by organized military forces e.g. , by Israel " and " the forcible expulsion of thousands of Bedouins from villages in Sinai and the Gaza Strip to prepare the region for all Jewish settlement . " Further , in many cases , e.g. , the PalestinianIsraeli conflict , the terrorization of a people ( Palestinians ) by a state ( Israel ) is the cause of the conflict ; terrorist actions of the oppressed , e.g. , Entebbe are symptoms . There would have been no Entebbe or Munich if the Palestinians responsible had been allowed by Israel to live in Palestine . Is it too difficult.for the media to raise questions such as why Palestinians are in exile ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Palestine ? Why were they forced to resort to near-suicidal tactics ? As Chomsky says , hijackings " do not occur in a vacuum . " Individual terrorism must be fought , but so must its cause : state terrorism . Finally , since Washington continues to support Israeli oppression of Palestinians , America is acting in a way that precludes a just peace and guarantees the continuation of the only alternative  --  unending ' military confrontation , including terrorism by bah Israeli Jews and Palestinian Arabs . RUTH D. TERZAGH/ Winchester , Mass. , Sept. 30 , 1976 ? To Keep Kissinger To the Editor : James Reston has praised Secretary of State Kissinger in his recent columns and has quoted foreign statesmen assembled at the United Nations in the same vein . He has also expressed his conviction that the tenure of office of Mr. Kissinger will soon come to an end . Mr. Kissinger is one of the most gifted statesmen on the international scene today and one of the few outstanding Secretaries of State who have served the United States . Is it not an enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a talent to private life , simply because there happens to be a Presidential election ? If both candidates are really dedicated to the common good , of which an intelligent bipartisan foreign policy forms an intrinsic part , might it not , be incumbent upon them to declare that , regardless of what will happen on Nov , 2 , Mr. Kissinger will continue to take care of the foreign relations of the United States ? Vaccination : The Second Program HANS J. MORGENTHAU New York , Oct. 2 , 1976                     