@@732726

txt Consumer prices rose by 0.5 percent in August , or 6 percent at an annual rate , and some observers were apparently quite pleased . For instance , The Wall Street Journal noted in a news story that consumer prices had risen , for the third month in a row , at the " relatively moderate " rate of 6 percent . Ron Nessen , the White House spokesman , said Administration officials were " encouraged " by the August rise , since the rate of inflation was stable . Previous concern about a reacceleration of inflation , he noted , was not well founded . But is a steady 6 percent rate of inflation in fact something , to cheer about ? Back in 1950 and 1951 , during the raging " Korean War inflation , " the annual rate of increase in consumer prices was 5.8 percent in 1950 and 5.9 percent in 1951 . Then , for the next 14 years , from 1952 through 1965 , the annual rate of increase in consumer prices averaged 1.3 percent , less than one fourth the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , plus the failure of the Johnson Administration to raise taxes to pay for the war , led to " severe " inflation , as the Republicans effectively argued during the 1968 Presidential campaign . But what was that rate of inflation from 1966 through 1968 ? It averaged 3.7 percent for those three years . To be sure , it soared to 4.7 percent in 1968 . But that was in another Administration , and 6 percent inflation is indeed moderate compared to the 8.8 percent rate of 1973 and the 12.2 percent rate of 1974 . However , even at this relatively moderate rate of 6 percent , prices double every 12 years , and the value of a dollar is cut in halt . And at the 6 percent rate , money in a savings account earning 5 percent interest gives the saver a real return of minus 1 percent per annum ; that is certainly better than holding onto cash and losing 6 percent per annum . Still , Mr. Nessen has a point in praising the stability of what mathematicians call " the second derivative " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate of change . Prices are going up , month by month , at an absolutely steady rate . This is better than an accelerating rate , though worse than a decelerating rate . And a steady rate of increase is a lot worse than no increase at all . It will be unfortunate if apologists for the Administration succeed in making the nation believe that 6 percent inflation is both moderate and acceptable . Such a rate of inflation is bad for saving and investment in productive equipment ; it hurts the pdor , the aged , and others on fixed incomes ; it keeps long-term interest rates high and puts a drag on housing ; it weakens consumer confidence and slows the real growth of the economy . The past two years of running the economy well below its potential has not succeeded in stopping inflation . Yet slow growth and high unemployment , fostered by restrictive monetary and fiscal policies , are all the Administration has to offer by way of a solution to inflation . What it will take to stop the inflation is an integrated approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase national productivity , strengthen competitive forces , and curb the power of labor and management to keep the price-wage-price spiral rolling . But the Administration shows no sign of moving toward such measures . On the contrary , Mr. Ford this week tripled the tariff on sugar imports , to pow domestic sugar producers that the President is " concerned " over their financial plight .                     