@@734031

txt The Responsible Republicans who last year rallied round the Panama Canal treaties had another meeting last weekend to deal , among other things , with the more difficult issue of a new arms control treaty with the Soviet Union . The result was a facile resolution , shaped by the Presidential politics of Senators Baker and Dole , that denounced the Carter Administration for " the decay of American influence and the decline of American military power . " Its main point , however , was more serious and plainly inspired by the absent Ayatollah Kissinger . It demanded a debate that would " link " SALT and the " total Soviet-American military and foreign policy relationship . " In their partisan rhetoric , the Republican mullahs appeared to forget that their party held executive power in eight of the last ten years of the alleged American decline . It was a Republican President , after all , who toasted arms control in Moscow in 1972 and who persuaded the Russians not to " link " this vital subject to the American bombing of a Soviet ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1974 to try to extend the treaty to its present dimensions , despite the worrisome conduct of the Russians in the Middle East . Mr. Kissinger , now that he is out of power , may have the agility to square all these circles but his pupils are in danger of tripping over history and illogic . President Carter , it should be quickly said , has not himself done much to elevate the debate . He has appealed for ratification of a still unpublished treaty without offering the public any responsible account of its major advantages and soft spots . Rival committees of armchair strategists are therefore promoting and denouncing the agreement while it is still under negotiation . Predictably , the debate drifts from the main question ? whether the United States would be better off with or without SALT II ? into vague linkages to Soviet deportment : No more mischief or no treaty . The true link between the treaty and other issues is that if there were no superpower tensions there would be little need for SALT . Yet if the treaty can be shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it for lack of other benefits ? If , on the other hand , it seems to serve mostly Soviet strategic interests , why sign it in exchange for better Soviet behavior in Afghanistan ? As Senator Baker rightly argued , to the wrong conclusion , the treaty " has to be considered in the light of the real world " ? at least as real as the world in which Senator Dole delights when Kansas farmers are selling wheat to sustain the Russian economy . ? ? Mr. Kissinger 's more weighty theoretical pronouncements on the issue were recently delivered abroad in The Economist ; they at least have a devious logic . He knows better than to blame only Mr. Carter for weakness . He holds that Democratic Congresses regularly " dismantled " our defenses and that only the Kissinger arms treaty of 1972 bought the time to " catch up . " So a rough strategic parity now lies ahead . The problem he sees in the 1980 's is a " gap " not in missiles but in their design . Soviet missiles will threaten American missiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . The Kremlin 's power will then appear real , he argues , while American power , aimed at civilians , will be perceived as " paralyzed " or Unusable . Thus deterred , and " clearly inferior " meanwhile in forces for local intervention , the United States , he predicts , will be outmaneuvered in crisis after crisis and perhaps even challenged frontally before the Soviet advantage fades . This sweeping ( and questionable ) doctrine is plainly too much for the political stump . But Mr. Kissinger promises another pronouncement to join the two lines of argument . He will instruct the nation , he says , in how to use the treaty process for two ends : ( 1 ) to put Moscow " on notice " that Congress " can not accept , the constant challenges to international order " ; and ( 2 ) to force the Carter Administration to accept his scenario of " grave danger " and a strategy for meeting it . Then , he adds backhandedly , the treaty can perhaps be defended as no impediment to American security . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tuned for a new strategic doctrine suitable also for political wars . It will conclude that there is no harm in doing business with the Russians provided that Republicans , the right Republicans , are conducting it .                     