@@734484

txt The rightwing Democratic Alliance scored a major victory in yesterday 's parliamentary elections and appeared to be close to attaining an absolute majority of seats in Portugal 's National Assembly , according to returns early today . With 90 percent of a total electorate of 6.9 Ini1400CoWned , liancd ; a coalitidii of parties , was polling 44.7 per cent of the popular vote . The state-run television at first projected a majority of seats in the 250-member single-chamber legislature , but later revised this prediction downward to 124 , or two short of a clear majority . The other big winner in the special election , called as a solution to Portugal 's chronic parliamentary instability , was the pro-Moscow Communistl . Party , whose popular vote was running at 18.8 percent compared to 14.3 percent in the last elections in 1976 . Both the.Democratic Alliance and the CoiniunistS , C*fr , 44 , VAtkaditional : **33;626;TOOLONG Party , which-lost their position as the sin- , gle largest party . Socialist setbacks were particularly sharp in Lisbon and the sprawling southern Alentejo region , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military coup that ended five decades of dictatorship . " I would like to extend my congratulations to the Democratic Alliance , in the name of democracy , sincerely , " declared Mr. Soares , conceding defeat . But he added that the vote has produced a dangerous polarization of opinion between left and right in the country , and that " the only real winner has been the Communists . " At 5 A.M. this morning , the Socialists held 27.4 percent of the popular vote , compared to 34.8 in 1976 , and were assured of being the second largest bloc in Portuguese politics . But Mr. Soares and his allies paid a heavy price for having led the first two of five governments that succeeded one another after the 1976 elections . An official announcement that the Democratic Alliance had , in fact , achieved a parliamentary majority would have to await the final results . But the triumph of the rightist coalition , led by the ambitious Francisco SA Carneiro , marked a dramatic break with the heady spirit of the 1974 " revolution " which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were its chief protagonists . Even under Mr. Soares ' two Governments , and the three nonparty Cabinets that followed , there was a slow erosion of what the Communists like to call " the conquests of the revolution " and a gradual encouragement of private and foreign investment in a battered economy . But if the Democratic Alliance does achieve a parliamentary majority , Mr. SA Carneiro and his allies will have about 10 months to put their imprint on national politics before another round of legislative elections that , according to the Constitution , must be held in the fall of 1980 . After those elections , the right clearly hopes to amend the Constitution , which declares that Portugal should move toward socialism . As suggested by vote patterns in many places , Portuguese politics are now sharply polarized and many politicians expect that the Socialists will suffer further from this process when important municipal elections are held Dec. 16 . The momentum from yesterday 's parliamentary elections is expected to carry both the well-organized Communists and the Democratic Alliance to fresh victories in city halls around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year 's parliamentary vote , " said one Democratic Alliance strategist . Constitutional democracy here is little more than four years old , but the Portugese vote like veterans . There were no reports of significant trouble or disruptions at the 13,403 polling booths around the country . It appeared that huge numbers of citizens had voted and projections suggested that the level of participation might reach 87. percent of the registered electorate . A new coalition of rightist parties , the Democratic Alliance was the acknowledged favorite in the balloting , but its own definition of victory was an outright majority , which no party has enjoyed Since the 1974 upheaval . Democratic Alliance strategists believed they needed between 43 and 45 percent of the popular vote to win a parliamentary majority . If the Democratic Alliance falls short of a parliamentary majority , some politiclans believe , President , Antonio Ra-. malho Eanes might ask Maria de Lurdes Pintassilgo , who has been a caretaker Prime Minister since July , to continue in office . Lately , both the Prime Minister and the President had given subtle signals that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position as theOrbiter in Parliament , and avert a triumph by the Democratic Alliance . A Democrat ; c Alliance victory would complicate General Eanes 's apparent plans to run for re-election in 1981 , since the rightists ' leader , Mr. SA Carneiro , has vowed to run a candidate against him . Despite past differences with Mr. Soares , the President appears still to believe that the Socialists can provide social and political stability .                     