@@733433

txt Administration officials said today that the goal of the United States in coming weeks would be to work with Israel and Egypt to succeed  --  where the Ismailia meeting apparently did not  --  in finding an agreed set of principles to govern negotiations toward a comprehensive Middle East settlement . President Carter said today that the United States would do all it cc to keep the momentum going . As part of the effort , State Department officials said they expected Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance to participate with Egyptian and Israeli foreign ministers when . political talks resume next month in Jerusalem , although Mr. Carter said he had not yet made a decision on that . In their initial assessment , based largely on the public statements of President Anwar el-Sadat and Prime Minister Menahem Begin , the officials said that the meeting , in Ismailia had at least avoided a total impasse and that Egypt and Israel still seemed willing to make a major effort to negotiate differences over the Palestinian question , the main stumbling block in the talks . President Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he spent Christmas , that he had received a telephone call today from Mr. Begin , who reported that the Ismailia meeting had been " very successful . " In talking with reporters at WarnerRobbins Air Force Base in Macon , Ga. , Mr. Carter did not give his own evaluation of the Ismailia meeting . Officials in Washington said that a full report on the Sadat-Begin meeting was not expected until tomorrow when the American Ambassador to Egypt , Hermann F. Eilts , meets with Mr. Sadat and the envoy to Israel , Samuel W. Lewis , meets with Mr. Begin . Separated both emotionally and geographically from the meeting between Mr. Begin and Mr. Sadat , officials here stressed the need of the negotiations ' making progress on basic principles in the next month or more so that the talks could be broadened to include Jordan at an early stage and , it is hoped , to entice Syria to . enter the n neotiations later on . For the last week , Secretary , ance and his aides had been at pains to caution against excessive expectations for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimistic press reports last week in arh.nnoe of ilia sessions . One high official said last Thursday that the most that should be hoped for at Ismailia was a set of principles for future negotiations , but another top official said on Friday that he would not be surprised if it took further negotiations to achieve even that rather limited goal . Officials uniformly scoffed at suggestions that a major breakthrough could be announced at Ismailia on the Palestinian problems . Overly Gloomy Reactions Feared Today , in the aftermath of the SadatBegin meeting , officials warned against the opposite extreme that some of them saw developing in press reports ? an overly gloomy assessment of the pros ; pects for progress . Mr. Begin and Mr. Sadat agreed to continue negotiations through military and political committees meeting in Cairo and Jerusalem at the ministerial level starting in mid-January . Mr. Carter saki Mr. Begin had told him that he and Mr. Sadat wanted Mr. Vance to participate in the political meeting along with the Israeli and Egyptian for ! eign ministers . The President said : " I do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , State Department officials said it was highly likely that Mr. Vance would participate in the Jerusalem session , at least for a while . But the main American participant will probably continue to be Alfred L. Atherton Jr. , Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs , who has been the United States representative at the sub-cabinetlevel Cairo meeting that is now in recess . American officials had been cautious about the Ismailia meeting because they the had detailed knowledge of Mr. Begin 's ideas about the West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip that were conveyed to Mr. Carter on Dec. 16 and 17 . The officials knew that the proposals for " self-rule " of the Palestinians , with Israel remaining in control of security , did not go far enough to be acceptable to Mr. Sadat . U.S. Urged Flexibility The United States urged Mr. Begin to " repackage " his proposal so that he could stress more acceptable principles , such as an end of Israeli military occupation and a fixed date for review of the situation . Similarly , American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these efforts were clearly not enough to overcome longstanding differences  --  with Mr. Sadat , seeking to be seen as speaking for the Arab cause , insisting on the creation of . a Palestinian state comprising the Vest Bank of the Jordan and the Gaza Strip . This is something that Mr. Begin has ruled out and that the Carter Administration says it " prefers " not to see develop . The United States advocates a Palestinian entity of some kind , linked to Jordan , but preferably not a separate state . American officials also said they hoped that the coming pause in the negotiations would allow time for quiet diplomacy , with the United States ready to take the lead in suggesting ways to bridge the differences . Mr. Carter , accompanied by Mr. Vance , leaves on Thursday for a nine-day trip to six nations . While he is in Teheran , Iran , next Saturday and Sunday , Mr. Carter  --  it was announced on Saturday ? will meet with King Hussein of Jordan to encourage Jordan to enter . the negotiations , now that the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hussein , out of deference to Syria , which opposes Mr. Sadat 's direct initiatives with the Israelis , has stayed away from the Cairo meetings . The Americans would like Jordan to enter the discussions as soon as possible . But since Jordan stayed away from the Cairo meetings , it is hardly more likely to go to those in Jerusalem , which would in effect acknowledge Israeli sovereignty there .                     