@@733333

txt In a most dramatic clampdown on black organizations , the hard-line right wing of the South African Government has proved it has won the power struggle within the ruling Afrikaner society . These actions on Oct. 19 mark a major turning point in South African history : the banning of 18 anti-apartheid ( segregation ) organizations ; the banning of the black newspaper , The World ; the detention of its editor , Percy Qoboza ; the banning of prominent Afrikaner Dr. C. F. Beyers Naude ; and the ' detention of at least seven black leaders , including Dr. Nthato Motlana and other members of the Committee of Ten , from the black township of Soweto . Those detained are being held under the Internal Security Act , which means they can be held for three months with no charges necessary . Experienced observers believe all the moves are a mask for closing down on the press , which over the past year has been perhaps the most effective means of rallying black thought and explaining the Soweto case to the outside world . The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the bannings and detentions carried out there on Oct. 19 , Reuters reported from Washington . State Department spokesman Hodding Carter III said the United States was deeply disturbed by the South African Government 's action , which he called " totally unprecedented . " Along with Mr. Qoboza , another World newspaper journalist , Aggrey Klaaste , was among those detained . At least five Union of Black Journalists members were arrested , and the union itself was one of the 18 banned organizations . Almost all the organizations are " black consciousness " groups , part of a mainly psychological and diffuse movement which has been the inspiration for widespread black protests by students around the country . The government now is shouting " Kragdadigheid " with all its might . " Kragdadigheid , " which means extreme toughness when challenged , is an attitudinal counterpart of the government 's policy of apartheid . With these bannings and detentions , the government has wiped out some very tentative and delicate moves on the part of prominent Afrikaners to forestall racial conflict in southern Africa by talking to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge , crack down By these latest actions , the Government is widely believed to have speeded up the day of that conflict . A further crackdown on blacks is expected . Black unrest is likely to escalate along with this and a reported decision to increase rents on houses in huge , sprawling Soweto . All the organizations banned , with the exception of the Christian Institute , headed by Dr. Beyers Naude , was becoming increasingly black . It all means that the Minister of Justice and Police James Kruger has won out over more " verlighte " ( enlightened or liberal ) elements in the ruling National Party . Mr. Kruger shocked the world recently with his calIbus statements about the death in detention of black leader Steve Biko . He has long been building a case that many of the country 's black organizations are communist . Mr. Kruger said the orga- . nizations and publications he had banned were endangering public order , according to Reuters . He said investigations showed they had been used by people who wanted to create black-white confrontations , unrest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ensure that the peaceful coexistence of peoples in South Africa is not disturbed by a small group of anarchists , " Mr. Kruger declared . Of the organizations he has banned , Mr. Kruger said their " fine-sounding names and objectives actually serve only as smokescreen ? to conceal their undermining activities . " He warned the public " not to be misled by this . " It now seems clear that Mr. Kruger 's election over a month ago as deputy leader of the National Party caucus in Transvaal Province meant that the right wing has won out . The head of the Transvaal branch , Minister of Information Connie Mulder now is reportedly being forced to move to the right to protect his position . Another important move to watch is who will be appointed to replace the retiring Minister of Bantu ( black ) Affairs . If Dr. Andries Treurnicht gets the post , South Africa probably is in for an even more dramatic polarization between the races . Here are examples of the thinkitig on the two sides : This reporter talked to Brig . J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks ago . When asked if he had ever talked to Dr. Motlana , Brigadier Visser said , " No , never , and I do n't want to . They are leftists . " Later he added , " They are Communists and Marxists . " Dr. Motlana , on the other hand , has been working toward a meeting with the influential Afrikaner , Dr. Gerrit Viljoen , head of the secret Broederbond organization . He expected the dialogue to start in early November . Dr. Viljoen is a " verlighte " ( enlightened ) Afrikaner , who , along with many Afrikaner Journalists and academicians , wanted to redirect the government 's approach . At lunch with this reporter last Saturday in a restaurant in Johannesburg 's posh Carlton Hotel , Dr. Motlana commented on the several lunches he had had that week with journalists at the Carlton . " My wife does n't have to cook much anymore , " he said , smiling . " But it wo n't last , " he added . Dr. Motlana now is detained , along with five other members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing , people were still being detained by police , and it was not clear if students were involved . The fact that such prominent and moderate black adults were being taken in shows the extent to which black protest has spread . A statement by the cautious and world-respected Institute of Race Relations said : " The institute is aghast at the wholesale bannings instituted by the government . This is an act of ruthless tyranny , it is an act insensate in its stupidity , tragic in its dimensions , and incalculable in the harm it does people of this country , and the republic 's international relationships . " It added that by this action " the government is driving all these people blacks to complete despair . "                     