@@728875

txt Faced with opposition from Palestinian guerrillas , King Hussein can no longer expect support from Israel to maintain his kingdom . Israel once considered continuation of the Hashimite dynasty essential for its security , but observers say Israel now would not intervene if the King were overthrown . Whatever the outcome of the power struggle between Jordan 's King Hussein and the Palestinian commandos , observers here are convinced the Israeli Army will not march on Amman ? as long as there is no substantial deterioration along the cease-fire lines between the two countries , Before 1967 , Israeli prime ministers repeatedly warned that any change in the Hashimite kingdom in Jordan would be regarded as a cause for war . But with Jordan 's participation in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war , all that changed and Israel no longer considers King Hussein 's rule vital for its security , In spite of the new policy toward Jordan , settlers in the Jordan Valley are expected to pressure the Israeli Government to extend its military hold over the Gilead mountain range east of the Jordan River . Settlements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from these mountains for the last 21/2 years . Each night the children and women of these settlements sleep in underground shelters in order to escape the " katioucha " and mortar shells showered on them from the Jordanian side . If Palestinian guerrillas do take over Amman , political quarters here say , and cancel King Hussein 's acceptance of the American peace initiative , pressure for Israeli occupation of the Gilead mountain range could gain weight in Jerusalem . If , however , a moderate wing of the Palestinian organizations would emerge on top in Amman , and try to follow in King Hussein 's footsteps with regard to the peace plan , Israel would continue to give its full attention to the Egyptian front , the observers say . From the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948 until the 1967 war , Israeli prime ministers David Ben-Gurion , Moshe Sharett , and Levi Eshkol all made dramatic statements in support of the Hashimite government . // *Israeli Army march on Amman doubted // However , on Monday , June 5 , 1967 , at 11:30 a.m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an abrupt end . At that hour , King Hussein 's soldiers posted on the ancient walls of Jerusalem 's Old City began bombarding the Jewish residential quarters of Jerusalem . This was his reply to an urgent peace message from Israel 's Prime Minister Levi Eshkol . The message had been delivered an hour earlier to the King by the chief of the United Nations armistice observers mission , Norwegian Gen. Odd Bull . Mr. Eshkol 's message to King Hussein said : If you keep out of this war , we shall not touch you ; but if you join Nasser 's war , we shall fight you with all our might . The subsequent Jordanian shells on Israeli Jerusalem missed most of their targets . But they succeeded in destroying the unwritten understanding by which Israel had become a Protector of the Hashimite rule in Jordan . This change in Israel 's stand was expressed publicly for the first time by Defense Minister Moshe Dayan in the winter of 1968 . While bullets were being exchanged in Amman between Palestinian guerrillas and the King 's troops , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not care who rules in Amman . We are only interested in quiet along the Jordanian-Israeli border . " New era launched This statement inaugurated a new era in Israel 's attitude toward Jordan . Mr. Dayan went even further in demonstrating his lack of interest in the continuation of King Hussein 's rule . Asked in a recent press conference whether the Israeli Government would eventually see in Al-Fatah leader Yassir Arafat a negotiating partner , Mr. Dayan replied , " If Arafat becomes the Prime Minister of Jordan or of any other Arab state , we shall deal with him . For the time being he is merely a terrorists ' leader and not the head of a government . "                     