@@730190

txt British policy is once again caught in the good-news , bad-news turmoil of Northern Ireland . First the good news : More than a thousand Roman Catholic residents of the Bog-side and Creggan neighborhoods of Londonderry have just shouted down the local chief of the illegal Irish Republican Army ( IRA ) and cheered for peace with " brother Protestants . " Now the bad news : Militant Protestants in Belfast are talking tougher than ever about turning their parts of the city into " no-go " . areas ( barricaded to keep out security forces ) unless the British Army cleans out the IRA 's " no-go " zones of Londonderry . In a dilemma Caught m the middle are William White-law , Britain 's new Minister for Northern Ireland , and British troops . For two months , British direct rule has tried to bring politics and security into a tandem strategy . This meant that the security operation had to slouch into a lower profile than before so that Mr. Whitelaw 's policies of conciliation could be most conspicuoug . This obviously has won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patience of hard-line Protestants who view the eased Army style as permitting the IRA extra latitude for terrorism . , Last weekend ' Protestant extremists of the vigilante organization , the Ulster Defense Association , barricaded two parts of Belfast and clashed violently with Army units sent in to reopen the areas . Mr. Whitelaw has said he will not tolerate any " no-go " areas in Belfast . " All right , " say the Belfast Protestant militants , " then let Mr. Whitelaw end a double standard and reopen the Catholic Creggan and Bogside in Londonderry . If he does n't , we 'll continue to organize ' no-go ' areas here . And maybe we 'll seal off the city as well . " The Protestant loyalists have , in fact , given Mr. Whitelaw a deadline  --  three more weeks , mid-June -- to break the IRA 's grip in Londonderry . Hence the new crisis surging in Ulster . While the May 23 meeting at a school hall in Londonderry voted overwhelmingly in favor of an end to conflict , there was no willingness to let the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Whitelaw has pulled back from such drastic action because of the dangers to innocents . But an Army confrontation with the Protestant UDA and its followers in Belfast ' runs the same high risk . Meanwhile , the IRA , although appearing again to be arguing internally over tactics and strategy ( its " official " and " provisional " wings are often at odds with each . other ) , is having no trouble maintaining a steady level of violence in Ulster . // *London in trouble on Ulster strategy // Bombing , sniping , robbery , and arson are still the daily routine in the province . Some observers argue that the Army 's pullback from aggressive arms searches and arrests on suspicion is allowing the IRA time to recover from many months of very tough military pressure . But it was this pressure which alienated Catholics and added to the numbers of terrorist suspects interned . - Such tactics could have undermined the political emphases of direct rule . Renee the calculated risk was taken to push conciliation and slack ' Off On-exacerbation . A plus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of growing Catholic confidence in the new administration in Ulster . But , as always in Northern Ireland affairs , what pleases one side often alarms the other ; and this decision certainly offends many Protestants . The next days , therefore , demand a very tough decision from Mr. Whitelaw : Should he let the Protestants have their symbolic " no-go " areas , and overlook an erosion of his authority ? Or demand removal of the Protestant barricades and risk a first major clash between British troops and loyalist Protestant Ulstermen ? All the while , of course , he must keep the IRA on the run and Catholic neighborhoods on the mend . A very large test of direct British rule of Northern Ireland lies just ahead .                     