@@734269

txt Maintenance crews struggled yesterday to keep Coney Island beaches open for tomorrow 's Fourth of July holiday as oil from a container ship 's ruptured fuel tanks began to wash up on the three-mile stretch of public beach . The 100,000-gallon oil spill Saturday night forced the closing of two Staten Island beaches yesterday , and Coast Guard officials said the Rockaway beaches could also be affected . Workmen using bulldozers created sixfoot-high barriers at Coney Island by pushing sand down to the waterline . The berms , intended to protect the beach from the oil , did not deter some people from swimming . Meanwhile , boats used barrier booms , dispersants and skimmers in an effort to contain the spill . The slick began to spread after the Seaspeed Arabia ran aground off Staten Island and tore open two fuel tanks . " The timing could not have been worse , " Gordon J. Davis , the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation , said yesterday , referring to the holiday tomorrow . When asked if the popular Coney Island beaches could be kept open , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got them crossed , " he said . " We 're going to do everything to keep the beaches open . " Coast Guard officials were less hopeful that this could be done , however . Capt . James L. Fleishell , the Coast Guard of ( leer in charge of the Port of New York , said after a helicopter tour of the area that westerly winds up to 20 miles an hour had pushed much of the oil to the Coney Island beaches . By 4 P.M. yesterday , small amounts had washed ashore between 34th and 36th Streets . If the winds continued blowing west to east , he added , the spill could also threaten the Rockaway beaches and the wildlife in Jamaica Bay . " We 're praying like crazy we get easterly winds , " he said . The accident that led to the oil spill occurred after the 648-foot ship , bound for Saudi Arabia , left Port Elizabeth , N.J. As the vessel rounded the southern tip of Bayonne , it ran aground and tore an 85-foot gash in its own fuel tanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until it was dry-docked nearby nine hours later . The tides carried the oil south through the Arthur Kill along Staten Island 's west shore and east through the Kill van Kull into Upper and Lower New York Bay . The westerly winds then pushed the oil from the lower bay east toward Coney Island and the Rockaway peninsula . Oil from the vessel began to wash up Sunday on two Staten Island beaches ? South Beach and Midland Beach ? and yesterday those areas were officially closed to bathing by the city 's Health and Parks Departments . The officials also ' recommended that bathers not use the private beach at Sea Gate , on the tip of Coney Island , but said that the nearby public areas were safe . Sea Gate had not been protected with sand barriers . Under cloudy skies yesterday , a handful of bathers at public beaches on Coney Island made their way over the berms to frolick in the water in areas the oil had not reached . Others tried to find a level spot between the track marks of the bulldozers for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problems in getting fuel for cars , a special effort was being made to keep Coney Island clean and open tomorrow . The recreation area is easily accessible by public transportation . However , the Staten Island areas were not expected to be reopened in time for holiday crowds . As the damage to the environment was being dealt with , so was the damage to the ship . The 22,800-ton , 10-story-high vessel ? which was laden with varied cargo when it ran aground ? was under repair . A spokesman for lioegh Lines , the Norwegian company that owns the Liberian-registered ship , said that she should be ready to resume her trip to the Middle East in about seven days . For the cleanup on water , meanwhile , Federal and state officials approved the use of dispersants ? detergents that break up the oil ? for use in the affected waters . According to Captain Fleishell , the chemicals could cause some " temporary damage " to marine life , but would inhibit the oil from reaching beaches and wildlife areas such as Jamaica Bay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that marked the course of the oil flow . A sheen surprised some fishermen who were on the dock in the shadow of the old parachute Jump on Coney Island yesterday . " I 'll be darned , " said one undeterred angler , as he threw in a line , " That was n't there when I left last night . "                     