@@730661

txt David Vega has to get up early each morning to go to work . But instead of heading toward Chicago , he goes the opposite way ? out of town . Like 200,000 other Chicagoans , and millions of other Americans , he is a " reverse commuter " ? and he shares their problems , Increasingly , the suburbs are where " qhe jobs are for many Americans . Average commuters can get downtown each day by car , train , or other public transportation . And for affluent city-dwellers headed on the " reverse " track to offices in the suburbs , life can be good . They can chortle at traffic jams on the other side of the median strip , breeze to work in record-breaking time , park free in wide-open lots , and breathe the less-congested air of the " outer city . " But for low-income blacks or whites , reverse commuting can be tough . It may mean a grueling aeries of transfers from one public transport to another , or , if no such transport is available , resorting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : a car pool . No way to get there David Vega is the life-link tor Do people 111 his Spanish-speaking community in Chicago . At 6 o'clock he leaves home every morning . One by one he picks up the riders in his car pool . By 7:45 he arrives at his destination , one of Chicago 's new luxury hotels next to O'Hare International Airport . " There 's no way these people could get here on their own , " he says . There 's no public transportation . They could n't take these jobs unless they know for sure that I will provide them with transportation , " he says . After two years , demand has risen so rapidly that the enterprising young Puerto Rican has bought a second van and recently a school bus . Now his transportation business outstrips the salary he earns as an assistant in the hotel 's housekeeping department . Public transportation ? buses , subways , trains ? in most cities almost invariably is geared to the inbound flow of commuters , proving , as the old saying goes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commuters , trying to get out of Rome , or Chicago , can be an ordeal . Expensive trains The same " roads " that lead in lead back out , but , for example , many more trains arrive each morning in Chicago than leave in time for outward commuters . And trains , which are expensive for many low-income workers , can often get a commuter only partway to work . When he arrives in the suburbs he may find he has to wait quite a while for a bus whose schedule is not designed to service commuters coming out of the city . Reverse commuters are " either forced to get a car or get another job , " says Art Myren , senior planner for the Northern Illinois Planning Commission " The Chicago Transit Authority stops at the city 's edges , which means workers using public transportation have to transfer to two or three different carriers , paying an additional fare each time " Usually schedules do n't coordinate , or they are constantly changing . And service is being dropped because most suburban bus companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives up , " says . Mr. Myren . Employment restrictions A study by the Chicago Urban League states that the " lack of a distribution system between suburban rail stations and job sites makes virtually the entire suburban rail and bus system useless to the potential reverse commuter-employee . " The study documents cases where suburban employers refused to hire black workers because they did n't own an automobile . A special 1970 census study of selected low-income areas in the United States showed that 17 percent of the work force from these areas commuted to jobs outside the city limits . A majority spent well over half an hour getting to work . Most went in cars or car pools . The survey found that 71 percent of those unemployed did not own a car or have one available . Experts see these possible solutions to these problems : ? Opening up housing in the suburbs to low-income families . ? Connecting and coordinating existing mass transportation on a regional basis . ? Providing private transportation , such as car pools or rental vehicles , on the same basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Problems could be handled reasonably if we made use of the public transportation stock we have , " says Dr. Richard M , Michaels , director of research at Northwestern University 's Transportation Center . " We have been very late in thinking about connecting our employment centers with our residential centers. "                     