@@731851

txt Even though 7.5 million Americans are out of work , many jobs are still unfilled across the nation . In fact , a severe shortage in specific skills is causing problems In vital industries . One day recently , a newspaper in Newark , N.J. ( where the unemployment rate is above the official national average of 8.2 percent ) carried 10 columns of " help wanted " advertisements . Jobs were ( and are ) open for machinists , tool and die makers , accountants and auditors , mechanics , engineers and chemists , industrial firemen , welders and plate fitters , pharmacists and medical technicians , computer operators and management personnel , and many others . The problem today involves tilling jobs requiring specific skills from the ranks of the unemployed who have other , or no , skills . In most instances , it can not be done . Retraining often proposed on7Capitoi 11111 as a solution ? Is hardly practical , labor analysts believe ; most needed skills can not be taught quickly . Some are in the construction industry , nationally depressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and over 50 percent // *Jobs and jobless do n't match // Efforts to increase the nation 's energy supplies are retarded by serious shortages of highly skilled workers able to install oil and gas pipes , drill wells , build rigs , and weld pressure vessels for natural gas . Oil companies say that in rig building alone , jobs for more than 5,400 skilled workers are unfilled . In the skilled areas , workers who are qualified can almost set their own prices , and high demands ( for as much as 20 percent a year more pay ) are causing chaotic conditions in building trades bargaining in some areas . Hospital wing closed A hospital in a suburban area just outside Newark recently closed one wing because it could not find 25 qualified nurses and other hospital personnel . The Occupational Safety and Health Administration said recently that it could hire 100 industrial hygienists if it could find them ; major corporations are " begging " for hundreds more who can fill similar jobs , it said . Laboratory technicians qualified to perform water - and air analysis required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other jobs openings are more prosaic . In Cleveland , and many other cities machinists are in short supply in industrial plants although many blue collar workers have been laid off . Some in wrong place In Los Angeles , electrical engineers and electronics technicians are needed . Welders are in short supply in Baltimore . Crane operators , boiler workers , and other skilled craftsmen are needed in several East Coast ? shipyards . Help wanted ads show up widely for automobile mechanics . rlio and TV repairmen , and col ? , cer technicians . Contributing to the problems of filling these jobs , or for those qualified to find them , is a lack of effective communications between employment service offices in different parts of the country , analysts say . Workers may be found on the West Coast for Jobs open In the East ; bringing workers and jobs together is a problem as yet unsolved .                     