@@734289

txt After an extraordinary 11 days of political introspection at Camp David , President Carter returned to Washington tonight , still at work on a television address that he has described as a turning point for the nation and his Presidency . While the basic direction of the President 's energy program has been settled , top Administration officials disclosed that they were still racing to resolve some important elements of the package that Mr. Carter will outline to the nation at 10 P.M. tomorrow . The White House has said that while the genesis of the speech was the energy crisis , Mr. Carter now intends to deliver a much broader address dealing with national purpose and seeking to lift the nation from what he regards as a crisis of confidence . Follow-Up in Kansas City Jody Powell , the White House press ' secretary , said the President worked most of the day on the address and a follow-up speech he intends to give in Kansas City on Monday . Mr. Carter arrived back at the White House at about 6:30 P.M. This morning , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Secretary of Energy , and other officials about various elements of the energy package . Other officials , working through the day , predicted " a scramble " to get all elements fully worked out by tomorrow night or even Monday when Mr. Carter plans to spell out more specifics of his energy program . From what the President has told others , the energy portion of the speech is expected to project a massive , multibillion-dollar program to reduce American oil imports by four million to five million barrels a day , by 1990 ; to propose establishment of a synthetic fuels corporation ; to urge creation of a powerful Energy Mobilization Board to oversee all key energy projects , to give them overriding national priority and to cut through bureaucratic red tape , and to call for immediate sacrifices from all Americans . Differences and Confusion But high Administration officials reported that there were still differences and confusion about some key elements of the program and that it was impossible to say whether the overall target for im-. port reduction would be four or five million barrels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of columnists and television anchormen , they concluded that he had decided upon the higher figure . But today , other officials said they did not think the program would " add up to that much . " However , Mr. Carter has made clear that the specifics on energy are to be subordinated to a far broader and more vital theme ? that the energy crisis is symptomatic of a deep crisis of the American spirit and a breakdown of community and cohesion in the nation . Carter Sees Critical Choice After what aides describe as months of introspection and reading , reinforced by the meetings at Camp David with 150 leaders from various walks of life , Mr. Carter Is now saying that the nation is at a crossroads and faces a critical choice . His message is that Americans must choose whether to convert the energy crisis into an opportunity to pull together once again and gain national momentum and self-confidence for tackling other problems , or whether to allow energy problems to remain a festering malady that exacerbates tensions , drives Americans apart , and feeds their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of faith in their own future . Mr. Carter 's hope is to persuade his listeners to embark on a rational mobilization on energy that will serve , as he puts it , " the cutting edge " for an American resurgence in other fields . Candid Thoughts on Failures Personally , Mr. Carter has come through his consultations at Camp David prepared to speak candidly about his own failures of leadership over the past 30 months , his need to operate less as a manager of the Government bureaucracy and more as a clear and inspiring leader to the nation . Close Presidential associates report that he has decided the time has come for changes in his Administration , but the indications are that his address will not contain specific announcements on that score . In talking about his address , the President and his entourage have left open the possibility of some surprise disclosures for dramatic political impact . But Mr. Powell rejected speculation that President Carter might announce that he no longer intends to seek re-election . Others outside the Administration have found United Press international President Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his difficulties and low popularity ratings , but optimistic about his ability to turn his fortunes around . Nor was there an indication that as of today , Mr. Carter had decided to announce the replacement of Mr. Schlesinger , who has become a highly controversial figure as Energy Secretary . Some of his friend have said that Mr. Schlesinger has told the President that he wants to depart the Administration this fall , or certainly by the end of the year , to avoid being a political liability for Mr. Carter 's re-election campaign in 1980 . But yesterday , the Energy Secretary told a news conference : " I plan to be around as long as it is useful . The Presi. dent has in the past indicated his support . " Adminstration Changes Planned All indications from President Carter and his close associates have been that while a number of changes and restructuring of the Carter Administration are planned , it may be a few weeks before they are all fully unveiled . Yesterday morning , officials said , a similar message was conveyed to the senior White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political lieutenant and his de facto White House chief of staff . Even on the energy issue , high Administration officials said today that it would probably be weeks before all the key elements of the new Carter program would fall into place . Much Is n't ' Crystal Clear ' " We 're all working today to get the darn thing straightened out , " the official said . " There 's a lot that has n't been made crystal clear . I worry . " Although there has been widespread speculation that the President may call for Congress to suspend its normal August recess to deal with the energy program on an emergency basis , Mr. Powell said today that he knew nothing of such plans . Nor did the office of Robert C. Byrd , the Senate Majority Leader . Publicly , Republican leaders have refrained from criticizing the President while he has formulated his program , except to chide him for not including more Republicans in his meetings . Today , Bill Brock , the chairman of the Republican National Committee , criticized the " President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on energy . It called for decontrol and deregulation of oil , gasoline and natural gas ; scrapping the current gasoline allocation system ; fixed limits on oil imported from nations represented by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ; tax reductions ; revival of the nuclear industry with new safeguards ; easing of environmental controls of fuel consumption and greater environmental research to reduce pollution .                     