@@730427

txt Are medals and commercial i.vntracts more important than human lives ? That question rises inevitably in the wake of the incomprehensible decision to continue the 1972 Olympic Games . The bodies of the eleven Israeli athletes and coaches killed by Arab terrorists were still unburied when the games resumed yesterday . In the late nineteen-thirties Munich became the world symbol of appeasement , the city where Czechoslovakia was sacrificed to Hitler 's greed . Now Munich threatens to become a symbol of callousness that is utterly repugnant to the Olympic ideal . For millions all over the world , this indecent haste on the part of the International Olympic Committee to go back to fun and games is unacceptable . The United States could demonstrate its own Sense of values by unilaterally withdrawing its team from further competition at Munich . Perhaps the whole concept of the Olympics needs re-examination . No one can doubt now that the idea of an " Olympic peace " , is a mockery . Far from increasing friendship , among nations , the games all too often reflect and , deepen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounds the games is but thinly veiled . The sympathy of the civilized world goes out to Israel , and to the families and friends ' of the murdered Israelis . Sympathy and respect , too , must be , extended to the West German Government whose good will and Sincerity of purpose shone forth so clearly during Tuesday 's tragic ordeal . The unprecedented offer of leading West German political figures to substitute themselves ' for the Israeli hostages was an act of gallantry . Even . in the face of the terrible end result , the West German Government 's decision not to permit the Arab terrorists to escape with their hostages was justified by the probability that the latter would have been murdered en route had the criminals and their victims been allowed to leave the airport . The basic guilt is that of the Arab nations , whichwith'the honorable exception of Jordan and its King Hussein  --  have repeatedly given their approval either implicitly by silence or explicitly by word and action , to the deeds of the " Black September " criminals . It was Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal that Cairo permit a West German plane carrying the terrorists and their captives to land there , with an Egyptian guarantee that the plane and the Israelis would then be returned to Germany . It was this same Premier who last June hailed the massacre at Lod Airport as ' proof " that we are able to achieve victory over Israel . " And elsewhere in the Arab world yesterday , the Damascus and Baghdad radios denounced West Germany for " betrayal " and " treachery " as though civilized nations owed any debt of honor to murderous thugs . ? The basic question highlighted by Munich is how to guard the international community against the depredations of such fanatical madmen . The fact that most of the Arab murderers were killed in Munich can hardly be relied on to deter adequately others tempted , to emulate their crimes . As the decision blithely to continue the Olympic Games demonstrates , world priorities are still askew . There evidently is not yet the will needed to unite single-mindedly to eliminate the terrorist scourge .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     