@@734039

txt The Soviet Union . apparently wary of - appearing to compete with China for popularity in the United States , has begun to suggest privately that a meeting between President Carter and Leonid I. Brezhnev be held in Moscow rather than Washington . As recently as a month ago Mr. Brezhnev , the Soviet leader , told a group of Republican senators that he expected to visit Washington this year to sign the projected new arms-limitation treaty . But since then , Soviet diplomats have told American journalists that Mr. Brezhnev would prefer to meet in Moscow . U.S. Says It 's Brezhnev 's Turn White House and State Department aides have said that it is Mr. Brezhnev 's turn to come to the United States and that , for a variety of reasons , Mr. Carter does not want to go to the Soviet Union . American officials said today that the Soviet Union had been careful not to make any official proposal . They said , however , that the Soviet suggestions had been orchestrated so that they seemed to have official sanction . One official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officials , the Russians want to avoid comparisons being made between Mr. Brezhnev 's trip and the reReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . cent visit by the senior Chinese Deputy Prime Minister . Teng Hsiao-ping . In the exchange of visits between Soviet and American leaders since detente began , President Nixon first went to Moscow in May 1972 , and Mr. Brezhnev returned the visit in June 1973 . Mr. Nixon went to the Soviet Union again in 1974 . No Meeting in U.S. Since 1973 Theoretically , the next meeting should have been in the United States , but President Ford met with Mr. Brezhnev in November 1974 in the Soviet Pacific port of Vladivostok to discuss the a rms-lim ita - tion treaty , and again in the summer of 1975 in Helsinki , Finland , at the signing of the agreement on East-West cooperation . Mr. Ca rter has been seeking a meeting wit h Mr. Breztinev , but has stressed that it was the Russian 's turn to come to the United States . Moreover , Mr. Carter does not want to seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign the treaty , which officials said today was close to agreement . The signing could take place as early as April , they said . Mr. Brezhnev has been in relatively poor health and probably could not undertake the same kind of exhausting journey that Mr. Teng made . Thus any corn // parison would be likely to show Mr. Teng as more vigorous than Mr. Brezhnev . American aides said they expected Mr. Brezhnev 's visit to be described as a serious business meeting between the leaders of the two leading powers , with most activity in Washington and Camp David . The Soviet authorities were annoyed at President Carter 's announcement in midDecember that he hoped Mr. Brezhnev would come to Washington in mid-January , even before Mr. Teng . Earlier , White House officials had been hoping for three foreign policy achievements ? completion of the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty , the conclusion of the arms accord , and the announcement of normalization with China . Only the last occurred . On Dec. 19 , a few days after the China announcement , and two days before Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet with Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko on remaining arms issues , Mr. Carter said on television that Mr. Brezhnev had endorsed the new American policy toward China and that " my hope is that President Brezhnev would come before Mr. Teng comes to Washington . " Mr. Brezhnev , in fact , had not approved the Chinese-United States rapprochement , and merely was less hostile than officials here had expected . Soviet officials said later , and this was confirmed by the Americans , that no planning had begun for Mr. Brezhnev 's visit and that Mr. Carter 's statement was resented as an effort to pressure Moscow into making concessions on arms . At Geneva , Mr. Vance and Mr. Gromyko made progress in resolving remaining issues , but failed to conclude the negotiations . They did agree that a Carter-Brezhnev meeting should be held , without determining details . Speculation After Geneva Talks The failure to conclude the accord led to speculation that the Soviet Union did not want to complete the treaty before Mr. Teng 's visit to Washington because it ? did not want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese . Prime Minister Aleksei N. Kosygin has expressed unhappiness to American officials over the reluctance of the United States to rebut the anti-Soviet comments made by Mr. Teng during his visit . President Carter told a group of visiting editors and broadcasters at the White House yesterday that the United States still had " complete flexibility " to move to defend Taiwan if the need arose . In an answer to critics who say Taiwan has been virtually abandoned , he said there was " nothing to prohibit a future President or a future Congress , if we feel that Taiwan is unnecessarily endangered , - from interposing the American Pacific fleet between the island and the mainland and there is certainly nothing to prevent a future President or Congress from even going to war , if they choose , to protect the people of Taiwan . " His remarks were made in the course of answering a question as to whether the United States was putting too much faith in Mr. Teng , " an elderly , twice-purged Vice Premier from China . " The President responded that the decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a unanimous decision among the leadership within China . " And he added , " I think it is accurate to say that the young leadership and the more elderly leadership are all unanimous in thinking this is a good idea . " It was in reference to the occurrence of a major overturn in Peking that the President went on to say that " we have protected our ability to deal with the people of Taiwan on a continuing , constructive , supportive basis . "                     