@@731957

txt The White House said tonight that President Ford had consulted with Congressional leaders both before ordering the recapture of the merchant vessel Mayaguez and before ordering the sinking earlier today of Cambodian patrol boats . At least some of the leaders later insisted , however , that they had not been consulted but merely informed of Presidential decisions already taken . However , members of Congress generally expressed approval of the President 's action and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee adopted a strong resolution of support this evening acknowledging the President 's constitutional right to order military operations . After a meeting at the White House tonight between the President and a bipartisan delegation of Congressional leaders , Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia , the Senate Democratic whip , reported that the President had been criticized by some of the leaders for his handling of the consultation process . Senator Byrd said : " I certainly approve of the effort to take the ship and to land marines on the island . " Some Concern Voiced There were " some expressions of concern " voiced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decision-making process , including the fact that the leadership of Congress had not been brought in on the process , Mr. Byrd told reporters . He said he shared in that concern . Senator Byrd said that the concern was over what he characterized as " the failure to ask at least some of the leaders to participate in the decisionmaking process , " even though the President was not required to take such action . Late tonight , the White House reported that immediate public response to today 's military action , including the marine assault , was overwhelmingly in support of the President . The White House said that by 10:30 P.M. 778 telephone calls approved the President 's actions and 98 had disapproved . President Ford will report in writing to Congress tomorrow at 6:15 A.M. on the military operation , under the War Pow'ers Resolution of 1973 , which requires such a report in 48 hours , Senator Byrd said . Yesterday the White House press secretary , Ron Nessen , told reporters that President Ford would " consult " with Congress before ordering any military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its crew . He quoted the Congressional War Powers Resolution of 1973 , which states , in part , that " the President in every possible instance shall consult with Congress before introducing United States armed forces into hostilities or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated . " Roderick Hills , a counsel to the President , told a questioner that Mr. Ford had acted under his Constitutional war powers to protect the lives and property of Americans . When asked to cite the specific authority in the Constitution , Mr. Hills said that he did not have the exact artcle in front of him . But he insisted that the inherent right of the President to use war powers to protect lives and property had not been challenged . The only open question , he said , was the appropriate level of military response . Mr. Hills , an assistant to Philip Buchen , the head of the White House legal department , indicated that the President believed that informing Congress of his actions satisfied the requirement of the War Powers Resolution that he consult with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require prior approval of military action by Congress , he asserted . At today 's news briefing , Mr. Nessen said that the President , through his Congressional relations staff , ' ' did consult " with Democratic and Republican leaders of the House of Representatives and Senate between 5:30 and 6 P.M. yesterday , " three hours before the fact . " A statement issued by the Defense Department today indicated that the attack began shortly after 8:30 P.M. , Eastern Daylight Time . However , Senator Mike Mansfield , Democratic leader of the Senate and one of those listed by Mr. Nessen as having been consulted , said in a telephone interview today : " I was not consulted . I was notified after the fact about what the Administration had already decided to do . " In a statement released later , deleted 20 lines Both , however , indicated that of the Senate , when asked if they strongly supported Presi- he felt he had been consulted by the White House replied : " I am not going to play games with words . That is Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word . It 's not mine . We were informed . We were altered . We were advised . We were notified . We were telephoned . It was discussed with us . I do n't know whether that 's consultation or not . We were advised that certain actions would be taken using the minimal force necessary . " A member of the White House Congressional liaison staff told a questioner that leaders of the Senate had been called about the President 's planned action , starting with Senator Mansfield at 5:55 P.M. , yesterday and concluding with Senator Eastland at 8:20 P.M. , or shortly before the attack on the Cambodian vessels began . Memorandums of each call were sent to Max Friedersdorf , head of the Congressional relations staff , who had presumably passed the response along to the President , the staff member added . This staff member said that about half the Senators had voiced approval of the Presi ? dent 's action while the others simply ' ' acknowledged " the information . Earlier today , Mr. Nessen said that the response of the Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consensus of support and no objections . " The members of Congress were not given any legal basis for the President 's order for military intervention when they were contacted by the White House staff . At today 's briefings at the White House . Mr. Nessen said that " the President has authority to protect the lives of Americans and the property of Americans under the Constitution . " Although several members of Congress charged that the President had violated the War Powers Resolution by failure to consult Congress , there was little criticism of the military action itself . The resolution adopted by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , while it will not he voted on by the full Senate , was intended as a vote of Senatorial confidence . It was approved unanimously and said : " Committee condemns an act of armed aggression on an unarmed U.S. merchant vessel in the course of innocent passage on an established trade route . " The President has engaged in diplomatic means to secure its release and we support that . " Third , we support the President in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War Powers Resolution to secure the release of the ship and its men . " We urge the Cambodian Government to release the ship and the men forthwith . " Even some of the most critical Congressional opponents of American involvement in Vietnam voiced support of the President 's action . One was Representative Morris K. Udall , Democrat of Arizona , who said he had long opposed the Vietnam war and the conflicts in Cambodia and Laos , but added : " I feel compelled to state my support for the limited military action taken by President Ford after diplomacy failed to free the American crew and the ship illegally taken by the Cambodian Navy . " But Senator Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington , who is regarded as one of the more hawkish members of Congress , said : " This is the time for cool heads . Because we are a strong and powerful nation we must exercise restraint in the use of force . A failure to show restraint could lead to a Tonkin Gulf situation . " This was a reference to the 1964 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces in Vietnam . Some members of Congress were totally opposed to the attack . Representative Bella Abzug , Democrat of Manhattan , said that American crewmen from the Mayagiiez might have been on the Cambodian boats that were sunk and termed the military operation " sneer insanity . "                     