@@734273

txt Behind Saudi Arabia 's decision to raise oil production lies a sharp debate within the Saudi royal family over how much to trust  --  and to help ? the United States . " Three shocks " from the US , as one source put it , shook Saudi confidence in the ability ? and willingness ? of Washington to protect the ruling class of the oil-rich kingdom from potential external threats : ? Least familiar to Americans is deep Saudi concern over Washington 's unilateral abrogation of its mutual defense treaty with Taiwan , when the US exchanged diplomatic recognition with mainland China . Saudi Arabia , one of the few important nations maintaining diplomatic ties with Taiwan , pressed officials there to learn whether the US had consulted with the Taiwan Government before ending the treaty . This was told to this reporter recently in Taipei , the Taiwanese capital , by Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs Chien Fu , who said the Saudis had expressed strong disapproval of the American treatment of his country . A senior American expert with close ties to the Saudis also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Saudi capital , " 7 out of 10 " officials there had criticized US treatment of Taiwan . ? Linked to the Taiwanese question , in the Saudi view , was the inability of the US Government to shore up the beleaguered Shah of Iran before his downfall at the hands of revolutionaries . Saudi leaders , in the wake of what happened in Taiwan and Iran , tell visitors they consider American pledges of support less reliable than before . ? Deeply troubling to the Saudis was an effort by the Carter administration ? which many US officials now admit was clumsy ? to enlist Saudi backing for the separate Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty . With a large resident population of Palestinians , and with oil fields vulnerable to sabotage , the Saudis instantly distanced themselves from a pact that had angered radical elements in the Arab world . All this , says Joseph J. Malone , head of Middle East Research Associates , Inc. , " gave rise to Saudi internal contradictions where the US is concerned . Some princes say that ultimately the Saudis must depend on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show the riskiness of such dependence . // King Khalid of Saudi Arabia How firm is his US support ? From page 1 Saudis trust in US shaken Enmeshed in this situation was another internal Saudi debate ? whether or not to boost oil production beyond 8.5 million barrels a day , a debate now resolved in favor of an at least temporary increase . This argument , according to responsible sources , was as much economic as political : The Saudis , with enormous holdings of US dollars , want to avoid undue weakening of the dollar through world recession . One way to keep recession within limits , some Saudi officials argue , is to pump enough extra oil to take the edge off the spot market and to alleviate a world shortage of crude . This also should temper at least slightly US and world inflation , which adds to the price tags of military hardware , machinery , and food imported by the Saudis from industrial lands . This line of reasoning appears to have triumphed over Saudi opponents of increased production , whose arguments are said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eye on the turbulence that rapid development brought to Iran , want to slacken the pace of their own country 's industrialization . ? Others favor low oil production , until a Saudi petrochemical industry can utilize the natural gas released involuntarily along with oil . It now is flared and wasted : ? On the political side , some Saudis urged a link between higher oil production , badly needed by the United States , to efforts by the Carter administration to enhance Palestinian rights on the West Bank and Gaza .                     