@@730865

txt Former Atty . Gen. John N. Mitchell will testify before the Senate Watergate committee tomorrow that he never discussed the Watergate bugging or the coverup with President Nixon , sources close to Mitchell said today . The sources said Mitchell told committee investigators in a closed-door interview earlier today that he knew nothing of the bugging or coverup plans and does not believe that Nixon knew of them . Described as " confident " and " relaxed " during the interview , the former top Nixon adviser was reported to have repeated his earlier contention that he did not learn of the connection between the Nixon reelection campaign committee and the Watergate burglary until June 21 , 1972 ? four days after the break-in at Democratic Party headquarters . ONE SOURCE quoted Mitchell as saying he was aware payments were being made to the seven Watergate trial defendants in exchange for their silence and that he went along with it because further disclosures would damage Nixon 's reelection prospects . However , the sources said Mitchell denied the major role in raising and the dispensing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House counsel John Wesley Dean in his testimony before the Senate Watergate committee last month . Dean testified that he first heard the planning of the Watergate coverup discussed at a meeting in Mitchell 's Washington apartment and that the former attorney general and former head of the Nixon campaign organization was charged with the responsibility of providing hush money . TI1E SOURCES said Mitchell repeatedly disavowed any knowledge of who was responsible for the bugging or the coverup efforts , ending speculation that he would point an accusing finger at top-level White Ilouse officials . In a statement to the committee last month , the White House suggested that Dean and Mitchell were the prime movers in both the break-in and the coverup . Mitchell was said to have repeated today his grand jury testimony that it was his deputy at the Nixon reelection committee , Jeb Stuart Magruder , who kept pushing the bugging plans and bringing them back for his approval . BUT MITCHELL again denied Magruder 's allegation that Mitchell " reluctantly " approved the budget for the Watergate project at a meeting in Key Biscayne , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's account , another Mitchell deputy , Frederick LaRue , also was present at the meeting but was " In and out " of the room . Concerning the coverup plans , Mitchell reportedly told the investigators he frequently talked with President Nixon in the fall of 1972 . But the sources quoted him as telling investigators that Watergate was discussed only once , and then only in the context of being a campaign issue . MITCHELL , the sources said , claimed he spent most of his time working for his New York City law firm and never knew details of what was going , on inside the President 's reelection campaign organization after he resigned as campaign director a month after the Watergate burglary . ? Dean testified that Richard Moore , a White House aide , went to New York last February to discuss the hush money payments with Mitchell . How , ever , Senate committee sources said Mitchell disputed Dean during his four-hour session with committee . staff members today , claiming Moore vas only seeking suggestions . as fo how ' to establish contact . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mitchell 's ? testimony ; , ? which sources said conflids with that of Magruder and Dean hi " areas of , iiiterPretatioilA will ' mark ? th beginning:ont , 1 new phase of la SenatelP.atfirl : gate investiMiti . .. ? . MITCIIELLtS . apPearanee to : morrow will ' begin : stritt of . Senate ' committee . ? witnbsses. who are expected either .. to deny Dean 's allegations that President Nixon participlited in the Watergate scandal or say they do not know .                     