@@732635

txt Former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka was arrested this morning for alleged involvement in the multi-million-dollar Lockheed Aircraft bribery scandal . The former Prime Minister , 58 years old , was taken to the ( Tokyo District Prosecutor 's Office shortly after dawn for questioning . Ninety minutes later the formal arrest papers were served and Mr. Tanaka was taken to the Tokyo House of Detention for further questioning . For now , he is accused of having violated Japan 's foreign exchange and currency regulations by accepting money that was illegally brought into Japan . Other charges could come , later . An Ex-Premier Arrested in ' 48 Mr. Tanaka is the highestranking Japanese politician to be arrested since 1948 , when Hitoshi Ashida , a former Primn Minister , was arrested for brib ? cry . Today 's arrest , ? as well as the concurrent raiding of Mr. Tanaka 's plush housing compound in the Mejirodai district of southwest Tokyo , came with dramatic suddenness . An emergency meeting of the Government was called , along with a meeting of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have profound political implications in the domestic politics of Japan , the United States ' chief Asian ally and the non-Communist world 's second . argest economic power . The powerful Mr. Tanaka controls the largest combined factions of the governing Liberal-Democratic Party in the Parliament , and his long experience in government has earned him legions of influential supporters in the powerful government bureaucracy and the industrial establishment . Opponent of Miki In recent months Mr. Tanaka has been a major behind-thescenes mover in struggles within the Liberal-Democratic Party to oust , its present leader , Prime Minister Takeo Miki , who is 69 . With Mr. Tanaka 's reputation once again sullied ' by involvement with scandal , the conservative party 's internal factional balance-of-power is sure to be affected , not to mention the voters ' attitude toward the political organization that has ruled Japan for 21 years . Mr. Miki , who has staked his political life on a thorough investigation of the Lockheed affair here , could be beneficiary . By law , the next general elections must be held by December .. ' ' The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Miki said this morning , adding that the arrest brought a great " ordeal " for the party . Prime Minister Mild , who heads a minor faction in the party , came to power as a compromise candidate in December 1974 after Mr. Tanaka was forced to resign following revelations of allegedly shady real estate and financial dealings while a Government official . No charges were filed then . Mr. Tanaka had been indicted in 1948 for bribery in a coal mine scandal . He was convicted by a district court , but a higher court later overturned the conviction . The son of a poor farm family , who never attended college , Mr. Tanaka rose to hold many major governmental and political posts , including heading the Ministries of Finance , United Press Internetlone ! Kakuei Tanaka International Trade and Industry , and Posts and Communications . He was also secretary general of the Liberal-Democratic Party before he was elected to its presidency , thus becoming Prime Minister , in July 1972 . At the same time he accumulated a substantial personal fortune through a variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his connections and personal relationships throughout the industrial establishment here , enabled him to build the largest personal factional following in Parliament . Although his reputation was damaged and he was forced to resign in December 1974 , Mr. Tanaka remained a member of the lower house and was , in the opinion of political observers , makirrg a cautious comeback before the Lockheed revelations in Washington in February . In Senate testimony there , officials of the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation said they had spent $12.6 million in fees , Commissions and bribes to promote the sale of their aircraft in Japan . Since many of those intense Secret sales efforts went on during Mr. Tanaka 's tenure As Prime Minister , there was immediate suspicion that lie would be implicated . But few people here believed it would come so soon , and most observers thought the prosecutors would pick up some lower-ranking politicians , possibly as scapegoats . . Mr. Tanaka 's arrest was the 16th in the case . The other 14 persons were all businessmen . Secretary Also Arrested Later this morning authorities also arrested Toshio Enolimo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplice in the alleged foreign exchange violations . In Japan , conviction of such violations can carry a maximum three-year jail term and a fine up to three times the amount Of money illegally handled . There is no minimum jail term . . Prosecutors did not release details of Mr. Tanaka 's alleged crimes . But it is believed they have evidence that he accepted almost $2 million from Hiro Hiyama , former president of the Marubeni Trading Corporation , Lockheed 's official sales agent here . This is believed to be part of the money covered by the coded receipts for " peanuts " 4nd " units " that have now become famous in Japan . In 1972 Mr. Tanaka met with President Richard M. Nixon , Who was urging the Japanese to buy more American goods to help correct a large trade imbalance between the two allies . Shortly afterward , All Nippon Airways , Japan 's second largest airline , dropped its option to buy DC-10 aircraft and decided to buy instead Lockheed L-1011 Tristar jets . A major stockholder in All Nippon is Kenji Osano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Tanaka was presiding chairman of Japan 's National Defense Council , which in a meeting on Oct. 9 , 1972 decided not to produce domestically a large order of antisubmarine patrol aircraft . The council decided instead to puntase Lockheed P3C aircraft . That order has since been Stalled because of the scandal .                     