@@729222

txt The United States , Britain and France have proposed to the Soviet Union that West Berlin forgo its claim to be an integral part of the West German Republic , Western allied sources said here today . For this , the Russians would have to accept that West Berlin would retain special ties to West Germany  --  not only cultural and economic , but also political . The Russians would also be required to guarantee fairly free access to West Berlin , with controls no more onerous than perhaps a show of an identification card or passport , customs inspection and an understanding that travelers not stray without permission from one of the accepted routes to the city , which is more than 100 miles inside East Germany . Article 23 of the West German Constitution states that Berlin is a land of the Federal Republic  --  in other words , that it is one of 11 states in // the federation . The provision ; however , was not accepted by the Western allies when the West German Constitution was promulgated . It is known that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access and for recognition of its " accumulated ties " to West Berlin , to drop the claim to Berlin . One of Several Proposals The proposal is one of several that have been presented in the Big Four talks on Berlin since they were started there last March 26 , after a lapse of 11 years , in an effort to settle some of the problems and stresses that nag the divided and isolated city . The four powers , the conquerers of Germany in World War II , are represented in the talks by their Ambassadors : Kenneth Rush of the United States , Sir Roger William Jackling of Britain and Jean Sanvagnargues of France , all accredited to West Germany ; and Pyotr A. Abrasimov , the Soviet Ambasador to East Germany . From the Western point of view , the treatment their proposal is given by Mr. Abrasimov when the Ambassadors meet again on Thursday depends mainly on how far he is willing or able to go along with the guarantee of access . The Western allies hold the Soviet Union , not East Germany , responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed a blockade of Berlin in an attempt to drive the three Western allies out , but this was successfully overcome by an airlift . The blockade was ended by agreements in May and June , 1949 , and the Russians formally accepted the Western allies ' right of access . Mr. Abrasimov had made it clear in the meetings that the Soviet Union is unwilling to extend these agreements to permit free access to West Berliners and West Germans , too . The Western allies accept that a new agreement on access is needed . They also accept that the Russians may have a problem in devising a formula for access that does not stamp too hard on East Germany 's claims to sovereignty over its own soil , Access Guarantee Essential But without a Russian guarantee of access , there can be agreement on nothing else , the Western sources say . Berlin is the key to many other things the Russians are believed to want : ratification of the nonaggression pacts Bonn signed with Moscow and Warsaw , progress toward a European security conference and toward a mutual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In strategic arms that are being discussed are dependent on a show of Russian goodwill in Berlin . Even the positions taken by the Americans and Russians in the Middle East are related to the Berlin talks . On the Western side there has been close consultation with Bonn , and no serious problem is expected in tearing loose the constitutional connection between West Germany and West Berlin . The 22 Berlin members at Bonn 's parliament are delegated , not elected , and have no vote . The Western allies feel the meetings have reached a stage where the talks can be substantial , that Mr. Abrasimov has ' tired of trying to drive wedges between the Americans , Britist , . and French where there are differences among them .                     