@@733896

txt The twoweek-old oil strike collapsed today in the refineries and offshore installations under pressure from Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi 's military Government , but resistance continued among some oilfield workers . The Government 's partial victory was marred , moreover , when demonstrators here clashed with troops in the city 's bazaar for the first time since military rule was imposed on Nov. 6 . No deaths or injuries could be confirmed in the bazaar , which has been a center for opposition to the Shah , and the authorities said there had been none . But the Government announced that 6 persons were killed and 41 wounded in two separate confrontations yesterday as opponents of the Shah continued to defy security forces in the provinces . Output Is on the Rise Reports from the main oil centers in the south said that almost all workers returned to their jobs in the Abadan refinery and the four offshore installations . But in the Ahwaz oilfields , some workers continued to resist the call to return to work while others appeared to be engaged in a slowdown . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2.7 million yesterday and a low point of 1.1 million barrels on Nov. 7 , according to official tallies , which did not appear to be exaggerated . As the crisis in Iran developed , high Administration aides weighed various steps the United States might take , but concluded that there was no real alternative to unconditional support for the Shah . The episode reflects the frustration felt by many American officials involved with the Iranian crisis . Page A3 . Oil workers began to return to their jobs on a large scale yesterday . The military Government began arresting strike organizers and dismissing some workers . Discontent Appears Widespread Discontent among the workers is said to be widespread and many are reported to be going to their jobs but doing a minimum of work . " So many workers have been radicalized by the strike it wo n't take much for them to do it again soon , " said an engineer who arrived here today from the oilfields . The break in the strike apparently came when representatives of the workers met with the local Military Governor , Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salaries and allowances . The political demands of the strikers were rejected , according to Pars , the national news agency . These included an end to martial law , the release of political // prisoners and expulsion of all foreign workers . Some workers in the area , however , said that they had been assured that the Shah would consider their political demands as well . Martial law has less than four months to go under the statute that established it and the Shah has promised to release all political prisoners by Dec. 10 . But expulsion of foreign workers would cripple production in the oilfields and installations , industry sources believe . " There 's a shortage of people for the highly skilled jobs , " said an executive for the Oil Services Company , the consortium that operates most of the fields . " They can find jobs in Alaska , the North Sea , anywhere there 's oil . If they leave , Iran will be the loser . " A number are leaving anyway in response to growing hostility from Iranian workers . Several hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took 24 more from Ahwaz to Bahrain across.the Persian Gulf today . George Link , the American general manager of Oil Services , barely escaped a bomb attack outside his home in Ahwaz yesterday . As he was approaching his car , the bomb was tossed at it and immediately exploded . Mr. Link was far enough away to escape injuries but his driver was lacerated by scattered glass from the windshield . The strikes and the demonstrations have been the main weapons of the opposition , which is trying to force the Shah out of power . But the success the military Government has had now puts the pressure on the opposition to either endure military rule or accept the Shah 's offer to join a coalition government . The continued violent clashes in the countryside and now in the capital demonstrate that the opposition has not been cowed . The incident in the bazaar began at 10 A.M. when a group of youths threw some firecrackers under an army truck , according to several people who were in the area . They said that crowds then gathered in violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air to disperse them . The crowd scattered , regrouped and reappeared several times . The firing continued for more than two hours . Some people who were in the area said the troops fired only into the air , but others said they saw several people fall to the ground during the confrontation . While the Government said no deaths resulted from the clash in the capital , 3 people died and 19 were wounded during a demonstration in Sunqur in the western part of the country near the Iraqi border . Three more people died and 22 were wounded in another demonstration in the northern town of Lahijan . " The military has put the lid on this country and is holding it down tight , " said an Iranian engineer here . " But all the problems are still boiling inside . Nothing has changed . "                     