@@732587

txt President Ford , declaring that " our domestic tranquility and the future of American education " are at stake , proposed legislation Thursday to restrict , the power of the courts to order busing as a remedy for segregated schools . " The purpose of submitting this legislation now is to place the debate on this controversial issue in tile halls of Congress and in the democratic process  --  not in the streets of our cities , " the President said in a message to Congress . Ally . Gen. Edward II . Levi said Thursday that the guidelines limiting court-ordered busing in the legislation followed patterns established by Supreme Court rulings on busing cases . BUT IT WAS believed by observers that Thursday 's proposals by the President marked the most any President has done in recent years to limit the government 's role in ending racial segregation and discrimination . Ford said that the intention of his proposal was to make busing " a last resort " and that it should be " a tool to be used with the highest selectivity and the . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " or other remedies in school desegregation cases , " be limited to areas of racial concentration that were created by " proven unlawful acts of discrimination , ' The draft legislation defines such an unlawful act as one taken by a governmental education agency or other gove r n m e n t a/ body that discriminates against students on the basis of race , color , or national origin in the operation of schools . IN OTHER , WORDS , only official goy . Ford 's proposal on busing is constitutional , Atty . Gen. Edward Levi says . Page 5 eminent acts affecting specific schools or school areas could be remedied by busing . The courts could not order busing when segregation existed because of other reasons , such as social or economic patterns . Nor could the courts order busing if segregation arose from unlawful official acts that did not directly affect schools , such as discriminatory public-housing operations . Moreover , even if an unlawful act of discrimination in operating schools were found , the courts could not order busing as a remedy unless they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than would have been the case without the act . COURT-ORDERED busing would be limited to a specific period under the draft legislation . Busing orders would terminate in three years if there had been " good-faith compliance " and would not last longer than five years , except in extraordinary circumstances . Levi said Thursday that the proposed legislation would not immediately affect communities now operating under court orders to bus children . However , an 50011 as the legislation was signed , " the clock would start running " on the five-year limitation on a busing order , Levi said . Ford 's legislation , which he titled the " School Desegregation Standards and Assistance Act of 1976 , " would also create an Independent " National Community and Education Committee " to aid any community that asked for advice and help in voluntarily desegregating its schools .                     