@@732929

txt Asserting that the natural gas shortage and cold weather had caused unemployment for 400,000 persons , President Carter submitted emergency legislation to Congress today and again called on the public to help ease the crisis by turning down thermostats Ur 65 degrees . =The Federal Power Commission said tliat , as a result of Mr. Carter 's initial appeal last Friday , several pipelines had reported diminished gas consumption . In New York , however , a Consolidated Edison spokesman said there has been no noticeable effect on consumption . To conserve gas In Pennsylvania , Gov . : Milton Shapp today . ordered all public and Private schools closed at least until next Monday . Indications are growing that Ohio might soon be forced to follow . Utilities in several states have cut off gas services to factories . Page 52 . The bill Mr. Carter sent to Congress provided for temporary Federal authority to shift gas from one interstate pipeline to another so that shortages  --  largely in the eastern half of the United States ? can be relieved by gas from sections with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gas to be taken from intrastate sellers . Exemption Liberalized ? In addition , the bill would liberalize the present authority that lets interstate pipelines pay prices above Federal ceilings for extra amounts of intrastate gas . Gas experts believe these supplies are essential to moderating the shortage . They say that , without expanding the higher price allowance , owners of this intrastge gas would not sell to the interstate pipelines . In the Senate , floor action by Friday looked like a good possibility . In the House , Representative John D. Dingell , Democrat of Michigan and chairman of tlte Commerce Subcommittee on energy and power , said he would hold hearings Friday morning . House action could come next week , but that is uncertain . : Without being specific , Mr. Carter indicated to reporters in the White House briefing room that there would be other Administration efforts to promote energy , conservation . ; The possibility of compulsory winterization of old houses ( essentially installing storm windows ? or insulation to redime heat leakage ) ' was raised before the Senate Interior Committee by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John F. O'Leary . He said that waiting for people to winterize old houses voluntarily might take too long . In general , he told the committee , the Government must promote energy conservtion actions that " cut against the grain of the way we do business in this country . " Without curtailing freedom of action and choice , he said , the Government had to deter wasteful energy consumption . James R. Schlesinger , ? Mr. Carter 's energy co-ordinator , said in response to a reporter 's question that he would approach " mandatory conservation " warily . " I do n't think we want the Government to dictate what happens in individual American homes , " he said . The confirmation hearing for Mr. O'Leary , a 50-year-old economist with energy experience in three Federal agencies , turned up what the committee chairman , Senator Henry S. Jackson , regarded as a potential conflict-of-interest problem . Mr. Jackson , Democrat from Washington , and Mr. O'Leary disclosed that Mr. O'Leary was owed annual payments totaling $11,000 for his services as a consultant some years ago . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $2,400 a year for six more years ; Union Pacific Railroad , which has coal interests , $6,300 a year for 16 more years , and the Resource Sciences Corporation , $2,400 a year for 16 more years . Mr. O'Leary told Senator J. Bennett Johnston , Democrat of Louisiana , that his legal claim to this deferred compensation was absolute , irrevocable and in no way contingent on anything he might do as Federal Energy Administrator . " I have no debt to these companies , " Mr. O'Leary said . " I do n't see any conflict , " Senator Johnston said . Without disagreeing in so many words , Senator Jackson made plain his view that Mr. O'Leary , to win committee approval , would have to make a clear break with the companies . Later Mr. O'Leary told a reporter that he was looking into the possibility of the three companies ' purchasing an annuity for him from insurance companies . Whether such purchases would cause him to incur a heavy income tax liability this year is a question under study , Mr. O'Leary said . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voiced in the committee room  --  that as administrator Mr. O'Leary might have to make a decision that could spell bankruptcy for one of the three companies . In a statement made before television cameras and in a message sent to Congress , President Carter explained that his legislation was meant to assure gas flows to houses and public health and safety institutions  --  such as hospitals , fire departments , water pumping stations and nursing homes  --  but not to factories . Mr. Schlesinger called on natural gas producers to move as much gas as possible and to exercise restraint in pricing . He indicated that he regarded prices of up to $2.25 a thousand cubic feet as reasonable for emergency purchases . The present Federally approved ceiling for new interstate gas is $1.42 at the wellhead . Mr. Schlesinger refused to be pinned down to a reiteration of Mr. Carter 's unequivocal autumn statements in support of deregulation of new natural gas . He said that " we 're reviewing it " as part of the shaping of a comprehensive energy policy . Mr. Schlesinger 's reticence appeared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' might slow down passage of the emergency legIslation . Mr. Schlesinger said two interstate pipelines , Trunkline and Southern Natu. ; ral Gas , had reduced gas deliveries below the volumes needed for house heating and essential services , so-called Priority 1 consumption . However , Joseph J. Solters , a Federal Power Commission official , said that only one , Southern , had failed to deliver Priority I volumes and that only for some days last week . He said his agency had mistakenly listed Trunkline. as curtailing Priority 1 . Mr. Solters said a telephone survey of eight of 10 pipelines today elicited positive reports on conservation . They indicated distributors were telling them they could feel this conservation , Mr. Solters said . He added that no figures were available .                     