@@728925

txt Look for Fidel Castro to visit the United States next month . According to Havana reports , the Cuban Premier will be in New York to take part in the United Nations General Assembly . He is expected to deliver at least one major speech and to confer with various UN delegations . It will mark the first time that a major Cuban official , other than Foreign Minister Raul Roa , has attended a UN session since Dr. Castro 's late friend and former industry minister , Ernesto ( Che ) Guevara , spoke to the UN in December , 1964 . Extra security precautions will be in force during his two- or three-day visit . U.S. officials now are discussing how to handle possible demonstrations by anti-Castro Cubans in the New York area . Threat to a. free press El Mercurio , Chile 's oldest daily , faces a very uncertain future if , as expected , Dr. Salvador Allende Gossens takes office as Chile 's president Nov. 4 . The newspaper and Dr. Allende are sworn enemies . Prior to the election , Sept. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the paper 's present owners . the Agustin Edwards family . During his campaign which resulted in Dr. Allende winning 36 percent of the vote-1 percentage point above his nearest rival  --  El Mercurio supported that rival , former President Jorge Alessandri Rodriguez . The Allende-El Mercurio feud goes back many years . Dr. Allende charges that advertising-heavy El Mercurio represents the monied classes of Chile , the so-called " momios " ( mummies ) who supported Mr. Alessandri . " I will make sure the paper represents the opinion of Chileans and not just the ' momios , ' " threatens Dr. Allende . Whether he can in fact wrest El Mercurio from the Edwards family is open to debate . But , as president , he would have in his power control of newsprint and other necessities required by El Mercurio to survive in its present form . Dig that ditch ! Mexico 's rival to the Grand Canyon will be thoroughly explored this fall by a joint United States-Mexican team . Extending some 200 miles , from the state of Durango to the state of Nayarit , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the same length as the Grand Canyon . And its depth of 8,000 feet in some places is more than twice that of the Grand Canyon . Sponsored by the Club de Exploraciones y Deportes AcUaticos de Mexico , the Mexican explorers organization , the expedition will sweep down the entire , tortuous length of the chasm . United States scientists , representing seven organizations , will also take part in the program . Because of the extreme roughness of the terrain and the depth and length of the canyon , the project will be one of the most extensive and difficult explorations in recent history . Aid to the earthquaked Close to $20 million has been donated by public and private agencies in the United States to assist in rehabilitating areas hit May 31 by Peru 's most disastrous earthquake . More than half this total ? $10.4 million  --  is from federal agencies in Washington while nearly an equal sum ? $9.2 million  --  has been contributed by private agencies and individuals . The money has gone for planeloads of food and equipment delivered by some 40 flights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sorties from the USS Guam , and for activities of the Agency for International Development . Uneven division Jamaica continues to experience an economic boom . Last year 's gross product rose 9 percent and per capita income climbed 6.7 percent . Yet at least 35 percent of the island 's nearly 2 million Jamaicans are reaping little or no benefit from this prosperity . There are jobs in the busy bauxite mines and aluminum industry . But agriculture has fallen off dramatically , and people leaving the farms are finding little employment in the cities .                     