@@729015

txt Enactment of the state income tax last year was the dominant reason why Republicans were doomed to take a shellacking in the 1970 election , some of the old-timers in both parties agreed yesterday . Gov . Ogilvie in his budget message April 1 , 1939 , did what several of his predecessors had said was inevitable  --  asked for a state income tax and gave it No. 1 priority . Despite G. 0 . P. majorities in Senate and House , Gov . Ogilvie could not pass the income lax legislation without substantial help from Mayor Daley 's forces . But even tho the Democrats substantially reshaped the Ogilvie bills to cut the rate for individuals from 4 per cent to 21. , 2 per cent , the Democrats succeeded in having the results known as the " Ogilvie income tax " rather titan the " Ogilvie-Daley income tax . " Adlai Goes Farther Adlai Stevenson III , in romping to a victory over Sen. Ralph Tyler Smith IR. , went a long step farther and referred to the 1969 tax as " the Ogilvie-Smith income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House and helped round up votes for the bills , tho insisting on less than a 4-per-cent rate . Some Ogilvie lieutenants conceded yesterday the disastrous political results of the tax . At least one said major blame must rest with it . Mayor Daley was receiving unending praise for his astuteness yesterday . Besides reaping vast pluralities for his candidates from the state income tax , he is collecting millions of dollars via the 8ti : per cent of the revenue which is channeled to local governments . Whips Adamowski Again Daley had a chance yesterday of taking over control of the Illinois Senate and House . It see med certain that Democrats have elected a majority on the Illinois Supreme Court for the first time in 28 years . His Cook County judicial slate breezed to victory . While sweeping nearly all Cook County executive offices , Daley hung another defeat on an old political foe , Benjamin S. Adamowski , a former Democrat . Despite the riches of this election for Daley , the Chicago mayor lashed out at Gov . Ogilvie during the long night at Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will " regret " remarks he made against the Democratic machine during the campaign . " No man can dismantle the Democratic Party ! " Daley shouted to startled party workers , referring to an offhand remark Ogilvie made right after he was elected governor in 1968 . Assessor P. J. Cullerton won his fourth term over Adamowski by more than 100,000 votes , despite weeks of constant attacks by news media which were said by Cullerton 's friends to be determined to dump him because he is perhaps the chief conservative in the Democratic organization . Adamowski ran for mayor in the 1955 Democratic primary when Daley triumphed to go on to his first term as mayor . Adamowski switched to the G. 0 . P. to be elected state 's attorney in 1956 . In 1963 he was the G. 0 . P. nominee against Mayor Daley , losing by less than 200,000 votes . Whether Adamowski will again be a candidate for mayor next spring when Daley is expected to seek a record-breaking fifth term was one of the big questions yesterday . Loyalty Is Suspect Had he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share of control of the Republican Party from the flattened Ogilvie forces , in one view . Top leaders say his loyalty is suspect in both parties . It was reported that he blackjacked the slating of =sea tor assessor this year by threatening to run in the primary against Gov . Ogilvie 's favorite , Edmund J. Kucharski , organization choice for state treasurer . Kucharski lost to State Sen. Alan J. Dixon D. , Belleville by 82,000 votes . " We 're not going to be thinking about mayor for a couple of weeks , " said one Ogilvie lieutenant . He disputed gloomy talk that the Ogilvie organization is a wreck . " Where are defeated candidates going to come , if not to us ? " he asked . " Sure , we lost the jobs at the state superintendent of public instruction , Cook County treasurer , maybe sheriff and county superintendent of schools . Things Hare Been Worse " But recently we picked up a lot more jobs-4,000 , including 3,800 patronage jobs ? when the secretary of state office passed to us thru the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we 've had less  --  much less . " There is talk of Illinois Atty . Gen. William J. Scott as a rallying point for Republicans seeking to recoup in 1972 . Scott remained relatively aloof from the 1970 campaign , but for different reasons than Gov . Ogilvie , whose absence from campaign rallies could not be matched in the memory of veteran politicians . Important Republicans were among those who told Ogilvie bluntly that the more he stumped for Sen. Smith , the more Smith would suffer . Scott recently was in Japan as an expert on pollution problems . Before that he made fewer of the Smith meetings than might be expected . In 1969 Ogilvie , then Cook County sheriff , backed Scott in the G. 0 . P. gubernatorial primary against Charles H. Percy , now senior senator . The entry of Scott into that race was belated and vastly underfinanepe                     