@@733442

txt Carter strolls into Paris ' heart PARIS API  --  President Carter , beginning a three-day visit to France , delighted Parisians Wednesday with an impromptu stroll down the Champs Elysees but angered the mayor of Paris by skiaoine the traditional visit to rite After an initial 90 ? minute meeting with President Valery Giscard d'Estaing , Carter addressed a group of FrenchAmerican organizations and called for " a new agenda for democracy . " " Our democratic order has come under challenge , " Carter said . " There are those who question whether democratic values are appropriate for contemporary circumstances .... Israel proposes that UN troops occupy the eastern Sinai as part of peace agreement , Israeli television says . Page 2 . " But we defend these values because they are right and because there is no higher purpose for the state than to preserve these rights for its citizens . " CARTER CAME to Paris , the sixth stop on his marathon foreign visit , after . a 90-minute stopover in the Upper Nile resort city of Aswan , where he conferred briefly with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace initiative and pledging American support for " the legitimate rights of the Palestinians . " Carter 's statement to reporters before leaving Aswan appeared to break no new ground in redefining American Middle East policy . However , a United States official who asked not to be identified told reporters that the phrasing of Carter 's statement was deliberate and significant . Egypt , Israel , and the U.S. each have presented different proposals for the future of the 1.1 million Palestinian Arabs // From page one Strolling Carter wins Paris ' heart // who inhabit the West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip , territory captured by Israel in the 1907 war . EGYPT WANTS an independent state in the territories , and Israel is offering limited self-rule with a continued Israeli military presence . The U.S. has suggested creation of a Palestinian entity linked possibly to Jordan . Carter and Sadat met for an hour at Aswan Airport , and the Egyptian president said later they agreed on a formula to deal with the Palestinian problem , the main obstacle to burgeoning Israeli . Egyptian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Carter party told reporters that the leaders agreed to set aside problems over details of a future peace and work instead on a broad framework for an agreement . Israeli and Egyptian negotiators will meet in Cairo and Jerusalem later this month to resume peace talks . SHOUTS OF " Jimmy . . . Jimmy " rose from enthusiastic Paris crowds as Carter walked with Giscard down the elegant Champs Elysees , main stem of the French capital , which Carter called the " Queen of Cities . " The Gaullist mayor of Paris , Jacques Chirac , announced he would boycott ceremonies during Carter 's visit because the President was not planning a stop at city hall , a tradition among visiting chiefs of state . The U.S. Embassy issued a statement saying it is hoped that Carter and Chirac will meet at " one or more " of the events during the President 's crowded schedule . Chirac leads the largest party in Giscard 's ruling center-right coalition and is his chief political rival on the Right . Carter said he and Giscard will discuss international economics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Soviet Union , and human rights in talks expected to total four hours . There was no immediate . word on what was discussed at the first session . More crowds greeted the two presidents as they walked the few hundred yards from the palace to the Hotel Marigny , where Carter is staying . IN AN ARRIVAL statement at the Paris airport , Carter described American relations with France as " special and rare . " He also mentioned the French insistence on independent foreign and defense policies that has emerged in the past as a thorn in Franco-American relations . " Our approaches to specific questions may not always be the same , but our deep respect for the independence and leadership of France and our affection for your people have remained as strong for 200 years . " IN HIS EVENING speech at the Paleis des Congres , a modern convention hall , Carter said democracy in industrialized nations faces five challenges : ? Speeding up the response of government and social institutions to demands for higher standards of leadership and services . ? Restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and demonstration " that our democratic economic system can adapt to the demands placed on it . " O Providing for mutual security . ? The need for cooperation " among ourselves in adapting to global change . " o The effort of Europeans to shape their future . THURSDAY . HE and Giscard pay homage to the Allied troops who hammered their way into Nazi-dominated Europe in World War II , starting with the D-Day invasion on June 6 , 1944 . They are to visit the American cemetery at Omaha Beach and the Normandy city of Bayeux , the first liberated capital of Free France . Carter will stop in Brussels Friday for talks with NATO officials before flying home to Washington .                     