@@730624

txt The much-talked-about " energy crisis " became a reality last week in some other areas of the nation , and it could still ( happen in the Northeast if the weather turns sharply colder . dHowever , last night the preiction for Wednesday through Friday in the New York area was for mild weather , with daytime highs generally in the 40 's . Locally , utilities have had a chance to build up reserves of oil and gas , as no real cold weather hit until last week . However , utilities in the Boston area have been granted approval to import liquefied natural gas from Algeria for their own use later this heating season . The Government recently ordered increased quotas for imported heating oil . The Petroleum Industry Research Foundation said that to its knowledge no homeowner in the Northeast had yet been deprived of fuel oil . But , the foundation added , the situation could get serious should the cold weather persist . It noted that with temperatures in the first seven days of this year colder than normal , particularly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil had dropped to 147 million barrels from 178 million a year ago . A spokesman for the foundation said an increase in the price of No. 2 oil was needed to bring about increased production . Meanwhile thousands workers in Mississippi , Louisiana , Arkansas , Georgia , Minnesota and Illinois already have learned how real the energy crisis is when they were thrown out of work as fuel supplies ran out . In many other areas , even the oil and gas rich Southwest , natural gas supplies have been curtailed for large users , including electric utilities , and the situation could get much worse if the cold wave that gripped most of the nation last week continues for a second week . What happened at the Norge appliance plant at Effingham , Ill. , about 200 miles south of Chicago is typical . The plant was forced to shut down when its gas supply was cut of to insure adequate fuel supplies for residences , hospitals , schools and other high priorty customers . Norge Re-opens Plant On Friday Norge re-opened the plant as an emergency supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was only a stop-gap measure and continued cold weather would close the plant again unless additional fuel supplies can be found . The hardest-hit area appeared to be Mississippi , Louisiana and Arkansas . About 43 industries in the Jackson , Miss. , area including two neighboring counties , were closed , putting more than 40,000 workers out of jobs . A dozen or more plants around the Hattiesburg and Gulf Coast regions were closed and nearly one-half of the chicken-broiler industry in East Central and South Mississippi were closed down . " We are faced with a real energy shortage here for the first time , " Keith Howie , head of the utilities division of the Public Service Commission , said : " ' It 's going to hit hard as the devil , because it 's going to get into people 's pocketbooks . " Gerald Bracken , president of M.P.I. Industries at Jackson , said that more than 1,500 workers had been laid off since Wednesday . ' Serious Impact ' " When employes lose three days ' pay , it has a serious impact , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we lose our shirts for three days . " M.P.I. operates one of the largest industrial plants in Mississippi and is a major supply of cabinets for television sets , record players and sewing machines . Mr. Bracken said he was considering some sort of backup system to avoid a recurrence . The troubles in Mississippi c ; me from a complete curtailment of natural-gas supplies for industrial users by the United Gas Pipeline Company . This was the first time this has ever happened and it was blamed on a dangerous drop in pressure because of the weather and a frozen gas-supply field in Louisiana . The Public Utilities Commission noted it had advised customers to make plans for stand-by systems , " but we did n't expect to have a 100 per cent curtailment in service and few of them had gone to stand-by equipment . " Equipment Droves Saviour Fred Gaddis of Forest , who is one of the major chicken broiler plant operators , said only the installation of such equipment using diesel and fuel oil had saved him . " But the use of fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , about $9.50 a ton for an hour output , so we are not too happy about using oil for very long , " Mr. Gaddis added . The shortage of natural gas , coupled with low wood supply inventories , forced Olin Kraft , Inc. , the Forest product subsidiary of the Olin Corporation , to close down a paper mill at West Monroe , La. , and saw mills and plywood plants at Winnfield , La. , and Huttig , Ark . The plants employ about 3,400 people . In the Memphis , Tenn. , region , the Memphis Light , Gas and Water System routinely shut off natural gas to its largest users on Sunday , Jan. 7 when demand outstripped capacity . A fuel-oil crisis arose as major consumers turned to oil for their alternate fuel . This is becoming a common occurrence as most utilities have contracts that call for them to interrupt gas for major users when a certain temperature or consumption level is reached . Particularly hard hit were the huge Memphis Naval Air Station and the City of Memphis Hospital . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been checking with every refinery in the country and we plan to bring in Navy fuel from stocks in VEZERWMPEP , M0 Heating Advice From BP Oil Corp. , subsidiary of Standard Oil Company ( Ohio ) . 1 . Keep thermostat at steady 70 degrees , which is less costly than 75. 2 . Before retiring , lower thermostat by 5 degrees . 3 . Remove rugs , furniture if they block radiators , heat registers . 4 . Turn heat off in rooms not in use . 5 . Check insulation of windows , doors ; caulk cracks in foundation , window sills . 6 . Repair leaky hot-water faucets ; have heating unit inspected for efficiency . 7 . Close fireplace dampers when not in use . 8 . When entering or leaving , close outside doors quickly . 9 . If garage is heated , keep doors closed , thermostat at 55 to 60 , Alabama and Florida , but the problem is that we will have to line up barges to transport it to Memphis . " The hospital was planning to consolidate some patient wards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weekend . The Southeast was also hit a week ago Sunday by a severe ice storm , said to be the worst in more than 30 years , that knocked down power lines in Atlanta , north Georgia and northern Alabama . By Wednesday , some 75,000 customers , mostly residential , were still without power in the Atlanta area . The Internal Revenue Service in Atlanta reported a sharp rise in the price of such weather-related items as candles , lanterns , kerosene and sleeping bags , while hotels and motels were said to be " packed and overcharging . " Steve , manager of the Atlanta Fuel Company , said there is a definite oil shortage . He added : Transit Service Is Cut " We just ca n't seem to get the product . The suppliers keep telling us to cut back . They 're setting up quotas . This started two or three months ago and the biggest shortage is in heating oil for homes . The major suppliers , such as Citgo , Ashland Oil and others are bypassing the South because they can get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that where his company used to sell 40,000 to 50,000 gallons a day , they were now cut back to about 25,000 . Up in Minnesota where waybelow-zero weather is taken for granted , the Metropolitan Transit Commission cut service on the Twin Cities ' 450 buses on some days and after 6 P.M. daily to save fuel . The buses operate on the same grade oil as is used for heating . The shortage began in the Minneapolis-St . Paul area in mid-December . At that time four Minneapolis schools came within one day of actually running out of heating oil but were kept open with a 20,000-gallon emergency supply . Honeywell , Inc. , was reduced last week to a two-to-five-day supply of fuel oil , as a spokesman said : " We 're not quite at the mittens and overshoes stage . " Only a brief warming spell when the mercury rose above zero permitted schools in Long Prairie , Minn. , to use gas just as their fuel oil supplies ran out . Frederick Christiansen , the state 's director of school facilities , said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does n't freeze . " The Standard Oil Company of Indiana , announcing a 25 per cent cutback in supplies to all major carriers in Minnesota , said its top priorities were homes , hospitals and emergency services . " The others will have to wait . There simply is n't enough to go around , " a spokesman said . The Burlington Northern Railroad , which said it had " substantial volumes " of stored fuel , nevertheless reduced power on some of its runs to save fuel . Arnold Beckman of Coon Rapids , who services about 350 mobile homes in the Twin Cities area , reported he had had to start buying oil from other retailers at 5 cents a gallon higher than his wholesale cost . On Jan. 8 , Gov . Wendel Anderson asked the Legislature to hold hearings on the oil shortage which , he said , " appears to be worsening daily . " " I remain concerned over the inability of my office or any other state agency to obtain basic information from major oil suppliers concerning the reasons for the shortage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be curtailed and the steps the state may take to mitigate the worst effects of such a shortage . " Complicated Situation The Minnesota situation is further complicated by a strike that began on Jan. 8 at the Koch refinery in Pine Bend , the state 's largest oil refinery . Normally it refines about 100,000 barrels of oil a day . In suburban Dakota County there were no legal bidders on a contract for 150,000 gallons of gasoline and 50,000 gallons of diesel fuel . Suppliers told county officials that they could not bid because they could n't guarantee delivery . In neighboring Wisconsin , Gov . Patrick J. Lucey urged residents of his state to " use an extra blanket and turn your thermostats down . " On Dec. 5 the Wisconsin Gas Company in Milwaukee advised 27 of its largest users including factories , breweries and the local electric utility that they could burn natural gas for boilers only on weekends , possibly through March . The gas company reported that October had been 25 per cent colder than normal , while November was 6.6 per cent colder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . James Gruentzel , director of the State Office of Emergency Government , estimated the 27 plants would need over 30 million gallons of fuel oil that " just is n't there . " He reported several fuel oil companies had stocks for only a week . " We 're holding at the status quo but if we have below normal temperatures for another week , it could really hurt us , " he said . Nebraska Gov . J. J. Exon has asked homeowners to turn their thermostats down 3 degrees to conserve fuel , while Eugene Leahy , Mayor of Omaha , ordered thermostats down 7 degrees in all city buildings . Chicago , which is struggling with fuel supplies , reported that last year temperatures were below normal in every month except May and , as of last Tuesday , temperatures were 60 degrees below normal levels to date . The Northern Illinois Gas Company cut large users from 30,000 therms of natural gas a day to 800 in three steps and last week sought approval for going down to a 100-therm-a-day limit . E. I. du Pont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and use by changing horsepower rating on motors and other simple mechanical methods . Meanwhile , many utilities and oil companies have been advising homeowners on ways to use less fuel and thus save money , such as turning down the thermostat at night , living with somewhat cooler temperatures , such as 70 degrees instead of 75 , adding insulation to windows and doors , checking for leaky hot water faucets , closing fireplace dampers when the fireplace is not in use , leaving or entering a house quickly to cut down on the cold . There is little doubt that householders should be interested in conserving heat because their fuel bills are headed much higher . Many experts ' believe that higher fuel bills will induce more exploration by natural gas and oil companies to increase their reserves . 1                     