@@732019

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 28 Letters to the Editor Mideast : President Sadat 's . ' Power Play ' To the Editor . Whatever the eventual outcome of the volatile Mideast scenario , one thing is certain : President Anwar Sadat of Egypt has been proceeding successfully with a brilliantly conceived diplomatic power play . The primary element of Mr. Sadat 's ploy is a substantially correct recognition of the political atmosphere in Washington prior to a national election . This involves an essentially accurate perception of just how far President Ford and Secretary of State Kissinger will go to remain in office . The key to Arab success , as interpreted by the Egyptian chief of state , is to unhinge traditional American material support of Israel . The most optimal policy in this regard is to make wholly unreasonable demands on the Jewish state . By so doing , Sadat assures an impasse in the negotiations , impenetrable so long as U.S. support for Israel is unconditional . But the consequences of a renewal of hostilities , a potential result of intransigence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assessment of his chances for re-election . Invariably , war would bring an oil embargo , and a concomitant disruption of the American economy , as of now the President 's strong suit in the upcoming campaign . He may try to lessen the political impact of a coming economic convulsion by warning the electorate of the possibility of war , but ultimately he 's acutely aware . of his own vulnerability when the effects of an OPEC-inspired economic downturn have been registered on the voters . His only choice , To the Editor : The recent actions of the police , firemen and sanitation workers in response to layoffs have done more irreparable damage to New York City than the budget crisis and the shenanigans of our political leaders . A strike on the part of basic service personnel is bad enough , but the deliberate acts of violence and sabotage are unconscionable and unforgettable . The police , our mainstays of ? law and order , tie up traffic for hours , attempt to overturn cars and otherwise injure drivers . True , the perpetrators are out of uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in subway stations or stand by as interested observers while their colleagues surge madly through the streets , frightening people out of their wits . Sanitation workers abandon the city to pestilence and block entry to dumps where more concerned citizens might safely dispose of garbage . To emphasize their point , they break open garbage bags , kick over cans and cover the streets with filth so thick they become impassable . Firemen merely report sick ; who cares if the city burns ? Following through on these tactics , if the schools are hit , should teachers lurk behind classroom doors and clout every pupil that walks by ? Or should typists and clerks whose jobs are in jeopardy throw their typewriters and file cabinets out the windows to land on the heads of passing pedestrians ? When all the shouting is over , can we look to the police , sanitation workers , firemen to save us from crime , disease , fire ? Who can tell the terrorists and malingerers from the good guys ? Organized protest ? Organized hooliEducation and Religion : The Flawed Argument To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Supreme Court 's decision in Meek v. Pittenger seeks to dismiss Chief Justice Burger 's complaint that the Court 's decision compels the taxpaying parents of children attending church-related schools to , choose between the free exercise of religion and equal protection of the laws , on the ground that the two rights may be enjoyed if the children involved are subjected to the mere inconvenience of being transported to a public school . Mr. Pfeffer is well aware that the services contemplated by one of the Pennsylvania statutes before the Court were auxiliary services consisting of counseling , testing , psychological services , speech and hearing therapy and teaching and related services for exceptional children , for remedial students and for the educationally disadvantaged . The implication would seem to be that such specialized services intimately related to the educational process as a whole can be as well supplied away from the scene of the child 's basic educational experience as at that scene . In his understandable lawyer 's Victor Juhass then , in staving off armed conflict , since Mr. Sadat will not deal evenhandedly , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morally vacuous position which illustrates the extent to which the present Administration will proceed in order to preserve the status quo . For his own part , Anwar Sadat should get high diplomatic marks for correctly assessing the major weakness of the individuals with whom he 's dealing in Washington , a weakness which has become all too common in the White House over the last several years . ALLAN BENI-1011N Bronx , July 1 , 1975 An editorial on this subject appears today . ganism . It 's time we , the compleat victims , organized for our rights , too . After all , we outnumber them . STELLA B. ALLEN New York , July 4 , 1975 ? To the Editor : Accentuated perhaps by being 3,000 miles distant , I am sincerely puzzled by one aspect of your city 's financial crisis . Not the cause of it , for that has been explained by the profligacy of election-minded politicians . What puzzles me is why the current approach to a solution so much resembles the patterns of the past which created the problem . Now as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union leaders , city technicians , bankers , etc . Never is it even suggested that the voters themselves be consulted . It is they , after all , who should decide the priorities of more services or less taxes , and if it is to be more services , what is to be their priority . It is difficult , but not impossible , to present complex questions to voters . One possibility might be the choice of one of several alternative priorityranking plans , another the ratification by referendum of the level of city expenditures . But surely some method can be devised to allow the voters , rather than the leadership , to decide how much they want to be taxed and which public services they prefer . Your central problem , all but ignored , is that your voting process does n't work , else the majority would be satisfied with the present result , which has been created by their choices at the polls . RICHARD E. GOLD Los Angeles , July 2 , 1975 zeal to defend the Court whose decision favored his client , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the simultaneous enjoyment of the two constitutional freedoms , which as a practical matter is at odds both with general experience and sound educational practice . HOWARD A. SEITz New York , July 2 , 1975 ? Grandmother 's Gas Saver To the Editor : Try to conceive of the quantity of energy being wasted throughout the country by pilot lights on stoves burning 24 hours a day . Then hearken to this suggestion : Extinguish all pilot lights and seal them . As a substitute for them I remember my grandmother used a gadget , which to the best of my recollection is called a match . THEODORE WINNER New York , June 24 , 1975 On Smoking Marijuana To the Editor-Letter writers W. Blanc et . al : July 1 appear to oppose decriminalization of marijuana on the ground that it has not been proved to be a " harmless weed " and is , in fact , suspected of causing a potential list of physical damage , the only question being one of degree . They also cite the United Nations Single Convention 's opposition to legalization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Algeria 's attitude , which involves death sentences and twenty-year prison terms for marijuana offenses . I gave up using marijuana several years ago , not for any fear of selfinflicted physical damage or of legal punishment ; I simply found more ' Interesting uses for my consciousness , and I suspect that many of my friends ( nearly all ) who have drifted away from smoking grass have done so for pretty much the same reason . Awareness of self-inflicted damage apparently weighs little in the decision to smoke or drink in excess , as compulsive behavior is precisely that because it is not within control of rationality . Further , legal punishment has , quite obviously , almost no control on compulsive behavior and very little control on those who feel they rationally choose to smoke marijuana . In fact , the greatest increase of marijuana smoking is during the period of most stringent legal control and enforcement . Ido n't advocate smoking marijuana , except if it could substitute for alcohol or another more immediately harmful drug being abused . But I also think that the death penalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even suspected of marijuana . Why do we always destroy the village in order to save it ? When people feel sufficiently optimistic about themselves and their world , and the connection between the two , they will want to use their brains ' consciousness for other than doped or drunken experience . Until then , I think we will have to realize that authoritarianism may even be counterproductive , be it legal or medical . The effects of prison on one 's life are also proven , and they appear far worse than anything to be proven about marijuana . DIRCK VAN SICKLE New York , July 1 , 1975 ? Ulster : Britain 's Tactics To the Editor : C. L. Sulzberger states in his June 25 column that the British in Ulster have fought the Irish Republican Army to a stalemate by waging their counterguerrilla campaign " within the bonds of legal restraint . " Such a sweeping generalization requires an examination of the tactics they have in fact used . First , the British have relied heavily on detention of suspected I.R.A . members for an indefinite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common-law right of habeas corpus was written permanently into Northern Irish law by the Special Powers Act of 1922 , the repeal of which was one , of the main goals of the nonviolent civil rights movement of 1968-69 . Both the British National Council of Civil Liberties and the Liberal party have called for an immediate end to this cause , rather than cure , of violence . Second , extensive use of torture was admitted by the British Government 's Compton Report but dismissed as mere " ill-treatment . " At present , the European Commission of Human Rights at Strasbourg is considering a case brought by the Irish Attorney General against the British Government on , account of this practice . Finally , the British have resorted to the use of " dirty tricks " squads against the guerrillas . In 1973 , then British Defense Secretary Lord Carrington admitted that the Littlejohn brothers , convicted of bank robbery in Dublin , had been recruited by his department to . infiltrate and discredit the I.R.A . This month the British Army revealed that its secret files on republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for use in their assassination campaign . These aspects of daily life in Northern Ireland apparently escaped Mr. Sulzberger 's notice from his observation point at British Army headquarters , Lisburn . MARK G. BARRETT Vice Chairman , American Committee for Ulster Justice New York , June 27 , 1975 ? Agitating for the Park To the Editor : For much over a half century I have enjoyed our Central Park and agitated for having the park used to its fullest . I was glad to share my " front yard " with eight million other people  --  but : I 've had enough . What I saw Sunday was disgusting . The park was unsafe for pedestrians or those basking in the sun . I was badly hit by a football thrown , by adults near the west end of Sheep Meadow . Who is being paid off ? I 'm a member of the Friends of Central Park and do n't mind picking up after the children drop their cans , etc. , but do mind ' when a group of children Is taken our by teachers ( ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trash basket or allowed to pick the foliage . When I suggest ' this to those in charge , I receive a nasty remark and abuse . City ? Crisis : ' The Compleat Victims ' What can we , who care so much , do to clean up the cans and bottles , after the huge concerts ? The Mall is practically empty since it caters to ' older citizens , who are afraid to go out and more afraid to go home once they get out . JUNE ROTH GOULD New York , June 26 , 1975                     