@@731226

txt The central Board of Education . " ' said yesterday that despite the city 's best efforts its racial integration program was in jeopardy because ofc* *bit Nottitesttrerstas ( Board of Regents , it declared : " Given shifting population patterns  --  the movement a the middle class to the suburbs ? and the declining number of ' others ' whites in the city 's public schools , the ' task of achieving meaningful integra-1 tion within the boundaries of New York City or other large cities . : becomes increasingly difficult . " Although Irving Anker , the city School Chancellor , does not say it outright in the report , the implication is that an exchange of pupils . between the city and suburban school districts emerges as a key way of continuing to provide the city with enough white pupils to carry out . its integration program . A ' Promising Note ' " While continuing to hold city school authorties responsible for creative programs to promote feasible integration ' in urban schools , " the report concluded , " state and national officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correction of the growing isolation of our poor " minority groups in urban schools is each year becoming less and less a condition which large city boards of education can deal with alone . " The 36-page report also asserted that the city 's . power to bring about residential integration was'another important way ? beyond the authority of the school officials themselves  --  to further school integration . It describes as a " promising note " the idea that housing authorities had a responsibility in helping to bring about school integration . The reference was // City Schools Imply Suburbs Are Needed in Integration students who travel on their own , using public transportation to reach schools to which they are assigned or choose to attend for integration . // ' apparently to the Jan. 28 decision here by Federal Judge Jack B. Weinstein calling for the Department of Housing and Urban Development to assign space in ' public housing in such a way as to help integrate Mark Twain Junior High School in Brooklyn 's Coney Island section . City school officials raised the question of city-suburban cooperation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention . The United States Supreme Court has under consideration a case in which it has been asked to decide whether several Detroit suburban school systems can be compelled to merge with the city 's schools to attain integration . In a similar case last year , involving Richmond and its suburbs , the court split , 4 to 4 , leaving the matter undecided . , The New York City Board of I1Education in its report devoted considerable space to the idea that suburban school districts were not carrying a fair share of the responsibility for integration . It cited figures showing that 94 per cent of the pupils in schools outside the state 's six biggest cities were non-Puerto Rican whites . Moreover , the report raised the sensitive question of why a few school districts on Long Island  --  Bridgehampton , Hempstead , Roosevelt and Wyandanch  --  were permitted to remain predominantly black . " Each of the four is located near districts which are much larger and which enroll overwhelmingly ' others ' whites . Lindenhurst , for example , is situated near Wyandanch , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wyandanch is 2.1 per cent white . A spokesman for the Board of Education was asked why the report discussed the Long Island situation . He said that if it made sense for New York to bus children across the city for integration , then it made sense for neighboring suburban districts to bus children a few blocks . School ' district lines have traditionally been regarded as inviolable in New York and in most other states ? as the appeal to the United States Supreme Court demonstrates . A lawyer for the State Education Department in Albany said yesterday that " there is consider . able doubt about the power of the State Commissioner of Education to order districts to merge for integration . " Were such an order to be issued by the Commissioner ? and there is no indication that one is forthcoming  --  observers feel it would arouse protest and come under intense challenge . Running through the Board of Education report was  --  its belief that New York City had done a responsible job in school integration when examined against " any other comparable urban school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 888 of the city 's 950 schools had enrollments that were 10 per cent or more black and Spanish-surnamed . Only two schools in the entire city were said to have no minority group members . " The New York City school system has done much to promote integration and to mitigate the effects of minority isolation where it occurs , although it has admittedly not been totally successful , " the report maintained . Buses under contract travel 913,000 miles each year in the city for integration purposes , according to the report . Many additional miles are logged by The latest move in the city school system 's sometimes controversial integration program came yesterday when Chancellor Anker ordered that more minority pupils be assigned to two predominantly white elementary schools in Brooklyn 's Canarsie section . Harvey Garner , the community school superintendent for District 18 , said that the local school board would appeal the order , In addition to segregated residential patterns and the flight to the suburbs , the Board of Education report cited what it considered to be one other major impediment to school integration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and parochial schools . According to a table in the report , the nonpublic schools have an enrollment that is , 77,190 minority and 355,140 others . The public school enrollment is 731,302 minority and 397,694 others . Were the public and nonpublic systems regarded as a single elementary and secondary school system , the enrollment would be 808,492 minority and 752,834 others ? a much higher white percentage than exists in the public system alone . 4                     