@@731369

txt With a Syrian-Israeli disengagement agreement now in sight , a sense of buoyancy and expectation surrounds the Kissinger mission as it enters its fourth and , hopefully , culminating week . Not everything has been nailed down yet . But with a few more days of shuttling between Jerusalem and Damascus , Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger is expected to get a hard-earned basic accord to separate Syrian and Israeli forces on the Golan Heights . The fact that the tragic slayings at Maalot and the Israeli retaliatory raids into Lebanon have not disrupted the negotiations suggests how imperative both Israel and Syria deem an agreement . As American officials note , both sides realize the consequences of failure are worse than the agonizing concessions needed to reach an accord . It took an American proposal to break the impasse over where to put the demarcation line , an emotion-charged issue for both parties . According to senior U.S. officials , the Syrians have gone a long way toward accepting the American solution and the Israelis also were expected to agree to it . After the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Kissinger Sunday , Israeli Information Minister Shimon Peres said the disengagement line proposed by the Secretary could be accepted by both Israel and Syria . Other problems Once the cease-fire line is settled , the American officials said , the other problems ? the UN-patrolled buffer zone and a thinning out of forces in the arms-limitation zones ? would be considerably easier . Dr. Kissinger , they added , could " break the back " of most issues . The final details of an agreement may be worked out between the parties at Geneva , according- to the officalS. - But in any event the accord would be signed in Geneva , where the Soviet Union and the United States sit as cochairmen of the Mideast peace conference . Certainly these developments represent another diplomatic triumph for Dr. Kissinger . They also enhance Washington 's prestige in the Middle East and point to the role which the United States can be expected to play in the hard negotiating road ahead toward a peace settlement once the initial troop-separation phase is accomplished . // *Israel and Syria ready to pull back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tugging and pulling over the issue of the demarcation line . Israel has been reluctant to yield control of several strategic hills that overlook Israeli settlements and cultivated fields , especially with the resettlement of the town of Quneitra with Syrian civilians . The distances involved have amounted to only a few kilometers . Attention to security Dr. Kissinger now has clearly hit on a compromise formula that would give both sides the feeling of security they seek . American officials decline to disclose the substance of the plan , saying merely that the parties now are close " conceptually " as well as " geographically . " On Sunday ? and in Jerusalem for the 10th time ? the Secretary again conferred with Israeli leaders . He was expected to return to Damascus early Monday to continue his talks with Syrian President Assad . Possibly he would leave behind some of his aides in the Syrian capital to continue working on specific aspects of the disengagement package . For days Dr. Kissinger had been pointedly warning that a busy agenda in Washington demanded he finally cut short his commuting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought for a moment that he would abandon a reasonable chance to pull off another agreement . At the weekend , as hopes for an accord looked dim , the Secretary was prepared to issue a statement announcing his return home . But , say American officials , it was the parties themselves ? Syria and Israel ? that kept pressing the indefatigable mediator to make still another trip , then another , then another . Mobile staff So unpredictable have been Dr. Kissinger 's movements in recent days thatthe 40-some officials , staff , and newsmen accompanying him sometimes have not known from hour to hour where they would be two hours hence . On Saturday at the King David Hotel , where the Secretary has preferred to overnight in his Jerusalem-Damascus shuttle , they were told to pack up their things and pay their hotel bills  - -  but for an extra night , in case the party returned . Newsmen said good-bye to their Israeli colleagues and left tips for the chambermaids . That day the dramatic breakthrough came . After a 3 ' - hour meeting with President Assad , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Airport and in a brief airport statement Dr. Kissinger stated that " significant progress " had been made and he would remain in the region a few more days . There was an unmistakable glint of satisfaction in his eye . ( John Cooley cables from Beirut , Lebanon : ( As reported here , Dr. Kissinger 's latest suggestions were that Syria and Israel would agree to stop shooting and permit United Nations forces to police the cease-fire . An interval of weeks might elapse between a cease-fire and signature of the troop-separation accord . ( Israel , these reports said , would turn over the ruined Syrian city of Quneitra and three nearby strategic hills to UN military and Syrian civil control . Big-power guarantee ( The United States would tacitly support Israel 's retention of its 17 post-1967 Golan settlements until a general peace settlement is reached , at Geneva or elsewhere , after months or years of negotiations . ( Such a future settlement would entail Arab recognition of Israel within its 1967 frontiers , establishment of some kind of Palestinian state or entity andbinding Arab-Israel peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assad , Syrian informants said , warned Dr. Kissinger Saturdaqy night that he could neither conclude nor observe any Syrian-Israel troop separation accord unless Israel halted aggression against Lebanon . ( Sunday , four Israeli gunboats with air cover came inshore near the Lebanese port of Tyre and shelled a Palestinian refugee camp at Rafidiyeh , the second biggest in the country . ) ( Thursday 's Israeli raids on targets in Lebanon almost totally destroyed the Palestinian refugee camp at Nabatieh , in southern Lebanon , the first time Israel had resorted to such drastic action since heavy bombing and shelling of camps on the Jordan River 's east bank after the war of 1967 . The latest Israeli raids left about 50 killed , 180 injured , and many more people , both Lebanese and Palestinian , missing . Guerrilla centers hit ( At least 4,000 people at Nabatieh were left without homes , a UN Refugee and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) official told this reporter at the ruins of the Nabatieh camp . Only flattened rubble and gaping bomb craters remain in the settlement , where some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , clinics , and other Palestinian and Lebanese targets were hit , including the small Lebanese summer resort town of Marroufiya , in the mountains above Beirut airport . ( Many people here who had condemned the brutality of the guerrilla attack on the school in Israel and use of children as hostages were stunned by the ferocity of the Israeli air strikes . ( One Lebanese university professor said , " Israel has accomplished exactly the opposite of what it hoped . Instead of setting us against the Palestinians , the common losses we and the Palestinians have suffered have moved us closer together . " )                     