@@734114

txt The Carter administration , after several false starts , plans to issue anti-inflation guidelines this week for financial institutions . Barring any last-minute change , financial institutions would be asked under the voluntary guides to keep their return on assets , after certain adjustments , equal to or below the average return for any three of the past five years . Financial institutions that could n't meet this guideline would be asked to meet several other tests , including limiting increases in their dividend payments . One policy maker said this second test " would n't be very onerous . " The Carter administration , which has been wrestling with guidelines for financial Institutions since last December , has been stymied by the problem of how to propose a " profit standard " for banks even though interest rates are exempt from the anti-inflation program . Policy makers believe they have solved the problem by proposing the twofold standard for financial Institutions . Problem of Compliance The problem with earlier proposals , which focused on limiting . increases in return on assets , was that " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that did n't put a substantial number of banks out of compliance , " an administration source said . For most banking businesses , profitability is based on the spread between the interest cost of borrowed money and the interest charged on loans . Interest rates paid on de posits are already controlled by other federal rules . However . interest rates charged on loans are n't covered by the voluntary anti-inflation program . The administration exempted interest rates from the program because , it insisted , rates are determined by supply and demand factors . Further . any attempt to put a cap on interest rates would conflict with the Federal Reserve Board 's role in conducting monetary policy . Interest rates have risen sharply in recent months , as the Fed has attempted to constrain money growth in order to deal with inflation . Alfred Kahn , chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability , maintains that interest rates are " above all else a symptom and a consequence of inflation " rather than a cause . Still , the council has been confronted with the dilemma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates are increasing profits . The council believes that it can avoid the prospect of a large number of financial institutions being unable to meet the return-onassets test by offering the dividend test as an alternative . It is tmderstood that several other technical requirements might be added in addition to the dividend test for those financial institutions choosing this form of compliance . The administration source stressed that banks wo n't be asked to cut back on their dividend payments . Rather , they will be asked to limit increases . The guidelines are expected to cover banks and bank holding companies , savings and loan institutions , mutual savings banks , credit unions and finance companies . In writing the standards for financial institutions , the council , which is monitoring compliance with the wage-price program , is nearing the end of the guideline-writing phase of its work , sources said . The agency also is expected to issue guidelines soon for gas and electric utilities . Intensive Monitoring Began The council has begun what it calls an " intensive " monitoring effort to determine whether companies are complying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week before the National Newspaper Association , said that " 65 companies were called last week to see whether . . . they 're complying . " Last week , Mr. Kahn lashed out at small and medium-size companies , claiming that they were ignoring the guidelines . He said that labor unions and the nation 's largest concerns appeared to be complying with the program . The anti-inflation guidelines , issued last December , call on companies to hold price increases this year 0.5 percentage point below their average annual rate of increase during 1976-77 . Concerns unable to comply with this deceleration standard because of uncontrollable cost increases are asked to follow a profit-margin standard . Profit margins should n't be any higher than the average margin for any two of the past three fiscal years . Further , dollar profits should n't exceed the base period level by more than 6.5% plus growth due to increased volume .                     