@@729432

txt A special three-judge Federal Court refused today to nullify existing public school district lines in New Jersey to force racial integration . Although the court declared that the state 's school system , had " degenerated to extreme racial imbalances in some districts , " It refused to order that new lines be drawn . The court said existing racial segregation in New Jersey 's schools was a result of housing patterns in the state that excluded Negroes . It then cited a United States Supreme Court decision last month in which such segregation was left unresolved by the court in a case in which the busing of school children in a North Carolina school system was upheld . Plaintiffs in the New Jersey case contended that de facto school segregation resulting from housing patterns violated the 14th Amendment to the Constitution , which guarantees Americans equal protection of the law . First Statewide Decision Informed observers said that today 's decision was the first ever made by a three-judge court that involved a charge of de facto school segregation in an entire state . The court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here this afternoon . A Federal civil suit brought in the name of two black schoolchildren from Jersey City as a class action in behalf of all black school pupils in the state , named as defendants State Attorney General George M. Kugler Jr. , Dr. Carl L. Marburger , the State Commission of Education , and the State Board of Education . Harold J. Ruvoldt Jr. , a Jersey City lawyer who represented the two children , Vivian Spencer and Geraldine Chavis , in behalf of their guardians , indicated that the case eventually could test the constitutionality of de facto school segregation in the North if the Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal . He said he planned to make the appeal directly to that Court . In the past , however , the Supreme Court has consistently refused to review cases involving de facto segregation . During 1964 and 1965 , the Court turned down three such cases : One involved the schools in Gary , Ind. , and a second the Kansas City , Kan. , school sys-1 tern . In these two cases , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , in effect , that the school districts were under no conl stitutional obligation to correct school segregation that was not deliberate , but a result of resi-i dential patterns . The third case , however , was that involving the redrawing of district lines in Brooklyn in an effort to avoid de facto segregation . The Court 's refusal to hear ' this case let stand a Cir. ! cuit-Court decision that perrnitted such redistricting . In a 14-page opinion signed , by District Judges Reynier J. Wortendyke and George H. Bar-1 low , the Court said : " The New Jersey Legislature has by intent maintained a uni ! tary system of public education , albeit that system has degenerated to extreme racial imbalance in some school districts , nevertheless the statutes in question as they are presently constituted are constitutional . ' A third judge , Phillip Forman , presided at a hearing of the suit last October , but was hospitalized when the decision was being written . In their suit , the plaintiffs contended that the only effective way of ending de facto racial segregation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to require , in effect , a merger of black school districts in the cities with the predominantly white school districts in the suburbs . Under New Jersey law , virtually all of the state 's school districts conform to municipal lines . In a challenge to de facto school segregation in the North , Senator Abraham Ribicoff , the Connecticut Democrat , contended that only 27.6 per cent of black students in the North attended schools in which white students were a majority . In New Jersey , for example , the school system in Newark is estimated to be nearly 85 per cent nonwhite . However , his suggestion touched off controversy in the Legislature , and no one in state government has made a similar suggestion since .                     