@@729851

txt In defiance of taboos that have prevailed for generations , thoukmds of college students are proclaiming their homosexuality and openly organizing " gay " groups on large and small campuses across the country . No one knows exactly how many are involved , but in growing numbers they are forming cohesive campus organizations for educational , social and political purposes , often with official sanction and with remarkable acceptance from fellow students . However , a number of psychiatrists and psychologists are somewhat uneasy about the ready availability of homosexual social activities in the presence of impressionable adolescents whose sexual identities are not fully crystallized . By organizing , the gay students hope to build a sense of community among gay young men and women and to disabuse their heterosexual classmates and the outside community of what they feel are damaging myths about homosexuality . From conversations with officials and homosexual students on half a dozen college campuses from Boston to Los Angeles , as well as reports from // campus correspondents at 15 other schools , it would appear that the gay students have made substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold dances and parties , run gay lounges and offices on campus , operate telephone " hot-lines " for emergency problems and counseling services , publish newsletters , and provide speakers to address fraternity , dormitory , and faculty groups . They will , for example , provide advice and comfort over ' the phone to a student troubled by his attraction to his roommate . In regular meetings the students engage in discussions on such topics as the church and the homosexual and plan tactics for the repeal of sodomy laws . And in their parties they seek to provide , quite candidly , the kind of relaxed setting for " dating " and sexual contact that heterosexual students enjoy . For the most part they arc indistinguishable in appearance from their " straight " classmates . But such is their new presence that the National Student Center Association recently opened a division called the National Gay Student Center . And yesterday at Queens College in New York , more than 100 college psychologists and counselors from 30 colleges gathered to meet with gay students and discuss the delicate problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homosexuality . Negligence Discerned The counselors were told by Dr. Ralph Blair , director of the Homosexual Community Counseling Center in New York , that a national survey of deans , college counseling directors and homosexual students indicated that the schools ' attitude toward their homosexual students constituted " the greatest single example of negligence " in their profession . ' It was an assertion that was largely confirmed in the interviews with homosexual students . Typical , perhaps , of the new breed is Larry , an easy-going youth with medium-length brown hair and clean-cut good looks . He was once an officer of the Interfraternity Council at the University of Southern California , where he was se- , lected as one of the " outstanding seniors " last June for his leadership and academic abilities . But shortly before graduation he announced to his friends , ' professors and family that he was a homosexual . And he began to organize the Gay Liberation Forum , a group of 30 or so homosexuals on the Los Angeles campus who will soon bring suit against the university 's trustee in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In organizing , Larry , now a 23-year-old graduate student , would like to save others from the eight months of " terrifying " isolation he went through as a junior when he first realized his homosexuality . " I was isolated and I was upset  --  because I was looking at my own gayness through heterosexual eyes , " he recalled the other day In an interview in the living rootn of the large , well-furnished Los Angeles apartment he shares with his lover , a U.C.L.A. student . " I wanted to change it , but I did n't feel I could tell anybody  --  and the school really offered no counseling . But when I began reading on the subject I realized that there were millions of men and women who were gay and were ? indistinquishableand that it was not , a sickness . " " We have to reach the general student and explode the myths , " he went on , " and we have to reach the gays in a supportive way . We are cut off from our church , family , jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of society 's attitude toward gays . " As college organizations , the ' gay groups feel they have a special function in cushioning the young homosexual from the , often agonizing experience of " coming out , " the emotionally wrenching period during which he recognizes his sexuality and makes tentative contact with other homosexuals . By providing a " positive " atmosphere for social contacts , they seek to provide an alternative to the harsh noisy " gay bars " where contacts are usually superficial and sex-oriented . While the colleges have generally maintained a hands-off attitude toward the groups , some officials harbor worries . While sympathetic with the plight of homosexuals , Dr. Bcn ? son R. Snyder , a psychiatrist who is a dean at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology said he was worried about 18-year-olds " who are uncertain about their identities getting caught in an exploitative situation . " But others disagree . Dr. Robert Liebert , a psychiatrist at Columbia University , argues that " there is simply no basis for believing that an individual who is on the path of developing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Gay Liberation Movement will be moved from the course because of a gay lounge and militant gay movement on campus . " Official Recognition Whatever the case , gay groups have found little difficulty in achieving recognition as official campus organizations at such diverse schools as Boston University , Columbia , Cornell , Illinois , Colorado , Stanford , City College and the various University of California campuses . At the University of Minnesota , the leader of the local gay liberation group , Jack Baker , was recently elected president of the student association . The Student Homophile League at the University of Massachusettt in Amherst , which works out of an office on the balcony of the student union , is getting $835 this year from the student activities fund . It recently attracted about 150 students from central Massachusetts colleges for a Halloween dance on the campus and several men came in drag . At Columbia University , a group called Gay People at Columbia set up what is believed to be the first gay lounge in a dormitory  --  over the strenuous objections of the college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , two of the students occupied the office of Dean Carl F. Hovde and won an agreement for school furniture for the lounge , located in the basement of Furnald Hall . Arm Around . a Friend And across the country at U.C.L.A. , Don Kilhefnor , a former Peace Corpsman who founded a Gay Liberation branch at the university , strolled across the sunny campus one recent Saturday afternoon with his arm around a male friend , They got scarcely a glance from other students . But at a handful of schools , the homosexuals have encountered official , obstacles , mostly from older administrators and , trustees . Their organizations have been barred from the University of Texas at Austin , San Jose and Sacramento State Colleges in California , the University of Kansas , Pennsylvania State , the University of Florida nt Tallahassee and U.S.C. At San Jose , a California judge ordered the college to accept the group , and lawyers are preparing suits in ' nest of the other cases . For the most part , the gay groups are not very political , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homosexual cause with movements for radical social change . The memberships are predominantly male ; at a few institutions , such as Stanford and Colorado , women have formed separate lesbian groups . 150 ' Groups Reckoned Steve Werner of the National Gay Student . Center in Washington estimates that - there are 150 homosexual groups on campuses and says that many more are forming . Still , the organizers agree they are reaching only a small fraction of the homosexuals in college . The Kinsey report of 1948 said that 10 per cent of American men experienced long periods of predominantly homosexual behavior . At the root of the new movement is an assertion by the gays that , contrary to prevailing medical opinion , homosexuality is not necessarily a mental disorder . For this reason , much of their effort goes , into " consciousness raising " among homosexuals to instill a sense of worth . Many of the groups have speakers who visit and " rap " with psychology and sociology classes and with counselors . " It 's difficult going through psychology classes and constantly being told you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heraric , a sociology major at C.C.N.Y. The groups appear to be most successful at schools isolated from large urban areas and where there are few social out . lets . Thus , strong gay organizations exist at Cornell , Massachusetts , Rutgers , Maryland and Colorado . Other Students ' Hostility The students say that their lives on these and other campuses are made difficult not necessarily by official harassment , but the personal hostility and indifference a student may encounter when his roommates or fraternity brothers learn of his homosexuality . The rate of suicide among homosexual students is said to be unusually high . Even the existence of formal groups has not dispelled the fear . The Stanford Gay Students Union finds almost nobody comes when meetings are held on campus , and a medical student there reports that he was warned by a doctor to be " more discreet " about discussing his homosexuality with others . In Boston , the Student Homophile League attracts young people from many colleges in the area . Every Friday night , after choir practice clears out , they filter into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear lectures , talk , dance , listen to music and drink punch . " So many kids are sitting In dormitories tonight . They do n't know who they are or what they are supposed to do , " said one of the leaders the other night . " They know they are gay and they are going through the worst:crisis of their lives , Here they can conic to a church and affirm ? their gayness openly . " Among the participants was an affable freshman from Tufts , 18 years old , who said lie " Just wanted a place to go ? I 'm really very alienated from most of the gay scene ? ? he campiness , the . tackiness . " There was also a boyishlooking M.I.T. junior , a fraternity member , who said he was " not really decided yet " about his sexuality . To at least some college ladministrators , the fact that young people must flounder so during such trying periods in their lives is very mudh a fault of the schools . Dr. William M. Birenbaum , president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting that the colleges owed their homosexual students a full opportunity to learn and grow . " If the university is embarrassed by this commitment to do what decency says it should do , then it is a sign of our weakness , " he said .                     