@@734154

txt President Carter said today that it was not possible to " abandon " nuclear power in the foreseeable future and indicated that he would continue to press his efforts for speeding up the procedure for licensing nuclear generating plants . Earlier in the day , the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission told a Senate subcommittee that " we can not have an acceptable nuclear power program in this country if there is any appreciable risk " of other accidents like that last month at the Three Mile Island power plant in Pennsylvania . The chairman , Dr. Joseph M. Hendrie , and his four fellow commissioners testified that there must be what Dr. Hendrie called " a searching review and evaluation " of N.R.C. policies and procedures , possibly leading to overhaul and strengthening of safety regulations . Hint of Disagreement The tone of President Carter 's remarks seemed to be subtly at odds with those of many Congressmen and regulators when he was asked at his news conference if the reactor accident at Three Mile Island had changed his views of nuclear power and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants . ( Question 3 , page A16 . Mr. Carter said he had not yet chosen the members of a special Presidential commission to investigate the accident , but said it would report on how lessons of the accident " can strengthen safety standards , better design techniques and also operating procedures to make safety better in the future . " " There is no way for us to abandon the nuclear supply of energy in our country in the foreseeable future , " he said , adding , " I think it does not contribute to safety to have a bureaucratic nightmare or maze of red tape as licensing and siting decisions are made . " While not an unequivocal answer , his remarks seemed to indicate that he would continue to press for the legislation meant to speed licensing that failed to pass Congress last year . There were these other developments today growing out of the March 28 overheating and fuel damage accident at Three Mile Island : The N.R.C. commissioners told senators that , although the advisory committee on reactor safeguards had suggested it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 42 operable pressurized water reactors in the United States , the commission had decided that for now modifications in operating procedures could be used to compensate for faulty instrumentation . Senator Gary Hart , chairman of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Regulation of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee , told the N.R.C. officials , " at some point I presume you 'll want to go back and rethink that . " 4IThe Environment , Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee of the House Government Operations Committee voted , 6 to 2 , to subpoena tape recordings and transcripts of nine closed meetings the N.R.C. has held to discuss the Three Mile Island accident . The commission had declined to promise to furnish full , unedited transcripts . gRepresentative Elizabeth Holtzman , Democrat of Brooklyn , said during a joint news conference with Ralph Nader , consumer advocate , that she would soon introduce legislation requiring the distribution of information on evacuation to people living within 50 miles of a reactor , the deployment of Federal inspectors at reactors on a 24-hour-a-day basis and other steps meant to enhance safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee today was the start of what is expected to be a long Senate investigation into the accident . Hearings are expected to resume later this month after the Congressional Easter recess . The N.R.C. chairman , Dr. Hendrie , long a staunch champion of nuclear power , placed his emphasis today on safety and more fool-proof regulation . " We can not tolerate accidents of this kind , and we must take whatever steps are necessary to prevent them , " he said . He emphasized that he was not thinking merely of " improved hardware " or " technical fixes " but rather " of the regulatory framework itself . " One cause of the fuel damage suffered at Three Mile Island , after the accident was under way , was that a reactor operator took a reading of liquid levels in the reactor pressurizer to mean that cooling water levels were also adequately high in the reactor vessel where the fuel core is situated , the commissioner said . Safeguard Recommendation In response to questions , Dr. Hendrie said that the recommendations made on April 7 by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be prudent to consider expeditiously the provision of instrumentation that would provide an unambiguous indication of the level of fluid in the reactor vessel . " However , this has not been done at the Babcock and Wilcox Company reactors still operating . Some informed sources said it might not be technically possible to install such instruments . Even if possible , the installation would require a long shutdown .                     