@@732717

txt Poland 's Communist Party leaders have become acutely and painfully aware of what several high officials candidly call their " credibility gap " and are engaging in intense secret arguments over what , if anything , they can do about it . Talks with a number of important Communist sources , non-Communist people in various walks of life and Western diplomats disclosed an atmosphere of extreme tension here . The words " very dangerous " were used by many to describe the situation since the Government backed down on its plan to raise food prices after workers ' riots last June . A Mood of Urgency Some Communist officials spoke with an urgency that seemed to verge on desperation , in a manner that has scarcely been heard since the upheavals of 1956 , which nearly brought a confrontation between Polish and Soviet troops and led to the Hungarian uprising that year . There is no suggestion of any such conflict now . Both Poles and Western diplomats said they were convinced that Moscow 's central concern was to keep the country calm and stable , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures the Polish leadership // might decide to take if it could achieve that purpose . But the sources , almost all of whom insisted on anonymity in what they consider a most delicate and uncertain period , also pointed out that Poles were " impetuous . " One Communist said that the Government could not rely on either the army or the militia to put down disorders if they erupted on a wide scale . Non-Communists said the people generally were " really fed up " and one pointed out that the Roman Catholic Church has taken the unprecedented step of appealing to the people to make sacrifices and to have confidence in the Government 's ability to cope with grave economic troubles . " The Church knows what 's going on better than anyone , " he said , " They hear in the confessionals and such . They would n't have gone so far if they did n't think there could be real trouble . " The immediate problem is economic . But it involves the basic policy undertaken by the party chief , Edward Gierek , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resign after bloody workers ' riots in December 1970 . Briefly . that policy was a crash development program , aimed at rapid improvement in the national economic base to raise living standards . It was based on a growth rate of 10 percent or more a year , financed by Western credits . Now the country is heavily In debt , unable to sustain the better living standards , at least until its investments begin to pay off significantly , and unwilling to place faith in the leadership 's arguments that prosperity lies around the corner of a temporary austerity program . " Things have n't been so bad since the war , " said one Polish economics expert . " Oh yes , there are cars and television sets , but you ca n't buy matches , sugar is rationed , meat is hard to find . People have money . We created some inflation by a big increase in wages . But it makes them all the angrier to get good pay and not be able to buy what they needIvith it . " Further , It Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not bail Poland out with big loans , as it did in 1970 , because as one of them put it , " Things are even worse in the Soviet economy . " People Complain Bitterly Experts outside the Government consider the only economic solution to be a sharp cutback in the heavy investment policy , which would constitute an admission that it tried to go too far too fast , and a restructuring of prices that would impose a period of belt-tightening , which carries explosive political risks . People both inside and outside the Communist Party complained bitterly , " Why do n't they tell the truth ? " Why do they treat the public like children ? " But there is clearly no agreemerrt within the party on how the public would react if all the harsh facts were made known , if the system of " consultation " with workers were indeed carried to the point of enabling them to speak freely , and if important changes were made in response to public pressures . Prime Minister Piotr Jarosiewicz , who announced the plan for sharply increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blamed for the situation . Some important officials insist he should be ousted quickly . But others apparently are arguing that if the party drops one scapegoat , it will open the floodgate to demands that many more of the men at the top be swept away and no one could predict where it might end . Mr. Gierek , who , all agreed , had achieved genuine popularity in the first few years of his leadership , has come under growing criticism both inside and outside the Communist Party . All authoritative sources said Mr. Gierek remained the choice of most Polish Communists , the Polish public and also of both Moscow and Washington as the man best able to extricate the nation from its immediate plight . But there were hints that some people high in the party had turned on him and had begun maneuvering against him to move back toward a more repressive policy under which painful economic measures could be imposed .                     