@@728753

txt Chances for a quick settlement of the dispute between Chicago area milk wagon drivers and the dairy industry faded late last night as both sides huddled independently after a t h r e e-hour afternoon session . William B. Hanley , attorney for three dairies and for the Associated Milk Dealers Inc. , said , " We 're further apart than ever . It 's bad news . The only thing I can say now is that I we 've agreed to meet today at 10 a. m. , but I do n't see any possibility of a settlement . " Talks End Abruptly Negotiations broke off abruptly at 6 p. m. yesterday in the Lake Shore Club , 850 N. Lake Shore Dr. , without progress in breaking the deadlock , both sides agreed . Despite more than two weeks of the combination strike and lockout , milk supplies have not reached the critical point . Altho shortages exist in stores and in home delivered milk , rationing by some stores has made milk available in limited amounts to most customers . 5-Day Delivery Issue The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Local 753 , Chicago Milk Wagon Drivers union , are : Sidney Wanner &; Sons , Inc. ; Borden , Inc. ; Hawthorn Mellody ; Meadowmoor , Dean Foods Company and Country 's Delight . Hanley and George Mantho , another chief industry representative , repeated yesterday that the key issue preventing a settlement is the industry plan to reduce deliveries to stores from six to five days a week . The five-day delivery is in effect in the home delivery or retail market and with Jewel Foods , Inc. , which owns the Hillfarm dairy , Anthony W. Christiana , union ipresident , said the plan ; threatens the future job protection of home delivery drivers . He said the home delivery business is slipping because of industry economy moves and the ability of chain stores to undersell the retail drivers . The result , he said , is a loss of work , for retail drivers and a threat to the union . Resume Cement Talks In other labor disputes , the Cement Masons union resumed negotiations with the Illinois road builders in an attempt - to end the strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land between cement masons I and Chicago area building contractors . Herman Ecklund , president of Local 502 , Cement Masons Union , said an industry offer submitted last Friday will not be put to a vote of the membership . The cement masons struck contractors and road builders June 1 . Except for a brief work stoppage in June , construction has continued on most major construction projects .                     