@@732737

txt Hundreds of off-duty police officers , who again conducted demonstrations around the city yesterday , renewed their call for a reduction in the new work schedules that went into effect at midnight last night . But John E. Zuccotti , the First Deputy Mayor , reiterated in an Interview from City Hall yesterday afternoon that the Beame administration " absolutely will not give any ground " on the schedules , under which , in effect , New York 's 18,000 policemen are now required to work an additional 10 days each year . Similarly , Douglas D. Weaving , president of the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association , said he would not yield , in an interview yesterday afternoon at Yankee Stadium . About 400 off-duty policemen and their family members marched there peacefully , in contrast to last Tuesday 's protest in which off-duty officers demonstrated in a disorderly fashion . " There is just no way we 're going to budge , " Mr. Weaving said , adding that such a stand applied not only to the question of work charts but also the issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . These issues had been included in a tentative agreement that the city and the P.B.A. had reached in the predawn hours of last Thursday , after nearly five months of negotiations . But that pact was then unanimously rejected by the police union 's 350-member delegate assembly . The start of the controversial new work schedules on the midnight to 8 A.M. shift went smoothly in the city 's precinctH houses , according to police officials at the borough commands . There were no reports of any incidents or above normal // absenteeism at the start of the shift . " It 's absolutely like a church , " an inspector in the Brooklyn North Area headquarters said after the tour began . The key elements of the tentative accord were that the city would hire 400 of the 3,000 policemen laid off during the fiscal crisis last year and grant a 6 percent raise starting last Sept. 1 , as well as new cost-of-living allowances . In exchange , the P.B.A. agreed to drop a suit seeking the raise retroactive to Sept. 1 , 1975 . Yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , who sometimes stumbled over his words , said that he was prepared to " sit down at any time and in any place " with city officials to negotiate a new settlement . " But the Mayor must now be considered as not bargaining in good faith , " Mr. Weaving declared . Mayor Beame asserted yesterday , as he had done since Thursday when the tentative agreement was rejected by P.B.A. delegates , that he would not bargain at all . ' I 'm Not Going to , Buckle ' ! Mr. Weaving had accepted the agreement that was worked out , " Mr. Beame said , " I 'm not going to buckle under . " His remarks were made at the Theodore Rdbsevelt birthplace at 28 East 20th Street , where Mr. Beame participated in festivities sponsored by the 20th Street Reyitalization Project , a joint program of the Landmarks Preservation Commission , the , Theodore Roosevelt Association and the Park Twentieth Street Community , Association . About 100 off-duty policemen had gathered at the corner of Broadway and 20th Street in anticipation of the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and began shouting slogans . Mr. Beame did not appear to be disturbed by the demonstrations , which followed the same patterns as on Friday when thousands of off-duty officers marched around City Hall , with scores of uniformed colleagues keeping guard . The purpose of such demonstrations , Mr. Weaving said yesterday , was to keep the pressure on the city so that it would " return to the bargaining table . " " We are prepared to keep this up indefinitely , " he said , as demonstrators marched around Yankee Stadium in the lamp cold : " But I 've got everything under control , " Mr. Weaving asserted , alluding to Incidents last week when protests by ) ff-duty policemen became disorderly luring the Muhammad Ali-Ken Norton leavyweight championship fight at the ; tedium . Policemen then encouraged moving bands of youths who unsuccessfully tried to crash the gates to the fight . Disciplinary Action Begun Mr. Weaving was also referring to disDrderly demonstrations in various residential neighborhoods , including the area around Gracie Mansion , the Mayor 's offi:ial residence , which led to citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arrest colleagues who allegedly broke the law . The Police Department has begun initiating disciplinary action against policemen who allegedly were disorderly , and six officers were cited last Friday . But yesterday , Mr. Weaving appeared angered by the department 's action . " We feel this is clearly a harassment tactic on part of the Police Department , " he said- " These officers who have been charged will be represented fully by the P.B.A. We feel we 're being picked on selectively by the brass to hopefully discourage us from demonstrating . " Such a sentiment was also echoed by Dfficer Wayne Keeney of the 47th Precinct in the Bronx , who was among at least 800 uniformed policemen on the scene yesterday . " The disciplinary measures are obviously a scare tactic , " he said . " They are trying to scare the rest of us away from picketing . " A problem of another sort was cited by Assistant Chief Anthony Bouza of the Bronx Command , who supervised yesterday 's demonstration . He was addressing himself to the directive issued last week by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be arrested . r , On-Duty , . Off-Duty Dilemma " We 're asking on-duty police officers to arrest their colleagues who are offduty and demonstrating , " Chief Bouza said . " Eight hours later , when the offduty police officers go on duty , they are called on to arrest those who were supposed to arrest them . " And Officer Keeney raised yet another matter as he waved toward the blue-clad line of policemen . " I think it would be much cheaper in Ile long run for the city to pay us the percent deferred raises than to continue with all this , " he said , referring to the fact that scores of the officers in uniform were working on overtime . " There are sergeants and supervisory personnel here who are getting so much overtime , much of which will go into , their pensions , that they have already ' begun to talk of getting off the force at the end of this year . " But these arguments failed to convince Mr. Zuccotti , who again insisted yesterday that not only could the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would harm New York 's already fragile fiscal structure , but that the work charts could not be altered for managerial reasons . " We will absolutely not give any ground on the 6 percent deferred raises or on the work charts , " he declared . He added the work charts were necessary because the city police manpower had been depleted by layoffs and attritions caused by the financial crisis . Such arguments had won the support earlier of several leaders of public employee unions in the city , who expressed the belief that the P.B.A. had got all it would get from the city and that it was time the police union 's leaders told this - to the rank and file . Yesterday , however , Mr. Weaving rejected such contentions . " I resent these statements coming from the mouths of so-called labor leaders , " he said , brusquely . " I quite frankly wish they 'd mind their own business . ' ,                     