@@732544

txt White Sox organist Nancy Faust wo n't be playing " Take Me Out to the Ball Game " the evening of June 3 in Comiskey Park . She will be performing " Pomp and Circumstance " instead as the processional for Metro High School 's 75 graduating seniors , Metro is Okago 's only public alternative high school , a " school without walls , " that uses the city 's resources as Its classrooms . The students , chosen by lottery some might call It a draft , compare commencement with " crossing home plate , " hence their choice of the ball pork as a graduation site . Sox owner Bill Veeck gave them the use of the park for the occasion , and the organist also is donating her talent . Families and friends of the graduates will sit in box seats behind home plate to root for their winning team members . In case of rain groan , the ceremony will be moved to Jones ' Commercial High School auditorium . Timothy Leary , LSD guru of the 1960s , has a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man eventually will be able to drop off the Earth through space migration . Leary , 56 , was released from prison four weeks ago , after appearing before federal grand juries investigating the Weather Underground which helped plan his escape from a federal work camp in California in 1970 . In an interview in the latest issue of People magazine , Leary says he not only Wants to live on a space station between the Earth and the moon , he wanto to carry some of the Earth with him by a yet to be developed physical compression process . " After six years of silence , " said the former fugitive , " we have three new ideas which we think are fairly good . One is space migration . Another is intelligence increase . The third is life extension . " The initial letters of those ideas spell ** an acronym that means getting out of the world to Leary . The former Harvard professor and his third wife , Joanna , are living in New Mexico , where he plans to work on brightening his SMI2LE formula @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that after her recent experiences with accidents , she 's not about to adorn herself with good luck charms , although she might in the future wear " a St. Christopher medal  --  although that 's supposedly ' out ' now . " St. Christopher was traditionally the Homan Catholic Church 's patron saint of travelers until 1970 when his name was deleteti from the official church calendar . Even a little unofficial influence on the part of St. Christopher could n't hurt . Last November , Mrs. Byrne was on her way to Springfield with a delegation of 95'women to lobby for an override of Gov . Walker 's veto of aid to education legislation when the Amtrak train on which they were traveling derailed near Joliet . And last Thursday ( night on her way home from a Democratic Party dinner , the commissioner 's car and a taxi collided at Michigan Avenue and Wacker Drive . " The cab thing was just an accident . That did n't affect me , but the train derailment did , " she said . " Before that , even when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happen , although when I was 24 my husband a pilot was killed when his plane crashed . " Mrs. Byrne told reporters she felt sorry for cab driver Frederick Ranallo when he learned whose car his cab had struck . She has been leaning on the cab companies lately . But neither driver was given a ticket . Was n't that a stroke of luck ? California Gov . Jerry Brown Is n't the only nonresident of state-supplied shelter in the world . Gov . Brown , as you know , prefers apartment living to the governor 's mansion . Anne-Aymone Giscard d'Estaing , first lady of France who visited the U.S. last week , explained in a Women 's Wear Daily interview that she and her husband and their four children live in an apartment rather than Elysee Palace because the latter is n't suited to children . The French president 's wife does have an office in the presidential palace , where she greets official visitors and answers correspondence every day . She 's well prepared for devotion to duty . Her grandfather and father were in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . In another expression of the divisions among Illinois Democrats , Michael J. Bakalls issued a press release last week giving his " reserved and cautious endorsement to Gov . Walker 's proposed legislation to speed up ' tax collections , " Bakalis , Democratic candidate for Illinois state comptroller , attached a number of qualifications to his support for the legislation cost-cutting , better administration , etc. , then added , " . anyone running for public office ought to honestly tell the people of Illinois that even with government spending cuts some kind of tax increase in the future appears inevitable . " Now that would be a new kind of campaign promise . Chef Julia Child 's husband , Paul , is her helpmate in many ways as well as resident photographer , humorist , and poet . He ? takes all the photographs of Julia used for publicity purposes , and " inevitably , " he says , " some are unacceptable . " In a recent New York Times Sunday magazine , several of : Paul 's poems to his wife were Included , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicated to a particularly " unacceptable " photograph : " The face that launched a thousand ships May well haire looked like this : With tight-closed eyes and sneering lips And tongue between the teeth A kind of wild paralysis ' With beauty underneath . For countless vessels launched by her Now sit on countless stoves And former cowards massacre A reindeer or a shoat And stick their skins with spicy cloves To make their table d'hote . So do not underestimate This mad , hypnotic wench , ' In spite of face inebriate , In spite of how she looks , In spite of ghastly , fractured French , She 's launched a thousand cooks . "                     