@@728582

txt The burial place of Greek warriors who fell in the epochmaking Battle of Marathon , defending Athenian civilization from Persian conquest in 490 B. C. , has been discovered by Greek archeologists on this ancient battlefield . The announcement of the discovery was made on the site today by Prof. Spyridon Marinatos , inspector general of Greek antiquities , as he stood on the edge of the mass grave containing the skeletons of some young soldiers slain in the battle between East and West 2,460 years ago . The professor told a throng of newsmen that the grave had been identified " beyond any reasonable doubt " as the tomb of the Plataeans. who had volunteered to help the Athenian Army under the leadership of Miltiades fight the Persian invaders , though heavily outnumbered by the enemy . The mass grave lay under a carefully built stone tumulus. or burial mound , 10 feet high and 50 feet In diameter , its edge marked by hewn stones , on a plain 26 miles northeast of Athens . Only part of the burial trench has been excavated so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts they belong to young soldiers aged 20 to 25 , placed next to one another . Professor Marinatos pointed to the skull . of a sixth warrior , probably a leader , that still bore the marks of the spear or sword that killed him . Next to each skeleton there was a tiny , painted five - inch " lekythos , " or oil phial , as well as a large clay eating plate placed there " for use in afterlife , " the professor said . Professor Marinatos said the excavators had found traces of a large sacrificial pyre , containing animal bones , that had been lighted prior to the burial , as an offering to the gods . He believed the losses of the Plataeans  --  who came from the town of Plataea , near Thebes ? if proportionate to those of the Athenians , could not have been more than 20 men . He said the archeological service proposed to build a vault here and turn into a " national shrine the grave of these superb defenders of the fatherland . " This is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been found . The wellknown 40 - foot - high Marathon tumulus , about one mile east of this new discovery , revealed no trace of burials when it was first excavated 90 years ago . It was then assumed that the 192 Athenians who died in the Battle of Marathon had been cremated . A thick layer of ash , also containing oil phials and burn bones , had been found there . According to Professor Marinatos , the discovery of the tumulus of the Plataeans now poses the question whether the tumulus of the Athenian dead should not be reinvestigated for possible burials . He said the discovery had also clarified what was the battle order when the 9,000 Athenians on the right , and 700 to 1,000 Plataeans on the left , outflanked , defeated and routed the Persians , of whom about 6,400 ? according to the historian Herodotus ? were killed or drowned in the marshes northeast of the batlefield . According to Herodotus , the Persian force numbered 100 , - 000 . But this number is now regarded as an exaggeration . The likeliest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who escaped , embarked on the ships moored in Marathon bay . Professor Marinatos said in an interview that the archeological service would continue its search in the hope of finding the burial place of the Persian dead , as well as the graves of the Athenian slaves who had been allowed to fight as freemen for the first time in the battle . " Many top foreign archeologists and historians , " Professor Marinatos said , " believe that if the Persians  --  who , before Marathon , had conquered Eretria on the island of Euboea , a maritime power at that time  --  had won , and conquered Athens , whose civilization and culture were then beginning to fluorish , Western civilization as we know it today , for better or for worse , could not have existed . " He added : " The dead we found are the heroes of one battle that saved civilization . " The Parthenon on the Athens Acropolis , built 58 years after this battle , might not have existed had they failed . This archeological discovery was made while the Greek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vast seaside plain of Marathon , which , because of its sandy beaches and blue waters , is fast becoming a popular tourist resort . The search so far has revealed some spectacular finds that may force archeologists into a reappraisal of their theories about the people who first inhabited Attica , the countryside of Athens . Archeologists found large cemeteries here dating from the middle Bronze Age ( 2000 to 1600 B.C. ) , containing some of the earliest burials ever found on the Greek mainland . Change in Civilization Indicated This was a turning point in the lives of the local tribes , which in the late Stone Age used to dump their dead in remote areas to be devoured by beasts . The burials marked the time when they may have started to believe in the possibility of life after death . Not far from the tumulus of the Plataeans , excavators found four ' grave circles dating from the middle Bronze Age , elaborately built with stones , which encircled several shaft-type graves , probably of local kings and their families . In the center of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was a small empty room . It is believed the room was built as a ' kind of " living room " for the dead leaders to use in the afterlife . Near the shore of Marathon Bay , the excavators also found a settlement extending over an area of 125 acres , which was founded in Neolithic times and survived until the Byzantine period . The settlement was protected by a seven-foot-thick fortification wall dating back to 2000 B.C. Professor Marinatos said : " The ancient Greeks had a legend that the son of Deucalion , our own Noah , named Hellene -- which is what the Greeks call themselves today  --  had one son named Xouthos , who went to Attica , built a city in the plain of Marathon , and married a daughter of Erechtheus , the King of Athens . It may be that our discoveries will eventually prove that the Plain of Marathon was , in fact , the cradle of the Greek race . "                     