@@731378

txt The leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization presented a political platform today that bars participation by a Palestinian delegation in the Middle East peace conference at Geneva unless the terms of reference used at Geneva are changed to include the issue of the " legitimate rights of the Palestinian people . " This was one of 10 points in the platform that the leaders , submitted to the Palestine National Council , the 151-member group that serves as a parliament for the organization . A majority of moderates on the executive committee of the organization and on the council , which opened its meeting here yesterday , are known to favor participation at Geneva if the terms used for the agenda are changed . Refugees Were Mentioned The Geneva conference was convened on the basis of a United Nations Security resolution that called for a cease-fire in the Middle East . A related resolution mentioned the problem of Palestinian refugees but did not mention " the rights of the Palestinian people . " In Geneva , Jsraeli and Syrian military negotiators reported that they had made considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heights . Page 14 . The platform submitted in Cairo also pledges cooperation with national forces in Jordan " to bring democracy " to that country ? in other words , to work for the downfall of King Hussein . The leaders rejected returning any Palestinian territory on the West Bank of the Jordan River to Jordanian control . Kissinger Is Criticized The platform accuses Secretary of State Kissinger of trying to break the unity of the Arabs by dealing separately with each party in the Middle East conflict and " saving the Palestinian issue to the last , " to bring pressures on the Palestinians . On the other hand , the platform lauded the efforts of the Soviet Union in the Middle East . The criticism of the Americans and the praise for the Russians was thought to reflect Moscow 's explicit recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization and establishment of working relationship with several of its member guerrilla groups . The United States has not recognized the organiza // tion and American officials have avoided contacts with the Palestinians except at low levels . The platform submitted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its debate here . The council , which began . its sessions last night , is expected to confer for nearly a week , The main issue facing the council is ? whether the movement should join the quest for a negotiated settlement in the Middle East ? a move now advocated by most Arab governments whether , ? on the ' contrary , it should ... rely . on armed force , thus tion in the Arab world . The position of the executive committee concerning the Geneva conference was contained in a paragraph of the platform saying that the organization refused to accept Resolution 242 , passed by the United Nations Security Council on Nov. 22 , 1967 , " as a basis for any dealings .. on Arab or international levels , including the Geneva talks . " The leaders noted that the resolution mentions the " refugee problem , " but does not mention the Palestinian people and Itheir rights . Look to Big Powers The Geneva conference was , convened on the basis of Security Council Resolution ' 338 , which called ? for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in turn , invokes Resolution 242 , The Palestinian leaders , according to informed sources , have no illusions about the chances ' that Resolution 242 will be amended . It has been debated in the Security Council for hundreds of hours , over the last seven years . Rather , the Palestinians expect the So , viet Union and the United States  --  the co-chairman of the Geneva conference  --  to state publicly that the talks will deal with Palestinian rights . The leaders feel that unless the agenda of the conference expresses the Palestinian issue in , their choice of words , the presence of a Palestinian delegation at Geneva will not only be futile ' but will prejudice the Palestinian cause . The Soviet-American communiques following the last two summit meetings between President Nixon and Leonid I. Brezhnev , the Communist party leader , ' used the phrase " legitimate interests of the Palestinian peoples . "                     