@@734397

txt Letters DONALD MANNTIMOTHY SHEARUTH NUSSBACHERJOHN R. JR.KAREN HELLERTHEOD ( Letters Thoughts on the Visit of Pope John Paul II To the Editor : The Pope 's visit to this country was extremely well received , a fitting response to a world leader who is , at the same time , a charming man with a magnetic personality . Strangely enough , however , there was remarkably little criticism in the press concerning the precepts of the Catholic hierarchy with regard to abortion and contraception . Those precepts , if followed , would make the population explosion even worse than it now is . Since about one pregnancy in three is terminated by abortion , without abortion world population would grow about 120 million each year , rather than the actual increase of around 80 million . There is a growing consensus that further population growth in an already vastly overpopulated world threatens to destroy ? for centuries to come , if not forever ? man 's ancient dream of a good life for all , free from material want . But should the Roman Catholic Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical nature of the problem of overpopulation , and the urgent need to find a solution to it ? On the world stage , is the record of any of the other major religions substantially better ? In this country , what Protestant denomination advocates measures of real population control , i.e. , the planned and conscious regulation by society of total population size ? And , religion apart , there are many sectors of our society whose business it is to promote the public good ? for example , the media , our political parties and their leaders , the environmental organizations , the scientific and academic communities and the leaders of business and labor . More and more informed individuals believe that the central issue of our time is how to halt and then reverse population growth so that population size can eventually be stabilized at some fraction of today 's numbers . How can we explain the fact that not one of the above-named groups or organizations has recognized and focused on that issue ? It is particularly baffling that the environmental organizations have not long ago acknowledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common sense ? and charity ? into the widespread American glee over the recent defection of prominent Soviet citizens ? In the first place ( since good manners require that we put ourselves into the place of others ) , how would we feel if some of our most visible fellow citizens defected to the Soviet Union and many lesser ones envied their good luck ? How would American democracy fare against widespread apathy , disloyalty or downright hostility selfrighteously cheered from without ? If we aim to promote a more humane government in the Soviet Union , does it make sense to accentuate the insecurity of the Soviet state at the price of escalating the nuclear arms race and focusing on the danger of a nuclear confrontation ? By rejoicing over defectors , the American people , without realizing it , wage a ruthless political offensive against the Soviet system , taking the fullest advantage of their largely accidental assets in all comparisons between their country and the Soviet Union . They force the Soviet Government ever more to substitute armaments and repression for the social and political cohesion which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forget in the facile comparisons of power attendant upon SALT II that the Soviet Government , like the czars , had little choice but to replace the missing popular loyalty with military might ? which makes unrealistic and lopsided tility of trying to halt and reverse the degradation of our environment unless population growth is also halted and reversed . It is undoubtedly true that the Catholic Church is open to severe criticism for its continued evasion of the most critical issue facing humanity in its entire history ? how to halt and reverse population growth . It is only fair to point out , however , that the issue is also being evaded by almost every other significant group or sector of our society . DONALD MANN Pres. , Negative Population Growth New York , Oct. 5 , 1979 ? To the Editor : The visits of Pope John Paul II to the Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium were inspiring and refreshing . He 's the only winner we 've had at those ball narks all year . TIMOTHY SHEA Oyster Bay , L.I. , Oct. 9 , 1979 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York City welcomed the Pope . He spoke of love and human dignity and peace . Before the United Nations he mentioned the Middle East and how important it was to settle the Palestinian problem . It would have been an act of courage if the Pope had just asked the oil-rich any assessment of strength merely built around weapons . ) And let no one argue that consideration for the internal needs of the Soviet state is a betrayal of Russian dissenters . They surely deserve our compassion for their heroism , but hardly for their rudimentary sense of political reality in their own country and the world at large . Like most of their prerevolutionary predecessors , they have shown remarkably little comprehension of the power foundations of modern democracy , political freedom or humane culture . Does it make sense to escalate for their sake the political and military tensions that may wipe out millions in both countries ( including the dissenters ) ? THEODORE H. VON LAUE Professor of History , Clark University Worcester , Mass. , Sept. 28 , 1979 Not-So-Wise Men To the Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembled to advise him on the Soviet brigade in Cuba : Rusk , McCone , Gilpatric , Ball , Clifford , Schlesinger ? a ghostly curtain call for the arrogance , misjudgment and blindness that cost 50,000 lives in Vietnam . Was the White House being satirical when it labeled this alumni reunion " The Wise Men " ? JAMES M. COLE Partin , N.J. , Sept. 30 , 1979 Arab nations to settle the Arab refugees among themselves , as Israel did with its Jewish refugees from Arab lands . There would not be a Palestinian problem if the Arabs had not kept their own brothers in refugee camps for 30 years . Alas , the Pope did not ask the oilrich Arab countries to alleviate the misery of their own brothers once and for all . Alas , the Vatican did not grant recognition to Israel and its people . We can only hope that this Pope will change the Vatican 's historical attitude toward Israel and thus influence the world , including the Middle East , toward a permanent peace for all . RUTH NUSSBACHER New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern everyone in this city feels for its financial plight logically leads one to wonder who will be paying the substantial bill with which the Pope 's visit has burdened us . The U.N . which is his host , the U.S. Government which is its host , the Catholic Church ? all of whom can afford it ? or the city which can not ? JOHN R. JR . New York , Oct. 3 , 1979 ? To the Editor : I am a television operator for the United Nations . I am also Jewish . Yesterday , UNTV covered Pope John Paul 's visit to the U.N. , and I was in the fortunate position of having the close-up shot of the Pope during his address to the General Assembly . It was a very impressive experience . What was even more memorable to me was the Pope 's return to the General Assembly later , to address the U.N . staff alone . His talk was brief butaffectionate and was received with great enthusiasm . He left amid much applause but later returned and gave his blessing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming from a variety of backgrounds , felt privileged to have been an integral part of the worldwide broadcast of this event and to have been so close to the Pontiff himself . KAREN HELLER New York , Oct. 3 , 1979 Problems Beyond Conrail 's Ability To the Editor : Conrail 's full-page ad in the Oct . Times is a slap in the face for the thousands of commuters who struggle daily with the outrageous conditions on the New York commuter lines . The ad says , " Conrail 's perform . ance to date demonstrates that it can manage the railroad and deal with problems within its control . " Conrail management seems to have forgotten that part of its job is to run the commuter lines as well as the freight lines . The $2.3 billion of taxpayer money that has gone into Conrail ( which will never in our lifetime be repaid ) is supposed to be used in part to help the commuter system . I invite the president and top management of Conrail to join with commuters any morning or evening , as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their system runs . Recently , I investigated Conrail maintenance as it pertains to the Hudson and Harlem Divisions . I found absolutely no program of preventive maintenance and an overall situation that at any given time keeps 20 to 90 commuter cars out of service . I hope that the investigation by the United States Railway Association now under way , conducted at my request , will give me and other members of Congress the ammunition to go after this inept , poorly run system . PETER A. PEYSER Member of Congress , 23d Dist. , N.Y . Washington , Oct. 4 , 1979 Rash U.S. Cheers for Soviet Defectors The High Cost of Keeping America 's Merchant Marine Afloat To the Editor : In his Oct. 1 letter , Arthur Roth exsays that " starting from scratch , as we are , we also have an opportunity to put a modern , highly technical United States merchant marine on the ocean . " Mr. Roth 's desire to upgrade U.S.-flag shipping is commendable , but there already has been a great deal of " scratching " in an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1970 's , Federal construction and operating subsidies totaling more than $5 billion have been expended in an effort to encourage the expansion of a modern domestic-flag fleet . Mr. Roth failed to distinguish between the liner trades , where American-flag vessels transport almost onethird of U.S. import and export cargoes , and the international bulk trades , where they have never truly been competitive . The basic difference between the two is that the conference system of fixed rates , prevalent in the former , enables the high-cost U.S.-flag operator to capture a share of the market ; the free-market system in the bulk trades generally excludes him . I also find it difficult to accept Mr. Roth 's argument that the " old bugaboo of high labor costs is gradually evaporating as the gap between American and foreign pay scales narrows , to a point , for example , where a German mate earns close to 50,000 marks annually . " I believe Mr. Roth will find , upon closer examination , that the gap has widened in recent years . While he is essentially correct in pointing out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would also earn 90 days ' vacation pay tor working a full year ) , Mr. Roth misses the mark when he cites the relatively high-cost German deck officer , paid with one of the world 's strongest currencies , as representative of the competition , at least in the international bulk trades . German-flag vessels are today virtually noncompetitive in the bulk trades , a situation which first became critical during the mid-1960 's and which caused German owners to engage in " outflagging . " By placing their vessels under the open registries of Liberia and Panama to remain competitive , the German owners emulated the approach of American shipowners two decades earlier . While the annual earnings of a German deck officer are irrelevant to the competitive status of U.S.-flag vessels , they do emphasize the severity of the problem of U.S. payroll costs vis-avis costs of foreign seafarers . Consider that an American chief mate who works a full year on a U.S.-flag vessel would earn roughly $69,000 ( about 108,800 marks ) and be entitled to about 280 days of paid vacation . Today , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billet to subsidize higher payroll costs of U.S.-flag crews over the costs of foreign crews . Mr. Roth seems to believe that " the higher labor expense will be more than made up by improvements in safety and maintenance records over those on American-owned vessels operating under flags of convenience . " His cost/benefit argument is questionable : A 1977 study by the highly respected Tanker Advisory Center showed that American-controlled Liberian and Panamanian tankers , ore/ oil vessels and bulk/oil carrier " have a significantly better casualty record " than U.S.-flag tankers . PHILIP J. LoREE Chairman , Federation of American Controlled Shipping New York , Oct. 1 , 1979                     