@@734283

txt WASHINGTON ? Sk-ylab 's fall will come sometime Wednesday between 3:49 a.m. and 6:49 p.m . Chicago time on an orbit which will carry the craft over the United States , scientists predicted Monday . The most likely time for a fall is around noon , according to the forecast . As always , cautioned a National Aeronautics and Space Administration I NASA3 executive , the prediction could change in the next 12 to 18 hours .  - -  WE DO N'T expect all that much sliding ( in forecast impact times from now On the back page For more stories and photos on the last days of Skylab. see the Back Page . on ? no more than maybe a couple of hours on either side , " said Richard Smith , Skylab director for NASA . However , since Skylab circles the Earth in just under 90 minutes , it still is impossible to predict an impact point . Smith at first declined to tell reporters the time the space agency now thinks is most likely . The scientist complained that news media have taken a previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Such speculation is all but meaningless and causes confusion and perhaps needless alarm , " Smith said . However , under repeated questioning , Smith relented and showed reporters a series of orbits , one of which NASA now believes will be Skylab 's last . THE OHM 'S he singled out tend to rise from the South Pacific . across the Equator . pass over the northern United // Latest prediction for fall of Skylab : noon tomorrow // States , and then cross the South Atlantic and finally the South Indian Ocean . " From the standpoint of population these are all very favorable orbits and if things stay on their present track , we will not attempt any maneuvers to control the impact points , " Smith said . On two of the North American passes , the orbit approaches the Chicago area , according to rough NASA maps . The first pass on Wednesday near the city will occur at 7:40 a.m . Chicago time . A second pass will occur at 12:16 p.m . Because the orbits cited cover so much ocean , NASA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over land are only about one in four . However , NASA studies show that there are seven chances in 10 that some piece of the satellite will strike the continent . THE REASON scientists say odds faSkylab watch Today 's Skylab report from the North American Defense Command and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration : Average height above Earth Monday , about 115 miles ; low point Sunday , 119.2 miles ; high point Sunday , 129.3 miles ; latitude of orbit , 50 degrees north to 50 degrees south ; most likely re-entry time , about noon Chicago time Wednesday , July 11. vor land being struck by at least a small piece of Skylab is that the debris from re-entry will occur along a 4,000-mile " footprint " 100 milts wide .                     