@@729216

txt The nuclear power plant whose shutdown nine months ago started a drawn-out electrical power squeeze for New Yorkers has gone back into service , the Consolidated Edison Company announced yesterday . The Indian Point generator , rated now at 260,000 kilowatts , nearly 3 per cent of the utility 's installed capacity of 9.3 million kilowatts , had been shut down since May 20 . The utility also said it was completing adjustments to protective relays whose settings below the level of power being generated were held to have led to last Sunday 's midtown blackout . After the adjustments are completed , the utility plans ' to end temporary limits on production from the Waterside plant , which have been taking 150.000 kilowatts out of the system . Big Allis ' Still Out " Big Allis , " the million-kilowatt generator that has been out of service since July 21 , is now scheduled to have all 96 coils replaced after a failure during testing San . 24 . The company hopes to have the oil-andgas fired generator , which is situated in Ravenswood , Queens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " While the restoration of Indian Point will not solve the current and anticipated summer power-supply problems , it is good to have the unit back , " Con Edison said . The company still faces a suit over the Indian Point nuclear unit , filed by the State Attorney General 's office last May . The suit demands $5-million damages for the killing , of fish and the development of " suitable methods " to protect Hudson River ecology . Good Reliability Record Assistant Attorney General Philip Weinberg , head of the environmental conservation bureau , said that this had not been pressed during the shutdown and that the agency would not seek any halt of generation now , but that an early trial would be sought . In Washington , the Atomic Energy Commission said the Indian Point unit , which had undergone the . longest shutdown of any commercial nuclear power plant , had been in service or available 92.8 per cent of the time during 1969 . The 12 commercial reactors operating during most or all of 1970 averaged 83 per cent , the commission said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent would be a good showing for this first generation of nuclear reactors , and that performance would be improved by experience and future larger units . Fossil-fuel plants , he said , , range in availability from 84 to 92 per cent . The Indian Point reactor began producing power Aug. 2 , 1962 . It was shut from October , 1965 , to May , 1966 , for replacement of its fuel core . Last May 's trouble , the corn ? pany said , involved pieces of metal in the piping of the unit 's primary water-cooling system . The metal was found to have come from a broken thermal sleeve in a nozzle connection ? and the breakage was attributed to metal fatigue . Radioactivity a Danger Only one sleeve required repairs , the company said . But the piping contained radioactivity left from eight years of operation . The Atomic Energy Commission sets limits for exposure to radiation , for calendar quarters and calendar years . So machinists and welders were allowed to work only for 15 minutes at some times , up to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistant vice president for power engineering . They practiced first on mockups . One was a four-foot-long stainless-steel duplicate of the piping , its internal diameter 20 inches , its outside thickness two inches . This was set up at the Van Nest shops , 1610 Matthews Avenue , the Bronx . Another mock-up used to practice grinding for fittings to as little as five thousandths of an inch tolerance was set up at the fuel-handling building at Buchanan . N. Y. , Mr. Freyberg said . One last phase in volved putting a six-inch T into the 20-inch inside piping after it had been closed , done by feeling and with the help of mirrors , Mr. Freyberg said . The new thermal sleeve , the ? company said , has been modified to eliminate welding in the nozzle area . The nozzle and sleeve are now a single unit , with a modified design to aid mixing of cool and hot water . No one had ever tried some aspects of such a repair before , Mr. Freyberg said . The long delays ? it was originally hoped ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then the date was moved to the fall ' ? he said with a smile , were because of " gross inability to ' determine how much time to do ? a job " like this . Con Edison said its findings had been confirmed by the plant manufacturer , Babcock and Wilcox Company ; a consulting , laboratory , the Battelle Memorial Institute , and the Franklin Institute Research Laboratories . Also consulted were the Electric Boat , Todd Shipyard , Newport News Ship Building and Dry Dock and Catalytic Construction com panies.                     