@@728776

txt When President Nixon on July 1 named the new chief negotiator in the Paris peace parleys , he said that Ambassador Bruce would have " great flexibility in the conduct of his talks " except for two conditions . After this week 's Presidential news conference , that flexibility appears to have been severely restricted . During the past six months , as a result of Ambassador Lodge 's departure , no negotiations have been possible . The North Vietnamese refused to meet privately with Ambassador Habib , previously the thirdranking American in Paris , and finally withdrew their top negotiators . Mr. Habib was left " holding the horse " for a new rider , as he himself reportedly described the situation . The naming of Mr. Bruce reopened the possibility of secret meetings in Paris with top Communist negotiators . But new meetings are likely to encounter the same old deadlock if the participants simply repeat ' the same old tired formulas . Mr. Habib is known to have new suggestions ; others have been long under consideration in the State Department . Mr. Bruce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in recent weeks presumably had led to some preliminary conclusions . But before any of this could be laid out in conclave before the President and his chief advisers , Mr. Nixon told a snap news conference that Mr. Bruce 's " great latitude " would , in fact , be quite limited . The President indicated that no new proposals will be made initially , that Mr. Bruce will be limited to discussing past American and Communist proposals and that he will be barred from making any " new approaches " without first gaining the approval of Washington and , probably , Saigon . This is not an unusual role for career ambassadors in normal situations . But it is a long way from the role Mr. Nixon suggested on July 1 when he said Mr. Bruce would be given " great flexibility " except for " two conditions . " The two conditions , which were not new on July 1 , were that the United States would insist on the right of the South Vietnamese to determine their own future and would not " impose " a coalition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these formulations did not exclude the possibility of a negotiated agreement between the Saigon Government and the Communists on sharing or dividing power , nor preliminary Washington-Hanoi discussions of such a solution . But Mr. Nixon has now placed such strong emphasis on President Thieu 's view that elections are the only route to a political settlement that he has severely limited Mr. Bruce 's ability to devise other approaches . At a time when every effort should be centered on the new Paris : initiative , Mr. Nixon instead has focused attention on Saigon 's veto power , going so far as to say : " A political settlement in that Paris forum would seem to be highly improbable . . . . President Thieu has indicated that he in that forum would not agree to a coalition government . " There are other routes to a settlement " that reflects the political forces in South Vietnam , " a phrase Mr. Nixon again used this week . Negotiation of a ceasefire , a proposal Mr. Nixon seems to regard more favorably now than in the past , could bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A round-table conference of South Vietnamese political factions , an approach Mr. Nixon hinted at this week , could get around Communist refusal to negotiate with the " Thieu-Ky regime . " But no avenue open to Mr. Bruce is likely to lead very far so long as his every step must be cleared NVith Saigon .                     