@@734320

txt The United States and Israel ? dramatically reconciled after a jolting dispute over policy toward the Palestinians ? see eye-to-eye again . That is the picture being painted publicly in the wake of the Aug. 8 fence-mending meeting between President Carter and Israel 's ambassador in Washington , Ephraim Evron . But private suspicions still abound on all sides . And a fresh series of talks and policy-planning meetings , scheduled to occur over the next few days and weeks from Washington and New York to Jerusalem and Kuwait , are expected here to keep the explosive Palestinian question bubbling behind the scenes . The key issue now is the current Arab drive to get Washington and the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) into direct public contact for the first time . Such a move would be anathema to Israel . Basic to this is the effort centered around the United Nations Security Council to find a form of words whereby the PLO would at least indirectly accept the existence of Israel ? and hence open the way for US talks with the PLO . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government  --  a key architect of the UN Security Council moves ? and the PLO 's Central Council will each meet for an expected Middle East review . American UN Ambassador Andrew Young , this month 's Security Council chairman , will be sounding out opinion at the United Nations . And West Germany 's Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher is in Washington for talks , prior to returning to the Middle East for additional discussions later in August . Earlier Mr. Genscher reportedly gave the go-ahead to a German parliamentarian who handed Mr. Arafat a compromise peace blueprint . A breakthrough bringing Washington and the PLO together would // From page 1 US , Israel reconcile change the whole shape of Mideast peacemaking . And , with only two weeks to go before the planned date for presenting a compromise Mideast resolution at the UN Security Council , more than a few moderate Arabs privately held out hope that a draft acceptable to both Washington and Yasser Arafat 's PLO can be worked out . After all , one Arab political analyst notes : ? . The Egyptian-Israeli " autonomy talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , still lack visible promise . True , the negotiators came up with a preliminary agenda Aug. 7 . But the agenda listed issues ; it did n't solve them . It seemed , in the diplomat 's words , " an impressive blueprint for deadlock . " ? Secretary of State Cyrus Vance Aug. 8 reaffirmed Washington 's " unshakeable " commitment to Israel and was also quoted as pledging an American veto of any Security Council resolution calling for an independent Palestinian state . But both United States and Arab officials noted privately that this would not necessarily rule out US acceptance of a milder resolution . ? Should the Arabs indeed decide to defer , or shelve , the planned Aug. 23 Security Council initiative , fresh efforts to bring the PLO into the negotiating process might then be mounted by West Germany . Still , there has been no immediate indication the Arabs have given up on the Security . Council route . The plan , as Arab diplomats describe it , is for a resolution implicitly recognizing Israel 's right to exist while also acknowledging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clause has not yet been finalized . But if moderates get their way , it will not directly all for a Palestinian state . Both Arab and Western analysts argue that the recent Israeli-American tension , and its apparent public resolution , simply served to make the obvious obstacles to any eventual US-Palestinian rapprochement more obvious . It is clearer than ever that both sides must pay a high price for any such move , the analysts note . Timely leaks in Israeli newspapers suggested that Israel might pull out of the autonomy talks altogether ? if Washington makes any visible step toward dialogue with a guerrilla organization still clearly pledged , in its charter , to destroy the Jewish state . President Carter may well not want to sacrifice an autonomy process in the hand for a Palestinian entente in the bush ? despite evicdent pressure from America 's Arab oil suppliers for an eventual US-PLO dialgue . Agreement on a compromise UN resolution involves problems for the Arabs , particularly the PLO , as well . The American determination to veto any resolution advocating a Palestinian state was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabs long ago , publicly and privately . But Arab pOlitical analysts stress that less specific wording could be seen as a climbdown from past PLO damands . At a time when Secretary Vance 's glowing declaration of support for Israel is being splashed on front pages throughout the Arab world , that may not be an easy thing to manage ? even if a habitually cautious Arafat ultimately decides to try . Israel 's military moves against Palestinian-dominated areas of Lebanon ? whether by coincidence or design ? makes any PLO-endorsed move toward moderation doubly difficult , Western analysts point out . " Nothing may happen in the end . Or something may happen , " was the apt , and safe , summation of one senior Arab diplomat who has closely watched the recent Arab UN activity . " The returns are n't all in. '                     