@@732408

txt The House Judiciary Committee voted today to return its gun control bill to subcommittee for revisions ? a move that will probably kill arty chance of firearms control in this Congress . The committee did not spe-I cifically instruct the subcommittee on crime as to which changes to make in the bill , whose strongest feature is a ban on the manufacture and sale of about 70 percent of the handguns produced in this country . Individual members made suggestions for changes . The bill , sponsored by Representative Martin A. Russo , Democrat of Illinois , was approved by the committee last week , 18 to 14 . Today , after a weekend of heavy lobbying by opponents of gun control , the measure was recommitted by a vote of 17 to 16 . Waning of Interest Two attempts to assassinate President Ford last September created new interest in handgun control in the current Congress , but that interest soon waned , resulting in the committee decision today . " I am personally disappointed by this vote , " said the committee chairman , Peter W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added he doubted that the bill could be revised and approved so late in art election year . He said that he had hoped that the desired changes , could be made on the floor of the House , rather than by return- Asked if he felt that gun control legislation was dead for this year , Mr. Russo replied , " Yes , I think so . " His assessment was echoed by some members of the subcommittee staff who said , " We 'll just let it die . " A Senate subcommittee has passed a gun control measure that was not greatly different from the one in the House , but has vowed to wait for the House to act before it goes forward , so that there will probably be no bill coming out of the Senate either . Lobbyists for gun interests seemed pleased after the committee action today . At the hearings today , Representative John F. Seiberling , Democrat of Ohio , said , " Since the committee last met , member bers have been subjected to the most blatant lobbying cam-I paign I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , contends a victory was won with the poor showing of Senator Birch Bayh , , Democrat of Indiana , in the New Hampshire Presidential primary last week . Mr. Bayh , who is chairman of the Senate ' subcommittee that drafted gun control legislation , placed third in a field of five candidates . Harlan Carter , chief lobbyist for the association , said that his organization had not worked any harder than usual Jr . and Senator Robert F. Kennedy . Mr. Railsback said that he would prefer to see more criteria used in determining what guns should be banned on the ground that they are the small , concealable type that are most often used in crimes . The bill that Mr. Conyers 's subcommittee voted out earlier this year was devoid of a specific ban on cheap small concealable handguns , often known as Saturday Night Specials , as distinct from small handguns in general . Mr. Conyers was opposed to such a provision because he said at the time that it detracted from the real issue as he saw it ? the proliferation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill reported was relatively weak . It called for mandatory sentences for criminals who use guns , a waiting period for sales , police checks of gun purchases , restrictions on multiple sales to individuals and other administrative provisions . This approach brought criticism from the ranking Republican on the committee and subcommittee , Representative Robert McClory of Illinois , who said today , " My attempt to get at the criminal elements was Jr. , Democrat of Michigan , who shepherded the gun-control bill through almost a year of hearings and drafting , rushed from the committee room after the vote , saying : " The simple fact of the matter is that a number of Congressmen , regardless of public opinion , are opposed to effective firearms legislation . " He said that he would go back to the subcommittee to try to make the changes asked for by committee members , but he was noncommittal about when he would make such a move . The motion to recommit the measure was offered by Representative Thomas F. Railsback , Republican of Illinois , who said : " This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control . But this commit . tee in my opinion , has not been drafting comprehensive firearms legislation , but is at tempting to amend the 1968 Gun Control Act . " Gun control legislation has always been a politically volatile issue . New measures have usually been passed during some national tragedy involving guns . Two gun control measures in the 1930 's were passed at the height of gangland crimes .                     