@@730401

txt The search for a fair formula for allocating delegates to the next Republican National Convention has ended in failure . Instead of facing the issue on its merits , the delegates in Miami Beach unfortunately became entangled in the ideological and personal power rivalries within the party . Contending conservative and progressive factions fought  --  to the first frontier , but scarcely the last  --  in the struggle to determine the G , O.P. 's postNixon leadership in 1976 . The issue is whether the delegates are to represent people or whether they are to represent states . A population formula squares with the one-man , one-vote principle . A state formula tends  --  as do the Electoral College and the United States Senate ? to overrepresent the small states . At this convention , eight states with 49 per cent of the nation 's population , which four years ago actually cast 52 per cent of Mr. Nixon 's popular vote , have only 37 per cent of the delegates . Some of the discrepancies are enormous . Thus , Alaska has twelve delegates and New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many people . Arizona has eighteen delegates while California has 96 , a ratio of approximately one to five , as against a real ratio of one to eleven in population . Before the convention opened , a rules subcommittee last week approved a plan to bring representation into line with population . But the full committee overturned it and substituted the so-called " Miami Beach compromise , " which was not a compromise at all but a clear victory for the small states and the old way of doing things . The cosponsorship of this plan by Senator John Tower of Texas and Representative Jack Kemp of Buffalo , N.Y. , strongly suggested White House backing . Senator Tower is a long-time ally of Mr. Nixon . Representative Kemp , a former California resident , is a Trojan horse who will have difficulty explaining to New Yorkers why he cosponsored a plan so manifestly unfair to his adopted state and so strongly opposed by Governor Rockefeller and other state party leaders . Ideology helps account for Mr. Kemp 's action . Conservatives believe that bolstering the strength of the smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to nominate a conservative in 1976 . For that reason , Gov . Ronald Reagan of California backed the TowerKemp plan , even though his state would suffer under it . Since the Republican politicians have failed to meet the challenge of reform , the courts once again may have to do their work for them . For a decade , the Supreme Court has held that such disproportionate arrangements are unconstitutional in electing members of Congress , state legislatures and many local government bodies . The application of this principle within political parties is less well defined , but a Federal district court has already ruled that this year 's allocation of delegates in the Republican National Convention could not be used again . Since the delegates have not gone far enough in devising a new formula to meet the one-man , one-vote criterion , the courts may once again have to make a determination more consistent with constitutional democracy .                     