@@733375

txt Ex-President Gerald Ford may well decide the relationship between the world 's superpowers , Russia and the United States , for the near future . Will he come to the support of the Carter administration in getting the Senate to approve the coming SALT armaments treaty with Moscow by the necessary two-thirds vote , as he did in behalf of the Panama Canal treaties ? A bitter and possibly partisan battle over the SALT agreements is arising in the Senate two or three months before the actual treaty is presented . Somewhat the same elements are involved as in the canal treaties . conservatives vs. liberals ; and the game plan rules are the same , the constitutional provision that the treaty must be approved not by the whole Congress but by one chamber of Congress , and not by a majority vote but by a two-thirds majority of those voting , i.e. , 67 senators if all vote . Rejection of the SALT ( strategic-arms limitation talks ) treaty would be a blow to U.S.-Soviet relations which , at its worst , might precipitate a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Ford key role again ? The irony of the SALT treaty talks is that President Ford and then Secretary of State Henry Kissinger all but had a new agreement on armaments with the Russians , but that President Carter came to Washington with plans for a much more ambitious agreement . This the Soviets rejected in large part last March . The current negotiations on SALT II follow the original arms-control agreement written by President Richard Nixon and Moscow as SALT I. The coming treaty is now the product of the Ford-Carter negotiations with Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev . The Senate which once rejected the League of Nations in 1920 is aware of its international responsibility in ratifying treaties and does not handle them lightly . A slow drift toward approving the Panama Canal treaty is currently discerned by some though it is strongly opposed by Republican Ronald Reagan and other conservative leaders . The Panama treaties are backed by Messrs . Ford and Kissinger . Attacks on the new SALT agreement have begun early and show signs of becoming formidable . Criticism so far is nonpartisan and comes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Washington , using the vantage point of his arms-control subcommittee as a point of attack . Washington is familiar with the current skirmishing : charges are " leaked " from the Jackson subcommittee that the U.S. negotiating team is giving away valuable American assets . These leaks sometimes contain confidential information given to the Jackson committee by State Department negotiators in executive session . ? The battle really began m ( ago when Senator Jackson led the con ? , liation fight against Paul C. Warnke as " too soft " for the Carter administration 's arms-negotiator post . Supporting the Jackson position is able , hardline arms expert Paul H. Nitze , formerly in the Defense Department . Sen. John C. Culver ( D ) of Iowa sharply confronted Senator Jackson recently about the leaks and brusquely asked that the treaty be taken away from the armed-services subcommittee . Its staff , Senator Culver charged , had created a torrent of leaks to right-wing critics and columnists which attacked U.S. negotiators and seemed to use material supplied by the State Department through his committee Arms-control jargon is almost impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight , MIRVs , ABMs , payloads , first-strike capability , Backfire bombers , cruise missiles , and the like . Basically the public and many senators must depend on their negotiators . What has begun in the present critical bargaining , it appears , is an attack on the reliability of negotiators , perhaps in the hope of moddifying the.treaty before it is crystallized , per- haps to defeatit by the minority bloc of : 34 senators who can reject a treaty .                     