@@732500

txt Letters to the Editor ADRIAN W. DEWINDGRAHAM R. HODGESWILLIAM B. SAPHIREALFRED STERNJOSEPH A. ASCH , ... Letters to the Editor Stock-Transfer Tax : A Needed Adjustment To the Editor : Your May 5 editorial concerning the stock-transfer tax raises a nonexistent issue . No responsible person , least of all the Council on the Economy or the M.A.C . Special Task Force on Taxation , is even considering repeal of the tax . What is in issue is only that part of the tax which is imposed on socalled market-makers. that is , the stock specialists , dealers and professional traders who are making markets in securities , buying and selling , not for investment but as part of their market function . The stock-transfer tax imposed on these people is an onerous additional cost of doing business which finds no duplicate anywhere else in the country , and specifically not in New Jersey . It creates an irresistible incentive to move outside of New York every transaction which can be made off the New York or American Stock Exchanges . There is no question that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of people working in this part of the securities market are going to be working in New Jersey . Many of them have already gone . Leases and other arrangements for S. Harmon Energy ' Gold Mines ' To the Editor : It is not hard to understand why the utility companies and construction unions are pushing for atomic power plants . The plants mean profits for one and jobs for the other . But in their haste , they may not only endanger us all but also overlook gold mines for themselves in the various ways in which energy will be derived from solar , wind , photosynthesis and nuclear-fusion sources . Given the American penchant for trading in the old for the new , and given the American manufacturer 's , skill in aiding and abetting this process , it is not hard to visualize a new and ever-increasing industry in the development , manufacture , installation and servicing of the myriad devices certainly coming over the horizon the next several decades . There will be no end to the energygathering , harnessing and storing equipment . some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxious to build . If one counts the private homes , trailers , apartment houses , farms and public buildings to which these energy devices will be attached , it is easy to see millions of new jobs involved . We To the Editor : Thomas Ellner , in his April 27 letter , accused Larry Abel of " an abysmal lack of knowledge of history ... " and then went on himself to take liberties with history . When Ellner wrote that the Israelis received " less than 20 percent of the land that was set aside for them as their national home , " he obviously had not consulted ( or chose to ignore ) the text of the Balfour Declaration . It states in part : " His Majesty 's Government view with favor the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people ... It being clearly understood that nothing should be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine , or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country . " The key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not say all of what was then Palestine , nor does it mention any specific parts of Palestine . " National home " was left open to interpretation , but no sovereign state was specified . While the Balfour Declaration is certainly not relevant to the situation existing in the Middle East today , it was the first legal sanction for largescale Jewish settlement in Palestine . The legal sanction of a sovereign many more are already in negotiation . It would be extremely shortsighted to allow this migration to continue and thus to fragment the New York financial community just as the time is coming when that community must face up to the problems of the approaching national market system . The net tax burden on the marketmakers is $35 million to $40 million , out of the $200 million of net revenues raised by the tax . That is the portion of the tax requiring adjustment . The strength of the New York and American Exchanges will certainly permit continuation of the rest of the tax on the transactions of investors , at least for the time being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which expires this July and which should be extended to preserve some $50 million of revenues . The misunderstandings and confusion surrounding New York 's financial and fiscal problems are bad enough without having those who should know better , including The Times , add to them . ADRIAN W. DEWIND Chairman , M.A.C . Special Task Force on Taxation New York , May 5 , 1976 will still need utility companies for some heat , light and power , perhaps just as much or more than now , but we will have the joy of selling to them our own excess supply . The harness and buggy makers must have gotten panicky around 1915 when automobiles were turned out in a big way . The same process is occurring now in the energy field . GRAHAM R. HODGES Watertown , N. Y. , May 8 , 1976 Bicentennial Wish To the Editor : As to Bicentennial emblems on M.T.A. and other area railway cars , I 'd gladly settle for one car out of 76 being clean and one out of every 200 sets of double doors opening . ALFRED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University To the Editor : With regard to John Kenneth Galbraith 's remarks Op-Ed April 30 that Harvard University is the oldest university in the nation , we as undergraduates . at another Ivy League institution , the University of Pennsylvania , take great pride in pointing out that our university is the oldest such institution in the United States . We acknowledge the fact that Harvard is the oldest " college " in America . However , our esteemed founder , Benjamin Franklin , sowed the seeds of this " university " in 1749 as the Academy and Charitable School of the Province of Pennsylvania . It was changed to university by charter amendment in 1779 and became the first duly established university in the United States , JOSEPH A. ASCH , ANDREA R. BASS AMY H. KAPLOW , ANDREW R. HEYER MICHAEL D. SPATT Philadelphia , April 30 , 1976 The writers are members of the Class of 1979 . Jewish state and the first boundaries of such a state were contained in the 1947 U.N . partition resolution . Mr. Ellner was guilty of a serious error when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quotas on the number of Jews , Italians , Greeks , Slays and Orientals it would admit . " The Dillingham Act of 1921 and the Johnson-Reed Act of 1924 set quotas based on nationality . At no time was there a quota for Jews . Israel has no quota . But its Law of Return confers automatic citizenship on any Jew who opts to settle there and asks for it , and only on Jews . Moreover . Israel insists on identifying nationality and religion as indivisible and determines both solely according to the interpretation of religious law by the fundamentalist Orthodox branch of Judaism . While excluding non-Jews and Jews not acceptable as such by Orthodox standards from automatic citizenship and the benefits and privileges that go with it , Israel also saddles Jews with a religious baggage many of them will not accept . While I agree that part of the solution of the Middle East conflict lies in Arab acceptance of a Jewish state , I believe that Israel 's ultimate survival depends on how well it is able to integrate itself into the region of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 27 , 1976 The ' Abused ' Primaries To the Editor : The purpose of the primary system is the selection by particular political parties of their respective choices for various offices . The system was never intended to create a wide-open freefor-all for independents and members of other opposition parties to enter and thwart the express will of the majority of enrolled voters in this special selection process . This is what distinguishes nominations from elections . The recent Presidential primaries in Texas , Indiana and Georgia indicate all too clearly that this system is being seriously abused . Reports to The Times and in fact statements of the candidates themselves are clear proof that " crossover " voting by " Wallace : : Democrats decisively affected the selection of Republican delegates to the national convention from these states and gave Governor Reagan unearned delegates . Voting by Democrats in Republican primaries ( or the converse ) is precisely what the party selection system seeks to avoid . Republicans and Democrats are entitled to select their own candidates to present to the public . Voters of all stripes will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the general election in November . Accordingly , ? suggest that primary elections should be immediately restricted to registered voters of the party in question . If party regulation by itself can not accomplish this ; state or Federal laws should be legislated to deal with the matter promptly . I stress that I hold no brief for eithell President Ford or Ronald Reagan . My intention is to see to it that Repub. - licans , Democrats , Liberals and Cori : servatives have the power to determine their own candidates for high or low office without intervention by partisan outsiders . MICHAEL F. MAYER ' New York , May 6 , 1976 6 Unwelcome Towers To the Editor : Your April 19 news article on the proposed legislation to enable New York City to transfer radio station WNYC to the public television station WNET/Channel 13 brings to light a stubborn but rearguard series of actions brought by various elements of the Staten Island community . Numerous organizations ( including the Wagner High School P.T.A. , S.1 . Federation of Parents ' Associations . Civic Congress ) plus the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is an underlying reservoir of ill will that has barely come to light . Now that it has , I invite your attention to the rest of the story : This problem has been extant since 1970 , stemming from the previous city administration . There appears to be a condition precedent to the sale . It involves construction of six 313-foot steel transmission towers utilizing approximately fifty acres in the Sea View area of Staten Island . The Federal Communications Commission is considering a. proposal by the city that would grant , permission for construction of this extensive project . In my judgment there would be many detrimental effects on the educational program at Wagner High School that would serve to impair the safety of our students . In addition , the disservice also would die compounded by the harm that would , be done to this residential , educational : and recreational community . The safety of our youngsters would be threatened by the probable radia7 , tion generated and by the challenging . nuisance that the large surrounding fence would represent . This treeless , wasteland would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . area is only one part . Moreover , a .. marked change in the contour of this land would probably result in largescale erosion , flooding and extensive damage to private and public property . In addition , these fixed installations materially decrease opportunities for necessary improvement of our school 's athletic and educational facilities . I believe it is unnecessary and undesirable to undertake the proposed construction on this land ; low-lying , : marshy areas are much more suitable for this purpose . An industrial-type installation is being proposed in an area that , by any stretch of the imagination , is not suitable to receive , this type of construction . SAMUEL ALTMA'r Principal , Susan E. Wagner H. S. Staten Island , N.Y. , April 26 , 1976 A ' Shriek ' From Boston To the Editor : The truth is finally out . ( " Marching " by Louise Day Hicks , Op-Ed May 3 . ) We now know what is really wrong with busing for racial integration of the Boston public schools . It destroys " motherhood . " It renders both " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " The God-given responsibility of parents to control the destinies or their children " has been abrogated by the " state . " The " city neighborhood " is " the last bastion of the nuclear family , " and so must be defended to the last rock . The final solution of all demagogues Is the destruction of meaning . Language is no longer a means of communication . It no longer defines , elucidates and shares experience . It is ' a shriek of hate and anger . Yet one fact can not be drowned out : the historical injustice of one group of people to another and the treat and constitutional struggle tr , right that injustice . We need not : equate justice with apple pie to affirm that it , too , is American . WINIFRED FRIEDMAN Lexington , Mass. , May 3 , 1976 Of Israel , Palestine and History                     