@@729986

txt Peking accused the Nixon Administration today of continuing policies of " aggression and war . " As the President headed toward conferences next week with leaders of China , an article transmitted from Peking by the official press agency l-lsinhua made a wide-ranging attack on the President 's State of the World message last week and Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird 's report to Congress Tuesday . The agency said the reports " make it plain the foreign policy of U.S. imperialism remains one of global aggression and power politics backed by strength . " First Mention in 6 Weeks The article made the first mention of the Nixon trip to come from Peking in six weeks . It was not vitriolic , but in criticizing American policy around the globe it constituted a general survey of known Chinese foreign policy and a strong statement of Chinese differences with the United States . The article thus seemed a forewarning of the difficulties ahead and a curtain raiser for the Chinese-American talks . After its attack on President Nixon 's foreign policy , the agency transmitted a straightforward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more detailed than any previous Hsinhua dispatches on events leading up to the trip and appeared to be the beginning of comprehensive coverage of Mr. Nixon 's week in China . The report quoted Mr. Nixon 's fume ! ' statement in which he said that the United States and China must find a way to see that they could have differences " without being enemies in war . " It also noted that Congress had approved a resolution in support of the trip . Nixon Termed Opponent Hsinhua , in its earlier article on foreign policy , said Mr. Nixon 's statements that China was a " dedicated opponent " and that the talks in Peking would not he at the expense of Nationalist China showed that " U.S. imperialism has no wish to change its hostile position toward China . " Mr. Nixon 's remarks , the article said , show that the Administration " has not yet relinquished its idea of one China , two governments " and that the President " is in the grip of insuperable self-contradiction . " " No force on earth can change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the article said . Denouncing Mr. Nixon 's eight-point proposal for a settlement of the Vietnam war , the article said that if the United States Government really ) wanted peace it must accept , the seven-point proposal of the ) Vietcong . Hsinhua criticized Mr. Nixlon 's statements on relations with Japan and South Korea and charged the President and Mr. Laird with enlisting " the services of Japanese militarism for aggression against Korea , China and other Asian coon-I tries " through encouraging ' modernization of Japan 's military equipment . The agency gave as China 's unswerving position that " U.S. armed forces of aggression must withdraw from Indochina , South Korea , from Taiwan and from all places it has invaded and occupied . " Japan was not mentioned as a place from which China said the United States must withdraw forces . Hsinhua said the U.S. had I sent the aircraft carrier Constellation to the Tonkin Gulf land Tore 3.52 bombers to Indochina to intensify " the war adventure . " Mr. Nixon 's references to the Middle East , Africa and Latin America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people for their rights land an intention to intensify economic , political and cultural ) aggression and infiltration . Hsinhua said that the Nixon report had also revealed what it called the United States tactic of colluding as well as contending with " Soviet revisionist social imperialism " for world hegemony . " The irresistible current of history today , " the article said , " is that the states want independence , nations want liberation and people want revolution . " It added that the " time has gone when one superpower or two superpowers could conspire to rule the fate of other countries at will . " " The affairs between countries must be settled by the countries concerned , " it said . " International affairs must be settled by all countries in the world through consultation . "                     