@@729515

txt In the Mukden mini-tractor factory , all the machines are painted either green or gray , revealing the unique Chinese Communist approach to industri-alization , Green designates apiece of equipment that has been manufactured by the plant 's own resources while gray means it has been produced with state funds . Many , if not most , of the smaller machines are painted green . The plant , which was turning out water faucets in 1964 with 200 workers , now has more than 1,000 workers and factory officials say it is producing - about 450 12-horsepower tractors monthly in a drive to modernize agricaltare . Since the start of the Cultural Revolution , heavy emphasis has , been on selfreliance , innovation and local self-sufficiency . This was the slogan on every farm visited and in factories ranging from small neighborhood workshops to large textile , steel , chemical and machine.tool plants . In the Soviet Union and other Communist countries of Europe , the emphasis is on economic centralization and specialization . In China Mao Tse-tung , has opted for c.e. centralization and local di- versification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the target of becoming self-sufficient in food and light industrial products . " See the country as a chessboard , " each square selfsufficient but related , the people are told . Peking 's policy is not moving China dramatically and quickly into the ranks of the advanced industrial nations . In fact ? China has not yet fully entered the industrial age while the United States , Japan and some European countries are well into the postindustrial electronic era of automation and computerization . Presumably at Chinese nuclear installations and in research institutes there are advanced computers . Those seen by this writer in factories were primitive models that , apart from a serial production model for operating lathes , seemed installed largely for training and experimentation . Backwardness Conceded Chinese officials , while showing off their agricultural communes and factories , tell you that in general the country remains backward economically and has a long way to go . Agriculture , moreover , remains the foundation of the economy despite the drive to industrialize . Many imports needed to nurture the industrial base are financed by exports of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canned fruit . Only recently have the Chinese begun to compete seriously with textiles and other light industrial products , largely in Asian and African markets . The shortage of goods to export to industrial countries limits foreign exchange earnings and is a major factor in the relatively slow growth of heavy industry and explains the dependence on local efforts and innovation . Nevertheless , the evidence of construction , the lush , well  --  tended fields , the markets full of food and consumer necessities and the energy exhibited everywhere add up to the impression that the basic needs of the people are being met and the foundation is being laid for a modern industrial country . The policy of decentralization not only has compensated for inadequacy of the transport system but has given China the capacity to absorb a strong nuclear blow without suffering total paralysis . The drive for local selfsufficiency can be illustrated by the industrial complex of Mukden , Anshan and Fushun in Manchuria . In Anshan , the Chitashan open strip mine atop two mountains was opened last year and is producing four million tons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The mines are being expanded so that production soon will be up to eight million tons . The ore is of a 30 ? per-cent grade and requires concentration before use in blast furnaces , More Local Ore Use Previously Anshan drew on mines as far away as Hainan Island . The drive to tap low-grade iron-ore deposits near by is bringing Anshan , Fushun , the coalmining center , and Mukden , with its machine  --  tool , tractor and electrical equipment plants , closer to self-sufficiency . Multden , whose official Chinese name is Shenyang , has doubled in population in the last 20 years with about two million inhabitants in the city and another two million in suburbs . With a short growing season of about 150 days , the region was dependent formerly on grain imports . Now it is close to self-sufficiency in grain with the introduction of rice fields and new techniques of intensive cultivation of wheat , corn , soybeans and vegetables . Every agricultural commune , even if it used to grow specialty crops , is now seeking self-sufficiency in grain so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Lake tea commune near Hangchow , peasants recounted how for months they had fought back the swift waters , of the Chientang River , building dikes and reclaiming land so that rice could be planted without diminishing the cultivation of tea , an important cash crop . Births Are Declining The central problem of the economy now seems within reach of a solution . Formerly the population was increasing at a rate  --  probably 15 million a year  --  that so consumed farm output that little was left for capital development or for export to pay for badly needed foreign machinery and raw materials . Now agricultural production is increasing while the birth rate is dropping because of a policy of encouraging late marriage and such birth control measures as the pill and sterilization . Abortion is also legal if both man and wife approve . Peasants no longer feel the also have been trying to combat some dissatisfaction among the peasantry and tendencies toward the ' capitalist road " that came under attack during the Cultural Revolution when Mr. Mao ousted former President Liu Shao-chi . In the August @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tough-looking party man who became chairman of the revolutionary committee a year ago , said serious ideological problems had developed in the graingrowing commune because of the " capitalist influence " of the renegade Liu Shao-chi . " Private Plots Cut Back Mr. San asserted that the private , plots that each peasant family of collective production teams is allowed , together with ownership of a house , had mushroomed in size . The plots , on which a pig and a few chickens also are kept , now have been cut back . Free markets and speculation have also been ended , Mr. San said . Peasants now buy and sell their domestic side products such as handicrafts through a commune cooperative . Loans and savings deposits are made at a commune loan , and credit cooperative at 4 per cent interest . In factories there is heavy propaganda emphasis on a United States strategic ban on shipments of machinery to China and the abrupt termination of Soviet aid in 1960 es spurs to workers to build their own equipment . President Nixon 's recent relaxation on trade has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy has paralleled changes In the structure of the national Government . Since the Cultural Revolution , central government administrative personnel has been pared from 60,000 to about 10,000 , according to Premier Chou , About 80 per cent of those removed , many of whom were linked to former President Liu , were sent to re-education schools . Thousands are still In these schools or in villages awaiting reassignment . Departments Merged The Government 's 90 departments have been consolidated into 26 , each under a revolutionary committee made up of members of the army , which Mr. Mao regards as a " key component of the state , " and of party and staff workers . Throughout the country , responding to Mr. Mao 's injunction to simplify the administrative structure , similar personnel cuts , often exceeding 50 per cent , have been made by local governments , factories , communes and other enterprises . Mr. Mao seems to have boundless faith that through indoctrination the ordinary workers can be roused to increase production and through innovation renew the antiquated and makeshift character of much of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ count of the number of innovations by workers . In many factories army propaganda teams still grapple with resentments and dislocations caused by a decision taken in the Cultural Revolution to eliminate such material incentives as bonuses , payment for piecework and overtime pay . need for several sons as security for their old age . The commune provides welfare funds where needed and a coffin at death . Families with two or three children seems to be the rule in the new generations . While other foods seem plentiful , grain still is rationed in amounts adequate for the average family 's needs . According to Premier Chou En  --  lai , China 's grain output in 1970 was a record 240 million metric tons , a figure that foreign experts traveling in the country and observing the bumper harvests tend to accept . The country imported 5 million tons of wheat last year but this year has contracted far only 2,5 million tons from Canada , saving about $100-million in foreign exchange . The imports will compensate for higher-priced rice shipped abroad to bring in foreign exchange and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in grain production is ? attributable to new water-management projects , more intense cultivation employing new techniques , greater use of fertilizer and mechanization and the incredible industry of the peasant . Climate 's Impact Reduced The water-management projects completed with mass labor in every section of the country are a shield against the weather cycle , which in the past brought famine through drought or floods . Many millions of trees have been planted in the countryside and in cities to guard against soil erosion and beautify the landscape . In the countryside one sees peasant production teams marching out to work in the fields with a red banner fluttering at the head of the column . There are glimpses of army propaganda teams lecturing peasants beside paddy fields to spur them to greater efforts .                     