@@729302

txt State governments must overhaul their " unequal and mismatched " methods of aiding overburdened inner-city schools , a group of business executives ' urged today . Present state aid formulas often give substantially more funds to suburban schools than to far needier urban schools , according to a research study of the Committee for Economic Development . The crux of the problem , the study says , is " too great a reliance " on the patchwork , eroding system of property taxes for the financing of education . The solution proposed is a change to a fairer source of funds , like state income taxes. ? The study , " Education for the Urban Disadvantaged , " was released today by a subcommittee of the economic development group . The full committee consists of 200 leading national business executives and scholars joined to study and report on public problems . Meanwhile , reports show that school systems in nearly every large city in the country are in desperate financial straits , and that budget deficits , teacher layoffs and reduced services are the rule rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , urged that the highest priority be given to school integration , saying it is " of critical importance for the quality and equality of education as well as for social relationships . " ? But the bulk of the report was focused on recommendations for improving compensatory education for disadvantaged children who are likely to remain in segregated schools . One of the most important compensatory steps , the report said , is a " massive effort " to expand preschool education . " The decisive effect of early childhood experience on school failure and success makes pre schooling for the disadvantaged a necessity , " it said . The study cited a Federal experiment in which 32 Negro infants were read to , talked with , and played with for an hour a day . After two years their average I.Q. was found to he 106. compared with an average of 89 for 32 infants not so stimulated , " Preschooling , is desirable for all children , but it is a necessity for the disadvantaged , " the report said . Marland Praises Study The committee presented the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner of Education . He praised the study , saying , " Recommendations like this are brave things to say . These views are important not only because they are sound , but , because of who 's expressing them . " Among other major recommendations of the report were the following : 4lGreatly enhanced " career education , " leading either diTeclly to satisfying work , or to additional pre-professional schooling , is an urgent innercity need . ( 1Schools must be judged by performance , as measured by student achievement , rather than by " inputs ' like money , quality of buildings , and teacher-pupil relations . 1Decisions about policies in inner-city schools must involve . strong community participaH tions . Officials of the committee ' laid greatest stress on the re . ' port 's conclusions about state tax policies for education . At a news conference , they , said that overhaul of " terrible ' state tax administration " was critically needed . And they were obliquely critical of the Nixon Administration 's general revenue sharing plan , on the ground that the availability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " And to the extent there is revenue to share , " said John L , Burns , chairman of the education study panel , " we opt for Federal assumption of welfare , " thus freeing local funds for education .                     