@@732404

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 36 Letters to the Editor U.S. Foreign Policy : The Italy Fallacy To the Editor : Italian friends and journalists who are well-disposed toward the United States are kept busy these days persuading their fellows that the freedom of Italian political life is due to U.S. restraints on Russia ( there  --  looking at , Hungary and Czechoslovakia  --  but for the grace of NATO , go we ) and that the Watergate and Lockheed investigations testify to the political courage of the American Congress . Yet somehow , their best efforts notwithstanding , our U.S. seems to represent poorly the popular sovereignty based on rational choices among competing elites and programs which a liberal democracy presupposes . Our leaders simply do n't seem to believe it . For example , Italians hear our President scold them for the way they choose to vote and warn them that one of the non-Communist parties must remain in charge . The largest of the non-Communist parties ? the Demochristian dike against Bolshevism ? has been , in charge for thirty years ( ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still proven incapable ( in the view of France 's Ortoli ) of reforming the administrative machinery of the state and of adequately meeting Italy 's political responsibilities in the Common Market . If one is to judge by the Olympic Handicap To the Editor : A. C. Meyer writes of our winning only ten medals in the recent Winter Olympics and attributes this to the " undisciplined and permissive lives " of American youth letter March 4 . I can only speak for the United States Ski Team 's athletes , who necessarily live the most thoroughly disciplined ives that I know of . They are in rigorous training or actual competition Cindy Nelson at Innsbruck ten months of each year and are in magnificent physical condition at all times , or they simply could not compete at the world-class level . That all the other nations in the world " subsidize their athletes " is no cop-out retort . They do , with special schools , training sites and year-round coaching and training for thousands of their most-talented athletes . These nations consider sports victories a To the Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter March 2 that the Governor 's proposals for Medicaid cuts " . . . may be the most regressive in the history of the state . " Such a statement can not go unchallenged . New York State has now  --  and will continue to have after the proposals are enacted  --  the most generous program of medical care for the poor of any state in the nation , The Governor 's recommendations are made in the face of a fiscal crisis which leaves no choice but to reduce spending . Medicaid program revisions were proposed after careful review . It shco.ld be noted that over twothirds of the $3 billion annual expenditure for Medicaid in New York State goes to hospitals and long-term-care institutions . Limiting hospital and nursing-home rate increases , therefore , Is essential for any cost containment . This will admittedly require some economies by hospital management . The most informed estimates of reduction in hospital revenue from such cuts , however , are , at most , 5 percent . The threat of mass bankruptcies cited by Mr. Allen does not appear credible . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the population of the right to health care . This is not true . The Governor does not propose , and would in fact oppose , any changes in the basic eligibility requirements for the Medicaid program . Italian local elections of last summer ( and elections are held exactly so that one can make such judgments ) , many voters  --  wisely or not  --  have decided that the Demochristians have had their chance and have muffed it . Yet this judgment by the voters is accorded little respect by President Ford , revealing his lack of faith in popular sovereignty . Similarly , Mr. Nixon felt that the voters could not be trusted to make a free choice ( how else explain executive-protected burglary of the limping opposition 's offices ? ) . Manipulation , intimidation , corruption and concealment are irreconcilable with the rational nineteenthcentury liberal response which we defend , both commercially and politically . Like old Henry Ford , we often seem to laud consumer choice so long as the consumer chooses a black body and yellow wheels . Parliamentary , liberal , democratic government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its external " enemies " but against its own incapacity to deal effectively with the problems faced by twentieth-century governments . With the friends it has , enemies become superfluous . K. ROBERT NiLssori Florence , Italy , March 1 , 1976 The writer is professor of political science at Dickinson College . matter of national pride and prestige , and they invest substantial amounts of government money to that end . Conversely , the United States teams are almost entirety dependent on public contributions . With limited funding , we can support only a limited number of athletes . Each of them must sacrifice personal education and personal income to be a ski team member . The wonder to me is that our youngsters do as well as they do against such odds : Billy Koch 's silver medal in the thirty-kilometer crosscountry race , the first nordic Olympic medal ever for a U.S. skier , Cindy Nelson 's bronze in the downhill , two girls in the top ten in slalom , three men in the top fifteen in downhill and slalom . I 'll make a bet with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. public will give the U.S. Ski Team a million dollars a year for the next four years , we 'll field the strongest team in the world at Lake Placid in 1980 . BRADFORD BRIGGS President , United States Ski Team New York , March 4 , 1976 ? To the Editor : Assuming that A. C. Meyer 's letter of March 4 was not a parody , I would like to offer some queries in response : Is it not a sign of these remarkable times that Americans are growing appreciative of effort , not just of product ? And is it not a sign of maturity that we can compete for the love of sport , not just of honors ? Is it not heart-warming that we value competition intrinsically , and that we feel pride , not humiliation ? Could it be that we are a nation of humans , not of kommandants ? SHELLEY C. GILCHRIST Highland Park , N. J. , March 4 , 1976 We agree with Mr. Allen that a major effort is needed to improve the management and curb abuses in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would immediately correct some abuses that have long prevailed in " Medicaid mills . " Many additional regulatory changes were contained in the Governor 's State of the Health address last month . These steps , however , can not sufficiently curb the rate of increase in Medicaid expenditures in the next fiscal year . Therefore , the Governor has made recommendations for selected program cutbacks , which he considers the most effective and least harmful way to realize required budget savings . Instead of degrading the health system , as Mr. Allen alleges , they are expected to force muchneeded efficiencies and economies and improve productivity . The Governor will not retreat from his commitment to making the state 's ' health systems the best in the nation . We must now test our ability under severe budgetary constraints . Out of the pain of the current fiscal crisis has emerged the opportunity to change the direction of our inadequate systems of providing health and mental-health care . We must use this opportunity to make them less costly and more rational , effective and humane . KEVIN M. CAHILL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Affairs Albany , March 4 , 1976 CUNY : Periled York ... To the Editor : I write to protest the Board W Higher Education plan to truncate York College . York must not be made into a two-year college . Who is such a poor mathematician as not to see that four minus two equals two , and two minus two equals zero . - -  - -  There are three major reasons why this must not happen . First there is no truth in any one of the board's. allegations about York . It has no twoyear professional programs ; the bulk of its students are in the liberal arts , and the natural and social scienceg ; ? its student body is mostly white and ' Catholic  --  and if it were not , would that be a reason to destroy it ? Its instructional cost per full-time student puts it in the mid-range of CUNY institutions , and yet it is younger and smaller than most . It 's not less cost-effective , it 's morel The true cost of its rental facilities is less than all but one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at junior and senior level compares favorably with Lehman's. deleted paragraph                     