@@728312

txt A major battle looms in Congress over renewal of the 1965 Voting Rights Act . Principal effect of the law has been to open the way for blacks in the Deep South to register and vote . Now President Nixon wants the law watered down in directions strongly desired by the South . And the House has followed his lead . But civil-rights leaders are up in arms . Meanwhile , Mr. Nixon has galloped off in the opposite direction by vigorously supporting the Philadelphia Plan , a Labor Department program requiring contractors bidding on federal-construction work to hire a mandatory quota of minority-group workers. , The Senate nearly blocked this thrust by the White House , giving way only when the President insisted . All these are only preliminary maneuvers by both sides . They lead up to the big encounter in the Senate in 1970 when liberals will try to extend the Voting Rights Act for five years in its present form , and the President is expected to push his amendments easing voting-rights pressure on the South . 0 Up to now in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action . But when lawmakers reconvene Jan. 19 , they face some rugged decisionmaking on whether or not to pass administration crime bills ; electoral and postal reforms ; softer penalties for marijuana ; and foreign-aid appropriations . Trends ... One way to estimate the escalating use of drugs by suburban youngsters is to check the drug-arrest figures for a city 's suburbs . Virginia Sen. William . B. Spong reported to the Senate recently the rocketing drug-arrest figures of Washington suburbs . In Fairfax County , Virginia , he said , there were 16 arrests for drug law violations in 1966 . None arrested were juveniles . In 1967-34 people were arrested , including six juveniles . In 1968-86 people , including 38 high-school-age youngsters . In the first 11 months of 1969-198 people , including : 82 juveniles . * Senator Spong reported a similar picture in neighboring Arlington , Va. , where drug arrests have leaped from 29 in 1967 to 201 in 1969 . . Some Maryland suburbs , he said , cite comparable statistics . All these figures , he said , testify " to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps , too , to our understanding of the basic forces at work . Live-in maids are becoming more of a status symbol than ever . The Labor Department is doing its best to tighten regulations governing imported domestic help , and that the wage scale ( which now starts at $1.75 an hour ) goes up accordingly . In the past many maids imported from abroad have quit the baby-sitting , housekeeping scene shortly after being hired  --  for better pay or marriage to an American . The Labor Department now requires that foreign women applying for visas show proof of their experience and concrete offer of a job . They must also convince authorities they are not coming to the United States in search of a husband . How and why . . . Secretaries of State often leave a flamboyant or highly personal imprint on their years in office . Judged by such precedents , Secretary William P. Rogers has yet to leave a clear stamp . And seasoned members of the foreign-affairs elite wonder just where the Secretary of State stands  --  and is heading . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being debated in the administration , usually it was known in general where the Secretary of State stood , since his philosophy was made clear in his performance . This is n't always true of Secretary Rogers . Insiders , however , say that Mr. Rogers is " impatient " with the long-range , philosophical implications of policies . His greatest contribution , they say , is his " clearheadedness . " He has made significant contributions , they say , in decisions on the Vietnam war , the SALT ( strategic-arms limitation ) talks , and on the Middle East . His judgment at crucial points of debate on key issues has helped him make a " substantial " contribution . He is reportedly first rate at spelling out the real-life implications of policy decisions . So the soft-spoken Mr. Rogers could be making a much greater contribution than anyone will know until some insider publishes his memoirs years hence .                     