@@730006

txt The British Government decided today to prohibit harsh interrogation methods used by its security forces against suspects detained in Northern Ireland . Political detainees there have had black hoods put over their heads , have been subjected to continuous noise or electronic " mush , " . deprived of , sleep and given bread and water every six hours . Some were also forced to stand for hours with ' their legs . apart and their hands against a wall . Announcing the ban , Prime Minister Heath told the House of Commons that ' . ' interrogation in , depth " would continue , in an effort to end the " barbaric practices " of terrorists , but that " the severe technioes will not be used for that purpose . " He insisted that only 14 prisOners had been subjected to such treatment , in August and October , in the early stages of the controversial internment policy in the province . The Prime Minister said such methods were suspended pending the outcome of official inquiries that started after British newspapers publicized detailed charges of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government felt the need to use such techniques again , it would seek the prior approval of the . House of Commons , Mr. Heath acted after one of the official inquiries , which reported today , left it up to the security forces to continue the practices . The three-man committee , headed by Lord Parker , a former Lord Chief Justice , split 2 to 1 in favor of allowing such methods cases where it is considered vitally necessary to obtain information . " How Decision Was Taken Mr. Heath 's decision to abandon the techniques was considered here to be largely political . It was believed to be meant to show what some called . a " sense of fairness " in hope of easing some of the bitterness the Roman Catholic minority of Ulster over internment . Apparently he also wanted to better the chances of a favorable response from the Catholics to his program of Ulster reforms , now in preparation . It was also clear that Mr. Heath was impressed by the inquiry 's minority view , expressed by Lord Gardiner , a former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or moral basis for continuing the methods . " I do not believe that whether in peacetime or even in war against a ruthless enemy such procedures are morally justifiable , " Lord Gardiner added . Cites International Pacts He cited various international agreements against the ill-treatment of prisoners , including the Geneva convention , The Universal Declaration of Hu-. man Rights , and International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , Whether these , technically , might apply in Northern Ireland or not , Lord Gardiner said , Britain must consider the effect " on our own country " if such methods were continued . In the majority report , Lord Parker and John Archibald Boyd-Carpenter , a Conservative Member of Parliament , said there was " no doubt that the information obtained " by the methods " was responsible for the saving of lives of innocent citizens . " They said the moral question lay in the " intensity with which these techniques are applied and on the provision of effective safeguards against excessive use . " " Subject to these safeguards , " they continued , " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rule out these techniques on moral grounds and that it is possible to operate them in a manner consistent with the highest standards of our society . " Some Gains Are Noted Because of the rough treatment of the prisoners , the majority report continued , the army was able to identify 700 members of the outlawed Irish Republican Army , learned details of its operations and about arms caches and communications and supply routes , and learned the names of those responsible for about 85 incidents . In dissenting , Lord Gardiner argued that only Parliament could authorize such methods , no matter what the results , Mr. Heath 's decision was generally welcomed in Parliament . Harold Wilson , the Opposition leader , said it was a /wise move that " could make more than a marginal difference in stabilizing the situation . " Mr. Heath and Mr , Wilson , the head of the Labor party , have conferred periodically on the Ulster crisis in the hope of keeping partisanship to a minimum . The Prime Minister and his advisers are apparently running into some difficulty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Officials insisted again today that no decisions had been reached , despite the flurry of reports of specific proposals appearing in British newspapers : The officials stressed the difficulty of devising a plan that might stand a chance of being embraced by . Protestants ' and Catholics . 685 Still Detained There was little immediate reaction from Catholic civil rights groups in Northern Ireland . Several of their spokesmen said the move did nothing to remove a key obstacle to any negotiations ? the internment policy itself . Ulster 's Protestant-dominated Government , with the support of Britain , announced the internment policy on Aug. 9 , to root out terrorists in the six counties of the province . This touched off a wave of killings and led . to protests from , , , , Cath , olic leaders that the policy of indefinitely interning suspects without trial was , aimed solely at the ' Catholic community . At present 685 men are being held , A spokesman for Shin Fein , the political wing of the official I.R.A. , said in Dublin that the decision was a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " reasurrance that this kind of thing will not happen again in Ireland . "                     