@@732012

txt The consumer 's dollar is " beginning to shed that shrunken look . For the first time since the scuttling of wage-price controls early in 1973 , the nation has gone a full year with inflation below the double-digit mark . More encouraging still , in the last three months the consumer price index climbed at an annual rate of only 5 per cent , as against 13.6 per cent in the three months ended last October . These indications that the average American 's money will lose only about half as much purchasing power in 1975 as it did in 1974 are , unfortunately , no sign of over-all economic health . On the contrary , the slowing of inflation is primarily a reflection of the enormous slack in the economy , with 8.5 million workers jobless and the ending of the academic year about to flood the labor market with a horde of new job-seekers . The problem now is to speed recovery from the worst recession in four decades without reigniting the inflationary fires . The effect of the tax cuts and other antirecession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Ford is only just beginning to be felt . One evidence was the 4.4 per cent jump last month in the amount of goods the average worker could buy with his weekly take-home pay  --  a direct reflection of the May 1 reduction in withholding taxes . But that boost in buying power went only to workers who had jobs . Those without jobs saw each week bring them one week closer to exhaustion of their unemployment insurance benefits . The last month has brought a spreading consensus among economists of many persuasions that the recession is bottoming out , but there is no similar belief that improved business will bring any measurable drop in the unemployment rolls . The probability is that the jobless rate will come close to 10 per cent in the next few months , and few experts ? including the President 's own Council of Economic Advisers  --  expect it to drop much below 8 ' per cent next year . This is more than double any acceptable level in a nation that made a commitment to full employment after World War IL So long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House nor Congress can conclude that the full job of economic recovery has been done . The dimensions of the employment problem rule out defeatism of the kind expressed by Speaker Albert in his letter to House Committee chairmen last week . The risk of more Presidential vetoes simply increases the duty of Congress to draft its antirecession programs with less attention to political pork and more to community benefit . A scaled-down emergency employment bill , redrawn to meet the President 's objections , has passed the House ' almost unanimously . There is every reason for optimism that it will win final approval this time . There is less reason , however , to - believe that its provisions will exhaust the need for job generation through public works and public-service employment . The victories currently being won in the war against inflation need not be jeopardized , much less lost , if the Government applies itself intelligently to the development of programs aimed at ending the ' present scandalous waste of manpower and productive resources . to Federal prosecutors here that they had given illegal kickbacks ; some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their rivals to be the worst offenders . The pressure on airlines to engage in such practices arises from the industry 's economics . Once an expensive airliner has been bought , amortization and interest costs continue regardless of how much or little the plane is used . When a plane is committed to fly the Atlantic or the Pacific , the heavy fuel costs must be paid whether the plane is full or has only a handful of passengers . In this situation some economists would think that the solution would be open price competition , a lowering of fares to attract enough passengers so that every plane flying abroad would be full or almost full . Instead IATA - is beefing up its enforcement measures , setting up a sort of airlines Gestapo with detectives and auditors trying to hunt down the " criminal " airlines that give excessively high tourist agent commissions or fare kickbacks . The hope is to end even covert price competition . It is improbable that all these efforts will achieve much so long as dozens of planes leave Kennedy Airport most days with large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IATA 's members will violate the rules in order to get all the passengers they can . Sooner or later , IATA 's restrictions will probably break down permanently ; and open price competition will give every traveler a break .                     