@@733819

txt THURMONT . MD. ? You drive through the gentle green countryside and there suddenly , smack in front of you , is a world of unreality , as if you turned a corner into Disneyland . Thurmont itself is a nice little town of 3,000 with a firm hold . on reality . Its claim to fame is that it is only 6 miles from Camp David . It has a short main street lined ? by two-story buildings . It has no jail , no porno shops . Its tallest building is St. John 's Lutheran Church . The Saturday night social center is the Edwin C. Creeger Jr . American Legion Post . The movie theater is boarded up . But suspended in the clear sky , over this town in the foothills of the Catoctin Mountains is a blimp whose function is to relay television signals for ABC but which looks like a barrage balloon , from a World War II movie . IT WAS THE introduction to unreality , or showbiz , , or media madness . Never had so many done so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Winston Churchill . About 700 superstars , journalists , photographers , cameramen , and electronic technicians have been accredited by the White House to the Camp David summit . They have filled motels as far as 20 miles away . Some have commuted daily in a three-hour roundtrip via chartered bus from Washington to hear very little from White House Press Secretary Jody Powell . POWELL , SHOWING UP for the daily 1 p.m. briefing feeding , in press argot in a three-piece suit , has been the official spokesman for everyone . It has been a Jimmy Carter summit . Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menachem Begin have seen very little of one another . Carter has gone back and forth between them in a pocket-size version of Henry Kissinger 's diplomacy . " At least this has saved air fares , " observed an American . The press coverage has been tightly managed by the White House which even hired a " media adviser " for the summit to screen official photographs distributed to the press . One magazine photographer , burned by Powell 's refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside Camp David , complained that all White House - related pictures showed Carter smiling . ? THE OFFICIAL White House photographers were confined so long within the triple fence of Camp David they reportedly demanded that Powell allow conjugal visits by their wives , a practice permitted in some prisons . Over chess , Carter 's national security aide Zbigniew Brzezinski , is supposed to have said jokingly to Begin , " I would n't // Camp David Madness afoot // be surprised if you Israelis dug a tunnel to escape from here . " The Camp David fences and security have not only tended to keep the summit participants inside , but also to keep the press out . They have converged on the American Legion , the press headquarters for the summit , to hear Powell 's briefings . THESE BRIEFINGS usually have been as bare of substance as the cupboard of the little old woman who lived in the shoe . When Sam Donaldson of ABC asked after eight days if the summit participants are beginning to put some things down on paper , Powell replied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be evasive . Sometimes I am . In this case I am not being evasive , and there is simply not a good basis for predicting or guessing how the conference will conclude , And , as I said , you may do so based on how a certain number of people felt after a particular meeting and then how differently they felt after sitting down and going over that meeting in some detail . But in terms of stepping back and taking an overall view of it , one ca n't as that , nor can one predict with exactness the day the conference will conclude . " SOME PLACE . the question of whether people were putting things down in writing got lost , as if the speech was the keynoter at the Mad Hatter 's tea party . On Tuesday night , when ABC brought down its balloon in the face of a black storm . it was found that the blimp had been hit by a couple of bullets . " The only trial balloon of the summit , " said a reporter , " has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into ' Camp David was when they were brought to see an evening Marine drill , an unusual entertainment for participants at a peace conference . The Marines herded the reporters in as if they were guarding a detail of dangerous prisoners of war . When a State Department protocol aide tried to get ABC 's Barbara Walters through the gate , although her name was not on the official list , a woman secret service agent barked : " She may be an imposter . " Such is the price of fame . PUTTING DOZENS of newsmen in an atmosphere where there is a big event but little news is like turning an army of sports writers loose on a World Series being played behind locked dbors . There aretithrre consequences . The Legion Hall ; ' loch is more used to ' oyster and chicken . feeds and showboat : dances , has , bee-ome ' a babel of American , : British , Hebrew , Egyptian , French , German ; and Japanese . One Russian and one Hungari- ' : an also were reported ' : On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed , " My God , people are taking notes left to right , right to left , and up and down . " REPORTERS BEGAN interviewing reporters . Local and foreign journalists interviewed better known national correspondents or media stars . There was almost as big a flutter when Walter Cronkite entered as when Jahr Powell did . A Japanese reporter interviewed David Brinkley . Townspeople were interrogated about their recollections of past presidents . It turned out that many had seen practically all of those who used Camp David except Carter , who apparently does n't come down the mountain to visit Thurniont . At any time , a reporter typing a story could suddenly be blinded by TV lights and find himself being filmed by a TV crew , with nothing else to do . And a day never passes without a TV cameraman focusing on the still pictures from Camp David that are taped to the wall for inspection . THE TELEVISION networks filmed each other filming each other . They filmed the hills and the streams . They filmed the Camp David sign endlessly . American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporters who were getting what the Americans were n't : private briefing from their government press officers . These kind of teaks present a danger . They can be deliberately misleading and self-serving . They are as much a weapon of modern . diplomacy as the gunboat was in Teddy Roosevelt 's era . But it is better to be aware of them than not , and sometimes they are accurate . An Israeli reporter , for instance , confided to an American reporter who had been sitting next to him for several days , " There is something interesting going on With the Egypian journalists . They have been very pessimistic . But they had a briefing from their press officer and now they are optimistic something will come out of this . " It is of such bits of straw that bricks are wilt , and expense accounts saved .                     