@@729963

txt Legislation to bring about sweeping changes in the cost , delivery and regulation of health care was proposed by the Nixon Administration today after a year of internal struggle . The proposals were made in the form of amendments to the pending National Health InsurancePartnership Act , which the Administration introduced last year and which is still awaiting action in both houses of Congress . Passage of the amendments , which is not an early prospect , would inject the Federal and state governments to a far greater degree than ever before into the operation of the nation 's health care system . The amendments , made public at a news conference at the Department of Health , Education and Welfare , would do the following : 9Direct the states to markedly improve their regulation of companies selling health in- surance , if they have not already done so . feOffer consumers , by forcing disclosure by companies , better ' means of scrutinizing insurance rates and benefits . The states would be required to make audits and the results would be made public . 111Force , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in broad geographical areas . Federal funds would be withheld from hospitals and nursing homes if they expanded without the consent of regional planning agencies . elOpen to the public the price lists of individual doctors and hospitals , an action already initiated by the Price Commission . ( Protect purchasers of health insurance against the insolvency of companies selling policies . Funds would be borrowed , from the Federal Treasury to pay claims , and other carriers would be assessed for repayment . Few persons connected with preparing the amendments expect them to pass either intact or even this year , but the problems of drawing up the package offer an insight into the workings ' of the Nixon Administration . At least four factions in the Administration have been attempting to define the extent to which the Federal Government should regulate health insurance companies . Regulation of such companies was viewed by officials at the Department of Health , Education and Welfare , primarily Secretary Elliot L. Richardson , as a long-run means of controlling huge increases in health care costs . The central issues were : What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should crack the whip ? Debate at the H.E.W . and Commerce Departments and the White House Office of Management and Budget produced a package that would provide far more stringent regulation ? although not as strict , or as loose , as some sides wished ? with the states in control but with the Federal Government Jooking over their shoulders . If the states failed to raise their standards , the Secretary of H.E.W . would be enmowered to step in and bring Federal regulation . The alternative would have been either a complete Federal take-over of health insurance regulation , which might have created more problems than it solved , or allowing the states to continue regulation as they have done , which many experts believe has been a failure . For example , only two states , New York and West Virginia , have strict laws governing group health insurance policies , while only a few others , including Pennsylvania and Wisconsin , offer protection to the consumer from companies that promise much but deliver little . Commercial health insurance is the core of the Nixon Administration 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal , advanced by Senator Edward M. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , and Representative Martha W. Griffiths , Democrat of Michigan , would have the Federal Government direct such a program , collect premium funds from payroll taxes and underwrite part of the cost from general revenues . Under the Administration program employers would be mandated to offer private health insurance policies to their workers and their families . However , President Nixon and Mr. Richardson believed that regulation of the commercial carriers was needed if such a program was to be effective . Some Health , Education and Welfare officials foresaw , in the absence of stricter regulation , sharply higher premium costs to the point where some policies would be priced out of the reach of some employers who wanted to purchase them . Today 's proposals leave unresolved the possible Federal subsidization , at least , in part , of premiums for the near poor and others considered bad risks by the insurance companies . H.E.W . officials said the issue of pooled risk was being left to Congress to decide . ( Medicare and Medicaid cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups grappling with these complex issues included Mr. Richardson and sonic of his key personnel at H.E.W. , most of whose views prevailed ; another group at H.E.W . that Wanted stricter controls with tighter Federal regulation ; and a group at the Department of Commerce , including former Secretary Maurice H. Stens that wanted relatively loose regulation . Sorting out the proposals was a working ' group in the White House that included John D. Ehrlichman , the President 's assistant for domestic affairs , and Kenneth R. Cole Jr. , the deputy assistant . According to persons involved in the negotiations , the White House group was won over to the ideas of Mr. Richardson after a period of long . hard bargaining , and over the objections 01 the other groups . The effects of political influence in the final legislation are less clear . Some insurance companies might object to stricter regulation of their operations . One source involved in the negotiations said , " The Chamber of commerce types were really in there fighting , with the aid of the Commerce Department . " Another source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Management and Budget , " felt it was advantageous to have as much private involvement as possible in the health insurance issue to head off massive Federal subsidies . " Despite the uncertain outlook for the amendments and the Nixon health program , the winner in the long struggle that started last February appeared to be Mr. Richardson , who was said by one Administration source to have " really dug his heels in on this one . " The difficulties of drafting the amendments , which went through six revisions , . prompted one Federal insurance official to say , " Sometimes the insurance industry makes it very difficult to be a Republican . " The news conference was conducted by KEW , officials led by Lawrence E. Lynn Jr. , assistant secretary for planning and evaluation ,                     