@@729239

txt Chairman Arthur F. Burns of the Federal Reserve Board today gave his respected blessings to the Nixon Administration 's fiscal policies and assured the nation that the central bank " will continue to supply the money and credit needed for healthy economic expansion . At the same time , however , he repeated his year-old pledge that the Federal Reserve thru its monetary policy " will not become the architects of a new wave of inflation . " Testifying before the Joint Senate-House Economic Committee , Burns painted an optimistic picture of the United States economy in the early stages of a major recovery from recession . His brush strokes covered a broad range of problem areas . Termed " Achievable " 1 . As a target , President Nixon 's projection that 1971 gross national pr o duct will reach $1.065 trillion " is achievable . " However , his own calculations and those of his staff economists show that " as a prediction , it is optimistic . " 2 . The . No. 1 objective of fis91 and monetary policies is the restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review board is needed to inquire into current wage and price decisions . He did not rule out the possibility of using a wage and price freeze for a very limited period ? one month to six weeks ? in the construction industry . Urges Tax Credits 4 . Congress should defer raising the base on Social Security taxes for the time being and should consider restoring the investment tax credit to stimulate business investments in plant and equipment . Burns hit hardest at the lack of confidence in the basic strength of the economy . Restore Confidence " The strength of economic expansion during and beyond 1971 will depend , in my judgment , principally upon our success in restoring the confidence of consumers and businesses in their own and the nation 's economic future , " the chairman stated . He called the President 's economic policies properly stimulative , but not overly so . " It looks reasonable to me , " he said , adding that in his opinion the projected fiscal 1972 deficit of $11.6 billion may well be larger . Foster Continued Expansion " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can be no doubt that monetary and fiscal policies must for a time remain stimulative , as they have been recently . The degree of stimulus coming from the budgetary policy announced ' by the President is , it seems to me , broadly consonant with the needs of an economy operating well below full employment . " An appropriate monetary policy for the months ahead probably would require sufficient growth in the reserves of the commercial banking system to foster continued expansion in monetary and credit aggregates at rates above their longterm averages . " Altho adhering to the policy of all Federal Reserve chairmen not to discuss the exact course of monetary policy or the probable trend of interest rates , Burns assured the committee that the recent slowdown in the money supply growth rate " does not reflect a change in policy . " To the contrary , he said , the increase in bank reserves has been " quite generous . " The big question was raised by Rep. Barber Conable R. , N.Y. . " Can we achieve $1.065 trillion in GNP this year ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said Burns , " is affirmative . If we achieve $1.065 trillion in GNP this year , the unemployment rate would drop to about the 5 per cent level by the end of the year . If the calculations are nearly right , we do have sufficient slack in the economy to accommodate the kind of increase projected by the President . " He conceded that his own calculations of GNP as well as those of the Federal Reserve staff economists were much closer to the level predicted by the so-called consensus forecasts ? $1.045 to ' $1.050 trillion . Recalling , a speech he made in December outlining 11 specific forms of incomes policy that - could be adopted by the President , he said the administration has taken significant steps in this direction . However , the economist-central banker said he would like to see a wage-price review board created , without enforcement powers , to inquire into specific wage and price adjustments . Altho he would not rule out the use of mandatory wage and price controls , Burns said he found the idea of such controls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he fully supports the administration 's economic objectives and that the Federal Reserve 's monetary policy will complement fiscal policy . " Our overall economic performance during the last year , " he said , " has left much to be desired . . .. These frustrations and disappointments can not be overlooked ; but they also must not be allowed to blind us to the progress that our nation has been making toward the restoration of economic health . " Noting that fiscal policy tends to become frozen because of the slowness in adjusting to change , Burns said the flexibility of monetary policy is one of its great virtues . " The Federal Reserve will not stand idly by and let the American economy stagnate for want of money and credit , " he stated .                     