@@732016

txt Will any of Turkey 's upcoming poppy crop leak off into the old illicit channels and add to the burden of America 's drug-enforcement effort ? That is a question clearly on the mind of U.S. narcotics officials here , but they are careful to make no predictions . Their stance during this critical period of late June and July when pods are dried and collected for processing is rather one of diplomatic watching and waiting . - Just as before the 1973 ban on poppy growing in Turkey , all of the new crop ? . 50,000 acres this summer ? is intended for legal medical use . Still , in the early 1970s enough Turkish opium detoured into the illicit market to account for an estimated 80 percent of the U.S. heroin supply . This time , U.S. sources stress , the situation is markedly different : ? Turkish farmers are no longer allowed to make pod incisions themselves and to scrape off the gum that flows out of the pods . Instead , the uncut pods will dry on the stalk and be sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opium state . // *Turkey 's new poppy crop watched by U.S. // ? Seventy-five teams of five men each are on the lookout for field violations in the seven provinces in which poppies legally are being harvested , and U.S. indications are that each plot has been twice inspected already . ? The price being paid the farmers for their pods is considered a good one and the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control is standing by with a special contingency fund in case further price supports are needed . ? West European narcotics officials , often accused of being too casual in years past , are watching as intensively as the Americans this time for leaks . Germany , France , Belgium , and increasingly , Italy have been experiencing a rising drug-abuse problem of their own . " They 're apprehensive and girded , " observes one U.S. source . Whether or not thre is any Turkish slippage this time around is not expected to be known until late fall or winter since some white heroin from pre-ban days may well still be in the pipeline . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to resume poppy production in a way that " will not cause even the smallest harm to mankind . Just within the last two or three weeks Turkish inspection teams , check ing actual poppy fields against those granted growing licenses , found and destroyed 170 illegally grown plots . Although the U.S. heroin supply briefly ran short on the East Coast after the Turkish ban and the number of addicts seeking treatment stepped up sharply , Mexican " brown " heroin , distinct in its vinegar-like odor as well as its color , quickly moved in to fill the gap . By official estimates , based on the number of seizures , Mexico is the source of more than two-thirds of the U.S. heroin supply . But Mexican officials are credited by their U.S. counterparts with making a vigorous , steady . and effective effort to eradicate poppy fields wherever they can find them . The United States has contributed $15 million to the effort in the last three years . Relying heavily on aerial detection of hill plots , Mexico expects to have : 30 aircraft devoted to full-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have focused on developing awareness of the harm narcotics trafficking can do to other countries as well as to the United States , Washington is keenly aware that the problem . is one of curbing demand as well as supply . Burma alone , for instance , produces roughly eight times enough opium to meet the demands of U.S. heroin addicts . Both Drug Enforcement Administration and State . Department sources say despite strong and widespread publicity recently that the U.S. drug-abuse problem is worsening , it is not nearly as bad a situation as it was during the peak abuse period of the late 1960s and early 1970s . Estimates are , for instance , that only about five to six tons of heroin content are getting past U.S. borders each year as compared with about twice that amount four years ago .                     