@@731559

txt After the drama generated by American contributions to debate here , the Soviet Union 's offering Tuesday was comparatively mild . Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko revealed only the tip of Moscow 's foreign policy iceberg in his address to the UN General Assembly . Its shape was already familiar . But the fact that there were not surprises and only the occasional jab at " reactionary forces " in itself suggests a Soviet reluctance to rock the detente boat . Indeed , the theme of the speech revolved around detente , defending it against those who would aggravate international relations ( presumably a reference to the Chinese ) . Stance hardened While both President Ford and Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger in their speeches here dwelt at length on the world 's economic troubles ? displaying a much hardened U.S. stance on oil ? the Soviet Foreign Minister gave this topic only a passing mention . As in the earlier UN special session on raw materials , the Soviet Union is avoiding exposure on this subject . As an oil exporter itself , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year , Moscow confines itself to attacking international monopolies and emphasizing what Mr. Gromyko called the " sovereign right of states to dispose of their natural resources . " Selective increases Moscow , too , has been raising its oil prices ? though more selectively and cautiously than the Arabs . But the Gromyko speech made no offers to use the extra revenue to ease the world food crisis . In view of the Soviet Union 's own need in some years to import grain from the West , this is perhaps not surprising . On the Mideast also , Mr. Gromyko was carefully noncontroversial . He went out of his way to back the " legitimate national rights " of the Palestinians ? a phrase almost identical to those used earlier this week by both the French and West German // *Gromyko hints support of detente // foreign ministers . But , on the other hand , he did make an unusually direct reference to Israel : " The Soviet Union stands in favor of Israel existing and developing as an independent sovereign state , " he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prerequisites " for the development of relations between the Soviet Union and all Mideast states including Israel . Flare-up warning But Mr. Gromyko , like Dr. Kissinger ? but from a very different perspective ? warned of the possibility of a new flare-up of hostilities . He saw Israeli reluctance to yield Arab lands captured in the IfifiT war as the potential cause of such a flare-up and as the main roadblock to of a resumption of a Geneva peace conference . What some American officials would have welcomed , however ? specific encouragement to the Arabs to negotiate ? was missing . Curiously , it was not the Middle East but Cyprus that topped Mr. Gromyko 's list of " top priority tasks today . " He demanded that the Cyprus problem be brought out of the impasse resulting from " NATO attempts to solve it in camera , " warning that unless urgent measures were taken no one could guarantee that the situation would not deteriorate still further . But his Cyprus cure-all was the same as Moscow had advanced before : an International conference including the permanent representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor with other permanent council members and turned down flat by Turkey . Others on list ' Third in his list of priorities , after Cyprus and the Middle East , was the European security conference , long pushed by Moscow as a way of gaining permanent International recognition for the postwar divisions of Europe . Here the Soviet Foreign Minister was notably optimistic , say ? ing he was convinced that there was an opportunity to conclude it soon . He also implied that a successful con- clusion was linked to other issues , adding , " It will also be easier to tackle other outstanding issues in the atmosphere of detente " ? perhaps an allusion to the U.S.-Soviet bartering over trade and exit of Soviet Jews . What it all appears to add up to is that , despite a change in U.S. presidents and an outbreak of American criticism of Dr. Kissinger , detente remains the order of the day for Moscow .                     