@@731189

txt In a loud and insistent chorus , broadcasts and editorials in China arc proclaiming a full-scale re  --  ewal of the Cultural Revolution under the active direction of the nation 's Seine leader . Afnn Tgo-to.rn The Cultural Revolution was Chairman Mao 's attempt to institutionalize revolutionary class 4 , struggle as a permanent feature of Chinese life . It was allowed to subside five years ago after violent upheavals ill which millions of youthful Red Guards were officially encouraged in assaults on the entrenched leadership of the Communist Party . The tactics and targets of the new movement have yet to he spelled out , hut some diplomatic analysts here see signs already of a turning away from the relative openness that has characterized China 's relations with the world since President Nixon 's visit to Peking two years ago this month . FORESHADOWED for the last six months by a series of ideological debates , the new mass campaign was formally opened , according to a broadcast from Hunan Province yesterday , on instructions from Mao , now 110 years old and the Central Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has promptly , been taken as the text for the campaign , Jenmin Jib Pao , the party newspaper , promised Saturday that It would become " a serious ' class struggle and a thorogoing revolution in the realm of ideology in China . " Now , with little space or time for other subjects , the official press and broadcasts are heralding news of mass rallies in many provinces involving soldiers , workers and students by the tens of thousands . MAO WAS supposed to have predicted that more than one such campaign would prove necessary . It has been his basic premise that class struggle is a permanent feature of any supposedly classless Socialist society . There are strong hints of purges to come . " The flames of revolutionary mass criticism soar to the sky , " exulted a broadcast from K we i cho w Province . What the campaign means for China 's role In international affairs is , at this early stage , still a matter of speculation , but diplomats here who specialize in the analysis of Chinese affairs believe they see signs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by air , land and sea on South Vietnamese positions in the disputed Paracel Islands Jan. 20 , which followed by one day the ouster of five Soviet diplomats from I ' eking on espionage charges . They mention also a recent condemnation of the music of Beethoven and Schubert for its " bourgeois class character " and a lengthy diatribe last week against Michaelangelo Antonioni , the Italian movie director , for a documentary he filmed in China . In isolation , no one of these occurrences is regarded as overly significant . But viewed as a pattern , one an a I yst argued today , they present " a picture of a v e r y different China from the one we have been seeing . "                     