@@733495

txt Chief Justice Warren E. Burger has become the focal point of a growing controversy among his fellow lawyers , some of whom feel strongly that his criticism of some aspects of the profession has been more destructive than helpful . The Chief Justice will arrive at the annual midyear meeting of the American Bar Association here this weekend to find himself the target of official resentment over " statements attributed to him concerning professional incompetency of American lawyers . " The Illinois State Bar Association , backed by the New Jersey State Bar Association and some other influential leaders of the association , has formally called on Chief Justice Burger to repudiate his contention that half of American lawyers are not qualified for courtroom appearances , or to back it up " conclusively " with facts . In a related development , a survey of the legal profession released by a research arm of the bar association indicated that most people thought lawyers charged too much , were slow in getting things done and ignored their clients ' needs . Page 26 . The Illinois resolution will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association 's House of Delegates , its policy-making body . The association 's board of governors , the equivalent of an executive committee , declined today to endorse or criticize the proposal in transmitting it to the floor . William B. Spann Jr. , association president , told a news conference today that he thought Chief Justice Burger 's figures on courtroom incompetence were " grossly disproportionate . " Mr. Spann said he thought that only about 20 percent of current lawyers were not qualified for such service . As the association moved toward an unusual confrontation with the Chief Justice , it retreated abruptly from an attempt to put the group on record in favor of the Panama Canal treaties now being debated in the Senate . A resolution supporting ratification , backed by a 25-page report by two A.B.A. units , was stricken from the agenda of next week 's policy sessions this morning , eliminating altogether after considerable preliminary work what had been advertised as one of the meeting 's highlights . Asked if there had been apprehension that the Panama Canal measure would have been defeated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explore that . The general impression was that it would have been substantially debated . No one tried to make a reading how it would come out . " Mr. Spann said that the canal issue had been dropped because " no useful purpose would have been served " in debating " a matter in which we have no great expertise . " The resolution had been proposed by two association groups  --  the Section on International Law and the Standing Committee on World Order Under Law  --  that had prepared a legal rationale in support of the treaties . The controversy over Chief Justice Burger stemmed directly from a London dispatch two months ago that quoted him as saying some judges believed " only 25 percent of the lawyers appearing in our courts were really qualified to represent their clients properly . . . some place it as high as 75 percent . . . somewhere near the middle number is probably correct . " Underlying the problem , many lawyers agree , is the " Perry Mason syndrome , " the public conception that mastery of trial technique is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided in lawyers ' offices , the bulk of most of their work . Chief Justice Burger has been making increasingly critical statements about the courtroom capability of American lawyears of several years . Last November , a news service dispatch from London , reporting on his earlier testimony before a British commission , quoted him indi , rcctly as believing that about half the practicing lawyers in the United States were " not adequately qualified to represent their clients . " li In subsequent . paragraphs , the article made it clear that the Chief Justice was talking about courtroom representation , not office legal advice . But members of the A.B.A. in various states were quick to respond to the broader implication of lack of professional capacity . Om Dec. 27 , Carole K. ** presient of the Illinois State BEI . Association , wrote to Chief Justice Burger expressing " deep concern about the unnecessary and derogatory comments attributed to you on the subject of American lawyers and the American legal system . " The Illinois bar group , the letter said , " respectfully urges that you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unintentionally portray American lawyers as incompetent , thus needlessly lowering public esteem for the American system of justice which you represent . " In Washington , the Supreme Court information officer , Barrett , declined today to say whether Chief Justice Burger had responded to the Illinois bar letter . His only comment was , " There is nothing I can give you on that . " On Jan. 30 the board of trustees of the New Jersey State Bar Association voted to support the Illinois resolution and urged all New Jersey members of the House of Delegates to follow suit . Despite obvious potential embarassment to the Chief Justice , who will speak here on Sunday , other bar leaders are known to feel that the issue needs some airing Chief Justice Burger is not the first Chief Justice to encounter difficulty with the bar association . His immediate predecessor , Earl Warren , resigned from the association in early 1959 after the House of Delegates formally criticized the Warren court at two earlier meetings on the ground that it was indifferent to the threat of Communism and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warren 's resignation , the bar association approved a resolution expressing " sharp differences as to the soundness of recent Supreme Court decisions affecting the national security and Communist activities " and saying that such " unsound and incorrect " rulings had led to " condemnation of the Court itself . "                     