@@729990

txt John E. Desmond , president of the Chicago Teachers Union since 1966 , admitted last night he is locked in an power struggle for control of the 24,000-member union . Dissension within the leadership of Desmond 's own political faction , the United Progressive Caucus , came to a head last night during a 4-hour meeting in the union 's Loop headquarters . Robert Healey , CTU financial secretary , reportedly made a bid to unseat Desmond as the caucus candidate for reelection as president ? of the CTU in the May 19 voting . Announcement Is Readied Emerging from the caucus meeting , both Desmond and Healey said they will announce Tuesday morning who will be the majority faction 's candidate . Both refused to say if the vote for president was held last night , saying only that the entire slate of candidates has not been selected and that no announcement will be made until Tuesday . However , votes were taken on at least one office during the meeting . Desmond described the meeting by saying , " Many issues including the presidency were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long period of debate indicated a power struggle between himself and Healey for support from union leadership ranks , Desmond said ; " Yes . " Faced Challenges Before In the past Desmond has faced challenges from splinter groups within the powerful union but always before has enjoyed solid support from the UPC . Other factions in the union are the smaller Teachers Action Committee and the Independent Teachers Caucus . Both of these splinter groups will slate candidates M the May election . Healey , 41 , is president of the Mini os Federation of Teachers , the CTU 's parent organization , and has been active in the union since 1962 when he represented Gage Park High School . In 1966 , when Desmond first was elected president of the union , Healey ran for vice president on the TAC committee but was defeated by DesJohn Desmond mond 's running mate , Conrad M. De , Paul . Questioned before last night 's meeting , Desmond indicated that even if he were to be ousted as the UPC candidate he would run for reelection as an independent candidate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the past has run on his record which includes raising starting pay for teachers from $5,500 in 1966 to the present $9,509 . However , Desmond has come under some criticism for his handling of recent negotiations in which the union gained back all benefits the board had planned to drop from their contract but saved only 5.5 per cent pay raises instead of the promised 8 per cent . Under Desmond 's leadership , Chicago 's teachers have called strikes , one in May , 1969 , and January , 1971 . Both were successful in gaining pay increases and improved working conditions . Desmond is 64 and has been with the union since 1947 when he joined its executive board . He was physical education teacher a , three elementary schools before then . His first election to the presidency in 1966 was by a 116-vote margin . Since then his votegetting power has increased steadily .                     