@@729000

txt President Nixon ordered today that all Federal vehicles must be operated on low-lead or unleaded gasoline wherever practical , and he asked the Governors of all the states to use the same restriction with stateowned vehicles The order will affect 600 , - 000 Government-owned cars throughout the country . The Federal Government buys one-half of 1 per cent of all the gasoline purchased in the United States , or 905 million gallons a year . Russell Train , chairman of the President 's Council on Environmental Quality , said the purposes of the regulation were twofold : " To reduce air pollution and to increase the market for low-lead and unleaded gasoline . " Hopes For Further Gain Mr. Train said it was hoped , that by ordering the switch to such gasolines in Government cars refiners would be encouraged to make such fuels more generally available . Low-lead fuels , he said , reduce hydrocarbon emissions by a range of 7 to 20 per cent . Hydrocarbon emissions are considered a major reason for air pollution throughout the country . The low-lead or unleaded gasolines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depleted , according to Robert L. Kunzig , administrator of the Government 's General Services Administration . Mr. Kunzig said 54 per cent of all Government vehicles could be operated on the lowlead fuel and that new vehicles , as they are purchased , would be the low-compression type that can be run with such gasoline . By 1974 , he said , the Govern- ment will no longer need to buy leaded fuel . He said 20 major gasoline companies market low-lead or unleaded gasoline at a cost increase of about two cents per gallon over regular gas . Buying the low-lead fuels will cost the Government additional $5.4-million a year . The Presidential limousine , which needs a high-powered engine for security purposes , is not one of the vehicles that will now use the low-lead gasoline  --  but it will , as soon as it is modified . In his letter to the Governors , Mr. Nixon said : " If your state would undertake a similar program , our joint action would offer the gasoline and refinery marketing industries a sizable incentive to produce and distribute low-lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such fuels become widespread the motorist will be able to buy them and thus make a major contribution to the cleaning-up of our air . " Earlier this year , the Nixon Administration sought to get legislation for a tax on leaded gasoline to raise additional revenue and to make its use less attractive . Congress has not passed that legislation . In the regulations issued to heads of Federal agencies , the General Services Administration defined low-lead content gasoline as that containing .5 grams a gallon ? of lead . It said that gasoline for use in overseas Government vehicles should be limited to unleaded or low-lead gasoline unless its use conflicted with local agreements or such gasoline was not available at competitive prices . Order on Consumer Data President Nixon also ordered the Government today to begin steps to provide citizens with product information gathered by Federal purchasers and testers . " It is time for the Government to share with the American consumer much of this information it gathers about the products the Government buys , " the President said . In a statement released with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enact his consumer legislative package . " Congress has not acted to help the consumer as I proposed , " Mr. Nixon said . " Unfortunately for the consumer , there are those in Congress who would rather have a political issue to talk about than have real progress toward a Buyer 's Bill of Rights . " The President 's statement referred to his consumer message of last October that proposed legislation permitting class action suits , granting new powers to the Federal Trade Commission , creating a consumer protection division in the Justice Department and other measures . The same message promised the Government would make public its data from testing consumer products . President Nixon also began today the new two-year Government safety program to try to eliminate work hazards . The program , called " Zero In on Federal Safety , " will start Jan. 1 at the end of another broad Federal safety program known as Mission Safety-70.                     