@@734254

txt . TOKYO  --  The United States will press for a general freeze on oil imports by the seven industrial nations attending the economic summit Thursday and Friday , President Carter 's advisers revealed Sunday . One official said such a policy would require additional energy measures by Carter that " may be painful . " " We will favor a leveling-off of imports collectively in the present range of 21 million to 22 million barrels of oil daily , " one high-ranking administration official told reporters . This amounts , in effect , to a freeze on imports . Without any limits on oil imports , consumption would grow by 1.5 to 2 per cent a year , the official added . CARTER 'S POSITION on oil imports puts the U.S. close to the European plan . Late last week , European leaders voted to push for a five-year freeze on oil imports through 1984 . In addition to the U.S. and Japan , the Tokyo summit will include Britain , France , West Germany , Italy , and Canada . The revelation of Carter 's plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira . Although these talks likely will be low key , Carter is expected to ask Japan to increase its support for Vietnamese " boat people . " Carter arrived here Sunday night after a 15-hour flight from Washington and found the streets of Tokyo virtually deserted . A 22,000-man sec urity force swarmed the city and had shut off most major streets . EMPEROR Hirohito officially welcomed the President and Mrs. Carter to Japan in elaborate ceremonies at a guest palace in Tokyo . Carter inspected a Japanese honor guard , blew a kiss to members of the American community in Japan , and then met other members of the imperial family and cabinet ministers . After the ceremony , Carter was driven to the Imperial Palace for a private meeting with the 78-year-old emperor and Empress Nagako , and then he began his first talks with Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira . The Carters ' welcome was marred when the President 's 11-year-old daughter , Amy , and Mrs. Carter suffered stomach ailments . White House physician Dr. William Lukash said both had gastroenteritis , apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the plan to freeze imports would have no effect on long gasoline lines this summer . They said over the next five years , it // Carter to push for 7-nation oil import freeze at summit // would make the gasoline problem " less bad " than it otherwise would be . CARTER 'S PRESS secretary , Jody Powell , laid the blame for the gasoline lines on past Washington policies and the press . " I ca n't think of a better place for gas lines than Washington , D.C. , " Powell said . " No place should have a longer gas line than Washington . A good part of what we 're suffering is because of the way Washington has been behaving for the past several years  --  the government and your institution the press . " Powell said Carter 's energy proposals make him look like a prophet , but added that the long gasoline lines wo n't help the President politically . Carter 's advisers stressed the need for specific , concrete action at the summit . The import freeze may not be as easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agrees to a freeze , it can replace its lost imported oil with North Sea crude . As a result , Europe 's consumption actually could rise even if imports were held to current levels , they said . Thus , said one aide , the U.S. would find itself bearing a greater burden of the shortage and feeling a tighter economic pinch . A proposal to make such purchases public is expected to receive serious consideration at the summit . Carter 's aides did n't reveal how he plans to propose controls over the socalled " spot market " for oil in Europe , where oil prices not under contract have soared to $40 a barrel . Carter blamed this price surge on " desperation " tactics by the industrial countries in their scramble for shrinking oil supplies . // President Carter is presen led to Japanese Emperor Hirohito during ceremonies Monday in Akasaka Palace in Tokyo .                     