@@732211

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor If a Judge Were to Run New York City Why the U.S. Must Not Widen Its Fishery Zone To the Editor : The United States House of Representatives has recently passed a bill that would extend the United States ' exclusive fishery zone from 12 to 200 miles ( H.R. 200 ) . The Senate vote on a similar bill ( S. 961 ) is imminent . These bills raise the fundamental question of whether the United States ' oceans policy is to be carried out by cooperative efforts through international agreement or by unilateral measures that pose many risks to the United States . The negotiations at the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea are at a critical stage . It is likely that a comprehensive convention on the law of the sea can be achieved in 1976 . If the 200-mile bill becomes law , it stands a good chance of upsetting and significantly setting back these negotiations . There is no doubt that a unilateral extension of fishery jurisdiction by an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar extensions by other nations . In addition , this action is likely to prompt different extreme claims by other nations . A pattern of escalating unilateral claims would destroy the atmosphere necessary to conclude this most difficult negotiation . Such extensions of national jurisdiction to the detriment of the freedom of the seas would adversely affect United States commercial shipping , distant water fisheries , marine scientific research and our military 's goal of unimpeded movement of vessels anl aircraft on the world 's oceans . Unilateral extension of our fished% jurisdiction is likely to place the na ? tion in a direct confrontation with Japan , the Soviet Union and other nations that have traditionally fished off our coasts . Enforcement action which would necessarily involve boarding , inspection and seizure could lead to armed confrontations on the high seas with these nations . Since a 200-mile zone would be included in a Convention on the Law of the Sea , precipitous action on a unilateral claim would be at a cost to multilateral agreement and consequential injuries to the United States . Thus , it is important that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHARNEY Nashville , Nov. 5 , 1975 The writer , associate professor of law at Vanderbilt University , is a member of the U.S. Public Advisory Committee on the Law of the Sea . ? After Schlesinger : New Hope for Korea To the Editor : Koreans like myself who feel a strong bond of friendship with the people of the United States should find no cause for satisfaction in the dismissal of one of its Cabinet Ministers . But it is difficult not to feel a sense of hopefulness in the thought that with the departure of James Schlesinger from the Pentagon his Government may begin to search more seriously for a political solution to the Korean problem . What is needed in Korea is not an interminable presence of America 's military might , much less the rhetoric of nuclear brinkmanship with which Mr. Schlesinger has recently made himself a favorite of the South Korean leaders . What is needed , instead , is a careful application of U.S. diplomatic prowess , initiation of a dialogue with the North Koreans , for instance . Such a dialogue judiciously pursued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of South Korea . On the contrary , it could pave the way for the future leaders of both Koreas to sit down for some heart-to-heart talks about final political reconciliation . Many of us fear that the present leaders in Seoul and Pyongyang are hopelessly ill-suited to the awesome task of bringing our divided nation together . But I believe it is not too soon for all Koreans everywhere to begin making certain psychological and moral adjustments in anticipation of new things to come under changed circumstances . The United States can play a vital role to help us . But it may first have to assume a new political posture wherein it will gain the confidence and respect of both halves of Korea , in short , a posture more befitting a peacemaker than an ally to one side and adversary to the other . ( Assoc . Prof. ) SUGWON KANG Political Science , Hartwick College Oneonta , New York , Nov. 4 , 1975 ? The Victory Diet To the Editor : Regarding what Americans should eat , and whether we should adapt our diets to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day that wars have always been won by meateating peoples calls to mind a deeper military truth supporting the opposite side of the argument . Wars are won by armies that will cat practically any available food . This gives them superior powers of maneuver over opponents who require specialized diets . DONALD B. KEESING Washington , Nov. 1 , 1975 The Times welcomes Miters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we ate unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters , To the Editor : One issue not adequately reviewed , if at all , regarding implementation of President Ford 's plan for allowing New York City to declare itself bankrupt is the implication in the process upon the judiciary . Under his plan , a Federal judge would be placed as trustee/ receiver over the city and would conduct or approve the operations of the city government . This role would place the judiciary in the position of carrying on a political function , compromising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thrusting such a responsibility upon a Federal judge would require him to exercise political judgments and to rule on questions of political rather than of a legal nature  --  a situation from which the courts have long demurred .                     