@@732873

txt OFFICIALS OF the Cook County Bar Association , a group of black lawyers , said Friday they , were " contemplating filing a lawsuit " to enjoin anyone from taking office as interim mayor if Ald. Wilson Frost 34th does n't win the post Tuesday when the City Council meets . Others joined the furious lobbying effort to secure the post for Frost , a black South Side lawyer who has proclaimed that his position as City Council president pro tern makes him acting mayor . State Rep. Harold Washington D .. Chicago said he and other blacks would attend Tuesday 's council meeting " en masse " and would meet that night either to hold a victory celebration for Frost or a strategy meeting if he loses his bid for the post . ? Ron Samuels , an executive board member of the bar association , said at a news briefing Friday he considered Edward Hanralian , former Cook Conntystate 's attorney , says lie is a ' ' po tenth . contender " for mayor in the corn- ' ing special election . Story on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of city law , case history , and home rule provisions , which he said took precedence over state laws requiring a council election . He added the group " may file suit in the Illinois courts and federal district courts " if Frost is not allowed to serve as mayor . Ald. Tyrone Kenner 3d1 said he would continue to support Frost for interim mayor despite the deal made among administration aldermen Thursday to elect Ald. Michael Bilandle filth to the post and to move Aldermen Edward Vrdolyak 10th and Edward Burke 14th up a notch in the council heirarchy . KENNER SAID he was n't angry about the deal , which apparently cut Frost out of consideration for any top council position as well . " That 's politics , " he said in an interview . Washington said that , despite the Bilandic-Vrdolyak-Burke deal , blacks would continue their " orderly , legitimate button-holing to get aldermen to vote for Frost for interim mayor . " The black drive followed Frost 's assertion Thursday that he had been acting mayor since Mayor Haley . died Monday afternoon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his stand . Frost has been contradicted by several other City Hall officials , including Wil1Mm Quinlan , city corporation counsel , who said no legal provision exists for tm acting mayor and that the post of president pro tern may not exist ' on the death of the mayor . Still another black group met Friday and urged support for Frost . The newly formed United Black Voters of Illinois said there was no doubt that Frost would be voted acting mayor if he were white . Timuel Black , the group 's chairman , told reporters there was no need for an election Tuesday for interim mayor because Frost is acting mayor now . " If there has to be an election , we support Nilson Frost , " Black added . The Independent Voters of Illinois also said Friday Frost should be in complete control , and not Kenneth Sain , who was ? , appointed deputy mayor by Daley . Steven Klein , chairman of the IVI , ' said , " We are appalled by the backroom wheeling and dealing which have resulted in Frost being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added that the IVI was not endorsing Frost but that it deplored " the racially motivated manner in which Mr. Frost has been treated . " A KEY WHITE alderman considered a Daley loyalist , asked what reaction he expected from blacks if Frost were left out of the transition regime , said : " Either you have the votes , or you do n't ; Frost does n't have them . " We tried an accommodation to get an acting mayor post-haste to ensure stability- and have a legally constituted executive to keep the city functioning , " he said of the deal to install Bilandic . There was no secondary deal worked out to produce a successor to Daley as Cook County Democratic Party chairman , the alderman said . SOURCES SAID State Sen. Richard M. Daley , the mayor 's son , called party leaders and urged a swift end to the bickering over the nterm majoralty . Daley was elected 11th Ward acting committeeman Thursday night , filling the post his father technically held but for which the younger Daley actually had done routine work for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committe , which will elect a new party chairman Wednesday , it was announced Friday night . Bilandic has told fellow aldermen he wo n't seek the balance of Daley 's twoyear mayoral term in a special election which must he held by June 20 . This leaves the door open for a number of organization stalwarts to enter that race . Sources said Burke , Vrdolyak , Ald. Roman Pucinslci 41st , U.S. Rep. Daniel Rostenkowski , Assessor Thomas Tully , former U.S. Atty . Thomas Form ) , Park Board President Patrick O'Malley , and park district Supt. Edmund Kelly . are potential candidates .                     