@@729564

txt Cairo radio said tonight Maj. Hashem El Atta , who was removed from his government past last November as a Communist sympathizer , has seized power in Sudan in a military coup . It said Atta said in a nationwide broadcast that his coup was aimed at " correcting the course of the May and October revolutions " ? two previous coups in Sudan . Atta pledged he would set up a " political democratic system based on the peoples effective participation in the govern . ment , " Cairo Radio reported . Use Official Radio Cairo Radio said Atta made his statement on the official Omdurman radio and television . Atta is reported to have staged the coup with the . collaboration of Brig . Osman Sharaf , commander of the Republican Guards , and Brig . Abdel-Moneim Ahmed , commander of the 3d Armored Division . An earlier broadcast by Radio Baghdad reported that the rebel forces surrounded the presidential place in Khartoum with tanks and seized the radio station . The radio also reported that Sudanese airports were closed and communications with the Outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime . Ruled by Council Sudan has been ruled by the Revolutionary Command Council headed by Maj. Gen. Gaafar El Nimieri since he seized power in a coup in May of 1969 . Radio Baghdad said Nimieri fled to Cairo . There were no reports of fighting . The Iraqi News Agency reported troops moved into Khartoum behind a column of tanks and seized government buildings and the radio station without meeting any resistance , Atte was a member of the council but was removed along // Haskell ' El Atte , leader of rebels . nist Party Is the biggest in the Arab world . In February , Nimieri ordered a massive crackdown on the Communists . He said in ? a nationwide broadcast : " The Communist Party is sabotaging the machinery of the state .. . creating an atmosphere of chaos . . . and terrorizing officials . " The Khartoum government has been waging a civil war with rebels in southern Sudan since 1955 , months before Sudan achieved independence from Britain . The war is between dark-skinned rebel tribesmen in the south , who are predominantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It may have cost half a million lives . It was because of these Internal problems that the Sudan did not join the proposed Federation of Arab Republics along with Egypt , Syria and Libya . with two others last November after Nimieri accused them of being Communist sympathizers . Crackdown on Reds Nimieri said Atta and the other two had been won over by subversive elements and had relayed decisions taken by the council to the Communist Party .                     