@@731348

txt The top military chiefs of the United States and South Africa have been meeting quietly in Washington . Many believe that they have been brought together by common concern about the effects on security in the Indian Ocean of the recent coup in Portugal . The coup has raised questions about the future of Portuguese territories in Africa , particularly Mozambique , which occupies a long strategic position along the western shore of the ocean . The top South African military man is Adm . Hugo Biermann , chief of staff of South Africa 's armed forces . He has been visiting here with Adm . Thomas H. Moorer , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , and with the Acting Secretary of the Navy J. William Middendorf II , and some members of Congress . The visit here at this time is causing attention not just because of its timing ? just after the coup d'etat Portugal ? but also its circumstances ? the admiral arrived on a tourist visa ostensibly for purely private nonofficial calls . An official of the State Department 's Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ African chief of staff a visa to visit Washington at this time ? just after the coup in Portugal , with all its repercussions in Africa ? but that a tourist visa had been authorized at a higher level , " very likely by the Secretary of State . " The official noted that the South African admiral had evidently overstepped the terms of his visa in making calls on U.S. officials and legislators . Speculation in diplomatic circles is that the South African insisted on coming to Washington because South Africa is extremely worried about the future of Mozambique after the Portuguese coup . // * U.S. , South Africa confer // If Mozambique , from which African terrorists are said to operate , were to be given some form of autonomy or independence , South Africa would be threatened . Already , it is reported , South Africans are arming white farmers on northeastern Transvaal against incursions from the dense bush country on the Mozambique side of the border . The South Africans , , it is thought , are eager to interest the United States in joint moves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they sense from Mozambique . The United States maintains diplomatic relations with South Africa , but for the past 10 years ( since the Kennedy administration ) has maintained an embargo on the sale of arms to South Africa . The embargo was imposed after the Sharpville massacre in which about 70 blacks were killed in a political demonstration . Admiral Biermann 's trip follows another " private " visit to the U.S. in January by South African Minister of Information Dr. Cornelius P. Mulder , whose calls included Vice-Adm . Ray Peet , deputy assistant secretary of defense and director of the Defense Security Assistance Agency dealing with military sales and aid . Dr. Mulder also called on Vice-President Ford , whose office says he got the appointment because he said he wanted to talk to the Vice-Presi'dent about a new process for con verting coal into gas , and with some members of Congress . South African newspapers have since then been calling Dr. Mulder 's talks in this country as the most important talks between South Africa and the U.S. in several decades . Arrangements Some diplomats regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when South Africa was already concerned about black guerrilla activities from Mozambique , as a preparation for Admiral Biermann 's present calls here . The South African Embassy said Thursday that Admiral Biermann was invited to Washington privately by the United States Strategic Institute , but the institute said that all arrangements for the admiral 's trip had been taken over by the Embassy . A spokesman for the Institute said Adm . John S. McCain Jr. , former U.S. Commander in Chief in the Pacific , had brought Admiral Biermann in informally for a visit with the institute 's board of directors , but that the institute had canceled plans for a dinner for the admiral . Mr. Middendorf 's press spokesman said that Admiral Biermann 's visit had been arranged by a mutual friend whom they knew in the Netherlands at the time Mr. Middendorf was U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands . The spokesman said the admiral 's visit lasted only a few minutes .                     