@@728347

txt The Nigerian Government announced today that it would accept no assistance for the relief of the victims of its civil war from France , Portugal , South Africa , Rhodesia or any other country or agency that had been " studiously hostile ' . ' toward Nigeria through the long conflict . In Washington , the State Department said that it had received a statement of " warm appreciation " from Nigeria for an American offer of aid . Page 14 . In an announcement on the Nigerian radio tonight , the Government also declared that all relief personnel who participated in direct relief flights into Biafra , in violation of Nigerian air space , were not welcome . Joint Church Aid , Caritas , Canairelief and the Nordic Red Cross were listed in the announcement as agencies from which Nigeria would accept nothing and with which the Government would not deaL Occupation Complete The declaration came after Gen. Yakubu Gowon , the Nigerian leader , conferred with his military aides and relief advisers . The Federal forces say that they have completed the occupation of Biafra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintaining law and order there . The aid flown into Biafra by relief agencies has irritated the Nigerians , who charge that cargoes included arms and ammunition . Relief agency officials in New York , including the only agency flying into Biafra regularly , Joint Church Aid , U.S.A. , denied yesterday that " any arms or ammunitions or any kind of material for the war effort had been aboard the airplanes . " The Government here has been particularly critical of Caritas , the Roman Catholic re- lief agency , and has strongly criticized the Vatican and Pope Paul VI . A statement yesterday charged the Vatican with " sustaining the rebels with money and vital supplies and transportation links with the outside world . " Vatican Role Assailed " The role of the Vatican has had the tragic consequence of prolonging rebel resistance leading to the deaths of many innocent people and distress for the population in those areas , " it said . Reports from Biafra indicated that the mopping-up was just about over . A Biafran delegation arrived in Lagos early Thursday for armistice talks , Reuters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forests that the war was over and that they have nothing to fear , a reassuring message was broadcast over the captured Biafra radio today by Col , Olusegun Obasanjo , the commander of the Federal Third Division . " I have ordered that the tactical movement of all troops be stopped and that the Nigerian police should take over the maintenance of law and order throughout the Eastern State Biafra , he said . " Troops are garrisoned throughout the Eastern State and are confined to barracks , " he said . " Any cases of molestation by soldiers should be reported at any military or police station for immediate action . " The Nigerian radio asked the Reproduced with permission Biafrans to remain calm . A brief message that was broadcast every 15 minutes throughout the day said : '                     