@@728684

txt Washington is worried these days about the Middle East , but Moscow seems to be even more worried about what happens in Southeast Asia  --  after the Americans have gone away . Perhaps the real news behind it all is that the men in Moscow have obviously come to the conclusion that Richard Nixon really does intend to get outcome what may . And that , of course , puts an ern:fely different complexion on the future . In the past , and so long as a continued American presence on the mainland of Asia was to be taken for granted , Moscow naturally felt that Washington was its major rival for influence in Asia . But if one starts from the different premise of steady American withdrawal , Moscow 's future rival in Asia will be Communist China . The evidence that Moscow currently sees the future in these terms is in a remarkable series of public documents coming out of the Kremlin . They seem to disclose a sharp change of course in Russian attitude toward the other major powers . The change seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and into early May Moscow took an unusually strong anti-American line . It appeared to reflect both the new tension in the Middle East and also an initial reaction against the American venture into Cambodia . But a policy statement printed in Pravda May 18 accused the Chinese of seeking domination over all of Asia  --  which , obviously , the Chinese would like to have . An incident on June 2 takes on in retrospect more weight than it seemed at the time to have . At a ceremonial in Moscow for U.S. Astronaut Neil A. Armstrong , Prime Minister Alexei N. Kosygin was fulsome in his praise of President Nixon and sent " heartfelt gratitude " to the President for the piece of moon rock the astronaut had brought . It could have been just ritual . Three days later ( June 5 ) the New Times , a Russian magazine devoted to world affairs , published a major attack on Peking policy . It called the Chinese responsible for the overthrow of Prince Sihanouk in Cambodia , hence indirectly responsible for the American intervention . It warned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Cambodia tie kept Last week ( June 10 ) Mr. Kosygin made a major television speech in which he said that improved relations between his country and the United States would serve the mutual interests of both and reported that efforts to normalize Russian relations with China had been blocked by the Chinese . Add that Russia , unlike China , has not broken diplomatic relations with the present regime in Cambodia , but still maintains an embassy there . It does not yet recognize Prince Siha ? nouk as the true head of Cam- bodia . It is not supporting the Peking-Hanoi plan to attempt to restore Sihanouk to authority in Cambodia . In other words , Moscow is not supporting a political operation which , if successful , would presumably be to China 's advantage . Sihanouk has become a creature of China . His restoration %vould mark a rise of Chinese influence in Southeast Asia . Moscow has spent heavily of its treasure , and weapons , to gain a foothold of influence in Hanoi , and in all other parts of what used to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What happens to this Russian investment when the Americans go away ? Recent events seem to have removed any serious doubt in anyone 's thinking on that point . In Washington the talk is not of whether Mr. Nixon really will pull 150,000 troops out of Vietnam by May of next year , but whether he will increase the number . His determination to " get out " is accepted both here in Washington and in other world capitals as being bona fide . Obviously , the final departure of the last American may be a long way off . There are still some 60,000 American troops in Korea . A rear guard of Americans may remain in some Vietnam " coastal enclaves " for a very long time , just as there are still a few British soldiers in Hong Kong and Singapore , reminders of former empire . But so long as Richard Nixon has his way , the withdrawal from Southeast Asia will go on and its future will have to be worked out or fought over between the locals , China and Russia . In the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the favorable position . When seems to be precisely what is worrying the Russians now , even to the point where Washington , despite the Middle East , seems less unattractive than Peking . Mideast threat Obviously , the Middle East can put a new strain on the Washington-Moscow relationship . In Jordan the King has all but lost ? control . One Ameri- can Embassy attach ? was killed in the civil war going on there . Others were in such danger that the White House ordered preparations ( on a standby basis ) for an emergency rescue operation . There are Western diplomats who see in the future a possible " deal " between Moscow and Peking : Russia 's pulling out of Southeast Asia in return for China 's calling off its troublemaking in Eastern Europe , particularly in Romania . But that could be a long way in the future . And besides , Russia is extremely sensitive to Chinese pressure on India . Mixed gain seen For the present at least , Moscow seems to feel that American withdrawal from Southeast Asia will be at best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem by words any tendency for the Chinese tide to flow in as the American moves out . Meanwhile , Moscow 's ambassador in Washington , Anatoly F. Dobrynin , is continuing his talks with the State Department . One thing which marks these talks is that both sides are being as uncommunicative about them as the delegations at the SALT talks in Vienna . This is truly " secret diplomacy . " The only good results which have ever come out of RussianAmerican talks have been when they were truly " secret . "                     