@@730160

txt Henry Kissinger said today he expects that when the present turmoil has subsided over the mining of ports in North Viet Nam by the United States , both sides will make efforts to resume peace negotiations . The President 's assistant for national security affairs said in a White House press conference that the U. S. had not yet heard from the Soviet Union concerning the mining of the ports , but that the President fully expects to proceed with the Moscow summit conference later this month . Sees Some Difficulties Kissinger conceded that the latest U. S. moves in Viet Nam " will create short-term difficulties " for the Soviets , but expressed hope that they will not allow the situation to negate months of efforts to reach agreements in such matters as arms limitation and increased trade . The decision to mine the harbors in an effort to block the shipments of arms and military equipment to North Vietnamese forces was " very painful and difficult , " Kissinger said , and was taken " only because it was believed that no other honorable alternative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somber during today 's hour-long session , with his voice occasionally cracking . Bares Secret Messages He provided details of messages passed between Washington and Hanoi during the last five weeks , while efforts were being made to reestablish the secret talks between Kissinger and Le Due Tho , a member of North Viet Nam 's Politburo . The day after President Nixon revealed on Jan. 26 the series of secret talks , the U. S. sent Hanoi a message expressing willingness to resume the negotiations , Kissinger said . Hanoi answered in the affirmative on Feb. 14 , he said , and , three days later , the U. S. set a date of March 20 to meet again . On Feb. 29 , Hanoi accepted the March 20 date , but postponed it on March 6 until April 15 . The U. S. accepted the postponement , Kissinger said , but asked that it he moved to April 19 , since Kissinger hoped to go to Japan on the 15th . When there was no answer from the Communists , William Porter , the chief U. S. representative to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but then offered to resume them after the Communists agreed ? to meet secretly with Kissinger on April 24 . There were half a dozen messages sent between Washington and Hanoi last month , Kissinger said , but when he finally got together with Le Duc Tho on May 2 , all the Communist did was read verbatim from Hanoi 's public demands . Tells Hanoi Demands " IL had taken us six months to set up the meeting and when we got there what we heard could have been clipped from a newspaper and sent to us , " Kissinger said . The Communists have demanded that President Nguyen Van Thicu step down as head of the South Vietnamese government , that the government be totally dissolved , that all American aid to South Viet Nam be terminated , and that a coalition government be formed in Saigon even before there is a ceasefire . Then , " Kissinger said , that government , where the Communists would be the only organized power , would negotiate with the Viet Cong . " It would be imposition , under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kis.singer said . Meanwhile , the State Department announced that Secretary of State William Rogers has cancelled the continuation of his European mission , after consulting with the President . Rogers was called home late Sunday night , and the White House said at that time that he was expected to resume the mission , which was aiming at informing U. S. allies about ' the President 's hopes for the I Moscow discussions . Warning to Shippers Martin J. Hillenbrand , assistant secretary of state for European affairs , will continue Rogers ' planned consultations in Bonn , Paris , Rome , and Madrid . At the Pentagon , the Naval Oceanographic Office released the text of a warning it issued to all foreign nations , warning them of the mining of the seven North . Vietnamese ports , including Haiphong . The mines will be activated at 6 a. m . Chicago time on Thursday , the note said , and all ships would have to proceed at their own risk after that . It also advised . them that American forces are under orders to take appropriate measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seaborne supplies . Pentagon sources noted that the blockade would not involve boarding and inspection of ships , altho they did not rule out bombardment of barges that la r g e r freighters or oilers might use to ferry supplies into harbors ' from outside North Vietnamese territorial waters .                     