@@731722

txt In recent years , the President of the United States annually , has sent two major messages to the Congress , one on the state of the nation , the other on the state of the world . This year , only one is needed . Not since the postwar Marshall Plan days has the free world been so despbrately in need of American help . In a way that has rarely been experienced in the past , the nation and the world confront the same problems . And both look to the President for leadership . " We have been pressing the Americans to do what we believe , what they believe . . . to be right , " British Prime Minister Wilson said last week . " The problem this year , even more than inflation . . . is avoiding a world lurch into depression . . . very early and very urgently in 1975 . " It was a plea already pressed upon President Ford personally last month by Chancellor Schmidt of West Germany and President Giscard d'Estaing of France . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil price increase and the accidental conjunction of poor harvests and industrial boom everywhere in 1972-73 ? has forced West Europe , the United States and Japan into deflationary policies , recession and unemployment . The industrial nations , which produce SO per cent of the free world 's manufactures , have been whirled into a mutually reinforcing downward economic spiral that could end in a crash similar to that of the 1930 's ? and a rise of authoritarian governments . Only the United States and West Germany  --  which have the lowest inflation rates , the soundest payments balances and by far the largest monetary reserves ( if gold is counted at the market price ) ? can risk the economic stimulus now needed to lead the world economy back upward . Expansion in the vast American and German markets alone would permit the other industrial countries to restrain domestic demand yet revive production with export-led growth that would , in turn , further spur West German and American recovery . President Ford 's signature of the new Trade Reform Act , committing the United States to fundamental reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barriers ? at a time when oil-payments deficits are pressing all nations toward restrictive , beggar'thy-neighbor measures  --  was a prerequisite for the enlightened policies required . Now , following the lead of West Germany , the need is , for substantial economic stimulus in the United States , accompanied by vigorous measures to reduce costly oil imports , conserve energy and speed the development of new energy sources . None of the threats the world faces in 1975  --  the year of greatest danger since World War II and the world depression that triggered it ? can be managed without mastering the twin crises of the economy : recession and energy . But if dependence on Arab oil begins to decline , American leverage in the Middle East will increase and , ' with it , the chances for avoiding another war that could again bring the world to the brink of nuclear holocaust . D ? tente with the Soviet Union  --  and the possibility of progress in arms control  --  depend on vigorous economic progress in the West . A capitalist crisis of the kind predicted by Marx @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : ideologues in Moscow who might be prepared to risk adventure to advance the prospects of a Communist world . Political stability in Japan , vital to ' a peaceful Asia ; the steady unification of West Europe , essential to economic progress and democratic government in the birthplace of Western civilization ; , economic development in the poor nations , dependent on the social responsibility and technology . of the industrial world primarily , much as the new wealth of the oil-producing nations can help ? all these will be at risk if the United States fails to meet today 's central challenge . As President Ford prepares his first State of the Union message , no thought is more crucial than a realization that the " union " for which he now holds responsibility ? and which looks to him for leadership  --  extends far beyond the fifty states to the interdependent free world .                     