@@731770

txt Letters to the Editor 28 Letters to the Editor Pg . Malpractice Insurance : ' We Face a Crisis ' To the Editor : May I compliment The New York Times on its fair presentation of the malpractice health crisis in the January articles . They mentioned the proposal of Senator Dunne to " create a pool of insurance companies to provide malpractice coverage . " To anyone know . edgeable in the field , this is not the answer , as it does not address the problem that malpractice insurance premiums are at an unconscionable level for physicians and hospitals . Insurance companies say malpractice is no longer an insurable item unless the system is changed . Unfortunately , it is the public who would suffer from either increased health-care costs or lack of services . The articles point out that the medical profession " urged the Legislature to establish a commission that would limit damages according to a specified schedule as with Workmen 's Compensation and require compulsory arbitration " and " urged the adoption of a no-fault concept that would consider only compensation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyer friends tells us we will never solve the malpractice crisis unless we eliminate the contingency-fee system . The trial lawyers argue that " the contingency system is the only means by which those other than the Government by Inflation To the Editor : Inflation is endemic to the socialist democracies such as the United States , Britain , Sweden , Australia and Japan . In view of the current debate as to the causes and cures of this inflation , it may be useful to remember that inflation has its political uses , particularly when from time to time the people elect their governors . Simply put , this inflation is taxation without legislation . To illustrate : leInflation makes it possible to increase individual and corporate taxes through the progressive nature of income and payroll taxes without having to vote for them . CInflation tends to make it feasible to expect to provide eventually the previously promised public pension dollars , their value reduced to levels supportable without visible new taxes . Our Young Recidivists To the Editor : In your commendable concern for services for youths in trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference " to identify the system 's gaps . " ( Juvenile Care , " editorial Feb. 1 . ) There are , however , some needs that are already identified and that warrant immediate action . Half-way houses are essential for the transition of violence-prone delinquent youths back to the community after their detention out of the city in Division for Youth training schools . With the increasing recidivism in violent crime by juveniles , debate has centered on the Division for Youth policy of release , after only eight or nine months , of youths with records of repeated violent delinquencies . Whether the division should change its policy depends in part on whether it can find means of motivating such To the Editor : Your Jan. 23 editorial on the controversy surrounding reconstruction of the Wollman skating rink makes the sound point that " elitism " is not in question and that the real concern is " use versus abuse , or destructive overkill . " We believe that ice skating is a most important amenity , one for which the area was planned , one which inflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should continue where it is . Funds for reconstruction of the rink are available and should be put to use as soon as possible . For summer we would recommend some low-intensity use . The rock concerts are also an important amenity , and obviously one of wide popular appeal . But they do not belong in the southeastern portion of Central Park , which literally can not sustain them . The problem of finding an alternative location is aggravated by the fact that Schaefer charges admission and accordingly needs control of access , which would be difficult at some otherwise suitable sites in Central Park ; this is a problem that Schaefer , the Parks Administration and community groups should begin to explore at once . Perhaps some corporation or community organization could be found to wealthy can afford to bring suits . " To solve this problem and protect the public interest , we urge the Legislature to pass legal insurance based on Medicaid ( medical ) fees and office visits with a schedule of awards and compulsory arbitration to assure access to the legal system . This would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not continue to provide medical care in New York State unless the system is changed . The alternative is exorbitant charges for hospitals , H.M.O. 's , office practice and surgery . If the physicians stop practice , this will cripple health care in the state , except for emergency care . School athletic and health programs and routine elective medical care would be jeopardized . The only solution is to take the profit and fat out of our antiquated system . We face a health-care crisis on July 1 , and we urge the Governor and legislators to support the position of the Medical Society of the State of New York and stay in session until they resolve this problem . Otherwise , many of our physicians will be forced to leave New York State on July 1 . RALPH S. EMMERSON , M.D. President-elect Medical Society of the State of N. Y. Lake Success , N. Y. , Feb. 3 , 1975 QInflation makes it possible for government generally to adopt a debt approach to the payment of current costs with the expectation that debt retirement wil : be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible taxes at either stage ( New York City , for example ) . Without an up or down vote on some broadly applicable form of indexing , one should conclude that our governors fully understand these blessings of inflation . Efforts to effect greater control over interest rates will be further proof of the Congress ' intent to exploit them . Nearing 1976 , a celebration of a period when the people said " no taxa , tion without representation , " it may he time to adopt a new slogan : " No taxation without legislation . " DARYL L. POLENZ Katonah , N. Y. , Jan. 23 , 1975 youths to participate in the educational , vocational , recreational and counseling programs In the schools so that a longer period of residence there would be rehabilitative . But even if the Division for Youth modifies its belief in only short removals and restrictions for all delinquent youths , half-way houses after release are undoubtedly necessary for **29;679;TOOLONG who have repeatedly committed crimes of violence . Generally their delinquencies were born of their upbringing in a milieu of crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence , guidance and control in their homes . The high risk of their resuming crime is clear if they are returned in their adolescence to the same environment that produced their delinquency . NANETTE DEMBITZ Judge of Family Court New York , Feb. 3 , 1975 supplement the generosity of the Schaefer Brewing Company by - subsidizing the concerts to the point where admission could be free ; in that case there would be a much wider choice of future sites . In spite of our anxiety to see the reconstruction of the area completed , we believe that the rock concerts should be allowed to continue at the Wollman rink for the summer of 1 975 only . The lead time for scheduling concerts and signing up performers is such that it would be inequitable to refuse use of the rink area on such comparatively short notice . But after the coming summer there must be no question of anything but low-intensity use . In our studies of this and other park problems we have been much helped by the position papers issued by Prof. James Marston Fitch , director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park , Although we may differ with him from time to time  --  for example , we are not entirely persuaded that a pond is the ideal summer use for the Wollman rink ? we admire his sound and careful work and are delighted that the city has secured the services of a man of his caliber . EUGENIA M. FLATOW President , The Parks Council New York , Jan. 31 , 1975 The War Wall To the Editor : As a college student with much to lose from a failing economy  --  namely , my education ? I have devoted much thought to its revitalization and have developed a " solution " that may at least partly help . Considering that a war boosts the economy , the following steps should be taken : We should find some empty expanse of land in the country and build a giant Wall upon it . Then , every time the economy sags , we would declare war against the Wall . We would revive industry by building tanks and guns to fire against the Wall and punch it ; we could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Wall , and a further benefit is the fact that we would always win . After the war , we could provide aid and education for the Wall , and give many citizens jobs in rebuilding it . Then , when the economy sags again , we would just declare another war , and hence prevent the economy from dropping to a dangerous level . The benefits of this system are limitless . Thus I feel this proposal should be seriously considered by our nation 's leaders : Despite its flaws , it makes as much sense as any other solution I 've heard so far . JONATHAN MURRAY REICHMAN Haverford , Pa. , Jan. 24 , 1975 Of Watergate and Taxes To the Editor : I wonder what the Internal Revenue Service has done about the taxable income received by the Committee to Re-Elect the President ( 1972 ) . I refer to the illegal contributions that were not returned to the donors and that part of the contributions not used for valid political purposes but disbursed to finance the Watergate burglary and the expenses , including legal fees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ellsberg psychiatrist 's office break-ins , and the hush-money cover-up payments . W. J. BAILEY Red Bank , N. J. , Jan. 30 , 1975 ? Of Deserters and Motives To the Editor : The American Civil Liberties Union and others who advocate unconditional amnesty for deserters and draft dodgers do so on a specious premise , to put it mildly . They claim that those who deserted the services and those who fled the draft did so because they considered the Vietnam war to be immoral . There is no way to prove this or to prove that they fled or deserted because of cowardice or pro-Communism . All wars are immoral , but we must serve when our country requires us for defense against those who would destroy it by arms or by the forcible spreading of anti-American ideology . Unconditional amnesty would establish a precedent that could emasculate our armed forces in the event of a future conflict . Thousands could desert or refuse to serve because they could look forward to unqualified pardons when the conflict ended , BERNARD L. BAER Scarsdale , N.Y. , Feb. 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I should like to take up the gauntlet cast down by the spokesmen of the police in their drive to break parity with tile firefighters . I am referring to statements by , Murphy and others . The firefighter 's job is physical , but not entirely so . He has to deal with an element that is more volatile and unpredictable than people . He must perform the job in the most hazardous of atmospheres . He does not , as those spokesmen imply , just go in and put out tile fire . He simply makes it look that way . The firefighter must handle people . who are in or close to a state of panic or are completely helpless  --  all the while quelling any hint of panic that may arise in himself . One does not simply duck or hide from fire or run from it . Even the act of dousing the . fire creates an atmosphere worse than before . Through all this and with thought of possible collapse and/or explosion , he must move toward and into the fire . The fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of surgeons cutting out a cancer . If not , the building is given up . Then other buildings , peoples ' homes and jobs are affected . The above is a simplified view of the firefighters and is not intended to be either apologetic or derogatory of / . another job but rather a partial answer to some public statements . ( LiOUL ) THOMAS J. GRIFFIN Engine Company 27 - View York , Feb. -1 , 4 975 On the Future of the Wollman Rink                     