@@729820

txt The army assumed control of public order today in this capital after more than 150 persons had been injured in violence set off by a women 's protest march against the Government . President Salvadore Allende Gossens met with the National Security Council and decreed a state of emergency . Street skirmishes between Marxist and anti-Marxist youths , which broke out last night during the women 's " March of the Empty Pots , " continued this morning . Carabineers , the national police , acting under the orders of Gen. Augusto Pinochet , commander of the Santiago army garrison , fired scores of teargas grenades and arrested more than 100 rock-throwing youths . Traffic in central streets was disrupted and stores closed their steel shutters . ' Upsurge of Sedition ' The Minister of the Interior , Jose Tohd , announced in a:televised statement that Chile 's left-wing Government was facing an " upsurge of sedition " by the anti-Marxist opposition led by the Christian Democratic and National parties . Mr. Tohd closed down indefinitely the two major oppesi-1 tion radio stations , Radio Balmaceda and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women to take part in the march to protest food shortages and the visit here of Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba . General Pinochet , who was put in charge of all internal security forces , prohibited all street assemblies . The order prevented a scheduled march by anti-Marxist students , but did not interfere with a farewell rally for Mr. Castro , attended by Dr. Allende , at the National Stadium . Dr. Allende said at the rally that " the germs of fascism " were at work in Chile . " I respect the opposition as long as it remains within the law , but I know very well how to distinguish between opposition . and sedition , " he told a crowd of about 40,000 . Dr. Allende said that it was // a " strange coincidence " that street demonstrations here had broken out at the same time as newspapers in the United States published reports that aides of President Nixon who recently visited Latin America believed " that the days of the popular government of Chile are numbered . " Mr. Castro followed Dr. Allende to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascism in action . " Reaction is much more developed and experienced in Chile than it was in Cuba when we took power , " he declared . Mr. Castro said that his three weeks in Chile had left him with the impression that the possibility of counterrevolution existed here " because of weaknesses in the ideological struggle , in the mobilization of the masses , and in the unification of the revolutionary forces . " " The question here is whether the popular forces will learn faster from the revolutionary process than the reactionaries , " he said . Newspapers and radio stations were warned by General Pinochet that they would he shut down if they published or broadcast " alarmist information . " The police patrolled bus . railroad and air terminals . " The caribineers have orders to allow no street demonstrations by anyone , and I do n't care if their political color is red , blue , yellow or green , " said General Pinochet at a news conference . " I hope the army does not have to come out because if , they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He explained that soldiers did not have the crowd-control weapons of police . While the pro-Government rally met at the National Stadium , about 10,000 shopkeepers , farmers , provincial merchants , bankers , and industrialists jammed Caupolic  --  n Stadium , Santiago 's Madison Square Garden . Anti-Marxists Satisfied This meeting of the private sector , called to protest governmental measures that have affected small-businessmen and farmers , whistled derisively each time Dr. Allende 's name Was mentioned by speakers . " Send him away with Fidel ! " they chanted repeatedly . Mr. Castro is scheduled to fly home to Havana Saturday with stopovers in Lima , Peru , and Guayaquil , Ecuador . Anti-Marxists were clearly satisfied with the women 's march . More than 5,000 women took part , beating pots and pans to protest food shortages until the police used tear gas against them to prevent a march on the presidential palace . " The Government knows that we can not be intimidated by these thugs , " said a housewife who marched yesterday and who was weeping from tear haas . By " thugs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of youths from the extremist loft-wing Revolutionary Left Movement and the Communist party 's Ramona Parra Youth brigade named for a Communist girl killed in street fighting in 1945 . Housewife Is Defiant Another Christian Democratic woman said that she had been stopped today by a carabineer carrying a submachine gun who had asked , her if she had demonstrated yesterday . She said that when she replied that she had , the carabineer said : " Keep it up , we are with you . " The suspension of the march by anti-marxist university students did not prevent Dr. Edgardo Boeninger , rector of the University of Chile , from reading before a cheering crowd of students and professors a proclamation of a plebiscite to be held Dec. 21 on maintaining or deposing the present University Council , which is con trolled by pro-Government Marxists .                     