@@733071

txt Letters pg . 19 Letters Hospitals : Of , Costs , Care and ' the Shortest Shrift ' To the Editor : The Times 's editorial of April 29 on control of hospital costs made the following points : ( 1 ) hospital costs are increasing at an alarming rate , ( 2 ) although a 9 percent ceiling on the annual increase is not the best way of controlling costs , it is the only method that can be enacted speedily , and ( 3 ) although the ceiling may introduce some decrease in health care , this is better than financial ruin . It is worth spending a little time considering what effect this ceiling will have on hospitals and on the care of patients in hospitals . One must realize that hospitals will automatically respond to such forces in a predictable way since the reimbursement mechanisms ( Blue Cross , Medicare and Medicaid ) have such a pernicious structure that the effect is almost automatic . It is impossible to describe the reimbursement procedure of these major intermediaries , but in essence , Blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portion of its total cost in a manner much like the following : If one calculates the total units of allowable work performed for Blue Cross patients and divides this by the total units of services performed by the hospital , it gives a ratio which was originally intended to determine the percentage of effort ( and cost ) expended on behalf of Blue Cross patients . If this is multiplied by the total costs of a hospital , one would think it would provide a reasonable dollar figure Blue Cross should pay for services to its insurees on a cost basis  --  that is , cost reimbursement . It is the use of allowable , however , that is a more destructive force in hospital viability . If a patient exhausts his benefits but must be hospitalized , work done for him is not allowable . This shrinks the numerator without affecting the denominator , decreasing reimbursement . Further , any non-ailowable work done in addition to what has already been done will decrease the hospital 's dollar return . Thus , if a Blue Cross patient has his appendix @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay the hospital depends in part on how much service the hospital performed on patients whose benefits have expired or are nonexistent . Naturally , the hospital will respond by avoiding the patient for whom it not only ca n't collect but who in addition will decrease the amount collected for legitimate service for legitimate Blue Cross , Medicare and Medicaid patients . Medicaid benefits especially vary widely from state to state , and where they are most arbitrary ( number of days covered , etc. ) one can expect the shortest shrift for such people . No one in his right mind would have invented this bizarre payment mechanism . It grew by accretion so that it now makes the Watts Tower look , in comparison , like a Mondrian . Adding another arbitrary layer ( the 9 percent ) merely stimulates the enormous collection of accountants and administrators to work even harder to respond . One must remember that the fastest growing area of a hospital in the past ten years has not been open-heart surgery , renal dialysis , radiology , or the clinical laboratory , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these reimbursement functions . hospitals have become a vast W.P.A. for data processors , key punch operators , programmers , billing clerks and accountants . All of these , incidentally , are reimbursable under the same rules as nurses , employed physicians , food service , radiology technicians , and all the other similar persons whose job it is to try to make one well . The vast swamp of computer tapes and billing forms is a sheer waster of money not benefiting the patient in any way . Unless we begin to discuss a sensible scheme , we shall get precisely what we deserve . It is never too late for rational behavior . AARON D. FREEDMAN , M.D. Center for Biomedical Education The City College New York , May 2 , 1977 A Solution for Drought Breitel 's ' Disservice to Thousands of Lawyers ' On the West Coast To the Editor : This is with reference to your May 5 news article " Drought on Coast Breaks Record . " For months we have been hearing Paul Flora and reading about the drought on the West Coast and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter proposed to stop a number of dam projects for ecological reasons . As the despondency over the dwindling water supplies in the West and the furor over the cessation of work on several dam projects throughout the country increase , nobody has so far : ome up with a single solution to the watershortage problem . Here is one which has remained unmentioned : Use the monies originally allocated to the canceled dam projects and build a series of water desalination plants on the West Coast . That would not only prevent a recurrence of future droughts but also give employment to thousands of people . We have the technology to do this . The huge water desalination plant in Aruba is living proof . KLAUS A. WERNER New York , May 5 , 1977 To the Editor : On April 1 , one more Brazilian newspaper reached the bookstalls for the last time . The weekly Opiniao folded of its own accord . We shall appear again  --  next week , next year , next decade  --  only if we can appear free from censorship , said Opiniao 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the censor . The idea of founding Opiniao came to me after a stay in Oxford , England , as a visiting fellow . I felt I would like to import to my countrymen that love of democracy and respect for human rights which in England is a simple way of living . I knew that free debate of ideas in search of total and responsible freedom was not exactly officially favored , but the latest Brazilian Constitution , however severe in many points , did not establish any pre-publication censorship of the press . Founding a weekly of a decidedly cultural vocation , political only in the sense that politics partakes of the cultural life , I felt safe . And so my associates and I launched Opiniiio . The year was 1972 . We managed to publish only the first eight issues without censorship . To start with , the censors came to our offices . But soon we were ordered to take our copy to the federal police in Rio . Before long , we had to take our copy to the censor 's central office in Brasilia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its faraway objects became clearer : our financial destruction . The inevitable delays due to the distance between Rio and Brasilia were made the most of by the censors. and we frequently had half of our copy suppressed , which forced us to write and edit about two newspapers a week to publish one . Whole issues were confiscated from vendors under the pretext that we had not fully obeyed the censor , Or we were taken to jail . To the Editor : In my opinion the remarks of Chief Judge Breitel as reported in The Times on May 3 , concerning lawyers being motivated by greed , are indeed unfortunate . His cnaracterization of the legal profession as being motivated by self-interest does a disservice to the thousands of lawyers who have actively involved themselves in nonpaying charitable activities in their local communities throughout the state . It also fails to take into consideration the active , concerted effort ui s , ate and local bar associations to aid in the administration of justice , which ; s a social commitment . Granted , there are some lawyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in and of itself , but this is not unique in the legal profession , and such practitioners are definitely in the minority . Most attorneys with whom I have come in contact during my years of practice have a deep awareness of their responsibilities to the general public , and are actively engaged in voluntary work to improve the quality of life of all . To the Editor : In an April IS editorial you characterized the National Lawyers Guild as having an interest in serving only those causes " whose predilections " we share . For 40 years , the guild has had a history of serving the causes of oppressed minorities , working people , women , antiwar activists and those who seek fundamental economic change by way of eliminating the inequality of wealth which exists in this country . In short , we work on behalf of people and organizations whose work is progressive , a word which for some reason you put in quotes . The work of the Ku Klux Klan in We went to court , brandishing our Constitution , and obtained an injunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Emilio Medici made null and void the court decision , we knew that newspaper censorship was lawful after all . And what was it we were prevented from publishing ? Almost anything from the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights to protests against apartheid in South Africa or political persecutions in the Soviet Union . Our chess problems , translated from Britain 's Guardian , were once suppressed because some censor could n't put up with the fact that " the blacks were in an inferior position . " Some psychoanalytical considerations based on Freud 's suggestion that Leonardo da Vinci had homosexual leanings were deleted by a censor named Leonardo . And so we reached the end of our tether . We shall publish again when " freedom shall open its wings above us , " in the words of a Brazilian song we were forbidden to quote . FERNANDO GASPARIAN Editor , Opinido Rio de Janeiro , May 3 , 1977 The legal profession should always be subject to constructive criticism , both from within and from without , but general unconstructive remarks serve no useful purpose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Community New York State Bar Association Albany , May 5 , 1977 Crime ' and Payment To the Editor : The adage that crime does not pay was challenged on the occasion of the Frost-Nixon commercial television program . Contrived on a business basis for the benefit of the participants , it suggests that crime may indeed pay on some occasions . If not elevating to the public , it may have elevated the participants , not to mention the sale of dog foods and such . JULIAN H. WHITTLESEY Wilton , Conn. , May 5 , 1977 the United States is surely not progressive . it is racist . What you fail to recognize is that by representing the Klan , the A.C.L.U. gives tangible support to the Klan 's organizing of military people . Not only does it give legal support to the work of the Klan , It gives respectability to the Klan 's efforts and permits people who may claim to be liberal to find a way of not lighting the Klan . A number of questions must be asked about the A.C.L.U. 's support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to representing the individual G.I. 's who are members of the Klan , does the A.C.L.U. represent the United Ku Klux Klan of Georgia , Inc ? Why does the A.C.L.U. seek not only injunctive relief against the transfer of Ku Klux Klan members from Camp Pendleton but also damages for those Ku Klux Klan members and for the Ku Klux Klan itself ? If the A.C.L.U. 's support for the Klan enables it to strengthen its work in the armed services  --  work which is directed against the lives , liberty and well-being of black Ga . ' s ? what subsequent program does the A.C.L.U. have to fight a strengthened Klan ? Your editorial asked none of these questions . It examined the civil liberties issue in this country as one which is totally divorced from any other social or political concern . Before passing judgment so quickly and comfortably , The Times should ask , Where is the support for the A.C.L.U. 's position from minority people in this country ? It is easy for white people to be sanguine about free speech for the Ku Klux Klan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not afford the same luxury . Many commended the TV presentation of " Roots " and its exposition of the history of racism in this country . Those who expressed these feelings should consider the consequences of their support for groups such as the Klan . WILLIAM GOODMAN Natl . Pres. , National Lawyers Guild Detroit , May 5 , 1977 How Brazil 's Censors Defeated a Newspaper A.C.L.U. and the Klan : ' Consider the Consequences '                     