@@731833

txt A fact-finding delegation of eight members of the United States Congress left for home tonight after a heated , theatrical encounter this morning with representatives of North Vietnam and the Vietcong 's Provisional Revolutionary Government . The delegation , which visited South Vietnam and Cambodia at President Ford 's request to determine if the Saigon and Phnom Penh governments required additional military aid , contained three identifiable hawks , one outspoken dove and four others whose positions were somewhere between . Most professed to have not quite made up their minds on the . Ford Administration 's request for $522-million in extra military aid . But several said that the group had at least reached a rough consensus that it was imperative for Secretary of State Kissinger to involve the United States again in  --  a search for negotiated settlements to the Vietnamese and Cambodian wars . Peace Role Sought S'inator Dewey F. Bartlett , Republican of Oklahoma , said at Tan Son Nhut air base just before the party left for Wash-ingtbn : " It would be my guess that we would want Secretary Kissinger to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right away , ) with Russia and China , in an effort to encourage them to , use their influence on the North Vietnamese to reduce , the level of war and to reduce military support to the North ; Vietnamese as we would reduce it to the South Vietnamese . " This morning , seven of the eight Congress members met with North Vietnamese and Vietcong officers , who are lodged at Tan Son Nhut ? on moribund negotiating teams , to discuss the emotionally charged question of American personnel missing in action in Indochina . Representative John P. Murtha , Democrat of Pennsylvania , who was twice wounded as a marine colonel here , absented himself from the unusual meeting , a colleague . said , because he feared his lingering " hatred " for the Vietnamese Communists might flare . Bracelet Displayed As it was , several members , ' formal and stony-faced before a crush of television cameras , accused the Communists of lying , indulging in propaganda and being insincere about the search for the 929 Americans listed as missing in action in Indochina and 1,163 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a term in Oklahoma that covers your answer , " Senator Bartlett told Lieut . Col. Nguyen Duc Bao of the North Vietnamese delegation after listening to a long lecture on American " sabotage " of the Paris peace agreements . " And it 's hogwash . " Senator Bartlett dramatically removed a silver M.I.A. bracelet from his left wrist ; it bore the name of an Air Force captain , . Clifford Fieszel of Tulsa , Okla. , who was shot down over Haiphong on Sept. 30 , 1968 . Mr. Bartlett passed it down to the colonel . " His wife wants to know where he is or where his remains are , " the Republican told the North Vietnamese officer , who sat at the opposite end of a long table . " I go back to Oklahoma in two weeks . Now what am I going to tell Mrs. Fieszel ? " The stocky colonel , unruffled behind his tinted glasses , did not give a direct answer through his young interpreter , but returned to his history of the two-year war since the Paris accords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's can not go forward until the agreements are " scrupulously and strictly implemented . " " Is it reasonable , " the colonel asked at one point , " that when the United States is bringing weapons , ammunition and war materials to South Vietnam to kill the Vietnamese it is demanding to seek information about the missing in action ? " Query to Hanoi But later , the colonel said he would forward ? the name of Captain Fieszel  --  and those of any other American " martyrs " that were furnished  --  to Hanoi . " Whenever information is available , we shall notify you , " he said . This prompted Representative Bella Abzug , the Manhattan Democrat , to . express the hope that contacts between people , not just governments , could help answer " the pleas and cries of our constituents " on the M.I.A. question . She said this " would be an enormous step to restoring reconciliation between our two countries . " But this was a brief interlude . William ' V. Chappell , a conservative Florida , Democrat , launched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonel that the colonel 's unbending position had " made Up my mind " to vote for the Ford Administration 's pending $300-million aid request for Saigon . Later in the day , Representative Millicent Fenwick , Republican of New Jersey , Mrs. Abzug and . Representative Donald M. Fraser , Minnesota Democrat , flew to Ham Tan , capital of Binh Tuy Province , to interview Huynh Tan Mam , a Saigon student leader who has been imprisoned since he was arrested on Jan. 6 , 1972 . Mrs. Abzug said that Mr. Mam looked to be in good health though he said he had been tortured after his arrest and that he had been " threatened with punishment if he spoke to us . " The 19-year-old prisoner said he had . not seen members of his family since his arrest , she said .                     