@@732237

txt POLICE SUPT . James M. Rochford blasted Cook County State 's Atty . Bernard Carey Friday as " irresponsible and unprofessional " in his conduct during a 71/2-month investigation by a county grand jury into allegations of illegal police spying . Rochford , in his first public statement since Monday 's conclusion of the investigation which failed to return any indictments , also called on John S. Boyle , the chief judge of the Circuit Court , and various legal groups to examine Carey 's conduct in releasing testimony given before the secret grand jury .. Carey dismissed Rochlord 's criticisms , saying Rochford should be taking action to correct the problems the grand jury uncovered rather than complaining about ' a bum rap . ' The grand jury issued a report highly critical of police intelligence activities and gave Rochford a list of 13 policemen whom it recommended for disciplinary action . ROCHFORD SAID that since the grand jury , in effect , found there was no concrete evidence that the police department burglarized , wiretapped , or illegally conducted surveillance , the police department had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions of the intelligence division , Rochford said he is convinced that " if excesses did exist , they were well-intentioned , motivated by people who acted wholly in the interest of public good . " Ile said such police officers did not act for any personal gain . " Inactive police can not be criticized , and we are active , " Rochford said . ROCIIFORD SAID , however , he pres. ently has no evidence of any wrongdo ing by the intelligence division . He said he has requested evidence that was presented to the special grand jury from Carey 's office to determine if anyone violated police department rules . He said one policeman , who allegedly admitted to burglaries as part of police surveillance work , was fired by the department , and that policeman attempted to get exonerated by the department by threatening to leak stories to the press . In his strongest criticism of Carey since the beginning of the investigation Rochford claimed the states ' attorney dropped charges against violent criminals who preyed on a church and rectory in an attempt to get information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 71/2 months a charade plotted and designed by a reckless segment of the press and unfortunately carried out by an irresponsible and unprofessional state 's attorney , unscrupulously seeking publicity , " Rochford said . " The only limitation that we have here is the ineptness and inability of our prosecutor " he said. - IN RESPONSE to Rochford 's remarks , Carey said : " Almost any person accused of a crime uses the same expression : ' It 's a bum rap . ' " The superintendent would far better serve the community by taking the report to heart and actually look into the charges and make an honest effort to correct the serious problems pointed out by the grand jury , rather than the binsterings he is engaging in . " Commenting on possible wrongdoings , Rochford said , " If there is something wrong , I want to correct the deficiency and correct it right now . But at present , I have no evidence in my possession of wrongdoing by any member in this department which pertains to illegal intelligence gathering . " Rochford said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would not specify them because of the undercover nature of the unit . However , Rochford said that police officers no longer will be assigned directly to the intelligence division from the training academy which was done as an effort to keep their identity relatively unknown . OPPOSING ONE of the grand jury recommendations that the state 's attorney and grand jury approve each instance of police infiltration , Rochford said , " There would n't be time " for such a procedure in the midst of an investigation . Rochford said he also opposes allowing individuals who may be named in intelligence files to review the documents because such files frequently contain unsubstantiated information .                     