@@729111

txt President Nixon today announced the resignation of Secretary of Treasury David M. Kennedy , and appointed John B. Connally , former governor of Texas and a close friend of former President Johnson , to fill the vacancy . Kennedy , the former chairman of the board of the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. in Chicago , will become ambassador at large in the State Department , Nixon disclosed , where he will concentrate on international monetary matters . The President announced the changes during a White House news briefing . He told reporters that Kennedy had asked that he be given the chance to resign after two years , when he was named secretary at the beginning of the Nixon administration two years ago . A Nonpartisan Role The President said that it was significant that the nation 's problems , including those in the economy , are " nonpartisan " and neither Democratic nor Republican . The appointment will put Connally , long a leader in the Democratic Party , at the helm of a department that is responsible for the economy  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vulnerable spot in the 1972 election . In brief remarks to reporters , Kennedy , in explaining his CHANGE AT TREASURY See the editorial page shift in jobs , said , " My gray hair and age is such that I wanted to go fishing a little more . " Remains in Cabinet Kennedy , in his new post , will remain as a member of the President 's cabinet . He is Nixon 's first appointee as ambassador at large  --  a spot held in earlier administrations by W. Averill Harriman . He will stay on the job thru the current budget sessions , Nixon said , with his resignation effective on Feb. 1 . Nixon said he will not send Connally 's appointment to the Senate for confirmation until the new Congress comes in on Jan. 20 , but emphasized that the secretary-designate will work closely with Kennedy on the new budget so there will be an orderly transit tion . Nixon praised Kennedy this morning for having " served this nation in a selfless and admirable and completely devoted way . " When be took office , Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every month . " He has changed that , " Nixon said . " His policies have guided us to this point and we will build on them in the future . " Rogers Hails Move Nixon said that Secretary of State William Rogers , who was present at the announcement , was " very enthusiastic " about Kennedy joining him in the State Department to handle special assignments concerning international fiscal policies . Nixon said that Connally 's experience gives him special ability in the area of revenue sharing and other state-federal relations . Connally and his wife , Nellie , 1-ad breakfast with President and Mrs. Nixon in the White House this morning , according to Presidential Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler . After breakfast , Nixon called former President Johnson to inform him of the appointment . The former President was " very pleased , " Ziegler said . Nixon informed his other cabinet members of the change during a cabinet meeting in the White House , shortly before the public announcement , and they introduced Connally to the other cabinet officers . Connally was riding with President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assassinated in Dallas . Connally was critically wounded and spent many months recuperating . Connally , in remarks to reporters , said he was " profound . ly proud and humble " at being appointed secretary of treasury . He praised Kennedy , saying he knew it would be impossible to fill his shoes . Connally , for the last 18 months has been a member of the President 's Advisory Council on Executive Organization and was appointed by Nixon earlier this year to serve on the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board . A former administrative aide to Johnson when he was in the House and in the Senate , Connally was named secretary of the navy by the late President Kennedy . He was first elected governor of Texas a year later , and served three terms , retiring in 1969 . On Capitol Hill , Sen. John G. Tower R. , Tex. said Nixon had " taken a wise step toward a bipartisan approach to the economic problems of our country . " He described Connally as a man " philosophically attuned " to the President . Rep. Wright Patman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic policies , said he was surprised that a " loyal Democrat " like Connally would take such a policymaking job under a Republican administration .                     