@@729662

txt Grief tinged with bitterness characterized the mood of this town today in the wake of five days of insurrection by convicts in the Attica Correctional Facility that claimed 41 lives , 10 of them , guards who lived in or around Attica . The grief was centered around the Marley Funeral Home on Main Street , where the bodies of five victims are resting . The separate burials will be Friday . Bodies of the victims began arriving at the funeral home yesterday after state troopers , National Guardsmen and correction officers attacked , the . rebellious prisoners . Each corpse was fingerprinted , for identity purposes . Some relatives of the hostage victims were turned away because of the condition , of the bodies . " You do n't want to see them , " the relatives were told . Mrs. Richard Marley , wife of the proprietor of the funeral parlor , called the grief of the relatives of the victims pitiful . Two of the hostages were fathers of eight childen . One was Elmer G. Hardie , 58 , an industrial foreman at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as clerical workers at the prison , will take up collections in the funeral parlor to set up a memorial fund to ensure the education of the children . Friends and mourners will be invited to contribute money in lieu of flowers . Another father of eight was Edward Cunningham , 52 . A memorial fund also will be established for his children . In Albany , it was learned that survivors of the slain officers will receive benefits amounting Chicago Tribune Press SerViCel to three times the guard 's annual salary . William Ciuros Jr. , president of Council 82 of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes , AFL-CI 0 , said prison guards ' annual salaries average about $10,500 . Hardie and Cunningham will be buried after requiem massses are said for them at 9:30 and 10:30 a. m. on Friday at St. Vincent de Paul Catholic Church in Attica . The other victims are : Elon Werner , 64 , who leaves a wid- , ow and two children ; Ronald Werner , 35 , a nephew who leaves a widow and three small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul 's United Church of Christ . The fifth victim , Herbert W. Jones Jr. , 26 , leaves his widow a small child . He will be buried with the rites of the United Methodist Church . Meanwhile , preparations were being made for the funeral tomorrow of another guard , William Quinn , . also of Attica , who died Saturday of injuries suffered on the first day of the riot . Services will be held in St. Vincent 's . Services for the other hostage victims will be held in the neighboring towns in which they lived . Mrs. Marley quoted the wife of one of the victims as having exclaimed , " I 'm not really bitter  --  perhaps it will help . " Others she described as being in a state of shock . ' Blame Rule Changes Many persons with knowledge of conditions in the prison said administrative authorities who changed operating procedures in the maximum security facility were responsible for the uprising . They cited revisions in the penal code which changed Attica from a prison to a correctional institution . They cited an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many guards , now termed correctional officers , had been on the verge of retiring becatise of this . Victor Blom , 75 , has been a resident of Attica since 1926 , two years before the prison was built . He is considered by many to be one of the town 's most knowledgeable citizens and its historian . " The people are grief stricken , " Blom said . He added that the residents are conservative , have no social problems and are " well adjusted . " Attica 's population is 2,700 , and about 40 persons depend on prison jobs for a livelihood . Others are employed in a Westinghouse plant here , and some work in a basket factory . Officials have imposed a curfew on businesses , requiring some of them to close by 6 p. and others by 8 p. m . No explanation was given for the curfew . Example from Auburn Despite the grief , Blom said , " the people accept what has happened and understand it . " He said many of the townspeople had sensed trouble for some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's administration . In addition , they had before them the example of the trouble in Auburn Prison with unruly prisoners last November ? an uprising that was put down without loss of life . He said the number of radical prisoners had increased in Attica and had set up their own caste system , showing little respect for the guards . Theodore C. Wenzl , president of the New York State Civil Service Employes Association , came here from Albany to handle the problems of the guards who are members of his 200,000 strong AFL-CIO labor organization . He said many of the guards were on the verge of quitting because of conditions at Attica.                     