@@732728

txt Paul Douglas , scholar and three-term Democratic senator from Illinois , died in his Washington home at 9:50 a. m . Friday alter a long illness . He was 84 . Douglas ' death reportedly resulted from respiratory failure . A spokesman at W. W. Chambers Co. , funeral directors , said Douglas had suffered three strokes in recent years . Throughout his 18 years in the Senate , the white-maned Douglas was characterized as the epitome of the " fighting liberal . " Damned by some of his colleagues . for his righteousness , the tall , bespectacled former University of Chicago economics professor  --  was also respected for his consistency . and integrity , winning grudgingly the title of " conscience of the Senate . " Douglas was 5 man who did things late in life  --  a Chicago alderman at 47 , a Marine Corps private qt 50 , a United States senator at 56  --  but who always managed to bring his powerful physical and intellectual capabilities fully into play . IIE HAD BEEN A Itttle-known member of the University of Chicago faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was elected Chicago 's 5th Ward alderman with the reluctant support of the KellY-Nash Democratic machine . Douglas lost little time making the machine rue that support , joining with one other alderman to form a vocal minority bloc on many issues . In 1942 , he was the antimachine candidate . for senator , and was trounced in the primary by Raymond S. , who went on to lose to his Republican foe , the late Sen. C. Wayland Brooks . On the day after the election , the 50-year-old Douglas enlisted in the Marines as a private , pulling political strings for perhaps the only time in his career to get a waiver for his poor eyesight . HIS FRIENDS EXPRESSED shock and surprise , but admitted that it was in character for Douglas to practice the same resistance to Axis aggression he had preached as a professor , an alderman , and a candidate . At boot camp at Parris Island , S.C. , Former Sen. Haul tiougies. more pictures on the Back Page . Douglas won medals for his proficiency with pistol and bayonet among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Douglas was considered to be too old to go overseas in a combat role ; so he accepted a commission as captain in a noncombatant 's role and joined the 1st Marine Division in the Pacific theater . He chafed at his desk job , and finally got his wish for combat duty at Peleliu , replacing a wounded adjutant . DOUGLAS WENT THROUGH some of the toughest fighting in the . Pacific , earning two Purple Hearts for . wounds and a Bronze Star for transporting ammunition under fire . His second wound , suffered on Okinawa , permanently crippled his left arm and ended his ' military career . He was discharged as a lieutenant colonel in 1946 . His second wife , Emily Taft Douglas , daughter of sculptor Lorado Taft , had been elected Illinois congresswoman-atlarge in 1944 and then lost in the Republican landslide of 1946 . Undaunted by that , Douglas decided two years later to oppose Sen. Brooks , With the Kelly-Nash machine deciding to support him and another blue-ribbon candidate , his close friend Adlai E. Stevenson Jr. , for governor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes , helping President Harry Truman squeak through with a 33,000-vote margin in Illinois . ALTHOUGH DOUGLAS WAS not a member of the Senate 's select " Inner circle , " he learned the ropes so quickly that the Washington press corps selected him as the nation 's best senator in 1951 , after less than three years in office . He also mastered the Senate art of heaping praise on his adversaries so as to make them leak foolish . " He 's so damn polite while he 's sticking a knife into you that you do n't seem to mind too much , " one colleague said . Douglas amazed congressional onlookers by adopting a firm policy of refusing all gifts worth more than $2,50 so as to avoid even the appearance of impropriety . HE ALSO TURNED down fees for speeches he made to groups with any interest in pending legislation , and even went so far as to put his own meager stock holdings , in a broad-based mutual fund . The Illinois Democrat 's firm convictions also put him in the forefront of Senate liberals fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to education , and a national medical program . He was on the losing end of many legislative battles , but kept introducing and ' sponsoring the same bills session after session . Among the Douglas battles that were not won until after he left the Senate were the Indiana Dunes ? National Lakeshore and truth-in-lending legislation . DOUGLAS SUPPORTED Truman 's Intervention in Korea , and gave strong support to the Viet Nam policies of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson . He was a subscriber to the " domino theory , " which held that Communist aggression not stopped one place would grow quickly in another . Douglas won re-election easily the first two times , defeating Joseph Meek by 240,000 votes in 1954 and swamping Samuel Witwer by 437,000 in 1960 . But his fourth-term bid In 1966 was unsuccessful when young Charles Percy beat him by 400,000 votes . Among the factors contributing to Douglas ' loss were white backlash over his support of open housing , his advanced age 741 , and sympathy over the tragic slaying of one of Percy 's daughters during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and plunged ahead with other public service activities . He became a professor at the New School of Social Research in New York City ; accepted the chairmanship of the President 's Commission on Urban Problems ; was elected chairman of the board of Freedom House ; and became the spokesman for the Citizens Committee for Peace with Freedom in Viet Nam . In the latter capacity Douglas continued to support presidential ' policy so strongly that some 70 antiwar students walked out when he was given an honorary degree by the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle in 1970 . He was less active after August , 1969 , when he was confined to a wheelchairafter two heart attacks and a mild stroke . HIS CONFINEMENT led Douglas to writing , one of his favorite pastimes . He wrote his memoirs , entitled In the Fullness of Time , " in which he said his greatest frustration in the Senate was the failure of liberals to seize control of the body even when they had majorities . Occasionally Douglas made trips out of Washington for speaking engagements . His battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups . Yet he and Emily Taft Douglas continued to make their home in Washington because , said Douglas : " I could n't get a job in Illinois . I had to go where there was work for me to do . " Douglas began life as a strapping boy , eventually packing 235 pounds on his 6-foot-21-inch frame . HE WAS BORN IN New Salem , Mass. and grew up in Maine . He played football for Bowdoin College while earning a Phi Beta Kappa key . He earned his master 's and doctorate degrees from Columbia University , before beginning his teaching career in 1916 . Douglas taught economics and industrial relations at the University of Illinois , Reed College in Portland , Ore. , and the University of Washington before going to the University of Chicago in 1920 . He was a full professor by 1925.                     