@@729602

txt Senator Henry M. Jackson warned yesterday that the Democratic left was trying to take over the party and that if it succeded the Democrats would lose in 1972 and be in " deep trouble " for years thereafter . The Washington Senator , who is. frequently mentioned as a possible candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination next year issued his warning in a speech before 1,700 delegates and alternates to the convention here of the state American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organiza tions . A Standing Ovation He received a standing ovation when he entered the ballroom of the New York HilIton and when he left , with delegates crowding around him to shake hands or have their picture taken with him . After the Senator 's speech , which was interruped 13 times by applause , Raymond R. Corbett , president of the federation , said that the labor movement looked at Senator Jackson as " one of the brightest stars in the-political arena . " " You may very well be the answer to the American people 's prayers , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , who intentionally or not , have turned their backs on the working man , " the Senator said . " They are either indifferent to him or downright hostile . Their cocktail parties abound with snide jokes about ' hardhats ' and ' ethnics . ' They mouth fashionable clich  --  s about how workers // have grown fat and conservative with affluence , and how their unions are reactionary or racist . " They ignore the fact that in the last two decades unions have been in the forefront of everything decent in this country  --  from civil rights to education to national health insurance . In fact , if it were not for the labor movement , many of these so-called liberals would not enjoy the affluence they now take for granted . " Law and Order Cited What most typifies the outlook of " these absolutists on the left , " the Senator said , is their attitude toward law and order . They seem to regard the whole issue as " ohonv. demagogic , unclean , " he said . A small but vocal minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pandering " to the views of those on the left and are thereby alienating working people who have traditionally provided Ithe mass electoral base for liberal Democratic victories and programs . These Democrats , he said , are telling working people that liberals are n't interested in protecting them from crime and disorder , from disruption , from muggers and drug addicts , They are telling working people to wait until all of the nation 's sociological and political problems are solved before they can expect personal safety and security , he said . " This is the message that I am afraid is coming across to many traditional Democratic voters , " Senator Jackson declared . " Well , I am a liberal Democrat , and I am not soft on law and order . " Absolutists ' Aims Listed The comment brought applause from delegates and more applause followed when he said : " Right now the common man sees two pocketbook issues : Nixon is draining his pocketbook and the muggers are swiping it . " Senator Jackson , who is chairman of the Senate Interior and Insular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he said the " absolutists on the left " were perverting the environment issue into an attack on working people . What the " emotional absolutists " want , he said , is to stop economic growth , to turn off technology , shut down factories , turn workers out and go back to the agrarian age . He charged that these leftists were contemptuous of the material aspirations and needs of working people and the poor for whom they profess compassion . " I strongly believe that these contemptuous attitudes have no place in the Democratic party , not so long as it is a , party of the people . . . . I do not want to see the Democrat ic party become a party which gives any comfort whatever to people who applaud Vietcong victories or wave Vietcong flags . Our party has room for hawks and doves , but not for the mocking birds who chip gleefully at those who are shooting at American boys . " Earlier in his speech , Senator Jackson asserted that the American worker and his family had also been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan " that had blamed excessive wage gains for inflation , engineered a recession and raised interest rates to record-breaking heights in an effort to bring prices down . Senator Jackson called the efforts of the Nixon Administration to bring inflation under control a " dismal failure , " He said he believed the time had come for wage and price controls , but he warned that controls should not discriminate against wage-earners . At a later news conference , Senator Jackson declined several times to name any individuals of the Democratic left , saying that he did not want to get into personalities . In commenting on his own prospects , Mr. Jackson said he had been encouraged by recent trips through the nation and that many people were urging him to go into key Presidential primaries . On Vietnam , he proposed that President Nixon appeal to Premier Chou En-lai of China to bring about an immediate cease-fire , that the President insist that all candidates and all parties have a chance to appear on the ballot in the October election in South Vietnam and that all American offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year . Convention delegates approved a constitutional change that raised per capita dues from 3 cents a month to 5 cents a month . The federation 's statement of income and expenses , for the fiscal year ended June 30 , showed income of $386 , - 441.01 and expenses of $433 , - 275.99 , with a deficit of $46 , - 834.98 . Delegates also adopted , with no discussion except in two or three cases , about 100 resolutions detailing the federation 's legislative goals . Other speakers included Attorney General 1Louis J. Lefkowitz , State Controller Arthur Levitt and Robert B. , dean of the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University .                     