@@728651

txt The Nixon Administration proposed today enactment of a Federal law that would bar local governments from using zoning , building codes and other powers to prevent construction of low-income housing in areas undergoing development . George Romney , Secretary of Housing and Urban Development , disclosed the proposal in testimony before the Housing Subcommittee of the House Banking and Currency Committee . " Adoption of this provision is a necessary first step in ending the ominous trend toward stratification of our society by race and by income , " Mr. Romney said . The proposal , submitted as an amendment to housing legislation sent to Congress earlier in the year , came as a surprise to most members . Mr. Romney , in appearances throughout the country , has been speaking against the exclusion of poor blacks and other minorities from suburban and high income areas , but the Administration has been reluctant to take any new step that would expand the authority of the Federal Government . Warnings on Polarization In cities across the country there has been resistance to building low-income housing outside the central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing the divisions and polarization of the country . Presidential study commissions have found that white suburbs that ring American cities frequently use their zoning ordinances , building codes and other legal action to block federally subsidized housing for the poor . The legislation , as drafted by H. U. D. , says that no local government " shall , in the exercise of powers with respect to planning , zoning , subdivision controls , building codes or permits , or other matters affecting land use for areas that are undeveloped or predominantly undeveloped but that are , in the path of development , prevent the reasonable provision in such areas of low and moderate income housing eligible for Federal assistance in a manner inconsistent with any state or local comprehensive or ' master plans for such areas . " Another provision says , " No such unit or agency shall , in the exercise of such powers for any area , discriminate against low and moderate income housing on the basis of its eligibility for Federal assistance . " Representative Henry S. Reuss , Democrat of Wisconsin , asked if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effectiveness of the proposal in that " states are scared of their own shadow " and would not push controversial plans . Mr. Romney replied that was an incorrect reading of the legislation and that Federal enforcement would not be swept aside by weak development plans of the state and local governments . Demands Backed By Money Unless those plans are consistent with the department 's policy of open communities , Mr. Romney said , " they ca n't have our programs . " Federal funds are involved in most development projects and Mr. Romney is said to be tightening H.U.D. regulations requiring that the programs administered promote open communities . Representative Garry E. Brown , Republican of Michigan , said that while he agreed with the intent of the legislation " I am afraid it could lead to harassment of local governments . " Nevertheless , the proposal was mild compared to some of the recommendations that had previously been made to deal with the maze of jurisdictional actions that tend to keep the poor confined to the central cities . The President 's Committee on Urban Housing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the close of the Johnson Administration that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development be given authority to pre-empt local zoning ordinances and building codes that excluded the development of low-income housing and that the Federal Government be empowered to acquire land for integrated developments . The Administration made no effort to publicize today 's action . The legislation was sent without public release to the Housing and Banking Committee last week as an amendment to 1970 housing legislation submitted several weeks ago . It was delayed , Mr. Romney said , by clearance procedures within the Administration , indicating that it had been under long review by the White House . Mr. Romney 's references to the proposal before the subcommittee were buried in 53 pages of testimony on his department 's legislative proposals , most of which deal with reorganization and standardization of housing subsidies for low-income families . There was little explanation as to what the proposal was all about . In view of the way it was presented there was little indication of what chance it might stand of passage . Representative Thomas L. Ashley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said he was mostly puzzled about what the legislation would do as a practical effect . Enforcement would depend to a large extent on the Justice Department . Mr. Romney was said by others to be presenting the proposal in " low key " because of the controversy surrounding the open communities issue .                     