@@730836

txt A flash fire swept thru a French Quarter bar last night , trapping dozens of patrons . Authorities said 29 persons were killed , including some who jumped from secondfloor windows in panic . Reuters News Agency quoted a Fire Department spokesman as saying the fire was set by two men who had been thrown out of the bar earlier . The two men returned and threw gasoline in a downstairs bar and the stairway leading to the bar above it , then set the gasoline on fire , the spokesman said . A Police Department spokesman said the cause of the blaze was " definitely arson , " but declined to give further details . Coroner Carl Rabin said : " They were just piled up . People in a mass . One falls , then another falls . It 's just a mass of death , it 's sickening . " LAURELL QUINTON , a survivor , said : " We were standing by the piano and I looked up and saw the door was on fire . And the place just went up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the bigger people just could n't get out . Dave Larsen , a pastor at Metropolitan Community Church , got caught in the window and I just watched him burn . " He had one arm out and I heard him scream , ' Oh God , no ! ' In the next window beside him , three people burned to death while I could only watch . " ONE WITNESS said he saw three persons jump out of second-floor windows . " I saw the first guy jump out and I saw the second guy land right behind him , " the witness said . " They did n't move when they hit . The fire trucks drove up just as the third guy was jumping . The third guy weighed about 300 pounds and he was still on fire when he hit the street . " Another witness said one of the injured ran screaming from the building , located only two streets off famed Bourbon Street , with all his clothes burned off . " ONE LADY was in the street screaming , ' Please , God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nearby French Quarter hotel . " One guy was running down the street with his hands in the air and blood streaming down his face . The rescue units had to stop him , he did n't know where he was running . " The bar was a popular place on Sundays , offering all the food and beer you could eat and drink for $2 . A bartender a block away said : " There was just a bit of smoke , then all of a sudden flames just shot out all of the windows . People started jumping out and flames were shooting 20 feet high . " ONE MAN was hanging out a window and screaming , ' Let me jump ! Let me jump ! ' to a crowd below . We knew there had to be at least two dead because they were yelling and screaming behind the window and they never came out . " Fire Supt. William McCrossan said the fire was under control just 10 minutes after the first alarm sounded , but the building was burned out . City fire headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lounge called " The Upstairs , " one block off Canal Street and across the street from the new 40-story Marriott Hotel . THE THIRD floor of the threestory building was normally a sleeping area , but there was no one in it at the time , McCrossan said . The downstairs was occupied by the Jimani Bar , and there was no word of injuries in that area . McCrossan said , " It could be one of the worst fires in the city 's history in terms of people killed . It is burned so badly in here it is hard to tell what happened . " Kenneth Meynard , the assitant chief of security at the Marriott , said , " It went up real quick . From the second floor up , flames were already at the windows when they started to jump out . "                     