@@734137

txt Clumsy Truckin ' Truck line operators have used President Carter 's wage guidelines , and the refusal of the Teamsters to abide by them , as justification for shutting down the industry and locking out the drivers . In other words , the guidelines have converted a potentially peaceful labor agreement into a confrontation that will cost the economy dearly if it is not resolved soon . The effect on supply will heighten inflationary pressures . The wage-price controllers mustered all their best skills of dissemblance to avoid this pretty pass , mainly by choosing to rule certain Teamster fringes outside the guidelines , but to no avail . The Teamsters fiasco might be a good occasion for the administration to go hack to the drawing board and ask itself just what it is trying to do . Now We Know Airline fares were being cited by the administration last year as the prime example of its new enlightened attitude toward federal economic regulation . We were all beginning to hope for a new era where carriers would compete on price and service , as do other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own needs for cash flow and capital . But alas , the CAB told North Atlantic carriers a few days ago that they could n't increase economy fares , which have n't risen on that run since 1974 despite soaring fuel and operational costs . So now we know ; the administration believes in deregulation when prices are being cut , but not when they are being raised . Conflict of What ? We learn from a General Accounting Office newsletter that Carol Tucker Foreman , once a consumer activist and now an Assistant Secretaryin the Department of Agriculture , has had a little conflict-of-interest trouble lately . Ms. Foreman once headed the Consumers Federation of America , and recently some eyebrows were raised when she permitted herself to take part in awarding a big USDA contract to ? you guessed it ? that same Consumers Federation . The GAO notes matter-of-factly , " A departmental investigation of the matter requested by Foreman has shown ' no improper action ' by her , but recommends that other officials be involved in future contract negotiations involving CFA . " That 's a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're sure Ms. Foreman and her allies will be similarly reasonable in the future when the misunderstanding involves an official who came out of private business . Blackboard Jungle If all goes according to plan , the Senate will vote this week on establishing a new Cabinet-level Department of Education . The idea for such a department is the brainchild of the National Education Association . Candidate Jimmy Carter vowed during the campaign of 1976 to give the NEA its sandbox . The union then endorsed him for President . The administration is now pushing hard for the proposal , in spite of the fact that no one can point to any substantive good that it is likely to do , and that our most recent major reorganization of this type produced the spectacular Department of Energy . The new Education Department will be the product of old-style pork barrel politics plus the new-style tendency of legislators to try to create an impression of government in perpetual and vigorous motion . It is a bad idea , and Congressmen who are afraid to say so should at least be held to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                