@@730943

txt There they go again . After three days in subterranean seclusion , the committee of 20 deputies have emerged from the glassed-in greenery of the International Monetary Fund 's regional office here . Still speaking of clarifications and of options , of better understandings of differences , of the big political decisions that lie ahead . Even the full IMF 's annual meeting a fortnight ahead in Kenya is n't expected to settle everything . The necessity of such a protracted and elaborate effort to create a new monetary system is subject to question , of course . The raison d'etre of rules calling for relatively fixed rates of exchange was to facilitate trade among nations . For the ultimate ends of peace and prosperity . When the remnants of the brittle Bretton Woods system were abandoned last February and the dollar floated , the world did n't come to an end . To the contrary , international trade since has expanded handsomely as have most national economies . So why bother ? One reason was offered recently by Treasury Secretary George P. Shultz , who said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the floating situation , in part because governments are manipulating money values to . prevent a true float according to pure supply and demand forces . Some rules are needed , Mr. Shultz said , so that a float is n't used " in some way to take special advantage of a situation . " When anyone can take special advantage , it implies that someone else is put at a special disadvantage . There 's some evidence that this is beginning to happen . Usually , the strong can take special advantage of a lawless situation , or at least protect themselves against it . And the weak suffer . The weak , in the monetary sphere , are n't always easy to identify , nor to identify with . Take the builders of the Concorde . They happen to be two very large corporations , with very large subsidies from the French and British governments . Their product , a 1,400 m.p.h. commercial jet , can be considered weak , though , in the sense that it is handicapped by deep doubts about its environmental impact and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been clouded further by currency fluctuations : " That 's one of the hang-ups , " sighs " a sales executive . " Together with general inflation , currency changes have given us a 38% price hike " in three years , he complains . To avoid being paid in fast-sinking dollars , the builder started last February to quote prices solely in sterling and francs . That puts the risk of exchange losses back on the customers , but it also gives customers another reason to make themselves scarce . Feeling sorry for a Rothschild does n't come readily to many people either , Baron Guy de Rothschild acknowledges . For the Paris-based company , Le Nickel , which he heads , however , the effect of sharp exchange rate movements is " totally catastrophic , " he says . " We mainly sell in dollars , " he explaing , " and we get fewer francs for each dollar , " The decline of some 30% in the last couple of years in the worth of sales proceeds after conversion into francs comes at a time when competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " nightmare " of selling a stably-priced commodity in a world without stable exchange rates hurts all the way down the line , the Baron says . On the South Pacific island of New Caledonia , where the nickel is mined , he says employment has been cut to under 4,000 from 5,200 people , and the company must resort to " every stinginess , " which has a " terrible effect on morale " of those remaining . Throughout international business , Mr : Rothschild adds ; " everyone is trying to replace the dollar with something else " that will fluctuate less . In industries with strong or monopolistic positions , assuring a stable return can be feasible . Arab oil producing states have arranged regular and frequent adjustments in the price of their much sought product , and the trade association representing the world 's airlines is working on a way to assure that curency fluctuations wo n't ever be able to favor the passengers . The importer of Volkswagens into England has initiated a monthly surcharge with a similar intent . Often , giant corporations with strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new source of fun and profit . But for smaller companies , the increased risks and complexities can be a deterrent to exporting at all . At the least , they have to pay to obtain the necessary expertise . Until recently , there was no urgent need to devote resources to currency conditions within even the fairly large British metal-working companies it surveyed , observes Britain 's National Institute for Economic and Social Research . " However , in an era of much greater exchange rate flexibility there do seem to be some costs for the individual firm in adapting to it , " the private institute finds . The " easy and costless " precaution of billing foreign customers in sterling " does n't seem to work in highly competitive export markets , " it adds . Like small or struggling companies , the smaller and poorer countries of the world worry that they 'll be the ones who lose out through instability of major country currencies . When diligently accumulated reserves of dollars or pounds are subject to sharp and unpredictable declines in value , a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessities from third countries painfully reduced . This is n't a general problem at present , because the commodity price boom has generously filled the coffers of many developing nations . But the fear runs deep . As Kenya 's Finance Minister Mwai Kibald plaintively puts it , " As a small agricultural country , the game of floating exchange rates is clearly not for us as we can all too easily sink in a sea of drought . " In a theme apt to be pressed by the poor nations at the IMF meeting , Mr. Kibaki stresses that " the real economic world is harsh and unsympathetic , " particularly to " the weak and the poor , " so that some workable rules are needed . That would seem to be enough reason for painstaking care in what the IMF is trying to do : find a path that lies somewhere between Bretton Woods  --  and the jungle .                     