@@730224

txt Today , June 10 , 1972 , The Chicago Tribune celebrates its 125th anniversary  --  and we are getting younger every year . Signs of this youthful vigor are evident every day in the action and the excitement which Tribune people are projecting into all phases of our operations . The key word is people , for The Tribune is more than paper and Ink ; more than type and presses . People make a newspaper great ; people have been the heart and soul of this newspaper for 125 years ; people hold the key to its future . Has Illustrious History The Chicago Tribune has a long and illustrious history . It is known thruout the world for Its professionalism , its excellent coverage of the news , and the principles it has espoused . But The Tribune will not rest on its laurels ; it will not stand still In a rapidly changing world , It will continue to move forward ; it ? will continue to keep a step ahead of the times ; it will continue to perfect its role of interpreting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are the motivating forces that have made The Tribune a great newspaper and that will assure it of eminence in the years to come . What does the future hold for The Chicago Tribune during the next 125 years ? Our founder , Joseph Medill , visionary editor that he was , could never in his wildest dreams have anticipated the achievements of The Chicago Tribune , and Tribune Company . Similarly , even if we let our imaginations soar unrestrained , there is no way to know what this newspaper will be like in the year 2097 . There are , however , certain things which can be safely predicted about The Tribune of the future . I am sure that it will always remain true to its tradition of service to the community . Will Expose Wrongdoing I am equally certain that it will continue to be a newspaper of character and integrity , reporting the news honestly and intrepidly , and without fear or favor . It will continue its role of exposing wrongdoing in high places , and injustices perpetrated on the disadvantaged . It will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but one which is always vital and relevant to the times . By remaining true to these high standards , The Chicago Tribune will continue to enhance its position of leadership in the communications field . All this I predict . Just as Tribune people today continue to build on the foundation laid by our predecessors , I am confident our successors will reach new heights on the courses we are laying in our time .                     