@@730035

txt The world of the lobbyist looms amid government here like the Washington Monument  --  though less visibly . It remains mysterious for probably most Americans , even for many Washingtonians . New light has been thrown on lobbying by the current controversy over International Telephone &; Telegraph Corporation lobbyist Dita Beard . Who knows how many9 The mere number of Washington lobbyists is elusive . Even the chief of staff of the House committee supervising lobbyists wo n't hazard a guess . Leaky lobby-registration laws have signed up some 2,500 . Columnist Jack Anderson , instigator of the present ITT furor , once estimated 5,000 lobbyists , " registered and unregistered . " Such an army of professional persuaders would pit 10 lobbyists against each senator and congressman . Whatever their numbers , congressional lobbies reported spending $5.8 million in 1970 ? equal to more than $10,000 per lawmaker . Court decisions , however , have punctured the reporting rules like a sieve . Only about half as much money was reported in 1970 as 1950 . Biggest spenders , among those reporting : postal workers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , housing groups . The money buys a precious commodity  --  influence . There is no step-by-step handbook for achieving it , but Washington lobbyists generally work in several ways : ? Supply specialized information . Lobbyists testify at hearings of congressional committees and other federal agencies ; personally consult congressmen and other officials ; often work closely with staff personnel . Their information is expert , but normally tailored to their own interests . " The lobbyists know more about what goes on in the committees than any other group on Capitol Hill , in my judgment , " Rep. John E. Moss ( D ) of California has said . ? Cultivate useful friends . Lobbyists resort to a myriad of niceties to woo friendship ? or at least neutralize animosity ? in places of power . Favors recently ranged from the right-wing Liberty Lobby 's $20,000 contribution to the unsuccessful bribery-case defense of Rep. John Dowdy ( D ) of Texas , to Ford Motor Company 's cut-rate leasing of cars to 19 congressmen ( until publicized in 1970 ) . ? Exchange personnel with the govern // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , This " revolving door " turns two ways , Lobbies often hire former federal officials who bring an insider 's know-how . The drug lobby , Congressional Quarterly calculates , includes no fewer than 14 onetime government or political party officials , plus the wife of a former Supreme Court justice . Conversely , the government sometimes puts interest-group spokesmen on the payroll . The legislative coordinator of an activist environmental group , for example , recently went to work for a Senate committee that writes much environmental legislation . ? Engineer grass-roots " groundswells . " When face-to-face persuasion fails , lobbyists may try drumming up pressure from the rest of the country . Techniques : letter-writing campaigns , full-page newspaper ads , television commercials , visiting delegations from back home . Most of these methods were tried in various protests against the Vietnam war and the campaign for the SST . Campaign aid ? Participate in elections . Lobbies may reward their friends with endorsements or campaign money ( often channeled through individuals or special committees , to sidestep restrictions on campaign gifts by corporations , unions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry ( charged in a lawsuit with contributing $322,500 to various Republican campaign committees in return for higher federal milk supports ) , bankers ( $55,000 to 1970 congressional candidates , some of it later rejected ) , and shippers ( nearly $6,000 in 1970 to key members of congressional committees that control shipping subsidies ) . Lobbies also may campaign to defeat unfriendly officeholders . Perhaps the most deadeyed such sharpshooter in Washington is the gun lobby , which can ( and does ) claim some credit for the 1970 defeat of two gun-control advocates Sens . Joseph D. Tydings ( D ) of Maryland and Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) of Connecticut . Constitution quoted Lobbying draws its sanction from no lesser authority than the Constitution itself . The First Amendment guarantees the public 's right " to petition the government for a redress of grievances . " But much-lobbied congressmen express sharply divergent opinions of lobbying . Rep. John H. Dent ( D ) of Pennsylvania : " All lobbyists are not the kind and gentle people that have been described . . . . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . These are the kinds who destroy the write-up sessions on legislation . " Rep. Paul Findley ( R ) of Illinois : " Lobbying is essential to good government , and one of our most pressing needs today is for more lobbying ? not less . " Federal regulation of lobbying ranges from nondescript to nonexistent . Loopholes in the registration rules exempt anyone for whom lobbying is n't a " principal purpose " ? ranging from Ralph Nader to the National Association of Manufacturers . Everyone is organized ' The capital is crowed with such associations and their " man in Washington . " The city telephone directory carries three columns beginning " national Association of . . . , " plus several columns of national councils , committees , and institutes . " Everyone is organized , " critics used to lament , " except the people . " But recent years have spawned a " people 's lobby " of sorts , comprising such groups as Common Cause , Ralph Nader 's Public Citizen , and Consumer Federation of America . The unregistered lobbies ( in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek to influence most executive departments and regulatory agencies . Exceptions : foreign agents , shippers , and those dealing with the Federal Power Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission . Virtually all these executive and regulatory agencies , in turn , finance ( at taxpayer expense ) their own " congressional relations " stets to mind their interests in Congress . White House lineup During the congressional dogfight over the supersonic transport last year , for example , Sen. William Proxmire ( D ) of Wisconsin charged that the Department of Transportation had 140 such employees . No one lobbies Congress harder than the White House , currently coordinated by a congressional relations staff of seven . Rep. Anther Nelsen ( R ) of Minnesota vividly recalls the massive lobbying of the Johnson administration : " When a close vote appeared in the making , it was not an uncommon sight to find the White House corps lined up so solidly that members of Congress had to elbow their way into the chamber . " The largest group of unregistered lobbyists , however , is one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the elite of the Washington lobby , " states Congressional Quarterly , " although he may never register as lobbyist . " Broader bill languishes The 1946 lobbying law has generated only four prosecutions ( one set of convictions ) and has withstood attempts to strengthen it . Last year the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct cleared a bill to widen coverage ( virtually all paid legislative agents , and even grass-roots lobbying ) and broaden disclosure ( semiannual reports ) . But the measure has n't yet even reached the Rules Committee ? gateway to the House Floor .                     