@@732347

txt A LACE of an adequate communications system hampered rescue operations after the CTA elevated train crash two weeks ago in which more than , 400 passengers were hurt , a Chicago Hospital Council study has found . However , the first test of the eity 'S new emergency disaster plan showed the plan is workable although it needs major improvements , said Rick Domer , director of the council 's emergency medical services . " Had there been more seriously injured passengers , it is conceivable that there could have been a tragic breakdown in the rescue operations , " he said . FORTUNATELY , THERE is no evidence that any victim suffered as a result of the communications gap , although there were unnecessary inconveniences and delays , he said . The inability of firemen and other rescue workers on the scene of the crash on the Kennedy Rapid Transit Line at the Addison Street station to communicate properly with hospitals , ambulanc es , and emergency disaster planning officials led to these problems : ? There was poor distribution of victims to area hospitals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one " L " train crashed into the rear of another during the morning rush hour Jan. 9 , the victims were sent to only a few , causing unnecessary crowding . ? There was serious overcrowding at Northwest Hospital , 5645 W. Addison St. The 336-bed hospital received 180 victims , far too many for its facilities . Some patients had to wait up to four hours to be processed . Hospital officials should have cut off the flow of patients much earlier . ? Some patients were transported in police squadrols , which are not ambulances , bypassing a fleet of private ambulances that were on standby . ? About one-third of the victims got to hospitals on their own , illustrating the problem with inadequate communications and transportation . THE EVALUATION of how the mass emergency was handled was made by the council 's disaster planning committee after a meeting of officials from the police and fire departments , hospitals , and planning agencies . One person died and 15 still remain hospitalized . " The dispatch of patients to hospitals should have been better coordinated and communication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the committee concluded . to mobile intensive care vehicles , said Dormer . These van-like vehicles are equipped with a wide variety of emergency medical equipment  --  including two-way radio communication , telemetry to transmit electrocardiograms , blood pressure and pulse measurements  --  and they will be manned by specially trained paramedics . The department now has 11 of these units and plans to increase its fleet to 25 . At the same time the city 's emergency disaster plan will be updated to ensure proper communications , he said . THREE HOSPITALS have been selected to serve as communications nerve centers to ensure that victims are taken to the nearest adequate hospital and to prevent overcrowding , Domer explained . The three resource hospitals are IllinoLs Masonic , handling the North Side ; Northwestern Memorial for the central and west sections ; and the University of Chicago for the South Side . The NorthWestern center already is in operation and the other two centers are : expected to be functioning by June . These centers will be able to commu- - nicate with rescue workers at the scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monitor and direct the movement of emergency vehicles . THE COMMITTEE study found a number of high points in the way the disaster was handled . The Fire Department response was excellent and quick . The first Fire Department rescue teams were on the scene at 8:16 a.m. , 10 minutes after the Police Department received the first call reporting the accident . Within 55 minutes , all the crash victims had been moved from the scene . Medical teams from three hospitals Belmont , Northwest , and Swedish Covenant  --  were administering aid at the crash within minutes , along with doctors from the Board of Health and the Fire Department . SERIOUSLY INJURED passengers were given top priority and rushed to hospitals . In some past disasters the first ambulances were filled with people with minor injuries , and serious cases had to wait .                     