@@732309

txt UNITED AIRLINES BEGAN accepting reervations Friday for flights Monday and thereafter , planning to resume full schedules by Christmas Eve in anticipation that striking machinists will ratify a tentative settlement . The surprise settlement Friday morning , good news for anxious Christmastravelers , was reached after all-night bargaining between negotiators for Unit ? ed and the International Association of Machinists under federal mediation . Details of the pact were not disclosed pending union ratification . To expedite voting , the union 's Washington office rushed the agreement into print Friday . Copies were to be flown to all 30 locals Saturday morning for a nationwide ratification vote Sunday . If the pact is ratified , a United source said , the airline expects service to be 36 per cent restored on Monday , 80 per cent restored on Tuesday , and back to its normal 1,532 daily flights by Christmas Eve . ON SATURDAY , United management personnel who parked the company 's jets at O'Hare International Airport in hangars for the duration of the strike were to begin returning them to terminals . Beginning at 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at United 's regional reservations center in Elk Grove township to contact holiday travelers whose reservations had been canceled because of the strike . All passengers with reservations through Jan. 5 were advised they could rebook. their flights . The settlement was reached just before the National Mediation Board hadplanned to announce talks were at an Impasse . Negotiations had resumed Thursday night after an eight-day lull . Surprised mediators found both sides flexible and were able to coax an agreement . SOME 16,700 UNITED mechanics , ground crew members , and flight dispatchers went on strike Dec. 6 , grounding the nation 's largest air carrier . Each day , 90,000 passengers had to find alternate carriers . As Christmas neared , problems at airports worsened , especially at O'Hare . United had expected under lull operations to fly 44,800 persons from O'Hare during this last pre-Christmas weekend . Meanwhile , striking National Airlines flight attendants were ordered by a federal judge to vote a second time on a proposed pact to end their 111-day strike . National does not have scheduled flights in Chicago .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       