@@732524

txt Both the Senate and the Assembly today overwhelmingly passed a measure allowing court challenges of the decisions of the State Commissioner of Education . Behind the bill , which allows court review of decisions that are considered " arbitrary , capricious , an abuse of discretion or based on an erroneous determination of fact , " was the controversial issue of busing and school desegregation orders in the state . Opponents of those orders have angrily attacked Commissioner Ewald B. Nyquist . The measure passed today was a symbol to many of that opposition and criticism . But the bills passed witii little or no debate that v , - oul  --  I give any hint of the emotion or the racial overtones involved . That development , according to a number of Assemblymen and others close to the Assembly leadership , represented the success of a leadership strategy to avoid ugly and politically costly floor debate and protect the re-election chances of some of the members . Under current law , appeals of the Commissioner 's rulings can be made only to him . The measure passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but would provide also for review of the Commissioner 's decisions by the State Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals . The bill , if signed into law by the Governor , would " give , communities and individuals three bites at the apple , " one legislator said . The bill was sponsored in the Senate by John D. Caemmerer , Republican of East Williston , L.1. , and in the Assembly by Vincent F. Nicolosi , Democrat of Bayside , Queens . Portions of Mr. Nicolosi 's district were affected by a controversial integration order issued last year by Mr. Nyquist . Controversial Order " ' We wanted to make this as unugly as possible , " said one Democratic Assemblyman . He said he favored the idea of ? subjecting the Commissioner to court review , but would op ' pose the bill if it was touted in lengthy floor debate as an " attack on school desegregation and Mr. Nyquist " . " No one man 's decision should be immune from court review , " said another legislator , " and who knows , maybe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nyquist . Then I 'll be glad there 's court review . " All but one of the 14 black and Puerto Rican legislators were silent on the issue , but for " symbolic purposes , " said one who voted against it . He added that there was little need to condemn as racist a bill that might place desegregation orders before courts that had traditionally favored busing and other methods to achieve integration . Also the general agreement among Democrats to avoid debate defused a growing truculence among Republican legislators whose bills aimed at . outlawing busing have been languishing in Democratic-controlled committees . " The Republicans can also tell their constituents how they passed a bill aimed at stopping busing . But we did n't want any raindancing on the floor of the Assembly , " said another Democrat . ' ' , ? There were these other deQOpments . today : - POLICEMEN 'S RIGHTS The Assembly gave final approval to a bill to allow policemen to participate in political clubs and organizations . The measure , which would life a long-standing prohibition , was hotly ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed by both houses only to be vetoed by Governor Carey : The Governor 's office , however , refused to speculate on what the Governor would do this year should the bill reach his desk . MASSAGE PARLORS Two bills , aimed predominantly at giving law- enforcement officials a stronger deterrent against massage parlors used for prostitution , were passed by the Assembly today . The bills increase from a misdemeanor to a felony the unauthorized use of a professional title that ordinarily requires State Education Department licensing . Professional masseuses and masseurs must be licensed by the state . The bill Was introduced by Assemblywoman Gertrude Lipschutz , Democrat of Queens , ' at the request of New York City officials . NO-FAULT COVERAGE " The Assembly also passed a bill to increase minimum mandatory no-fault automobile Insurance from $10,000 and $20 , - 000 to $25,000 and $50,000 . The bill is expected to increase premiums for approximately 30 percent of the state 's insured drivers who now carry only the statutory minimum . " AMENDMENTS . The Assembly today began the first step in attempts to amend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieutenant Governor , the Comptroller and the Attorney General from holding any other office or practicing any other profession for recompense while in office . The measures must be passed by both houses of the Legislature in two successive years and then approved by the state 's voters in a referendum before becoming part of the Constitution . REGIONAL JURIES The Governor introduced a bill to authorize the impaneling of regional grind juries with jurors to be drawn from any county within a judicial district , Under present law , grand juries are impaneled by the county and have jurisdiction limited to crimes committed in that county . The recommendation to broaden the base came from Bernarr S. Meyer , who investigated the state 's handling of the Attica prosecution . EARTHQUAKE RELIEF Governor Carey appointed a special committee to coordinate New York State 's relief efforts i for the earthquake victims in northern Italy . The tentative plan is for cities and towns in the state to " adopt " stricken Italian villages . The co-chairmen of the committee are three state officials of Italian descent : Mario M. Cuomo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commissioner of social services , and Maj. Gen. Vito J. Castellano , theGovernor 's chief of staff . STEIN HEARINGS Th leadership of Vie ' Civil Service Employees Association , which represents most state workers , voted to end the union 's role in an investigation , of waste in state kovernment that it had been conducting jointly with Assemblyman Andrew J. Stein , Democrat of Manhattan . LIQUEFIED GAS A bill introduced by the Governor would prohibit the construction of any liquefied natural gas facility without a " certificate of environmental compatability and public necessity " to be issued by a special siting board . CO-OP APARTMENTS The Assembly narrowly passed a bill to make permanent a two-year-old . temporary law governing the conversion of rental apartments into cooperatives . The law requires that 35 percent of the building 's tenants agree to buy their apartments before the conversion can become effective .                     