@@729066

txt Pope Paul 's 30,000-mile journey to Asia and the Pacific is taking him to an area of the world where Roman Catholicism tends to be more a " presence " than a major religious or social force . Despite four centuries of vigorous missionary activity . the 48 million Catholics constitute only 2.5 per cent of the Asian population . Their ranks are growing . but the rate is lagging behind population increases . The trip has been billed as a pastoral and apostolic effort to demonstrate the Pontiff 's concern for Asian Christians . Nonetheless , the stopover in Hong Kong is viewed as the latest in a series of Vatican moves toward better relationships with the Communist nations . The Philippines , where Paul VI is scheduled to attend an episcopal conference on the theme of development , is the only Catholic country in Asia , and her 32 million adherents account for twothirds of the Asian total . Many Filipinos are described . as only nominal Catholics . however , and the church is still identified with the rich and powerful , a link @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Times report that elsewhere in Asia Catholic churches suffer from limitations on proselytism , unimaginative leadership and failures to develop enough indigenous priests and bishops . In Japan and other industrialized areas , growth has also been inhibited by secularist cultural trends familiar to churches in the West . Asian Catholicism has some bright spots . Catholics in India constitute a tiny minority of the population-1.6 per cent ? but have developed a viable and highly indigenous corm of the faith that even makes use of Hindu liturgical forms . In Indonesia , a Moslem state , Catholics as well as Protestants  --  of whom there are 11 million in Asia  --  are making steady and significant gains every year . In the Philippines and in South Vietnam , which has one of the largest Asian Catholic populations , young priests and liberal laymen have effectively organized themselves to fight for reforms both in the church and in society as a whole . Most important , church leaders in Rome and throughout Asia have shifted the priorities of mission activity from conversion to the serving of human and social needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including a new appreciation for the values of Islam , Buddhism and other non-Christian religions . It also allows full expression of Pope Paul 's personal commitment to social justice , peace and economic development . Modest But Permanent Church leaders look forward to a modest but permanent Catholic presence , which will emphasize quality rather than quantity and will express the apostolic ideal of " witness through service . " " We 're looking beyond mere numerical strength , " said Msgr . Edward T. O'Mara , director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith in ' the United States . " Asia needs the injection of values like honesty and selfless concern for others . If our hospitals and schools express these , then we 're being faithful to Christ . " Despite an early  --  and dubious  --  tradition that the Apostle Thomas reached India in the first century , Christianity was generally late in going to Asia . Missionary activity began in earnest in the 16th and 17th centuries under the patronage of Spain and Portugal . The bestknown bearer of the Gospel message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , India , Ceylon , Malaya and Japan in the 16th century and became the patron saint of foreign missionaries . Mission work suffered from the decline of Portuguese influence in Asia during the next century as well as from the rationalist climate of the 18thcentury Enlightenment in Europe , which sharply reduced the number of mission recruits . Asian Catholicism recovered during the mission boom of the 19th century , however , and was given new vitality following World War I under the leadership of Popes Benedict XV and Pius XI . In 1926 Pius XI consecrated the first Chinese bishops . There are now communities of at least 100,000 Catholics also in Pakistan , Taiwan , Hong Kong , Ceylon , Korea , Japan , Malaysia , Burma and Thailand . Smaller communities ? exist in Cambodia , Laos , Iran and elsewhere ; the faith is virtually nonexistent in Afghanistan , Bhutan , Mongolia and Tibet . The Pope 's 10-day journey is taking him to East Pakistan , Iran , the Philippines , Samoa , Australia , Indonesia , Bong Kong and Ceylon . The most controversial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China , where the Pontiff has said he will have a message for " the great Chinese people . " His words will doubtless be carefully chosen to provide consolation to whatever Catholic ears they reach , to avoid upsetting the Peking Government and to minimize the resentment of the church and Government ' on Taiwan . Since the Communist trit umph in China in 1949 , the Catholic Church has prospered in Taiwan and Hong Kong , in part because it was effective in responding to the spiritual and material needs of large numbers of refugees from the mainland . There are 300,000 Catholics on Taiwan , where vigorous mission work was carried on among the aboriginal " mountain people , " and 250,000 in Hong Kong , where the church operates 200 schools and six hospitals . Fate of Chinese Unclear The fate of the three million Catholics in mainland China at the ? time of the Communist take-over is uncertain . The church was brutally repressed because of its Western connections , and persecution was inten$ified during the xenophobic Cultural Revolution . Though there are still reports of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be few and becoming fewer . The Vatican is known to have been making undercover approaches to China for some years . The release this summer of Bishop James E. Walsh , a Maryknoll missionary who had served 12 years in prison on espionage charges , was interpreted as an encouraging sign . The recent decision by the Italian Government to recognize the Maoist regime , which will bring Chinese diplomats to Rome , could also make things easier . The church on Taiwan has been militantly anti-Communist , and the Pontiff 's decision to visit Hong Kong was a major disappointment to its leaders , especially the eight bishops whose sees are nominally on the mainland . The 18-member regional bishops ' conference wrote a letter to Pope Paul several weeks ago warning against conciliation of Peking and requesting that he revise his decision not to accept an invitation to visit Taiwan . A prime objective of Asian Catholic churches has been the development of indigenous leadership and practice , and this is slowly being realized . Since 1949 the number of native-born priests has risen to 9,000 from 3,400 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 3,400 . In Pakistan bridegrooms often put on turbans during Catholic wedding ceremonies , and traditional rites of reverence for  --  but not worship of  --  ancestors are tolerated in Japan , Korea , China and Vietnam . The process is perhaps strongest in India , where Indian bishops and priests predominate and liturgies have been adapted to local custom . Gestures , robes and even Hindu writings have reportedly been used in worship , along with Indian musical instruments . In Japan , on the other hand , where postwar hopes of significant expansion have been frustrated , Catholics have lagged far behind Protestants in adapting to local conditions . Priests make a point of wearing Roman collars . The new cathedral in Kyoto was built in what an American mission official described as fifth-rate Italian Gallic style . " Christianity has been presented to the Japanese in such a manner that they can feel at home with it , " said Shusaku Endo , a leading Japanese intellectual and Catholic layman , in a recent interview , " but it was brought to Japan as a Western religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church emphasized the " paternal " and " judgmental " character of God at the expense of the God of love and forgiveness who is also in Christian tradition . " The Japanese are a people responsive to beauty and preoccupied with this world , " he continued . " So long as the Christian God remains ' over there , ' His religion is not going to reach many Japanese . " The process of giving the church an indigenous character is posing problems in Indonesia , where Catholicism has flourished since the overthrow of the Sukarno Government by General Suharto in 1966 . The Catholics have been discreet about advertising conversion figures , but the total is known to have approached 200,000 in the last year . The church Is strong among the intellectual and economic elite , and Catholics run the largest daily newspaper . By and large the Indonesian church is still led by foreign priests , the majority Dutch . The dropout rate at major seminaries is about 90 per cent , and the bishops are contemplating solutions ranging from the use of married priests to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training and employment of responsible laymen under some circumstances . The Catholics of Pakistan , the other Moslem state where Asian Catholicism has a foothold , also tend to be wealthy and well-educated and hold numerous important positions in commerce . Social pressure against conversion to Christianity is strong , however , and expansion is more or less restricted to natural growth among the Catholics , who number about 435,000 , or about 4 per cent of the population . In some areas Catholics have recently carried their concern for social justice into the political sphere . The most conspicuous example is the Philippines , where priests have long been active in labor unions and where a number of priests and nuns  --  against the wishes of the hierarchy ? sought membership in the assembly that will meet next year to rewrite the Constitution . Other areas of increased Catholic political activity include Ceylon , where some Catholics had a role in the election of a leftist Government last May , and South Vietnam . The majority of South Vietnam 's 1.5 million Catholics are refugees from the North , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wing . Recently a small but well-organized group lof liberal priests and laymen , mostly Southerners , has begun challenging the church 's identification with the ruling classes and pressing for a milder stance toward Communists and Buddhists . They have also begun holding sub rosa masses with unauthorized liturgy . Because the Asian hierarchies are generally conservative , programs to carry out the sweepAng reforms invoked by Ecumenical Council Vatican II have proceeded at a relaxed pace for the most part , but some changes are visible . In Korea , where Catholicism was introduced in 1784 by a layman converted on a visit to China , laymen have begun taking an active role in newly formed parish councils . Masses are said in Korean . Despite overpopulation , Asian Catholics have by and large bowed to the Pope 's ban on artificial birth control without the protest familiar in the West . In Indonesia and India , however , church leaders have quietly accepted Government family-planning programs , while in Japan , where , it is estimated , half the Catholics practice birth control , the bishops have never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials there is a widespread belief that much of the vigor and strength of the church of the future will come from the so-called Third World  --  Asia , Africa and Latin America . That attitude has been reflected by Pope Paul 's trips , which have taken him to Colombia , Uganda and India . John Cardinal Wright , the highestranking American in the Vatican , has spoken of a day when Africans will be evangalizing Europe . Troubles in Latin America The church is in serious trouble in Latin America , where the shortage of priests is critical and much Catholicism only nominal . But it is there that theologians are grappling seriously with problems of social revolution and the relation of material to spiritual liberation ; their ideas are beginning to influence the church as a whole . Africa offers the greatest hope for significant growth , for there the churches ? are young and vigorous and  --  bolstered by the knowledge that their struggle for political independence is over  --  beginning to develop their own religious styles . In Asia , where human problems are equally critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be stable and tolerant of the ways of the past . In addition , the church is competing not with tribal religions that have difficulty coping with the abstractions of urban society but with well-established and sophisticated sects like Buddhism and Hinduism . " The church in Asia is old and moves slowly , " said the Rev. William J. Richardson , a professor of Asian history in the Maryknoll Seminary in Ossining , N. Y. " It 's not where Rome is looking for leadership . "                     