@@732584

txt Paul N Rodriguez , executive director of Colorado 's Department of Regulatory Agencies , does n't sound like a bureaucrat . He says things like . " Regulation is bad " And , " I 'd like to do away with this department . " He does n't act like one either . Besides urging the dissolution of certain of his department 's agencies , he has helped pass a law that could do away with them all : Colorado 's new " Sunset Law " The experimental measure would terminate in six years the state 's regulatory agencies , representing a. third of all its executive units , unless they justify their existence . Some 39 agencies regulating businesses ranging from mobile home dealers to utilities are affected If an agency fails to convince the legislature it should be reestablished , the agency 's sun will set . In a year when opposing government growth is popular , the sunset approach is catching on " People are fed up with big government and want to do something responsible about it , " says a spokesman for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's no surprise that similar proposals are dawning elsewhere In Washington . one federal proposal already has 55 Senate and 112 House backers Following Colorado 's lead , the Florida legislature has passed a sunset measure that will apply to 108 laws that regulate 77 industries and professions , and the Maryland legislature has set up a panel to draft a sunset bill Legislators in a score of other states are also studying the bill Election-Year Pizzazz ? However , sunset laws may have more election-year pizzazz than long-term utility , both backers and critics point out The concept actually is intended more to force legislatures to review their offspring than to wipe out a lot of agencies And the workload of such reassessments may make sunset laws unworkable or ineffective The problem sunset seeks to remedy is that government programs and agencies often seem to mushroom out of control " We tend to create things and then forget about them . " acknowledges Rep. Gerald Kopel , who backed sunset in the Colorado House A case in point was Mr Rodriguez 's Department of Regulatory Agencies The department 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the Public Utilities Commission , consist of fixed-term appointees who are usually nominated by the industries and occupational groups they regulate Their rulings are n't subject to gubernatorial or legislative review . ( The legislature does have the power to abolish the regulatory boards , but as a practical matter , inertia and lobbyist pressure mean that this option is rarely  --  if ever ? exercised Who Cuts Men 's Hair ? This system , common to most states , has come under harsh criticism here in recent years " These agencies were protecting the industries they regulated , not acting in the public interest , " charges Rosalie Schiff , executive director of Colorado 's Common Cause chapter . As examples , critics here cite a recent jurisdictional dispute between the cosmetologists ' and barbers ' boards over who could cut men 's hair . The critics have also charged that boards licensing electricians , plumbers and court reporters set ridiculously high standards . The medical examiners ' board was criticized for failing to discipline doctors for malpractice . The solution that caught on here developed out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyer , during a Common Cause meeting . Although the idea of automatic terminations was n't new , Mr. Barnes claims credit for naming it sunset . " It 's like the end of the day for these agenCies , and it 's inexorable , " he says . The resulting Colorado law , which passed with Common Cause backing , sets 13 of the 39 agencies for automatic termination every other year . But before an agency is dismantled , the law mandates public hearings at which " the agency shall have the burden of demonstrating a public need for its continued existence ... . " Agencies that pass the test can then be restructured or renewed for up to six years . Trying to Shape Up There 's evidence the law is already having the desired effect . With the first batch of terminations looming next syear , " these agencies are all trying to shape up , " Mr. Rodriguez says . An agency that has reason to try especially hard is the one that licenses court reporters . Legislative hearings aired complaints that , among other things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profession by making its qualifying test almost impossible to pass . ( In two examinations last year , only three of 84 persons were certified . ) In the face of intensive lobbying , a bill to abolish the board cleared the house . The bill died in the Colorado Senate after the sunset law slated the agency for termination next year . Since that close call , the shorthand reporters board has been conducting a " massive housecleaning , " according to John Bovarie , board secretary . In a revised examination given this year , 22 of 43 applicants passed . " It 's a good thing this came up , " Mr. Bovarie concedes . " Now we can correct some things that needed correcting . " The legislature 's move to abolish that board was no idle threat . After overwhelmingly clearing the sunset bill , the legislature repealed statutes requiring licensing of midwives and ore buyers , eliminated boards that licensed landscape architects and tested doctors on basic sciences and buried the cemetery board ( its duties were trans- ferred to the insurance divisions It also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and massage-parlor operators Similar measures aimed at tightening legislative control over agencies have drawn increasing attention elsewhere in recent years The most important of these is zerobased budgeting , a system initiated under former Gov Jimmy Carter in Georgia and since adopted by a handful of other states Under this system , which Mr Carter proposes to apply to the federal government . each department or activity of state government must justify every dollar it seeks to spend every year rather than simply justify proposed spending increases The various Sunset laws seek to use a different mechanism to impose the same result- top-to-bottom reassessment on a regular basis In Washington , the sunset bill getting the most attention combines both ideas Initiated by Sens Edmund S Muskie and William V. Roth , the bill would put all government programs and activities on a five-year schedule of reauthorizations In each year 's " zerobased " review , Congress would evaluate the effects of various spending levels , including zero , on the goals of each agency and program However , even backers are wary of applying sunset to the entire federal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We ca n't even guarantee to anybody that this will work , " says Sidney Brooks , chairman of Colorado Common Cause , who calls the Colorado law a pilot project Going Slow Both the Florida and California legislatures have backed away from measures that would have applied the sunset approach to most functions of state government In both states , a feeling that the idea was premature contributed to the retreats , although the Florida legislature did enact a measure applying sunset to regulatory matters The Louisiana legislature is still weighing a sunset bill ; other sunset measures were introduced too late for action in the Alaska , Minnesota and Illinois legislatures Texas voters in 1975 defeated a proposed new state constitution containing a provision limiting to 10 years the life of most statutory agencies . though the sunset feature is n't blamed for the defeat . The chief doubt about sunset relates to the legislative review it seeks to force Colorado 's bill fails to set specific guideliaes for evaluating agencies , contends John Reese , editor-inchief of the American Bar Association 's Administrative Law Review And even if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill telling us to do what we could have been doing anyway , " says Sen. Ruth Stockton , the only member of the Colorado Senate who voted against the bill . Limited time in session would further hamper thorough review by legislatures , critics add . The result could be that " legislators will have to vote based on whatever lobbying pressure is applied , " says James C. Perrill , a lobbyist for the Colorado Medical Society . Such pressure could make the renewal of terminated agencies simply a routine matter , critics believe . Further , reviews would make agencies " spend all their time fighting for their lives instead of doing their jobs , " contends a Texas lawmaker . Recognizing these limitations , Colorado intends to go slow with the concept . " We need to see how it works before we go further , " says Govt Richard D. Lamm But , he adds , " we 're going to have to tighten the belt of government . We ca n't raise more taxes , but we can abolish things . "    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        