@@729862

txt Prime Minister Indira Gandhi grasped the nettle and solved the East Pakistan problem in two weeks by military action ? after nine months of chaos , bloodshed , internal turmoil , and refugee exodus in what now is named Bangladesh were getting nowhere . This is perhaps , as Indians see it at any rate , the foremost conclusion to-emerge- in the wake of the 14-day India-Pakistan war just ended . In the process India lost more than 11,000 men killed , wounded , or missing ? which some here would term an acceptable price to pay for solving so grievous a problem . India 's gains in the conflict of course are not all in the east . Today it seems likely this country intends to retain certain territorial gains in the west . This refers specifically to high ground overlooking strategic roads in-Kashmir-that previously - havepermitted Pakistanis to look down on Indian positions . Each time there has been a fight between these two nations , Indian troopers have faced fighting uphill to capture such positions . Indications are they do not intend to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Delhi has said there will be a new cease-are line in Kashmir now . Beyond even this is the likelihood that the conflict that ground to a halt Friday night will prove to be the last India-Pakistan war , the final India-Pakistan confrontation such as those that have marred the years since 1947 . This time India has won a definite decision as a consequence of fighting . West Pakistan alone ? which is all that remains of the nation ? is regarded as too small ( 60 million people to India 's 550 million ) and too weak in resources now to indulge in serious combat with India again . // // Instead , Pakistan is forced by the outcome of the war to face up to enormous problems stemming from dismemberment of its eastern wing . The question of the moment is how much longer Pakistani President Yahya Khan can retain his power and credibility after the disastrous war , which has left his nation halved in population , much reduced in area , and with its chief foreign-exchange earning area apparently irretrievably lost . As of Sunday President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most observers here expected him to be toppled in the near future . If the successor government in Pakistan is a civilian regime , the initial power wielders might be either United Coalition Party leader Nurul Amin , who was named Prime Minister-Designate last week , or Pakistan People 's Party leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , who is Deputy Prime Minister-Designate -and-who-has-been summoned back from the United Nations in New York . A military roster Both are considered to have serious political weaknesses , but nothing by comparison with General Yahya 's current handicap . Indignant anti-Yahya rallies in Pakistan were reported in Indian newspapers Sunday . If a military man were to succeed President Yahya , among the possibilities would be Lt. Gen. S. G. Peersada and Maj. Gen. Ghulam Umar Khan , both of whom are key men in the Pakistan military hierarchy . Other generals in the military junta are the chief of staff , Gen. Abdul Hamid Khan , Lt , Gen. Tikka Khan , former commander in East Pakistan , and Lt. Gen. Hassan Khan . Meanwhile , allof Washington 's hand-wringing seems to have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's strong action once it started . Increasingly strong Indian Army " defensive actions " eventually provoked Pakistan 's first air attack on Indian cities the night of Dec. 3 Americans see alienation The sporadic , unexplained nature of these ineffective attacks still remains to be explained . They certainly did not constitute the expected preemptive strike with which a nation hopes to start a war . Americans here meanwhile are left with the certainty Washington has seriously alienated India  --  but to what purpose remains unclear . The most likely explanation vouchsafed is an American desire to keep Pakistan strong either as a counterweight to emerging Indian strength or as an anti-Communist bulwark in Asia . If so , this seemed to be following the outmoded Dulles concept of containment . Many students of Asian affairs do not regard Pakistan as a viable bridge to Peking ; for example . Nor do they see it as a substantial barrier against further Soviet penetration of South Asia as long as Moscow can work through New Delhi . Peking stood clear Peking apparently regarded Pakistan as a loser from the outset and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involvement has seemd especially prominent in Indian eyes . As much as anything , movements of the nuclear aircraft carrier **34;722;TOOLONG ' ' -s partiality toward Pakistan and the desperation of its policy toward India . Few American officials in either India or Pakistan seemed to expect success from Washington 's policy . India , which has done its share of lecturing other nations at the United Nations on moral principles does not like being scolded at the UN by the United States and others . This country likewise must face the fact that the new Bangladesh nation is an attraction for India 's own restive West Bengal state . Mrs. Gandhi 's letter to President Nixon , however , seemed to many here to be couched in gracious and conciliatory tones , and it was hoped here it would eventually help rebuild Washington-New Delhi relations ? although it may still be too early for much progress along that line .                     