@@728342

txt Washington , Jan. 14-Six members of the Women 's Liberation front disrupted a Senate monopoly subcommittee hearing today during testimony that women are swallowing birthcontrol pills without being told of their dangerous side effects . Witnesses said oral contraceptives have been linked to blood clots , cancer , and permanent sterility , while researchers may not know for many years what effect the pills have on human genetics . Opposed by Gynecologist " It is medically unsound to administer such powerful synthetic hormones in order to achieve birth control objectives which can be reached by simple means of greater safety , " Dr. Hugh J .. Davis , assistant prof essor of obstetrics and gynecology at Johns Hopkins Medical school , Baltimore , said . " Meanwhile , 9 million American women are consuming these compounds almost automatically and without much information . " Dr. Davis , who urged that distribution of the hormone tablets be restricted to fighting disease and for women who refuse to use other contraceptive methods , said brochures , movies , and pamphlets used to instruct women about the pill " say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Women Will Testify After Dr. Davis ' testimony , the six Women 's Liberation front members , one of them pregnant , leaped to their feet in the audience and loudly protested that the Senate subcommittee contained no female members and has not scheduled any women witnesses . " Why do you use us as guinea pigs ? " one shouted . " One of us was made sterile by the pill . " Sen. Gaylord Nelson D. , Wis. , subcommittee chairman , said all views about the pill , including those of women , will be heard before the hearings are ended . " There Will be women who will testify , " Nelson said . " We ca n't hear all of them . " Leftist Protest Group The Women 's Liberation front is a leftist organization which has joined other militant groups in protesting the Viet Nam war , welfare programs , and other government policies . Dr. Marvin S. Legator , chief of the Food and Drug administration 's cell biology branch , said the full impact of the pill 's cancer-causing effects may not he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acetate caused cleft palates in mice and rabbits , the latter also developing wrist and abdominal defects , he said . In Rhesus monkeys , Dr. Legator said , high doses of norethindrone caused eight of 10 fetuses to be stillborn and five females developed male characteristics , The studies , altho inconclusive , suggest that the same may happen to humans , he said .                     