@@728937

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Dilemma in Senate Race To the Editor : As a New York voter who has remained undecided in the current Senate race due to the presence of two " liberals " with impressive credentials , I find it ironic that I have been forced into a decision by none other than Vice President Agnew . Mr. Agnew 's recent attacks upon Senator Goodell appear to be designed to serve a dual function in securing the election of James Buckley . That the . Vice President has confidence in his strategy can not be doubted , for one notes that it has been pursued only at a cost of much personal embarrassment to Governor Rockefeller . First , Mr. Agnew 's remarks will of course tend to attract conservative support for James Buckley . Less apparently , however , - Mr . Agnew relies upon the instinctive reaction of the liberal voter to accomplish his goal . Mr. Buckley 's hopes clearly depend upon the liberal vote being as evenly divided as possible . AS Mr. Ottinger is currently the front-runner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his attacks will result in a cohesion of support around Senator Goodell , with his defenders being recruited from both the ranks of the undecided and those leaning toward Richard Ottinger . The resulting equalization might well signal the election of Mr. Buckley . The voters of the state must not allow themselves to be so manipulated . It is true that Mr. Goodell 's past courage is deserving of our gratitude . Nevertheless , support for his candidacy at this time entails a risk that is indeed unconscionable . While the situation may be regarded as unfortunate , it now appears that support for Mr. Ottinger presents the sole means by which the defeat of Mr. Buckley may be assured . EUGENE SHAPIRO Charlottesville , Va. , Oct. 4 , 1970 ? Nasser 's Accomplishments To the Editor : Your editorial Sept. 29 was both unfair and inaccurate in describing President Nasser as " a tragic and spectacular failure . " It reflects an ethnocentric bias that is widely shared by Western news media . In the Arab world , power , prestige and leadership qualities are not defined primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead , they are measured by the capacity to generate popular feelings and solidarity links that are appropriate to the historic moment . There is no doubt that Nasser raised Egypt from its colonial past to a position of influence in the world . He attempted , with some success , to give the Egyptians a new consciousness which he envisioned in his " Philosophy of the Revolution . " He thus became the symbol and the focus for the political and social issues of the Arab world in the postindependence period . JACQUES ROUMANI Princeton , N. J. , Sept. 30 , 1970 ? Tito 's Restive Republics To the Editor : Your Sept. 26 thoughtful editorial " Yugoslavia After Tito " opens the way for some further considerations and suggestions regarding Yugoslavia 's prospects . Tito 's proposed collective presidency may be inheriting a country at the brink of a serious national and structural crisis . It , is obvious that the country 's dangerous national conflicts have not been reconciled . Communist Yugoslavia was to be a federal union ; until Rankovic 's fall in 1966 it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But unitary centralism alienated the Yugoslav nations from the center ( Belgrade ) and from each other . The net effect has been irretrievably to compromise the idea of Yugoslavism . In the past decade , " bourgeois " nationalism has been replaced by the new economic nationalism of Yugoslavia 's constituent republics . The new " economic " nationalists of Croatia and Slovenia maintain that their republics are being shortchanged in the Yugoslav union and demand extension of the principle of socialist self-management  --  each republic to dispose of the capital resources it creates . Croat economists claim that underthe present system , with key economic decisions made by Belgrade and most of the joint Yugoslav capital resources controlled by the Belgrade banks , Croatia 's economic growth rate has been reduced and her unemployment increased . Reduced output . and resources appropriated by Belgrade are estimated at over $2 billion . The conflict is not , as your editorial suggested , between the relatively developed republics of Croatia and Slovenia and the poorer republics of Macedonia and Montenegro but between several of the republics ( includCroatia and Slovenia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies behind the derands of the Croat leaders , notably Executive Bureau member Miko Tripalo , for the " second nationalization " of the Belgrade banks . In effect this is a demand that the joint capital controlled by the Belgrade banks be apportioned among the republics . Montenegro , thanks to ' the rapid development of tourism along the coast , feels also economically injured by Belgrade policy , with most of the foreign exchange , earned by tourist enterprises , going to Belgrade . . , Unfortunately , you suggest , internal Yugoslav divisions are made more worrisome by Moscow 's attempts to exploit the conflicting nationalisms of the Croats , Serbs , Montenegrins and others , possibly with the view of dismembering the country . Perhaps the solution most likely to diminish internal contradictions would be a confederation , or " new federation , " as it was called by Croat Communist leader Makso Bace . An essential element of an effective constitutional reconstruction would have to be the removal of the capital from Belgrade to a neutral administrative center . Despite his advanced years , Tito still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspirations of each Yugoslav nation , ? and convincing them that their interests lie in the survival of , a state union . BOGDAN RADITSA MATTHEW MESTROVIC International Institute Fairleigh Dickinson University Teaneck , N. J. , Sept. 27 , 1970 ? Benefits of SST To the Editor : I read both The Times editorial and Anthony Lewis 's essay attacking the SST in the September . 21 issue . I had returned from Rome the day before  --  nine hours on a 707 wedged between a little girl who was sick throughout the flight and a very nice lady who weighed 300 pounds . So my vision of the U.S. SST has a s6mewhat greater appeal ' than The Tihies 's . A three and a half-hour SST ride at 60,000 feet ( above the bumpy weather ) seems a very attractive alternative . to this experience . It 's fair to evaluate the effect of the SST on the environment and the economy . But it 's not fair when the writing proceeds from ignorance . I earnestly request that you . give these statements careful consideration . SST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or 747 . The airplane will not fly supersonically over populated areas . Its takeoff and landing characteristics enable it to have a less objectionable noise contour . Side noise , when taxiing , is greater ( until more development improves even this  --  we still have eight years of development time before the production airplane flies ) but that bothers only the airport customers . Conservative market projections indicate the SST will generate 280 billion To the Editor : The Sept. 30 editorial " Threat to Waters " states that " The Atomic Energy Commission , for one , has the notion that in licensing nuclear plants it has no authority even to consider a threat of thermal pollution , though the act ( National Environmental Policy Act ) clearly enjoins all government agencies to weigh environmental factors in their decisions . . . . " That statement implies that the A.E.C. does nothing about protection of the environment from possible thermal effects . Such en implication is erroneous . It ignores the following facts : The commission has , for many years , followed the practice of requesting comments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of proposed nuclear power plants . It has been a matter of A.E.C. policy to obtain comments from agencies having interest in thermal effects , such as the Fish and Wildlife Service , and to transmit them to the license applicant revenue passenger miles by 1980 and 500 billion by 1990 . Hardly a jet-set plaything , but rather the major carrier of the planet 's people  --  and  --  the only hope of keeping international fares down because it 's twice as productive as 747 . Economists may differ on whether or not the SST is a necessity in maintaining a favorable balance of payments . But they must accept the fact that the American SST will be more productive than any passenger airplane ever flown . Without exception now , qualified scientists agree that the SST 's effect on moisture content , ozone and pollution of the atmosphere will be trivial . JAMES J. HARFORD Executive Sec'y , American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics New York , Sept. 23 , 1970 ? World Court for- Hijackers To the Editor : I was one of the passengers of the Swiss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Front for the Liberation of Palestine . Enough has been said and written of the plight of those kept imprisoned within the confines of an airship without adding to those details . What should now concern the civilized world is a consideration of the measures which must be taken to prevent further such incursions into piracy . Pious reports by commissions and others to strengthen international law standing alone amount to nothing more than wordy and ? high-sounding generalizations . There are means at the world 's disposal if genuine efforts are made to apply them . First we need a real international court of justice with compulsory jurisdiction and machinery to bring before it any and all persons who commit ? acts designed to disrupt the peace of any region of the world . Secondly , an international peacekeeping force made up of trained military personnel and others skilled in the art of conflict resolutions . These forces should , at least initially , come from Switzerland , Sweden , Norway , Denmark , Finland and some of the countries on the African Continent other than South Africa and Rhodesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans . There are a number of skilled and sophisticated present and former military advisers to the United Nations still available for such duty . One of the steps necessary to advance this proposal is for the United States to agree ' to adhere to the International Court of Justice without restrictive or crippling reservations that have operated to limit if not nullify development of the court . There is no longer time to temporize or to substitute statements of general principles for effective action . It is up to the United State to lead the way . ABRAHAM WILSON New York , Sept. 24 , 1970 and to state agencies and to urge compliance with them . In addition , in compliance with N.E.P.A. , we have expanded our efforts and are publishing detailed environmental statements concerning nuclear facilities covering thermal as well as radiological matters . The comments from other agencies are included in those statements . The A.E.C. now does have authority and responsibility under the Water Quality Improvement Act ( the Muskie . Act ) with respect to nonradiological matters affecting water quality , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear power plant to provide a certification by the appropriate state or Federal agency that there is reasonable assurance he will comply with applicable water quality standards . Unless this certification is provided the A.E.C. license must be denied or revoked . This certification procedure was established under the Water Quality Improvement Act in April of this year and was intended by the Congress to place primary responsibility for protection against adverse thermal effects from nuclear plants in the appropriate state or Federal agency having authority over water quality standards . The A.E.C. is conducting research on thermal effects which will total $3.2 million in fiscal year 1971 . We believe this kind of research , together with that carried out by other Federal agencies and by individual utilities , will provide the basis for sound technological decisions on what additional steps may be required to protect the quality of our waters . I want to assure you that the commission is deeply concerned and vitally interested in protection of our environment . It is ironic that an agency which has gone to great lengths for many years to protect our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made accountable for its decisions affecting the environment . . . . " JAMES T. RAMEY Commissioner U. S. Atomic Energy Commission Washington , Oct. 2 , 1970 Nuclear Power and Thermal Pollution                     