@@733296

txt The most hopeful scene in southern Africa remains Namibia ( South-West Africa ) ? although the hardest bargaining over transfer of power from white South African control to Namibia 's blacks is expected in the next few weeks . There is clime for optimism on both sides . First , South Africa has accepted the need for an internationally acceptable solution to the power turnover , according to Western diplomatic sources . And second , the foremost black liberation movement , the South-West Africa People 's Organization ( SWAPO ) , has indicated behind the scenes that it is willing to consider some kind of compromise over the presence of South African troops in Namibia . When very serious negotiations began over Namibia earlier this year between South Africa and the contact group of five Western countries ( the United States , Britain , Canada , France , and West Germany ) , observers thought it might be impossible to convince South Africa that any solution reached in Namibia needs to be recognized by the world , so that guerrilla fighting on the northern border can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's flare-up over South Africa 's hard-line ( and legally valid ) stance on Walvis Bay , which is the only decent port along the Namibian coast , South Africa has shown intermittent signs of flexibility . // From page 1 Namibia : hope amid southern Africa gloom Much to the distress of the West , South Africa went ahead with its appointment and installation of an administrator-general for Namibia , however . The West would have liked a United Nations representative to have been appointed at the same time . But administrator Mathinus Steyn , despite his background as a judge in one of South Africa 's most conservative provinces , has impressed Western observers that he wants to exercise an even hand . His first statements about holding elections in Namibia without SWAPO participation , if necessary , alarmed some people . Pressure rejected But now Justice Steyn has publicly refused to be pressured into setting a date for an election . SWAPO says that until South African troops are moved out of Namibia any elections could not be considered free and fair . Western diplomatic sources outside South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it will not do so publicly , and is aware that South Africa is making concessions .. The idea has been mooted in the local press . that South Africa might be willing to have some kind of UN supervision of South African troops . Since SWAPO for years has carried on its activities primarily through the UN . this possible South African move could break the logjam . On the ground in Namibia , meanwhile , the politics are confused . Some observers say the leader of the whites , Dirk Mudge , is on the verge of losing his possible role in a future Namibia because he has not yet separated the white National Party in Namibia from the one that rules in South Africa . Turnhalle bloc And the role of the Turnhalle bloc ( a term derived from the Turnhalle constitutional talks. - which were called off by South Africa earlier this year ) is fuzzy . SWAPO complains that Turnhalle men are allowed to hold public meetings while SWAPO men are not . Because Namibia is so rich in minerals and the population so small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will be resolved simply because business interests are so heavy . Diamond mining ( and Namibia 's diamonds are among the best in the world ) is good for another 20 years , according to informed sources . The uranium business is booming , although the new open-face mine of Rio Tinto Zinc reportedly has run into technical difficulties . The great task facing upcoming Western negotiations ( the third round this year ) is to ensure that South Africa 's tendency to want an internal solution in Namibia does not outstrip and sabotage the international negotiations . In short , South Africa will need to apply a brake to any drastic moves by Justice Steyn if it really wants an internationally recognized solution .                     