@@729701

txt " There it is , " said Mrs. Ellen Schuster , pointing through the bushes . About 100 yards away in open ground was a mound of garbage , perhaps 8 feet high and 20 feet long , being shoved flat and compacted by a huge bulldozer . Later a smaller dozer covered it with about one foot of earth . was It was a well-run landfill . But for the people of Rush , landfill is a euphemism for garbage dump . And the garbage comes from the City of Rochester some 22 miles away ? not just a few truckloads , but 1,000 tons a day . This small town was sleeping away the mild days of May when citizens first got wind of the fact that Rochester was secretly planning to dump its entire daily output of garbage in their midst . Rush 's 1,500 members of the " silent majority " awoke with a remarkable burst of energy . Urgent town meetings were held  --  some attended by almost a thousand people , whereas seldom more than 100 came in the past  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // *Rochester garbage rolls in // The town board rushed through an ordinance making it illegal to dump outside garbage in Rush , and a group called Rush Citizens to Protect the Environment was formed . Mrs. Schuster , housewife and nursery-school teacher , was one who joined . The generation gap was bridged overnight . " I used to think militant blacks and kids were wrong in their protests , " said one Rush citizen , " now I know they are right . " A lawyer , Wayne Harris , with a longtime concern for the environment , was employed , and the town made it known that if any city trucks dumped garbage in Rush the drivers would be arrested for . violating the ordinance . Then they found that the proposed site was at the State Agricultural and Industrial School , a place for delinquent boys . Immediately 3,000 telegrams and postcards were sent to Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller . He did not reply . On July 7 a huge green garbage truck rolled into Rush and pulled up outside the Town Hall . The driver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent to Lima , a neighboring town , by the longest route . Arrest threatened Six days later a second truck , accompanied by a carload of Rochester City officials , drove to the site . The citizens ' remarkable system of surveillance had alerted town officials , and they were there to intercept the city officials and inform them of the town 's intention to arrest anyone dumping . After several garbage-truck runs passed the proposed site , the Rochester officials left . But the townsfolk continued their daylong surveillance . Meanwhile , Rochester and the Environmental Facilities Commission ( EFC ) , which was to run the landfill , were planning a counterattack . On Aug. 16 they asked for a preliminary injunction in the State Supreme Court preventing Rush from interfering with city garbage trucks dumping on the site . As this was a governmental function conducted by a state agency on state-owned land , the injunction was granted and the Rush ordinance against dumping was ruled invalid . The next morning the huge Rochester garbage trucks came rumbling into Rush . They disgorged tons of garbage between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing anger . Their anger boiled over into harassment of trucks and official cars from Rochester followed by counterharassment until it became a running battle . Rumors churned alongside facts , and emotions ran high . One Rochester official allegedly forced a woman cyclist off the road and a small sports car was involved in an incident with a garbage truck . A townsman who came to investigate was apparently " sassy " with a state trooper and was handcuffed and shoved into a patrol car for an hour . The more radical of the townspeople started blocking trucks from entering the dump site . On the third day of this kind of action their number had grown to 200 , including women and children . Sheriff Albert W. Skinner is reported to have said : " We will give you exactly five minutes to disperse . Then we are coming People stood ground The townspeople say they refused to move but indicated they would offer no resistance to the sheriff 's men if he arrested them . Sheriff Skinner then formed his men into a wedge , and they stormed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Apparently both police and townsfolk were shook up over the scuffle . Some townspeople called it a deliberate act aggression by the sheriff 's department . " It really shattered our faith that justice will be done in the United States , " said one man . On Sept. 16 the injunction against Rush blocking garbage trucks was upheld by a five-judge court of appeals . But for the citizens of Rush the fight is not over . They are considering taking the issue to a full trial , and action has already begun in conjunction with other small towns to promote candidates sympathetic to their cause in the upcoming county and Rochester City elections . Next : Is " landfill " just a euphemism ?                     