@@729558

txt Illiteracy still haunts the American South . The latest available information from the United States Office of Education and the Bureau of the Census indicates that nearly one million people in a dozen Southern states are unable to read and write in any language . They include young and old , and most of them are poor . Macy include black and white and brown and red . They are scattered from the Rio Grande Valley to Appalachia . In this world of words , they are misfits for whom street signs , newspapers , grocery labels , welfare forms , driver 's license applications , bank accounts and campaign posters are as mysterious as hieroglyphics . Figures from the 1970 census and the Office of Education show that while illiteracy in other parts of the country was dramatically reduced over the last 10 years , it continued to thrive in the South . Further , a study conducted less than a year ago by Louis Harris and Associates , Inc. , suggests that the South has a higher rate of functional illiteracy  --  that level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing functions virtually impossible ? than any other region of the country . Fast Action Urged " It seems clear that if this country is really serious about its commitment to erase illiteracy as a fact of American life , it is going to have to move first and fast and hard in the South , " said Kenneth B.Crooks Jr , director of the National Urban League 's regional offices in Atlanta . He was addressing that city 's Right to Read semMar , one of eight across the Country . All of them are intended to acquaint the public with the scope of contemporary literacy problems and to focus attention on possible solutions . The Right to Read program was conceived by Dr. James E. Allen in late 1969 when he was the United States Commissioner of Education . Dr. Allen , now a professor at Princeton University , proposed a national program to insure that by the end of this decade " no one shall be leaving our schools without the skills and the desire necessary to read to the full limits of his capability . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in his message to_the Congress on education reform . He asked that $200-million be devoted to Dr. Allen 's project and described the basic ability to read as " a right that should be denied to no one . " But while Congress responded to that request by allocating the funds for a variety of already-established education aid programs , no specific Right to Read legislation has been enacted , and the Federal budget does not have any lineitem authorizations for such a program . Muscle ' Is Needed " That 's the big problem , " a staff member at the Office of Education complained recently . " We just do n't have the clout we would have with specific legislation , and what we need more than anything else right new is some muscle to get this thing moving . " However , those associated With the new program are generally optimistic about its future . Also most of them agree with Mr. Crooks that the South requires much of their energies . In the last decade , for instance , the South 's portion of the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent to 66 per cent . In 1960 , according to that year 's census , there were 3,055 , - 000 illiterates in the 50 states , including more than 1.25 million in Alabama , Arkansas , Florida , Georgia , Louisiana , Mississippi , North Carolina , South Carolina , Tennessee , Texas , Virginia and West Virginia . But while the national total decreased during the nineteensixties by more than 50 per cent , Southern totals dropped by only one-forth , leaving the 12 states in the region with 5 ) 50.000 of the 1.4 million illiterates in the country . More of Everything The reduction in the Southern statistics was attributed mainly to the application of the same literacy programs that brought such striking results to other parts of the nation : remedial reading , a concentration on new teaching techniques , the introduction of advanced reading aids and equipment , in-service institutes for teachers , preschool introduction to books and words and adult basic education courses . " But the problem is so deep rooted and widespread in the South , that it takes more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in it , " Lyndon D. Bates , president of the Texas Committee for Public Education , said at the Dallas seminar . Mr. Bates , Mr. Crooks and a succession of speakers at both the Southern seminars contended that an even more striking statistic was one advanced in the Harris study indicating that about 4 per cent of the total I population in the 12 states is " functionally illiterate . " The term was created by the , Army in World War II to describe people incapable of understanding the kind of written instructions necessary for carrying out basic military functions . The Harris study shows that , in addition to the 950,000 complete illiterates in the South , there are also about 1 million others who are functionally illiterate . Obstacles Expected " These are the people we have to reach , " said Dr. Allen in a speech earlier this year . " These are the people who are within our reach . " But whatever means are used to attack the problem , it seems clear after conversations with educational and political leaders in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formidable obstacles . Not the least among them is a steadily increasing mistrust of programs that bear the stamp of Federal involvement , a product of the years of tension between Washington and various state capitals over school integration . Moreover , many of the public education systems in the region are traditionally weaker than their counterparts elsewhere , a result of the financial burden of maintaining separate systems for black and white students . Further , although the base of the South 's economy has changed from agrarian to industrial over the last two decades , the South is still essentially a rural region in which there is customarily much less interest in the types of remedies many believe are necessary . Race Relations a Factor Finally , face relations are an important factor in any attempt to erase illiteracy in the South . While Negroes represent about one-half of the South 's total illiterates , efforts to teach them to read are often seen by many whites as an attempt to involve them in civil rights activism . Many of the adult reading courses , offered by state boards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the South 's illiterate populace , failed because black and white men refused to study together , although their children were doing so . Still , despite the scope of the illiteracy problem and the regional difficulties inherent in dealing with it , educators across the South are tackling it with a renewed intensity since the Right to Read commitment was made by Dr. Allen and endorsed by President Nixon . In Georgia , for instance , 27 of the 190 school systems have recently initiated model reading programs . Similar programs are in the planning stage in all of the other states . " But the tragedy of all this is that whatever we do or however many there are out there who ca n't read and write , we 're not ever going to reach thousands and thousands of them , " said Jack P. Nix , State Superintendent of Georgia schools . William J. Lee , an 83-yearold nursing home patient who is the son of sharecropper par- ' ' ents , is one of those who will not be reached by any of the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all these ' lyears wihtout reading , did n't II ? " he asked with some defiance . " I guess I made it O.K. , did n't I ? I guess . I can make it the rest of the way , ca n't I ? " He glanced around his small room , eying the momentos of a life spent in poverty as a dirt farmer , a dishwasher , a shortorder cook and finally a janitor . " After all , " he concluded , " a man 's got a right not to read , ai n't that right ? "                     