@@732922

txt Even as bundled-up work crews dismantle inauguration stands along Pennsylvania Avenue , President Carter is moving swiftly to assure Americans in homes , hospitals , and other " highest priority " categories enough fuel to keep warm through this frigid winter . But the keystone of Mr. Carter 's effort ? emergency legislation to speed the flow of natural gas to fuel-short areas ? is tangled in political problems and still is being shaped . Separately , President Carter announced he was withdrawing former President Ford 's proposal to lift price controls on gasoline , effective March 1 . Pending further action by Mr. Carter , retail gasoline prices will remain under federal price control . The Federal Energy Administration ( FEA ) , meanwhile , has announced two immediate steps to meet pressing cold weather problems : ? Extra propane gas , taken from supplies normally used by industry , will go to natural gas utilities to make sure their highest priority customers ? homeowners , health facilities , small commercial users , and others ? have " 100 percent of their need for gas to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories and other plants whose pipes might freeze without fuel , causing property damage and job losses . ? The FEA , says acting director Gorman Smith , also is ordering refineries in a critical four-state area to increase their production of home-heating oil ( light No. 1 ) and to decrease output of aviation jet fuel . States faced with " serious hardship , " unless remedial steps are taken : Michigan , Wisconsin , Minnesota , and North Dakota . Aviation jet fuel was chosen for cutback , said Mr. Smith , because airlines have " greater flexibility " in where they pick up fuel and because their needs are secondary to the " protection of the public health , safety , and welfare " of citizens in the affected " northern tier states . // From page 1 * Carter acts to ease fuel shortages These emergency moves will not restore jobs to Americans laid off by the fuel shortage . Indeed , unemployment might increase , as some plants lose their propane under the allocation scheme . With these steps , however , says Mr. Smith , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of homes and hospitals and to minimize factory damage through loss of fuel . On the broader natural gas front , meanwhile , President Carter 's effort to get more ? gas flowing has run into the old and controversial problem of how much gas should cost . Gas produced and sold within a state is unregulated , while gas moving across state lines falls under price controls imposed by the Federal Power Commission ( FPC ) . To prevent a price dispute , Mr. Carter may ask Congress for emergy authority , to reallocate only that gas which normally flows through interstate pipelines . Shaping a national energy policy was one of Mr. Carter 's top priorities , even before record cold weather swept much of the nation , creating regional shortages of fuel , particularly natural gas . Mr. Carter , in addition to revamping the federal government 's energy offices under the overall leadership of James R. Schlesinger , hopes to initiate wide-ranging conservation measures designed to lessen U.S. dependence on foreign oil . One of the President 's most difficult decisions revolves around price ? whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and natural gas to discourage wasteful use and encourage fresh production . Producing companies say that , confined by price ceilings , they can not afford to explore for more abundant supplies of oil and gas . Consumer advocates , including many liberal Democrats in Congress , insist that American families ? already hard-hit by inflation ? should not have to pay more for fuel .                     