@@733266

txt The Labor Department reported ' today that the unemployment rate rose two-tenths of a percentage point in August , to 7.1 percent of the work force , and said that the increase reflected almost exclusively higher unemployment among black workers . Civil rights leaders immediately asserted that the new figures confirmed charges by black leaders earlier this week that the Carter Administration had neglected blacks , the poor and the cities . President Carter , apparently spurred by the August unemployment results and by the criticism of the black leaders , today asked Charles L. Schultze , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , and Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall to prepare a report on the reasons for the rising unemployment among blacks and on steps for attacking the problem . Asks Report Next Week Jody Powell , the White House press secretary , said that the President had asked that the report be ready for a meeting he has scheduled with the Congressional Black Caucus next week . At his news briefing , Mr. Powell said that " it is our view that the fundamental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He added , however , " The President is deeply concerned about figures from the Department of Labor which indicate a very large jump in minority unemployment in August . " After the unemployment figures were released , George Meany , the president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations , reiterated his demand for a new program of direct job creation by the Federal Government . The same demand was made by black leaders and members of Congress . The unemployment rate among black workers moved from 13.2 percent in July to 14.5 percent in August , which matched the highest post-World War II level for jobless blacks . 6.1 Percent for White Workers Among white workers , the unemployment rate was 6.1 percent in August , unchanged from the July figure . Altogether , the number of jobless people rose by 180,000 last month to 6.9 million . Many of those joining the unemployment rolls were laid off from their jobs , according to the Labor Department . Unemployment was high among all categories of black workers , but the jobless rate among black teen-agers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Labor Department 's Bureau of Labor Statistics . The bureau also reported that the ratio of black to white jobless rates " continued its recent updrift to the unusually high level of 2.4 to 1 in August , " meaning that 2.4 black workers were without jobs for every unemployed white worker . Meanwhile , total employment rose by 210,000 , bringing the number of working Americans to 90.8 million in August . All of the increase occurred among white workers , both adults and teen-age  --  s , according to the report . Julius Shiskin , the Commissioner of BLACKS BEAR BRUNT OF JOBLESS RATE RISE // Labor Statistics , said that a sharper rise in minority unemployment was characteristic of a slowdown in economic growth such as the nation is now experiencing But Mr. Shiskin added in a telephone interview that blacks generally had not participated in the recovery from the 1975 recession and that the unemployment rate among minorities remained essentially where it was a year ago . " What we are allowing to happen in our central cities is social dynamite ; ' said Representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Currency Committee . In a statement , the Wisconsin Democrat reiterated a plea he and other members of Congress made to President Carter in a letter last month asking the Administration " to get moving with an expanded jobs program directed at high unemployment rates among blacks and teen-agers in central cities . " Ronald H. Brown , deputy executive director of the National Urban League , said that today 's jobless figures were " tragic , " not just for blacks but the nation as a whole . " The figures certainly substantiate the criticisms that have been lodged against the Administration by civil rights leaders , organized labor and others in regard to the inadequacy of the response of the Administration to the unemployment crisis , " Mr. Brown said . Religious Leaders Warn on Jobless WASHINGTON , Sept. 2 ( UPI ) ? Protestant and Roman Catholic leaders warned their members today about the " tragic consequences " of unemployment and urged them to work for Government action to bring about full employment " A failure on the part of church people and policy makers to move on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the will and purpose of the nation , " the president of the Council of Churches , William P. Thompson , and its general secretary , Claire Randall , said . The United States Catholic Conference , in a similar vein , said : " The duration and persistence of high unemployment may be dulling our sensitivity to its tragic consequences for those without work and for our society generally . Already there are signs of a growing acceptance of rates of unemployment which only . a few years ago were thought to be intolerable . "                     