@@731260

txt Portugal 's two leading generals were dismissed tonight for advocating an end to the nation 's wars against guerrillas in her African territories through a policy of offering political concessions . The ouster of Gen. Francisco de Costa Gomes , the chief of the defense staff , and Gen. Antonio de Spinola , his deputy and the country 's most popular soldier , appeared to plunge Portugal into her biggest political crisis since the fighting began in the African possessions 13 years ago . The dismissals came at the end of a three-week attempt to change the course of Portuguese policy in Africa to one of offering Mozambique , Angola and Portuguese Guinea , or Guinea-Bissau as it is known to African nationalists , equal status with Portugal in a proposed federation . War Effort Lags The Portuguese war effort , which consumes nearly onehalf of the national budget , has long been bogged down in Mozambique in southeastern Africa ' and in the two other territories on the continent 's western coast . Last September guerrillas declared the establishment of the independent cogntry of Guinea-Bissau in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the political establishment have been split by the proposal for a policy change , which was made by General Spinola , a former commander in Portuguese Guinea , and supported by General Costa . A large number of junior officers were understood to be siding with the two generals . A general alert , reflecting tension in the armed forces , confined the men to their barracks from last Saturday until Tuesday , and a Government spokesman said tonight that the " preventive " measures had been partly reinvoked . The announcement of the dismissals is being withheld from the public until tomorrow morning . The Government spokesman said it would appear then in the official journal . To emphasize continuity in policy , Gen. Joaquim Luz Cunha , the commander in chief in Angola , is to be named defense chief at the same time . General Spjnola 's post as deputy chief , created especially for him last year as a tribute to his four years as commander in Portuguese Guinea , is not being filled . A hero to the public as well as to a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three weeks ago by publishing a book called " Portugal and the Future . " The book argued that the African wars could not be won militarily , that they were impoverishing the country and preventing its development and that a new policy of political concession leading to a federation of equal states should be tried . The questioning of the present rigid policy from such a prestigious source enraged right-wingers , including 79-year-old President Americo Thomaz . They insisted that General Spinola and General Costa , who sided with him , be dismissed . Premier Marcello Caetano , apparently fearful of the effects on the army and on his own position , and not so opposed to a policy of evolution as the right wing , resisted these de -- mends . At the same time he could not appear to endorse the wholesale changes called for by General Spinola . Last week the Premier went before the largely conservative National Assembly and won a vote of confidence for a policy that seemingly rejected General Spinola 's theses but left the door open for change in the present policy . In view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was speculation that Mr. Caetano might be able to smooth over the policy dispute leaving the two generals in their posts . The danger of an upheaval among the lower army ranks , already in a rebellious mood over low pay and conditions of service , would thus be avoided . In the end , the rightists , who have been running an authoritarian regime here for most of this century , won out . This afternoon their victory became clear in an unusual scene in the National Assembly building . More than 100 generals and admirals in heavily braided uniforms , their chests glittering with decorations , gathered before Premier Caetano to affirm their loyalty to official policy and to condemn the military 's mixing in politics . Generals Costa and Spinola were conspicuously absent from the ceremony .                     