@@731466

txt A Step Closer The House of Representatives will impeach President Nixon and send him to trial in the Senate . In the long , curious history of Watergate , flat assertions like that have a way of coming back to haunt the forecaster . But all signs were pointing toward impeachment yesterday as the House Judiciary Committee began its televised debate on whether Mr. Nixon is guilty of " high crimes and misdemeanors . " Some of these signs : ? Rep. Tom Railsback of Illinois , a key moderate Republican , indicated strongly during the debate last night that he would vote for two articles of impeachment . Emotionally , Mr. Rallsback expressed " serious concern " about evidence indicating that the President managed the Watergate cover-up and also abused the power of his office by misusing the Internal Revenue Service and other agencies . ? Rep. Railsback , before the debate opened , indicated that four other Judiciary Committee Republicans also are ready to recommend impeachment , if the Democratic majority would let them have a hand in drafting the charges against the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five  --  plus GOP Rep. Lawrence Hogan of Maryland , who announced Tuesday that he is for impeachment  --  would give a bill of impeachment enough bipartisan support as it emerges from committee to carry the day for impeachment when it comes to the House floor . The influential Rep. Railsback asserted flatly that the President would be impeached . ? Outside the committee , other Republicans were predicting impeachment . " There 's no doubt as to how the vote will go , " said Rep. Bill Frenzel of Minnesota , a moderate who himself remains undecided . " The only question is what the margin will be . " ? Conservative Republicans appeared to be shaken in their resolve to support the President . Rep. Marjorie Holt of Maryland said that she still wants to see the evidence but that " emotionally " she now is leaning toward impeachment . ? The Supreme Court 's unanimous decision ordering Mr. Nixon to give the special prosecutor 64 tapes of conversations relating to Watergate is another blow to the President 's defense . ( For details of the court ruling , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the President 's lawyer , announced that Mr. Nixon will comply with the court order . The tapes will have to be screened by Federal Judge John Sirica to eliminate material not relevant to the Watergate cover-up trial of Mr. Nixon 's former top aides . The same tapes already are under congressional subpoena , and at some point Congress almost certainly will demand the material received by the prosecutor . Effects of the Decision Compliance might give the President temporary respite from impeachment pressure by creating demands for delay until tape evidence is available to the Congress . But , in the long run , it is hard to see how evidence that the President fought so hard to suppress could actually help his case . On the contrary , it is widely assumed in Congress that the 64 tapes contain further damaging material . In any event , several Republicans as well as most Democrats on the Judiciary Committee favor going ahead right away with the impeachment proceedings . Their resolve is likely to be strengthened by Mr. St. Clair 's pointed reference to a " timeconsuming process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court , much less to the Congress . Senior committee Republicans , however , demanded as the debate opened that the committee delay its impeachment decision until it sees whether it can get the new evidence that the Supreme Court ordered released to the special prosecutor . But senior Democrats emphasized their determination to proceed with votes on articles of impeachment over the next few days . Last night , Rep. Harold Donohue of Massachusetts , the second-ranking Democrat , introduced two revised articles relating to the Watergate cover-up and a long list of alleged abuses of power . These two seem most likely to carry with GOP support , although other articles will be debated , too . ( See story on page 17 . ) The committee 's debate was interrupted for about one hour by a bomb scare , which forced a recess . Assuming that the committee does go ahead and that the House impeaches Mr. Nixon , it is too early to predict how he would fare in a Senate trial . A simple majority of the House can impeach a President . But it takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nixon 's Senate hopes suffered a setback yesterday when freshman Sen. James McClure of Idaho , a conservative Republican , called into " sharp question " the President 's " ability to govern " in the present atmosphere . Sen. McClure stopped short , however , of calling for Mr. Nixon 's impeachment or resignation . A Possibility of Resignation ? And Mr. Nixon 's strategy of delay has received a jolt from Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield , who says he wants an impeachment trial disposed of " this year . " The Montana Democrat hopes to begin a trial two or three weeks after a House vote to impeach . He thinks that the Senate should meet all day , six days a week , without any break for the November electidIt and with only brief interruptions to pass essential bills . There remained yet another possibility : that President Nixon would resign before a Senate trial begins . Mr. Nixon has said again and again that he wo n't quit . But when the House impeaches him , Rep. Railsback said , the President " is going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hastened to add that he is n't calling on Mr. Nixon to resign . Both Sen. Goldwater , an influential conservative , and Rep. John Rhodes of Arizona , the House Republican leader , have predicted that the President would reconsider his decision against resigning if the House impeached him . Before the televised debate last night , Rep. Railsback described himself as " undecided " about impeachment but then added : " There 's a feeling among a lot of the undecideds that the President is very vulnerable in two areas "  --  the Watergate cover-up and misuse of federal agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service . Later , in his emotional statement on television , Mr. Railsback recited a long list of presidential actions in these two areas that he found extremely troubling . Outside the committee room , the Illinois Republican said that he and some other GOP members of the Judiciary Committee were " discussing with each other our feelings about presidential responsibility " in these areas . He indicated that he and his colleagues would be prepared to vote for articles of impeachment that were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? a reference to proposed articles drawn up last week by the committee staff and some Democrats . Rep. Railsback predicted that committee Democrats would " accommodate " Republicans like himself in redrafting the articles . Indeed , before the televised debate began last night , there was feverish activity behind closed doors as Democrats and undecided Republicans sought to reach agreement on the wording of the charges against Mr. Nixon . Rep. Railsback did n't identify his " undecided " colleagues , but they were assumed to be Hamilton Fish of New York , Caldwell Butler of Virginia , William Cohen of Maine , and either Robert McClory of Illinois or Henry Smith of New York . Significant Move Rep. Railsback 's prediction that perhaps as many as six committee Republicans , including Rep. Hogan , will vote to recommend impeachment will carry great weight among moderate and even some conservative Republicans on the House floor . So will Mr. Railsback 's committee vote . And while some Republicans wrote off Rep. Hogan 's defection from the Nixon cause as politically inspired ( he 's running for governor of Maryland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , would have " a lot of impact " among GOP members . " He fired the first shot , " Rep. Railsback said . " All of a sudden , I get the feeling some of them are reassessing their feelings against impeachment . " It 's true , of course , that many pro-Nixon stalwarts are n't switching position . Rep. Del Clawson of California indicated yesterday that he has n't any intention of voting for impeachment and predicted that " at least three-quarters of the ( House ) Republicans will vote with the President . " He added that he has n't seen anything lately " to change my mind about this vote . " Still , it was almost impossible yesterday to find a House Republican who would say the House wo n't impeach . Even GOP Whip Les Arentla of Illinois , a staunch Nixon man , said he no longer " can predict we 'll win . " One uncommitted Republican Congressman , Jerry Pettis of California , saw " the possibility of an overwhelming vote for impeachment , with up to 60 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House and 248 Democrats . The President can hope for support on the Democratic side from only a small bloc of conservative Democrats . Thus , the defection of 40 to 80 Republicans almost certainly would result in impeachment carrying by an impressive majority in the House  --  in the range of a margin of 75 to 120 votes . Such a decisive vote would hurt the President 's chances in the Senate . A narrower vote , however , would improve his chances of staving off conviction and removal from office . Rep. John Ashbrook of Ohio , a GOP conservative , said : " The case against the President is so strong and the abuses so awesome that I think you may be surprised at the number of people who vote for impeachment . " Rep. Ashbrook , who opposed Mr. Nixon 's bid for a second term in 1972 , described himself as " looking for it reason not to vote impeachment but it does n't look like anything will be forthcoming . " The case ( against the President ) looks a lot stronger than I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican acknowledges . This sentiment is so widespread that an idea to get Republican members off the impeachment hook is beginning to pick up support . The idea  --  suggested months ago by Rep. Louis Frey of Florida and John McCollister of Nebraska  --  is that the President would relieve Republican Congressmen from having to be counted for or against impeachment by asking the House unanimously to send his case to the Senate for trial . He would do this while maintaining his innocence . " I know it 's probably wishful thinking , " one leading House Republican said , " but a lot of the guys like that idea , and that tells you something about the precariousness of the President 's position . " Anti-White House Backlash ? GOP members also expressed the belief that White House attacks on Republicans who announce for impeachment will hurt the President 's cause . White House counselor Dean Burch has denounced Rep. Hogan as a publicity seeker . " If the White House tried to discredit individual Republicans , you would have a rather large majority of Republicans in the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " Larry Hogan was expressing his genuine , sincere feelings , " he said of the Maryland Congressman . " I think the White House runs the risk of a real backlash , " complained Rep. Alan Steelman of Texas , who says he is undecided on impeachment . In the Senate , Idaho 's Sen. McClure said he questioned the President 's " ability to govern effectively and to lead at all " because , according to the Senator , Mr. Nixon has agreed to sign a bill that provides government-paid legal services to the poor . This could mark the start of a White House effort to appease liberals needed to stave off removal from office , he said . The Idaho Republican said he is n't calling for Mr. Nixon 's resignation " at this time " but added ominously that he will " take a look at what happens from this time ' onward " to other legislation opposed by him and other conservatives . The House Debate The House Judiciary Committee plans about seven more hours of general debate today . Then it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The committee will vote on each article as it comes up . Thus , the committee could vote as early as tomorrow to recommend Mr. Nixon 's impeachment on the ground that he obstructed justice after the Watergate break-in . Chairman Rodino says he hopes to finish voting on all proposed articles this weekend , but other members believe that the committee wo n't finish until sometime next week . After that , the timetable calls for the committee to spend a couple of weeks writing its report . The debate in the House is due to begin in mid-August , with a vote scheduled for the end of the month . While the committee seems unlikely to put off voting to wait for the President 's tapes , there is some chance the House might delay if it appears that the tapes wo n't be long in arriving . It is more likely , however , that the tapes would arrive only in time for the Senate trial . Rep. Rodino said yesterday that it would take at least two months before any usable transcripts of the tapes were ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              