@@734159

txt Yusufu K. Lule , who was sworn in yesterday as Uganda 's new President , said at a news conference today that his troops were meeting very little resistance as they moved into what he called the unliberated areas of eastern and northern Uganda . The Uganda radio said that 200 soldiers of the regime of former President Idi Amin had surrendered to the new authorities , and the Ministry of Defense appealed to others to surrender . There were unconfirmed reports of widespread violence beyond areas held by the Tanzanian troops and Ugandan exile . The Government ordered Ugandans not to avenge the years of killings under President Amin by taking the law into their own hands . All breaches of the law under the previous regime would be brought to court , the Government said . By some accounts as many as 300,000 Ugandans were killed during President Amin 's eight-year rule . ' Treated Like Human Beings ' ' At his news conference , on the lawn of the Kampala State House , Mr. Lule said : " We think we can give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human beings for the rest of their lives . " There has been a loss of confidence in government , in one 's neighbor and in life itself , " he said . Uganda needs emotional and psychological rehabilitation , he added . Justice Minister D.W. Nabudere criticized the looting and robbery that have broken out in some areas since the capture of the capital on Wednesday . He pledged that those responsible would be punished . Mr. Lule said that his Government was intensifying its effort to bring President Amin to justice , but he added : " Amin is very fast . Every time we get to where he is , he shows us his heels . " President Amin is being hunted by special squads that have orders to take him alive and bring him to Kampala to face trial for mass murder . Tour of Secret-Police Cells Military spokesmen said earlier that President Amin would be hanged if caught and tried , but Mr. Lule said : " It has been alleged Amin has committed crimes against humanity . The evidence will have to be examined . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoting a BBC report , said President Amin 's executive jet , which has a Libyan crew , refueled at the Soroti airfield in northeast Uganda yesterday , leading to speculation that he had fled the country . Earlier today , reporters were shown blood-caked underground cells at the State Research Bureau , headquarters of President Amin 's secret police . It was in these cells that people suspected of opposing the Amin regime were taken to be tortured , and frequently slaughtered . Seven decomposing bodies were slumped around the walls of one cell . The new authorities said prisoners who had not died of starvation during the final siege of Kampala were shot or killed with grenades tossed into the cells by their captors . An officer of the Ugandan National Lib ( - ration Front said that 100 prisoners lay butchered in cells in the basement . He said marks on some of the bodies suggested that the victims had been tortured before being killed . A pile of decaying corpses was in the garden outside the villa . Lieut . Jananei Okech said 650 people were killed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was taken three days ago . Relatives of missing Ugandans were being asked to come forward to try to identify the bodies . Fate of Amin Aide Uncertain The fate of Robert Astles , a Britishborn aide to President Amin , remained in doubt . Sources in the new Government said a body at the Nile Mansions Hotel had been identified by doctors as that of Mr. Astles , but others expressed doubts because of the body 's state of decomposition . Te body of another white man was found on the golf course in the suburb of Kololo . The body resembled that of Mr. Astles , but it was also badly decomposed . " Three deep scars , like the ones Mr. Astles said had been caused by a pet chimpanzee , ran along the jaw , but witnesses said there was no distinctive salt-and-pepper mustache . Ugandan exiles call Mr. Astles the " second most hated man in Uganda . " They have accused him of helping set up the State Research Bureau . Mr. Astles once said that he had only one ambition : to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Born in Kent , he arrived in Uganda in the 1950 's as a poor road-building foreman . He later worked as a photographer , then became associated with the General Service Unit , the security organ under President Milton Obote , who was deposed by President Amin in 1971 . Mr. Astles continued to play a major intelligence role under the Amin Government . " Major Bob , " as he was known , denied that mass killings had been carried out in Uganda . He said he had led an anticorruption squad and that in doing so " I have annoyed a lot of people . " Meanwhile , large sacks of sugar were handed out to Kampala residents by troops today . Thousands of tons of sugar , which had been costing Ugandans about $5 a pound because of the economic decline under President Amin , were found stockpiled in warehouses on the edge of the city . At his news conference , Mr. Lule appealed to international relief agencies for emergency supplies of medicine , salt , soap and other essentials . Services Being Restored Water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the 400,000 people who live in the capital . Food remained scarce , with long lines formed outside the few butcher shops open for business . Meanwhile , Ethiopia became the fifth country to recognize the new Kampala Government . Recognition has already come from Tanzania , Zambia , Mozambique and Botswana . Addis Ababa broadcast a Government statement saying President Amin had occupied a part of Tanzania last October in violation of the charters of the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations . Two weeks after President Amin 's forces invaded Tanzania they were pushed from the country , and the drive against them by Tanzanians and Ugandan exiles eventually led to to Kampala . President Amin 's forces had been supported by troops from Libya , but they were withdrawn last weekend after it became apparent that the capital would fall .                     