@@734478

txt Letters DOUGLAS A. FRASERVALERIE HYDEESTELLE RABINOVITSJORDAN J. PAUSTHARRY NUSSDORFH ... pg . A26 Letters Why Should Chrysler 's Workers Suffer Most ? To the Editor : Your Nov. 26 editorial agreeing with Alfred Kahn 's assessment of the United Automobile Workers ' contract with Chrysler is a case of the blind leading the blind . Stumbling along beside Mr. Kahn 's faulty reasoning , The Times inevitably makes the same missteps he has made . Consider these points : ? When Mr. Kahn claimed the U.A.W.-Chrysler agreement violated the President 's wage-price guidelines , neither he nor the Council on Wage and Price Stability had even seen the agreement . The contract had not been ratified and had not been submitted to the council . ? The claim that the contract exceeds the wage-price guidelines is incorrect . Mr. Kahn grossly overstates the cost , perhaps because he did not have the agreement before him when . he pronounced judgment on it . ? The estimate used by him and The Times for wage and benefit increases is the same as the estimate for GenTo the Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buses receive much unfair criticism letter Dec. 1 , perhaps because they are an easy target . Their critics seem unaware that many of these children travel long distances to school by bus every day . They do so because we , as adults , have failed to provide proper schooling in their own districts and to make the subways safe and attractive . Many children are as weary as anyone else when they board the buses , and many are carrying heavy schoolbags . Moreover , children learn by example . Those who would criticize children 's behavior toward older people should first look around the bus and see how many strong , able-bodied adults are sitting , unconcerned , while seniors and the disabled stand . As to the seats reserved for such persons , surely all that is needed is a word from the driver to any child or other person sitting there . VALERIE HYDE New York , Dec. 1 , 1979 ? To the Editor : I heartily agree with the writer who pointed to the lack of manners in schoolchildren on the city 's buses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not have to travel in rush hours . To the Editor : In his Dec. 3 letter concerning the use of food as a weapon , Robert S. Browne says , " I suppose we have every right to do so . . " No , Mr. Browne , we do not have every right to use food in such a manner or to engage in a strategy of starvation . A 1975 panel session of the American Society of International Law addressed that very question , and , as outlined by the panelists , the intentional use of food as a weapon would place the United States in violation of international law . JORDAN J. PAUST Professor of Law University of Houston Houston . Dec. 4 , 1979 Brother Billy 's Friends To the Editor : One wonders how that renowned expert on world affairs , Billy Carter , feels about his friends , the Libyans , after the recent sacking of the American Embassy in Tripoli . Any comments , Brother Billy ? HARRY NUSSDORF Bayside , N.Y. , Dec. 3,1979 eral Motors and Ford contracts . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ council ultimately claims the pact does not comply , it would be because the council 's faulty rules consider only the third-year costs and ignore the sizable sacrifices on wages and benefits Chrysler workers will make in the first and second year . ? Before any other group with an interest in preventing a Chrysler failure acted , the Chrysler workers came forward by providing $403 million worth of concessions . The U.A.W. has said repeatedly that it is willing to do even more outside the bargaining agreement , once the bankers , suppliers , dealers , state and local governments and others show they will do their part . Chrysler workers have forgone wage increases their Ford and G.M. counterparts will receive . They have forgone eight paid personal holidays in the first contract year . Sickness and accident benefits have been frozen . Pension increases are lower and fewer than at Ford and G.M. V What about the working people who can not even get on these buses ? I can not understand why high school students have to ride to school just a few blocks away , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning air would certainly wake them up and make them more alert for the new day . I resent having to be late for work when the buses are overcrowded with pupils who do not even pay to get on . If the Board of Education wants to save money , this is a good place to start : Rescind those passes . ESTELLE RABINOVITS Bronx , Dec. 2,1979 To the Editor : Random thoughts following a recent visit to the Big Apple : New Yorkers are among the kindest of people in America . Witness the drivers who slowed or swerved their autos on a rainy day to avoid splashing pedestrians ; the salesperson who suggested that we save money by buying an item in bulk rather than in prepacked form ; the commuters who volunteered us their copies of The Times when station supplies were exhausted . New Yorkers are among the longestsuffering of people in America . Witness the long waits , patiently endured , to enter the Museum of Modern Art ; the lack of complaint when forced to ride the Harlem Branch of Conrail , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have seen anywhere in the world ; the willingness to pay outrageously high rents for the privilege of living in an apartment in midtown Manhattan . If the wealth of cities is in the kindness and determination of its citizens , New York is among the richest . Long may it survive ! HARVEY J . DWORKEN Cleveland Heights , Ohio , Nov. 28 , 1979 Yet The Times and some members of the Senate Banking Committee endorse a three-year freeze on wages and benefits that would mean Chrysler workers suffer a 40 percent decrease in their standard of living if inflation continues at its current rate . This inequitable and punitive proposal singles out the workers to bear a grossly disproportionate share of the sacrifices that must be made if Chrysler is to survive . Where is the voice of The Times on the subject of the banks , such as Manufacturers Hanover Trust , which have a real stake in Chrysler 's return to health yet so far have done nothing at all to help ? One hopes the Congress will recognize that a Chrysler failure will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And rather than singling out workers to bear most of the sacrifice . Congress must insist it be equally shared . DOUGLAS A. FRASER President , United Autombile Workers Detroit , Dec. 3,1979 We Must Return The Shah to Iran To the Editor : We are deeply concerned by the actions of the United States Government in harboring in this country ex-Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi , whose brutal tyranny was so hated by the Iranian people that he was forced to flee Iran in January 1979 during the popular revolution that overthrew the Pahlevi dynasty . The Iranians have now occupied the United States Embassy in Teheran , and taken hostages , and they demand that the U.S. Government return the ex-Shah to Iran to stand trial for his crimes against them . They also demand that the billions of dollars stolen from the Iranian people by the ex-Shah and his associates be returned to the Iranian people . Instead of returning the ex-Shah to Iran to face up for his multiple crimes against the Iranian people as the Iranians are demanding , the U.S. Government has moved to curtail the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , cut off oil imports from Iran , frozen Iranian assets in the United States and is trying to use the occupation of the U.S. Embassy as a pretext for U.S. military intervention against the Iranian revolution . If President Carter is really concerned for the safety of the Americans held in the U.S. Embassy in Teheran , the solution is obvious : Not one life must be lost , not one cent must be spent to protect this dictator , whose brutal torture and mass murders are a matter of historic record . The honor of the American people in the eyes of the world can be upheld in no other way than by the U.S. Government immediately ceasing all reprisals against Iranian students in the United States , immediately ceasing the racist campaign against the Iranian people , immediately ceasing all military threats against the Iranian revolution and immediately returning the ex-Shah to Iran . DICK GREGORY LOUIS CLAYTON JONES WILLIAM KUNSTLER SHEILA RYAN GEORGE NOVACK ( Rev. ) HERBERT DAUGHTRY New York , Nov. 30 , 1979 An American Surrender To the Editor : President Carter has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way yield to international terrorism and blackmail . Are we not doing just that by refusing to grant the Shah asylum in this country ? JACQUES BENSIMON New York , Dec. 1 , 1979 When Schoolchildren Ride on City Buses Outlawed Food Weapon Love Story The Role of Parent-Teacher School Councils in Education To the Editor : The problems facing the public schools today are severe . Writing as a concerned individual , I believe that a mechanism which enlists the cooperation of parents and professionals in overcoming these problems should be encouraged . In his column " Where We Stand " advertisement Nov. 25 ) , Albert Shanker , president of the United Federation of Teachers , rejects such a mechanism when he dismisses the idea of establishing a school council in every school . The school council would consist of parents and teachers , along with the principal . It would meet periodically to consider the needs and problems of the school , and it would make recommendations as to priorities . The individual school is the most likely unit for education reform . It is small enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of parent concern . System-wide reforms ignore the fact that schools are not uniform in their needs and problems . The individual school best knows its particular needs , and parents can offer an additional and needed perspective . A particular school council may determine that disruptive behavior is the greatest obstacle to learning in that school . It might propose the use of home-visit specialists or an in-service training program to assist teachers in handling behavior problems . At another school the council may concentrate on improving basic skills and might suggest the engagement of specialists . Some may wish to institute diagnostic testing ; others may recommend a tutorial program . The possibilities are legion . Each school best knows its own needs and priorities . The sad fact is that in many areas the traditional alliance between teachers and parents no longer exists . Among other causes , hostilities have resulted from teacher strikes which close the schools . These hostilities will not disappear by themselves . By working together on a school council , teachers and parents will better understand each other and their common objectives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parents should not be so involved . Parents , he says , belong in their homes , reinforcing what goes on in the school . But the two ideas are not an either/or proposition . Indeed , a school council including parents can be an effective instrument in the development of such parent support . Mr. Shanker urges that a legitimate role for parents is political action to oppose unwarranted cuts in school budgets . Agreed . A school council , would ( rightfully ) give parents a sense of proprietorship in the school and increase their willingness to provide this political help . Mr. Shanker argues that parents should offer volunteer services , especially during this period of fiscal constraint . Agreed . But the likelihood of obtaining such volunteer help would be enhanced if a school council , including parents , were to solicit It . School boards throughout the state and nation are almost entirely composed of lay people . By tradition and law , these lay persons , not the professionals , determine educational policy . Why then are parents unfit to serve on a school council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1979 The writer is chairman of New York State 's Special Task Force on Equity and Excellence in Education .                     