@@729444

txt CAIRO  --  This month produced in Egypt a Genies of shoddy Machiavellian plots whose net result has  --  been to strengthen , President Anwar el-Sadat and to confounthose opponents who . sought to overthrow hints The latter , ' hoping for the support of , a mob , discovered Instead that:they ' had . only a meek flock . The show began May 2. when Aly Sabry , the unpopular Vice President who pretended . to be Moscow 's man in Cairo and who coveted the succession to President Nasser , attempted to oust Sadat over the new confederation between Egypt , Libya and Syria . The President sponsored this to bring pressure on Israel , , gain , the backing , of Libya oil money . and , shore up his flanks against radical Algeria to the west and Iraq to the . east . Sadat arrested Sabry easily but was unaware of a second plot led by Interior Minister Sharawy Gomaa who detested Sabry but was working as a kind of cobelligerent to get rid of the President . On looking back it is ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its leaders all Egypt 's real power symbols : the bosses of police , intelligence , security , Parliament and the single party ( Arab Socialist Union ) plus the Ministers of FOREIGN AFFAIRS . Interior , War , Electricity , Housing , Information and for Presidential Affairs . Gomaa 's conspiracy was exposed by accident Tuesday night , . May 11 . A police major in the bugging department under Gomaa was given wiretap recordings to file away , some in the ? regular archives and some in secret depositories to which only Gomaa himself had access . One tape was illegibly. labeled . The major did n't know how to file it so he played it back on a recorder and was amazed to hear two well-known leaders attacking Sadat . At 1 A.M. Wednesday , May 12 , he decided to inform Sadat but was refused entry to the President 's house . He finally persuaded a secretary that Sadat must be awakened and made to listen to two tapes which he handed over . The President sat up with a start " when he heard these , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to warn them and decided to play a poker-faced game . He kept an appointment to speak to commanders of the Second Army and rode in a helicopter beside the War Minister , Lieut . Gen , Mohammed Fawzi , a key conspirator . As soon as he got back he dismissed Gomaa , secretly appointed the governor of Alexandria to replace him , and sent the new minister with three officers to seal off the huge Interior Department area where buggings were , recorded . It was soon confirmed that a. coup d'etat had been planned for Thursday , May 20 , with the seizure of Sadat by agents secreted among his guards . Gomaa was arrested and it was announced on the radio Thursday that he had " resigned . " At that instant the other conspirators were meeting in the War Minister 's office . They realized something had gone wrong when they heard the announcement and decided to resign en masse , assuming Sadat ? would n't fight back , that chaos would result ? and , if demonstrators were shot . by police , General Fawzi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War , Minister summoned the commanders of the army , , navy and air force and asked them to join the plot  --  but they refused . Having heard of this meeting and also of Fawzi 's participation in the new resignations , Lieut . Gen. Mohammed Sadek , the chief of staff , entered and ordered the ex-minister out . He warned : " You no longer have a right to be here ; we do n't tolerate political meetings in this ministry . " Thursday night Sadat instructed the new police boss to arrest the conspiretura and ? named the loyal Sadek as War Minister . The general accepted , saying : " The army has no interest in politics . Everything is secure . We only await orders in one battle " ( Israel ) . After midnight Sadat was visited by his close friend , the well-known editor Mohammed Hassanein Heykal , who found the President sitting in his pajamas and dressing gown on his bedroom balcony overlooking the Nile . Sadat remarked simply : " They brought it on themselves , " The affair is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but one frail body . The populace has been demonstrating for Sadat ever since and he has emerged as a new strong man . The Russians , apparently not playing factions as Sabry tried to imply , are laying low ; ' relations with the United States have , if anything , improved , Everything is over but the shooting and , since the chances of peace with Israel have in the long run very possibly improved and since the Egyptians do n't like to execute the leaders of even the most treasonable conspiracy , the chances are there wo n't be any shooting .                     