@@728769

txt A Negro police captain said late last night that he and three other black policemen were working with the Rev. Jesse Jackson , national director of Operation Breadbasket , to arrange for the surrender of Johnnie Veal , 18 . Veal is being sought as the fourth suspect in the sniper slaying of two policemen in an open field at the CabriniGreen housing project Friday night . Captain Harold Miles of the Marquette Police District said he believed that , with the Rev. Mr. Jackson acting as intermediary , Veal would surrender himself to Miles , Comdr . George Sims and two detectives . Leader of Gang Sims of the Fillmore District accompanied the Rev. Mr. Jackson in a search for Veal , who is a leader of the Cobra Stones street gang , Miles said . " ' We do n't want Veal to be driven out of town , " Miles said . " We do n't want him to become a fugitive . " Miles said that Veal , after he surrenders himself to the ! the Negro policemen . would be turned over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rev. Mr. Jackson said earlier last night that he had agreed to cooperate with friends of the suspect who said Veal wanted to surrender to prove his innocence in the case . " My interest in this effort is to see that this young man is brought before the bar of justice , " Sims said . Reports Fear of Police The Rev. Mr. Jackson also said Veal 's friends sought to arrange his surrender because they feared he would be beaten or killed if he surrendered directly to police . He added that he was working to ease what he called the " chaotic " situation that had developed because of the search for Veal . Meanwhile , police continued a massive search for Veal , who was reported early this morning to be last seen in the vicinity of 51st Street and Princeton Avenue with Mickey Cogwell , the reputed leader of the Cobra Stones gang . The search was widened to include a teen-age girl , unnamed by police . Police said they believe she threw the alleged murder weapons , two rifles , in an incinerator after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5967 N. East Circle Av. , and Patrolman Anthony Rizzato , 35 , of 2149 W. Eastwood Av . Names of 3 Suspects George C. Knight , 23 , of 862 N. Sedgwick St. , a leader of the Blacks street gang , and Sidney Bennett Jr. , 18 , of 1119 N. Cleveland Av. , two suspects in the case , were charged with murder in the killings and are being held without bail in Cook County Jail . They are scheduled to appear today for a hearing in Felony Court , The third suspect , Vernon Baker , 14 , a member of the Deuces street gang , is described him as a runaway from his South Side home . He will appear today on a technical charge of murder in Juvenile Court , which will have to determine whether he will be tried as a juvenile or adult . He is being held in Audy Home . Earlier yesterday , the Rev. Mr. Jackson said that an attempt to arrange a surrender of Veal to black policemen at St. Doninic 's Rectory , 357 W. Locust St. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopped by police for an alleged traffic violation . Carried a Weapon Charles Williams , the clergyman 's bodyguard , was charged at the East Chicago Avenue station with unlaful use of a weapon when it was discovered he was carrying a gun . He was released on $1,000 bond . Joseph Butler , a private detective who was hired by Skiney Bennett Sr. , father of one of the suspects , also said the arrest of the bodyguard resulted in the failure to turn over Veal to police . While at the station , the Rev. Mr. Jackson urged Mayor Daley to restrain tho police from any unnecessary violence . He praised the merciful attitude of Severin 's mother , Mrs. Catherine Severin , who the Rev. Mr. Jackson said , told him that she bore no malice because of her son 's death . Ile Will Attend Funeral Mrs. Severin asked Jackson to attend the funeral of her son , the Rev. Mr. Jackson said , adding that he would attend . The Rev. Mr. Jackson said that he was " concerned about the judicial process . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form during periods of pressure . " Catholic Priest Helps The Rev. Mark Santos , pastor at St. Dominic 's Catholic Church , said he also was working with the Rev. Mr. Jackson and friends of Veal to see that the suspect is turned in safely . Sniping incidents apparently have caused considerable fear in the Chicago Housing Authority projects on the Near North Side . Residents said there are 15 to 30 snipings each month in the Cabrini project . Many are not directed at the police and are described as " indiscriminate , " residents said .                     