@@734020

txt Letters TO THE EDITOR HERBERT J. GANSBARRY S. WINEWILLIAM PELLICONEBRUCE M. STAVEBETTE DEWINGMARVIN ... T 0 T H E Gentrification : A Mixed Blessing ? Blake Fleetwood 's faith that gentrification will spark an urban renaissance ( " The New Elite and an Urban Renaissance , " Jan. 14 ) rests on the hoary American fallacy that the fate of cities is shaped by downtown development and luxury housing booms . In the 1950 's , another small but highly visible luxury housing program ? urban renewal ? was similarly hyped . It also dispersed the poor ( as it turned out , only into other slums ) . Mr. Fleetwood 's belief that gentrification " may reduce the pathology of welfare dependency , unemployment and crime " is , thus , illusory . The fate of cities is determined by the economic health of their labor markets , tax bases , and the effectiveness of state and Federal support programs . Until private and public enterprise create an urban economy to support the 95 percent who can not afford gentrification , the cities will continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus , but it does not reduce abnormally high urban unemployment , the deterioration of public services and facilities , or the possibility of another default . Nor can it end the suburban exodus ; once the now young and childless gentrifiers become parents , they too may head beyond the city limits . HERBERT J . GANS Professor of Sociology , Columbia University New York City As a young Wall Street attorney , I left New York City with my wife in 1970 for what was to be a simpler life style in this small college town . Four years ago , we opened The Quilted Giraffe , a well-reviewed nouvelle cuisine French restaurant . But recently we bought a restaurant location in Manhattan and plan to move ourselves and our business back to New York sometime this spring . We have come full circle because , as your article so correctly indicates , New York offers so much , personally and professionally . BARRY S. WINE New Paltz , N. Y. Mr. Fleetwood gives credit for the New York renaissance to the so-called 20th-century gentry without acknowledging the role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The brownstone revival in Manhattan and Brooklyn , for example , was begun by struggling and adventurous artists who were looking for reasonable living and working space and did n't care who lived in the neighborhood . They also were the first to move into empty factories ( which is what lofts are ) . for one , have been living in NoHo factories for 21 years . WILLIAM PELLICONE New York City Blake Fleetwood offers no real answer to his concluding section on " What About the Poor ? " except that urban survival depends upon an " educated , integrated urban elite . " It is just such concentration upon elite life styles that may well permit policy makers to scale down , if not completely abandon , programs for the poor of areas such as Harlem and the South Bronx , where , Mr. Fleetwood notes , gentrification will be long in coming , if it comes at all . The nation 's urban history is long and one of continuity more than change . It is time that we looked beyond shortterm trends and dealt effectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ STAVE Professor of History , University of Connecticut Storrs , Conn . It 's very disturbing to read that the young professionals responsible for an urban " renaissance " are glad to " endure the urban indignities their parents could not abide ... dirty streets and crime , in order to live in newly chic neighborhoods . " Why should those , like myself , who have contributed so much by not contributing to crime and dirty and noisy streets now be pushed out by this new breed of New Yorkers ? BETTE DEWING New York City We welcome the return of " the gentry . " Their money is being put to good use . But when they 've sold their brownstones for a handy profit and have relocated to newer , choicer neighborhoods , we will still be here enjoying the magic of New York . We are the real elite . MARVIN SCHNEIDER Brooklyn , N.Y . A Relationship by Any Other Name With respect to the Russell Baker article on " The Marrying Kind " ( Sunday Observer , Jan. 7 ) , I have solved the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other by using the reference " My Consenting Adult . " ROBERT E. LEVY Asbury Park , N.J. The Meaning of Change in China While Fox Butterfield ( " Settling a Score With Mao , " Dec. 10 ) is correct in saying that there have been changes in China , he has failed to point out important continuities with previous policies . Foreign trade has been an important means for technology acquistion since the early 1950 's . Aid from the Soviet Union helped build China 's industry in the 1950 's . Since the 1960 's , trade with Japan and Europe has been important . The most obvious error , though , deals with slogans , which take on symbolic and ideological significance . Mr. Butterfield attributes " seeking truth from facts " and " practice is the sole criterion for truth " to Teng Hsiao-ping . In fact , the quotes are extracted from Mao 's writing and have been widely used in China for decades : " To take such an attitude MarxismLeninism is to seek truth from facts " is from " Reform Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's social practice alone is the criterion of the truth of his knowledge of the external world . " is from " On Practice . " There are strong internal political reasons for some political actors in China to overstate the changes in Chinese policy . We need to be cautious in evaluating their descriptions and must resist the temptation of projecting into China the internal and foreign policies we would like it to have . BENF.DICT STAVIS Assistant Professor , 206 Center for International Programs , Michigan State University East Lansing , Mich . I can not help but feel that Fox Butterfield purposely undermines the spirit of the Chinese people and their effort to modernize their country by speeding up scientific , technological and industrial developments . He insults the Chinese people by presenting the image of China as a would-beplayground for Diners ' Club cardholders as well as a happy hunting ground for exoloitative gains . WU FENG Emerson , N.J. Moynihan 's Contributions In Steven Rattner 's otherwise discerning profile of Senator Daniel Pat rick Moynihan ( " Upstart in the Senate , " Jan. 7 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be the first to want to see corrected . As a sometime historian of the war on poverty , I can testify that Mr. Moynihan was not " asked by President Kennedy to design the nation 's first antipoverty program . " Walter Heller , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , was given that job . It was still in Mr. Heller 's hands , and those of Budget Director Kermit Gordon , when Kennedy was assassinated . A few weeks later , President Johnson set up a task force , headed by Sargent Shriver , to complete the design . Mr. Moynihan was a member , as were many others . Thus , to say that " Moynihan 's Kennedy efforts became the landmark Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 , " is a considerable overstatement . It does not detract from Mr. Moynihan 's important contribution to acknowledge that the war on poverty was not a one-man creation . JAMES L. SUNDQUIST Senior Fellow , The Brookings Institution Washington What is first in importance to Senator Moynihan 's constituents is that he cares about the area he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swinging ! BETTY J. CLEMONS Oneonta , N.Y . III                     