@@733877

txt We have already expressed a preference for Rep. William Green , with no disrespect to his Democratic opponent , Carter Burden , in Manhattan 's 18th District , and for Geraldine Ferraro in Queens 's 9th . We can only hope that the voters in the Richmond-Manhattan 17th will choose either Thomas Stokes , a Liberal , or John Peters , a Republican-Conservative , so as to retire Rep. John Murphy , whose every service to them is trumped by service to the maritime industry and other special interests . In the 23d in Westchester and a corner of the Bram &; the popular Mayor . of Yonkers , Angelo Martinelli , is the Republican candidate against Peter Peyser , a Democrat who held the seat as a Republican for three terms . A capable legislator , Mr. Peyser is better qualified to deal with national and foreign issues . In Westchester 's 24th , Rep. Richard Ottinger , a consumer-minded Democrat , faces an articulate assistant district attorney , Michael Edelman , whose facile tax-cut proposals offer no reason to unseat a creditable incumbent . Similarly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Nassau-Suffolk 's 3d . Despite energetic service to his district in the Washington search for money and jobs , he is vulnerable to the challenge of the untried Gregory Carman , a Republican Councilman of Oyster Bay . We add a special word to two young Democrats In tough races upstate for their intelligent service and courage in assisting New York City during the financial crisis . Rep. Ned Pattison in the 29th around Troy and Rep. Stanley Lundine in the 39th including Corning and Elmira deserve re-election . For the Legislature In a year when their campaigns have gone virtually uncovered , we feel confident to express a preference in only a few contests in New York City . In Manhattan Senate races , besides the re-election of Republican Roy Goodman in the 26th District , we urge strong support for Manfred Ohrenstein , the Democratic leader , in the 27th . In Bronx Senate contests , we can record admiration for the first-term growth of Olga Mendez , a Democrat of the 30th . In the 34th , we prefer the promise of Michael Benedetto , a young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator John Calandra . Assembly races offer impressive Democratic incumbents like Jose Serrano in the 75th , Charles Johnson in the 76th , Estella Diggs in the 78th and George Friedman in the 83d . In Brooklyn Senate races , Howard Babbush merits re-election in the 16th , as does Martin Connor in Brooklyn-Manhattan 's 25th . Brooklyn Assembly races include the important re-election drives of Speaker Stanley Steingut ( on the Liberal line only ) in the 41st ; Stanley Fink , the majority leader , in the 39th ; Melvin Miller in the 44th ; Charles Schumer in the 45th ; Woodrow Lewis in the 53d , and Harvey Strelzin in the 57th , all Democrats . In the 49th , we prefer Dominick Di Carlo , an outstanding Republican . The Queens Senate race in the 13th calls for the reelection of Emanuel Gold . For the Assembly , Carlo . Manganillo , a Democrat , is a promising alternative to the incumbent John Esposito in the 23d . John Marchi is a most compelling Republican candidate for re-election to the Senate in the Staten IslandManhattan 24th . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Staten Island 61st Assembly . District . The Judiciary SUPREME COURT : In the Bronx-Manhattan 1st District , we recommend a vote for Edward Dudley for one of five seats and four from among E. Leo Milonas , David Edwards , Lawrence Bernstein , Peter and Jack Rosenberg . In the Brooklyn-Staten Island 2d , on the strength of Bar Association ratings , we favor Vincent Damiani , Julian Greenspun , Charles Lawrence , Gerald Adler , Elliott Golden , George Hart , Julius Vinik and Philip Kaplan . On the same basis , we pass along the ratings in the Queens 11th for Nat Hentel , Eugene Sharpe , Ralph Sherman and Nicholas Tsoucalas . CIVIL COURT : Bar judgments favor Eugene Kaufman in the Bronx 1st ; Lester Sacks , Richard Goldman and Gloria Goldstein in Brooklyn ; Shirley Fingerhood in Manhattan 's 7th and Bruce Wright in Manhattan 's 10th ; and Alexander Graves in Staten Island .                     