@@729606

txt Fort the first time , the Democratic party has laid down a comprehensive political plan covering the year before its Presidential candidate is chosen . The plan is aimed at improving the candidate 's election prospects . The party 's national chairman , Lawrence F. O'Brien , made public today the outlines of the program , warning that President Nixon could probably not be defeated with a " crash " effort organized only after the Miami Beach convention next July . Money and Issues Mr. O'Brien stated his case for planning in a memorandum to all members of the national committee , Democrats in Congress , Democratic Governors and state and county party chairmen . He said : " Eighteen months ago the election of a Democratic President in 1972 was impossible . Today it is a possibility . Whether or not this possibility is transformed into probability depends in large measure upon what the Democratic party does in the next 12 months . " Among the chairman 's major goals for the upcoming year were these : Organizing now a series of fund-raising drives . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the candidate is chosen . liMaintaining active cooperation among the contenders for the Democratic nomination throughout the primaries , including the possibility of televised debates using public service time and jointly financed pollings conducted by the national committee . fillConducting research to identify and develop issues that can be effective against the Republican ticket and do not involve either the war in Vietnam or the economy . 11Preparing in advance of the convention , in consultation with the potential candidates , as many elements of the campaign as possible , covering strategy , themes , communications and an action plan for the nominee during the summer lull after the relatively early convention . diWorking for compliance by all state party organizations with the convention and delegate selection reforms drafted by two commissions set up after the unruly and divisive Chicago convention of 1968 . Mr. O'Brien , now serving as national chairman for the second time , first became chairman in late August , 1968 , and began organizing from scratch the unsuccessful campaign of Hubert H. Humphrey to defeat Mr. Nixon . The national chairman was more optimistic about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats are . He said that " nearly 40 " state organizations had complied or set schedules for doing so . But the number that has actually met the requirements is a good deal smaller . Under the reform guidelines , convention delegates must be chosen by open Democratic procedures that all take place in 1972 , and each state 's delegation must represent its Democratic voters ' roughly in proportion to sex , age , race and candidate preference . Mr. O'Brien said that recommendations for restructuring the national committee , to be voted on by the 1972 convention , were a task for next year . But he did not list this issue under party reform or say who was going to develop such recommendations . The Democratic rules commission headed by Representative James G. O'Hara of Michigan claims jurisdiction in this area and has arranged to work ( with the commission on party reform , headed by Representative Donald M. Fraser of Minnesota . National committee officials , however , have exhibited some reluctance about this procedure . Mr. O'Brien conceded that he had been pressured into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstance  --  for never in the memory of political observers have as many candidates been contesting any party 's Presidential nomination so lustily so long before the convention . The goal of an advance plan , the chairman said , is " to present to the Democratic nominees for President and Vice President on the morning following their nomination a national political party ready to wage the most intensive , comipelling and effective campaign on record . "                     