@@729218

txt The nation 's construction unions declared today they would fight proposed new Federal regulations that would require them to place a specified quota of nonwhite workers in their apprenticeship programs . In a sharply worded statement , the Building and Construction Trades Department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said it rejected " quotas under any name . " The unions also maintained that " the goal of equal employment opportunity in apprenticeship has generally been achieved under existing regulations . " " Allegations of discrimination on the basis of race in our apprenticeship programs is an emotional throwback based on reckless rhetorical and political pandering , " the statement by the craft unions department declared . The proposed new apprenticeship rules were placed in The Federal Register on Jan. 29 by the Secretary of Labor , James D. Hodgson , but attracted little attention at the time . The rules , which could be changed or rescinded within 30 days of the time they were placed in The Register , would require unions with federally registered apprenticeship programs to adopt " affirmative action plans " to bring more blacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although the rules would give the union several options to use in carrying out " affirmative action , " essentially they require that a minimum proportion of all apprentices be drawn from nonwhite minority groups . The new regulations seek to do on a national scale what programs such as the Philadelphia Plan have tried to do in local areas  --  bring more blacks into building and construction jobs . Hiring Han Is Used In the construction industry , workers are referred to jobs by union hiring halls rather than being hired directly by an employer . In the past , the construction and building trades unions have been charged with restricting the number of apprentices they admit to membership , particularly the number of blacks , who constitute a large pool of available untrained labor . The Labor Department 's regulations asserted that despite progress in a few areas and occupations " there continues to be underutilization of minorities in apprenticeship . " The construction union leaders , already under heavy pressure to come up with an answer to President Nixon 's demand that they do something about spiraling wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an additional and heavy burden . Indeed , several of the building trades union officials who are meeting at the Americana Hotel before the meeting of the executive council of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations here next week , suggested that Government " harassment " on such issues as apprenticeship makes it difficult for them to deal with their membership on the wage issue . In any case , the unions say that the new rules are unnecessary because , they assert , nonwhite apprentices are being enrolled in all construction apprentice programs in a higher proportion than nonwhites hold in the total adult male work force . The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reported on Monday that in the building trades unions the rate of black membership declined in 1969 , which was the most recent year covered by the report . In 1968 , the agency said , blacks were 7.4 per cent of the total membership of these unions . In 1969 , the report stated , blacks were 6.8 per cent of the union 's membership . According to data presented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all new apprentices at the end of June . 1970 , were from minority groups . 37.3% Gain in ' 69 The Building Trades Department added that , in 1969 , the number of apprentices from minority groups rose from 6,631 to 9,102 , an increase of 37.3 per cent . The unions also said that the regulations were undesirable because they would " substitute quotas for quality , " uneconomic because they would " inundate apprentice programs with unqualified short-term dropouts at the expense of dedicated future craftsmen . " and unworkable because it would take years to arrange systems to assign jobs to nonwhite applicants . The department 's statement said that " racial quotas , under any guise , are repugnant to all Americans . " " This attempt at social engineering is a poorly disguised effort to restructure our economic society to the whims of a handful of Federal mandarins , " the statement added . The unions said they would oppose the new rules on Capitol Hill and with the Administration if the Labor Department did not withdraw them . If the rules were promulgated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed from the Federal registry of such programs . This means that apprentices working for those unions would not be eligible for certain wage benefits stipulated by legislation for work done for or financed by the Federal Government . In the past , leaders of civil rights groups as well as some officials of the Labor Department have said that apprenticeship rules to bring blacks into the building trade unions did not work . Even blacks who became apprentices often did not advance to the journeyman stage , these critics said .                     