@@728549

txt With the lives of its three astronauts hanging in the balance , the crippled spaceship Apollo 13 swung around the moon last night and rocketed toward an emergency splashdown in the Pacific Ocean Friday . After the craft looped the moon , a crucial four-minute and 24-second rocket firing sent the astronauts on a fast and more accurate course ? a drastic change of plans caused by Monday night 's massive power failure aboard the moon-bound spacecraft . The rocket blast started at 9:41 P.M. Eastern standard time as the astronauts , depending on their attached lunar landing craft as a back-up return craft , pulled away about 6,000 miles from the right side of the moon . " That was a good burn , " Mission Control radioed after the lunar module 's descent rocket shut down on schedule . Though its success sent the first ripple of relief through Mission Control in 24 hours , Capt . James A. Lovell Jr . of the Navy and Fred W. Haise Jr . and John L. Swigert Jr. , both civilians , were still a long way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Race With Time The three astronauts were calm , despite the fact that they were racing time , trying to reach the earth before their severely limited reserves of oxygen , electricity and water ran out . Grim-faced flight directors here called it . " the most critical situation " in the history of the American space program . But , barring any further trouble , they said the chances of the astronauts ' safe return were " excellent . " A rising carbon-dioxide level in the spacecraft stirred new concern late last night for the astronauts ' safety . The amount vise to the point where it trig gered an alarm light , but Mission Control said it was prepared to have it go to twice that level to conserve the lithium hydroxide chemical used to cleanse the cabin atmosphere . Laboratory tests have shown that triple the present level can be tolerated without signs of organic damage , space agency doctors said . NASA scientists were de // vising alternate plans to rid the spaceship of excess amounts of the gas . One method would use the hoses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lunar module to the command module . Another called for dumping excess carbon dioxide overboard . Space officials seemed confident that both methods would work . Dr. Thomas 0 . Paine , head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , said at a news conference that the exploration of the moon would continue despite the Apollo 13 crisis . President Nixon , at the White House , kept in close touch with Dr. Paine and the Mission Control room here . The French Government offered the services of its Navy , should it be needed to help recover the astronauts after splashdown . Under the present plan Apollo 13 should splash down in the mid-Pacific at 12:13 P.M. Eastern standard time on Friday . The U.S.S. lwo Jima , the primary recovery ship , is steaming toward the site about 600 miles southeast of American Samoa . A tropical storm named Helen near the New Hebrides about 1,700 miles away was being watched closely by Navy weather experts . It was not expected to interfere with the planned recovery . Shortly before their rocket firing , the astronauts were informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had crashed into the moon 's Ocean of Storms with the force equivalent to 11 tons of TNT . The impact touched off reverberations that were monitored by the seismometer left by Apollo 12 last November . " It looks like your booster just hit the moon and is rocking it a little bit , " Mission Control told Apollo 13 . " Well , at least something worked on this flight , " Captain Lovell replied . The three astronauts appeared calm , though a little weary , as they turned their backs on the moon and their chances for making the nation 's third manned landing there . The original mission plan was for Captain Lovell and Mr. Haise to land on the moon tonight . What would have been their landing craft , the lunar module , was now their " lifeboat . " Still attached to the command ship , it was providing their oxygen , electricity and propulsion for getting home . The astronauts were following what Mission Control decided , after hours of intensive study and computer calculations , was the least risky strategy for:their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were ruled out by flight ! directors . They rejected a " free-return ' trajectory " because it would make the return trip 10 hours longer and would take the spacecraft to a splashdown in the Indian Ocean , far from any recovery forces . Such a return was considered only as an insurance policy in case the lunar module rocket failed to put Apollo 13 on a course for the Pacific Ocean . An initial firing of the rocket early yesterday morning steered the spacecraft on such a trajectory , which meant that without any major propulsion the vehicle would have swung around the moon and used the pull of lunar gravity to send it back toward the earth . A " super-fast " return was ruled out as being too risky . It would have brought Apollo 13 back to the Pacific 24 hours earlier , but it would have meant firing the lunar module engine almost to depletion , leaving little fuel for possible midcourse correction . In addition , to make the fast return it would have been necessary to jettison the command module 's rear compartment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposed the command ship 's reentry heat shield to the possibly damaging ultraviolet rays of outer space . A third strategy calling for a splashdown in tile Atlantic Ocean off South America would have shortened the return by 10 hours . But no primary recovery ships were available in that area . The plan chose by Mission Control calls for the astronauts to keep the lunar module attached to the command module until they come within an hour or so of the earth 's atmosphere . Then they are to crawl back into the command module , shut the hatch and jettison the lunar , module . Only the cone-shaped command module is shielded for the fiery plunge through atmosphere . The return speed at that time reaches more than 25,000 miles an hour . Although the command module 's primary electric power system failed , the vehicle has enough battery power to run ' the guidance and communications systems during re-entry . It also has a reserve bottle of I oxygen . On an ordinary return from the moon , the lunar module is left in the vicinity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascent stage either in lunar orbit or smashed on the surface as a test of lunar seismic waves . The astronauts ride their command module , with the service module compartment attached , until about 15 minutes before re-entry . Then the surface mcdule , which houses the primary life-support systems , is jettisoned by the firing of explosive bolts that literally slice it off . Under the present circumstances , the jettisoning of the service module should come about in the same way . The lunar module 's attachment to the command module is also such that the pilots can trigger explosive bolts to cast it away . For the rest of the mission , at least one astronaut will maintain a vigil at all times in the lunar module to watch for any change in its condition . Thus far , the vehicle is said to be in smooth working order . But astronauts can not afford to be careless . To conserve electricity , being supplied by lunar module batteries , they will be " powering down " ? running with the guidance system off except for midcourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and turning off nearly all other systems . It is estimated , that with such care , the astronauts should have a margin of about 22 per cent of lunar module battery power left by the time they reach the separation-for-re-entry phase . If so , the remaining battery power in the lunar module will be used to recharge one of the command module batteries that is running slightly below full strength . One of the most critical " consumables " is water , the flight controller said at a news conference . Water is essential for cooling the electronics systems in the vehicles ' guidance and navigation and telecommunications systems . Even so , the latest estimates were that the lunar module 's water supply was sufficient to allow for " powering up " the electronics for two mid-course correction maneuvers and still have about 12 to 13 hours of water left . Oxygen from the lunar module was being used for the atmosphere in both vehicles . The astronauts were using the larger cabin of the command module for sleeping . The lunar module 's 50 pounds of oxygen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 23 hours longer than the current mission time . The decision on how to bring Apollo 13 back to the earth quickly and safely was made after more than 12 hours of intensive and often agonizing1 conferences involving flight controllers , spacecraft engineers and space agency officials . It was the space program 's " Longest night . " Glynn S. Lunney , the weary flight director , said afterward . While the capsule communicator near the center of the mission control room kept up an almost continuous chatter with the Apollo 13 crew , seeking information and imparting instructions , teams of engineers ran computer calculations in the back rooms on the following questions : How long a rocket firing ? When should it come ? How much fuel would it use ? How long could the lifesupport system keep going ? Comdr . Eugene A. Cernan of the Navy , who was an Apollo 10 astronaut , spent much of the night in a simulator conducting all manner of alternate mission maneuvers . Lieut . Comdr . Thomas K. Mattingly 2d of the Navy , who was pulled off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , also lent a ' hand in the simulations . In a briefing for newsmen , Mr. Lunney reconstructed the sequence of events and decisionmaking that followed the sudden oxygen tank trouble at 10:11 o'clock last night  --  slightly less that 56 hours after Apollo 13 was launched from Cape Kennedy , Fla . " My team , " Mr. Lunney said , " has been primarily concerned with not what happened back there in the service module but what it is we were going to do about it . " The situation was almost immediately recognized as serious , Mr. Lunney recalled . The crew reported a " bang , " followed by a sudden and complete drop of pressure in one of the two liquid oxygen tanks in the service module . Captain Lovell could see gases venting out into space and the spacecraft began to roll . Engineers were reported to be still mystified by what ruptured the tank . They doubt that a meteroid impact was to blame , noting that the odds are far greater for its being some internal explosion . The two tanks containing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service module , a 24-foot-long cylinder bearing the major electrical power , life-support , telecommunications and propulsion systems for the command module . The tank that ruptured was situated behind the commander 's seat on the left side of the cockpit . When the tank failed , so did one of the three fuel cells in the service module . These are the spacecraft 's power plants for generating electricity by means of a chemical reaction between liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen . The byproduct is water for cooling spacecraft electronics and for drinking . At first , flight controllers struggled to " stabilize the condition , " hoping to keep at least one of the fuel cells operating on oxygen from the other tank . But pressure in that tank was also plunging . For three hours they were able to keep only one fuel cell in operation . This gave the astronauts time to recharge the storage batteries for the reentry maneuver , store up water and generate enough electricity to run the guidance system for a while . When they were forced to cut off the remaining fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leak , " two of the three astronauts retreated through the connecting tunnel into the attached lunar module . The third man , Mr. Haise , remained in the dark and crippled command ship , feeling his way around with the aid of a flashlight.                     