@@728899

txt The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said last night that it had ' closed the door on all further mediation to obtain the release of hijacked airline hostages , including a number of Americans . A Front spokesman said in Jordan that the P. F. L. P. position was clear regarding all concerned . The position involved the release of seven commandos detained abroad in exchange for the airline hostages , he said . " Our demands are clear and there is no room for repeat , " he said . " Therefore , we have decided to close the door to all mediation efforts and contacts . " Palestinian guerrillas in Jordan put American hostages in the same category as Israelis yesterday and all would be held until Israel agrees to a prisoner exchange . Divided Into Groups The Front said the hostages remaining from last week 's air hijackings had been divided into groups of three and scatered in several Jordanian hideouts . " No one is going to see the hostages , " a spokesman said in Amman . " They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of these places will endanger their lives . " Rudolf Swinkels , a Dutch steward aboard the hijacked Trans World Airlines jet , was released by the guerrillas last night in Amman . He said the Americans still held captive were mostly middle-aged men , but included a 12-year-old child . 2d Dutchman Freed Swinkels , the second person to be released from the group of remaining hostages , said he was freed because he was Dutch . The first hostage released also was Dutch  --  Gerritt H. DeKoning , an engineer set free Sunday . Swinkels said the hostages were anxious to be released , but were all " in very good health and spirits . " The guerrillas " assured us time and again that no matter what happened no harm would come to us , " he said . Out of 56 hostages still held by the guerrillas , 37 are believed to be Americans or Israelis . Informed sources said that 30 of this group hold United States passports . Israel Wo n't Bargain The Americans include crew members of the bombed-out Trans World Airlines jetliner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combat veteran . One of the Americans held is James Majer , 37 , of Bermuda , co-pilot . His mother , Marjorie Majer , lives in Glenview , Ill . About 3,000 Arab guerrillas are in Israeli jails , but Jerusalem has refused to consider THE IMPOTENT WEST See the editorial page bargaining : with the Popular Front . The Popular Front announcement came after an Arab emissary disclosed an Israeli warning that the death penalty will be imposed on 380 guerrilla supporters rounded up in occupied Arab territories if hijack hostages in Jordan are harmed . Israel arrested 450 Arabs over the weekend , but the state radio reported today that 70 of them were released . Dispatched to JordanDr . Wazi Qamhawi of Nablus in Israeli-held Jordan said he carried the warning to Amman over the weekend at the behest pf the Jerusalem government . He said the Israelis also threatened to blow up houses-of guerrillas convicted by Israeli courts and to confiscate their property . The Nablus doctor is a known sympathizer of the Popular Front which is holding the hostages . He was one of three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israelis disclosed after the three arrived in Amman that Israel had rounded up 450 Arabs in Jordan 's occupied west bank and in the Gaza Strip . The Popular Front said yesterday it would retaliate for the mass arrests " with complete ruthlessness . " , Others Reach Nicosia The last of the other 257 hostages , held for as long as a week , reached Nicosia Sunday . Many then left for Zurich , Switzerland , and London , while others spent their first night of freedom in Cyprus . They were passengers in a Swissair DC-8 and a TWA Boeing 707 that the Popular Front hijacked Sept. 6 and a British Overseas Airways Corporation VC-10 commandeered last Wednesday . Tho commandos had demanded the release of seven Arab prisoners of Britain , West German and Switzerland as the price of their hostages ' freedom .                     