@@731929

txt The Portuguese Communist party , the cause of much concern among Portugal 's Western allies , was smothered today under an avalanche of moderate votes in nearly complete returns from yesterday 's election of a constituent assembly . The Communists , who received less than 13 per cent of the votes cast , ran a poor third ! behind the socialists , who ( 2Thergect as thy roll nlry 's leadiiig party %vitt ) 38 per cent . The centrist Popular Democrats were in a strong runner-up poIvote ( vote. with 26 per cent or the . The voters ' first opportunity ! to make their voice fell since the military coup a year ago thus resulted in an overwhelming majority for parties that had campaigned on a platform of public freedoms and had become identified as strong opponents of both Communism and military dictatorship . Aside from a few Socialists who saluted their victory by riding around Lisbon noisily plonking their horns , Lisbon and the rest of the country took the results quietly . There was some // surprise that a party as well organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and campaigned so intensively , should have so little to show for the effort . In contrast , the Socialists and the Popular Democrats had complained constantly of their lack of personnel and finances . They had started virtually from scratch a year ago , when the coup allowed political parties to surface for the first time in 50 years , while the Communists had emerged from clandestine activity with a strong organization . The constituent assembly is to draft a constitution for Portugal , and all the parties that won seats in it were bound in advance by a pact with the country 's military rulers to write a constitution providing for a continuation of military rule for several years and for the creation of a socialist society . Mario Soares , the Socialist party leader , who emerged as the country 's most important political figure after years of exile under the old regime , emphasized today that his party would respect the pact with the military . Possible Center of Opposition The same pledge was made by the Popular Democrats . While both parties refrained from aggressive talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold some 70 per cent of the seats , nonetheless became a potential center of opposition to extremism in the military leadership . Military officers , In attempting to maintain at least an appearance of unity , spoke of the huge turnout of 91 per cent of the electorate as a victory for the armed forces . But the effect of the election was to strengthen the hand of moderate military leaders , such as President Francisco da Costa Gomes and Foreign Minister Ernesto Melo Antunes , while setting back the more radical wing , which is in command at the moment . For weeks , in apparent anticipation of a victory , by the moderate parties , the radical group had discredited the elections as a simple educational exercise for a confused , ignorant and politically unprepared people . Only 7 Pct . Blank Ballots Information Minister Jorge Correia Jesuino , a leftist navy commander , acknowledged to newsmen that 40 per cent of the voters had been expected to heed the military 's appeal to cast blank ballots . But only seven per cent of the votes cast were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many were the result of simple carelessness such as occurs in most countries using paper ballots . A Communist ally , the Portuguese Democratic Movement , which the Socialists Fold others had accused of being a Communist front , drew less than 5 per cent of the vote . This , too , was a setback for the military radicals , for the party 's principal appeal to voters , like that of the Communists , was unswerving support for the armed forces . A major surprise was the low vote won by the Social Democratic Center , the only conservative party in the election . Under constant attack from the far left as a " fascist " remnant of the old regime and consequently unable to do much campaigning , the party registered only 7.5 per cent . But for the Socialists and the Popular Democrats , this also was an advantage since neither the Communists nor the military radicals could plausibly charge that the country was still under rightist influence . Moderates Strong in North It was apparent , however , that both the Socialists and the Popular Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Communism . The Popular Democrats , in particular , made a strong showing in the North , where conservative and Roman Catholic church influences are strong . The Socialists took a surprising 44 per cent of the vote in Lisbon and astonished political analysts with their strength in areas generally regarded as Communist strongholds . In the Alentejo region , where large landholdings and a numerous landless peasants had created a kind of rural Red belt , the Socialists were neck and neck with the Communists in Evora , the region 's capital . In Beja , the Communists had 39 per cent while the Socialists were a strong second with 35 . In Settibal , an industrial and port city just south of Lisbon , the Socialists led with 39 per cent against 37 per cent for the Communists .                     