@@733463

txt ROBERTO CLEMENTE N remembered by most people as a great baseball player , an outstanding citizen , and all-around nice guy , He is remembered by Judge Gerald Sbarboro for something more . He is remembered as the man who saved Sbarboro in his days as head of the Board of Education 's School Names Committee from having to name a Chicago public school after Che Guevara . The school which eventually became Clemente High School was being planned to replace the old Tuley High School on the northwest side . THE RESIDENTS of the community Close-up with Dorothy Collin who were Latinos wanted to change the name of the school to honor one of their own , and one of the names some of the residents were really hot for was Che Guevara . Now , the Cuban revolutionary may be a hero to many but it 's a pretty good bet he was n't exactly an idol to most of the safe , sane , and very Chicago-establishment school board members . Still , there was more than a chance Che would be chosen when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought we can name the school after Clemente , " Sbarboro said . And so Clemente 's name was circulated in the community , which suggested it back to Sbarboro , whose committee submitted it to the board , and Roberto Clemente had a school named after him . MURRAY TULEY , a Circuit Court judge and the city corporation counsel who drafted the state act of municipal incorporation under which Chicago was rechartered after the 1871 fire , disappeared into history . Che is still waiting for what one board member once called " the greatest honor that can be bestowed . " In the old days " the greatest honor " often went to former Board of Education members , innovating educators , and teachers who managed to hang on for 50 years or more . There also were many schools named after presidents , senators . generals , inventors , and Founding Fathers of the United States , who were revolutionaries , too , but had . the grace to revolt 201 years ago when the board was n't around . AND THERE WERE schools named after prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were often friends of the people on the board . " It used to be very , clubby , " Sbarboro said . In fact , about the only real criterion for " the greatest honor " . was that you had to be dead . In recent years , the communities where new schools were built have become involved , and at times there have been huge controversies . " The Latin and black communities // A-B-Cs of naming a school after you // wanted the names to represent current people , " Sbarboro said . " Then there was the feeling by others that schools should be named after people with great accomplishments whether they were from Chicago or not . " THE WORST FIGHT in Sbarboro 's years was over naming a school after Marcus Garvey , the black whose " back to Africa " movement in the 19205 led to his deportation from the U.S. " There was a big split over him even in the black community , " Sbarboro recalled . " Some thought he was a con man , others thought he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one member constantly huffed and puffed about the idea of naming a school after Garvey , often referring to him as a Communist . But eventually Garvey received " the greatest honor . " Another source of ' controversy has been the desire of some communities to change the names of schools which orig-Close-up Molly were named after famous people of a different ethnic group . ? FOR INSTANCE , there are several schools named after Poles in neighborhoods that are now Latino . So far , the board has withstood the pressure , except where a new school is built to replace an old one . And even that makes some alums mad . When Tuley was renamed , the board received letters protesting the change . One reason the alums were angry is the difficulty of tracing one 's records in a school that has disappeared . At times there has been pressure to change the policy and name schools after living people . Unfortunately , that could lead to some embarassment since some fine , upstanding citizens turn out to be crooks . For instance , there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he was still alive and known only as former governor and a respected federal judge . " NOW THAT would have been embarassing , " Sbarboro said . This week Sbarboro , still interested in school names , fired off a letter to the board suggesting a school be named after Hubert Humphrey . He would join such other distinguished politicians as Lincoln , Kennedy , and Corkery . And who is Corkery , you might ask . He was the political boss of the stockyards area and city election commissioner in the 1880s and ' 90s . See if you know some of these other persons who had schools named after them . LUKE O'TOOLE ? Thomas J. Waters ? Robert S. Abbott ? Beulah Shoesmith ! Ole A. Thorp ? Luella ? O'Toole was born in County Kerry , Ireland , in 1839 , came to Chicago when he was 18 , went to work in a brick yard , then worked for Armour . In 1876 he opened an inn at 47th Street and Ha ! stet ; Street , which became a watering hole for local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station , but quit when Grover Cleveland was defeated by William . He was too loyal a Democrat to serve under a Republican . No wonder he got a school named after him . Waters , also a native of Ireland , was an engineer for Dore school when he came up with a system for heating and ventiliating buildings that was used until after World War II . ABBOTT WAS the founder of the Chicago Defender ; Shoesmith , who was known as Isosceles , was a math teacher for more than 50 years ; and Thorp was a member of the Board of Education who sponsored the resolution saying schools should be named for people , not the areas where they were built . Luella is an exception to Ole Thorp 's rule . It was named for a steamboat , the first to run between St. Louis and Alton , Ill.                     