@@731151

txt A HUGE SUPPLY of prescription drugs , whose retail value was estimated in the thousands I of dollars , was confiscated by I Chicago police last night from I the apartment belonging to the night pharmacist at the University of Chicago Hospital complex . Police seized the drug hoard after they arrested the pharmacist , Raymond J. Bean , 39 , for the illicit sate of morphine , a coti c , to.tWo undercover agents for the C-5 police unit . Bean had thousands of pills , most of them barbiturates and amphetamines , in his apartment at 647 W. Deming P1. , said Lt. Francis Ward of the C-5 unit . Ward said each barbiturate or amphetamine pill could sell for 75 cents to a I dollar on the black market . Lt. Ward said many of the jars of pills were still packed in boxes which were labeled " University of Chicago Medical Clinic . " Police were investigating the possibility that Bean had taken the drugs from the U. of C. Hospital complex where be was an employe and in sole commend of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , ibe Investigation which led to Bean 's arrest began as an offshoot of a separate investigation of possible police corruption . The C-6 unit specializes in the probing of wayward Chicago policemen , but Ward refused to discuss the alleged police misdeed that led to Bean . Yesterday afternoon , in a tavern at 31 W. Division St. , Bean sold 100 disposable syringes containing 15 miligrams each of morphine sulphate to two undercover policemen for $1,000 , Ward said . Bean was immediately arrested and charged with sale of a narcotic . BEAN HAD earlier bragged to the undercover policemen that he had many more drugs stashed in his apartment . Based on this information , police procured a search warrant and entered Bean 's third floor apartment late last night . Ward said the pills and capsules were found in drawers , cupboards , and under Bean 's bed . Police also confiscated 15 guns from the apartment , including six pistols , a sawed-off 12 gauge shotgun , five rifles , and 500 rounds of ammunition . According to a spokesman for the U. of C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals , including Billings , Chicago Lying-In , and the Wylcr , Silvain and Anna Children 's Hospital . Lt. Ward said Bean was the only pharmacist on duty in this dispensary during one of the night shifts . Bean had worked in the dispensary for at least four years . said the lieutenant . Ward said that if Bean had been siphoning drugs from the dispensary which he ran , he could have kept very accurate records of the loss to the hospital . Ironically , Bean was also the man who took inventory of the thefts , according to Ward .                     