@@729772

txt United Press International With his long-time mentor Senator Barry Goldwater , left , on hand to lend support , Assistant Attorney General William Rehnquist testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee last week on his qualifications to hold a seat on the Supreme Court . Supreme Court : A Question Or Three For Nominee Rehnquist WASHINGTON -- In 1959 , William H. Rehnquist wrote that the Senate should " thoroughly inform itself of the judicial philosophy of a Supreme Court nominee before voting to confirm him . " Now an Assistant Attorney General and one of President Nixon 's two nominees to fill vacancies on the Supreme Court , Mr. Rehnquist spent last Wednesday and Thursday proving to the Senate Judiciary Committee that it is impossible to find out about a nominee 's judicial philosophy by cross-examining him . Traditionally , nominees to the Court have refused to be drawn out on their judicial theories and predilections because any such dialogue quickly leads into a discussion of recent decisions and pending cases on which it would be embarrassing for a future justice to commit himself . Moreover , since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do nut like to be in the position of rendering an according to Congress . In refusing to testify about his own views , Mr. Rehnquist additionally asserted that he had a lawyer-client relationship with President Nixon and Attorney General John Mitchell , and that ( in testifying before Congressional committees in the past in behalf of Administration programs , he had been speaking not for himself but as an advocate for his client , the President , This rationale struck most observers as remarkable in itself . The confidentiality of a lawyer 's relation with a client is understood in private practice , where an attorney could reasonably represent either side in a case . But high Administration officials  --  such as Mr. Rehnquist  --  are generally expected to agree with the programs they defend or else to resign . In fact , reporters who have covered Mr. Rehnquist 's earlier testimony before Congressional committees have had little doubt that he agreed with the Administration 's positions on lawand-order issues . His law journal articles and speeches , and the comments of his associates in private life , indicate he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His views on critical issues of civil liberties and racial justice are relevant ? in the view or some members of the Senate , at any rate  --  to the question of whether he should be confirmed . Beyond that is the general question of how far the Senate should go in pitting its judgment of a nominee against that of the President . As a practical matter , there seemed little doubt that he and Lewis F. Powell , the other , less controversial nominee , who will appear before the committee tomorrow , would receive Senate confirmation . A combination of Republicans and conservative Southern Democrats has ample votes to assure their approval unless some damaging information should unexpectedly turn up . But while the nomination of Mr. Powell , 64 years old , a former president of the American Bar Association , a pillar of the Virginia political and legal establishment , and a thorough conservative , seemed likely to go through unanimously , a substantial bloc of liberal Democratic Senators may make a symbolic fight against Mr. Rehnquist . The difference in response to the two nominations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no doubt that if Mr. Rehnquist and Mr. Powell become justices of the Supreme Court , they will be found on the same side on many decisions . What may differ is their approach to judging . Mr. Powell is an urbane veteran of many government and bar association committees . As chairman of the Richmond ( Va . ) School Board he kept that city 's schools open during ' the integration controversy while maintaining his personal ties to the conservative politicians who were thundering for school shutdowns as part of the South 's " massive resistance . " Reaction from Senators thus far indicate that Mr. Powell comes across as a true conservative , as a potential judge who would be reluctant to venture into new thickets of controversy , but would also be slow to reverse previous Court decisions , regardless of what he thought of them , and who would be wary of using the Court 's great power to overrule Congress and the state legislatures . By contrast , Mr. Rehnquist , 47 , a member of Barry Goldwater 's " Arizona Mafia " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to writing letters to the editor and making public speeches in which he has vigorously defended a narrow set of strongly right-wing views . Rather than a judicial conservative reluctant to move away from established precedents or to deploy the powers of the Court aggressively , Mr. Rehnquist since his days as a law school student ' has had the record and reputation of a judicial activist eager to advance his political philosophy . At his crowded confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Cornmittee , Mr. Rehnquist appeared to be trying to blur the sharper edges of his previously expressed opinions and theories . With long lines of people in the corridor waiting for seats and the press tables packed with scores of reporters , the stage was set for a dramatic confrontation , but the star did all he could to rob the scene of its drama . Keeping his voice at a monotone , Mr. Rehnquist fenced for hours with his younger Democratic adversaries , Senators Edward Kennedy and Birch Bayh . ' Thus when asked , about a letter he wrote in 1964 urging the Phoenix ( Ariz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business establishments to serve all customers regardless of race or national origin , because that would be an infringement of a r businessman 's liberty , Mr. Rehnquist told the committee that he " would not feel the same way today , " and that the ordinance had " worked very well . " Similarly , when ' there was a move to eradicate " de facto " segregation in the Phoenix schools , he , opposed it : " We are no more dedicated to an ' integrated ' society than we are to a desegrated society . We are instead dedicated to a free society in which each man is equal before the law , but in which each man is accorded a maximum amount of freedom of choice in his individual activities . " But at his hearing last week , Mr. Rehnquist pointed out that his children attend integrated schools and he feels they are " better off for that experience . " They are in neighborhood schools , however , and he reiterated his opposition to any attempt , to " accomplish this same result by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Rehnquist in the past has supported curtailing the right of defendants in criminal cases , vigorous use of wiretapping and electronic surveillance against domestic radicals as well as foreign spies , use of " no knock " entry by the police and preventive detention , and cracking down on various forms of civil disobedience . He has attacked " the Warren Court 's liberal majority " and warned against " further expansion of the constitutional rights of criminal defendants , of pornographers , and of demonstrators . " " My fundamental commitment , if I am confirmed , " Mr. Rehnquist told the committee last week , " will be to totally disregard my own personal beliefs . " If this extreme formulation of a judge 's need for intellectual detachment seemed implausible on its face , the liberal Senators still had no completely satisfactory answer to the dilemma which the Rehnquist nomina tion presents ? if they oppose a nominee of integrity and intellectual and professional competence because they disapprove of his personal philosophy and of the zeal with which he is likely to advance it , will they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maelstrom of politics ? ? WILLIAM V. SHANNON                     