@@731510

txt Richard M. Nixon 's personality , his principles , and his regard for the , - American people were distorted early in his Presidency , in the view of Herbert Klein , because he allowed himself to become a captive of men whose political creed was compounded by deceit , secrecy and cynicism . And this , says the former White House director of communications , is what led to President Nixon 's downfall . Klein quit the White House post on June 5 , 1973 , after having been relegated to a largely meaningless role in the administration and stripped of his influence and easy access to Nixon . Until their estrangement , for which he blames II . R. Haldeman , John Ehrlichman , and Charles Colson , Klein had served Nixon longer than any other political associate , beginning in 1946 , Olen lie helped an ambitious young man just out of the Navy win election to Congress . KLEIN SAID IN an interview that this small , power-greedy group of men took advantage of what had come to be Nixon 's exaggerated desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shadow government . In his third-floor vice presidential office at Metromedia , Inc. , just off Hollywood 's Sunset Boulevard , the 56-yearformer San Diego newspaper , , cditor was in a sad , reflective mood as he talked of a different " Nixon of the old days , " his " change of heart , " and the events that drove him from the Presidency . Ile paused frequently to inject that altho he had been " terribly shocked " by the disclosure of events that took place , without his knowledge , while he served in the White House , he still considered Nixon a friend and had an criduring admiration for many of his achievements . HE SAID THAT in mid-November of 1972 , immediately after Nixon 's reelection as President and five months after the Watergate burglary , he sought to warn the President that " unless he told the American people the entire story " Watergate could " blacken " him and the Presidency . " I urged that the whole thing be brought out into the open immediately , including everything the President knew about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very strong feelings to Bob Haldeman and then wrote a memo to the same effect to the President but I do n't know whether it was allowed to reach : dm . " Kl . ' . : ! N ALLUDED several times during the interview to changes in the Presidnt 's personality that he said became noticeable after Nixon entered the White House . He was asked whether .. : ixon had been corrupted by HaIdeEhrlichman , Colson , and others . " Corrupted is not the word I would use , but his sense of values was certainly distorted by these men , " he said . After Nixon 's election in 1968 , Klein said he told the press , " truth will be the hallmark of the Nixon administration . " " I meant that sincerely and I set out to back it up with fact , " he related . " YET , AT SOME point that can not be definitely pinpointed , Mr. Nixon 's administration fell victim to the same credibility gap that had plagued the Johnson administration . Deceit began to replace truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to the Nixon administration and it was the beginning of the end . ' It was n't just Watergate . No single factor or isolated decision was really responsible for the Nixon administration 's change of heart and the turning away from truth and openness . " DURING THE interview , Klein made it evident that he thought that the designs of the Haldeman group to impose a cynical philosophy upon Nixon was facilitated by the President 's rigorous , self-imposed isolation . His withdrawal , Klein said , was in sharp contrast with Nixon 's relaxed political career . " His isolation became more pronounced , putting him out of touch with domestic matters . This had become very evident by 1970 and it led to deceit and arroations of power by others that served him poorly . " He withdrew from friends and from ideas and delegated still more power to the selected few , " he said . THE FORMER Presidential director of communications said that while the White House press , under Johnson and Nixon , became " too emotional , angry , and vitriolic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hounded Johnson or Nixon out of office . " The press did not create the mistakes of Viet Nam or the massive tragedy of Watergate , " he explained . " However , White House mishandling of the press contributed to the huge headlines in print and on the air . "                     