@@733969

txt There is more than a chance that the Senate will reject SALT II . The effect on US-Soviet relations of such a failure is incalculable . The danger to world peace if the two nuclear superpowers dropped their present policy of uneasy d ? - tente is obvious . . Opponents of the strategic arms limitation treaty agreement opened a barrage against it here this week , and the administration remained silent . The anti-SALT umbrella organization , the American Security Council , denounced Jan. 4 the proposed agreement with a panel that included Ray Cline , former deputy Central Intelligence Agency director ; Army Gen. Richard Stilwell , retired ; and Army Lt , Gen. Daniel Graham , retired . On Jan. 3 SALT received a double slamming : In a joint press conference-lunch the chairman and ranking minority member of a House Armed Services Committee panel criticized it . Attacks on it were also distributed from various hard-line organizations , including a critical analysis by Paul H. Nitze , onetime secretary of Navy , a member of the SALT delegation that negotiated in the 1969-74 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Committee on the Present Danger . The attack on SALT II is being organized nationwide . The American Security Council is coordinating opposition of various organizations . The American Conservative Union , with 325,000 members , spent a million dollars in its unsuccessful effort to defeat the Panama Canal treaties . It now has plunged into the new fight with a half-hour paid propaganda film so far shown on 200 TV stations . The Coalition for Peace Through Strength , which has 175 senators and representatives among its sponsors , includes 89 special-interest organizations . It is ready to go with full-page anti-SALT newspaper advertisements when the treaty is finally submitted to the Senate , The coalition includes groups like the Reserve Officers Association , American Federation of Small Business , Americans for a Safe Israel , and the National Alliance of Senior Citizens The White House has not answered these attacks , and its strategy seems in disorder . The original plan was for a dramatic signing of the new Soviet-US agreement , with a joint " spectacular " of President Carter and Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest , however , Moscow stalled . This coincided with , and may have been prompted by , America 's normalization of relations with China . Certain arms treaty issues , once thought settled , were revived . // From page .1 Assault on SALT ? a historic collision As far back as 1976 the then Secretary of State , Henry A. Kissinger said the accord was " 95 percent finished . " SALT II was initiated in 1972 by President Richard Nixon , following so-called SALT I. The purpose is to continue a flow of discussions to restrict strategic weapons , save money , and reduce tension . The pending agreement would theoretically be followed by SALT III . Explaining terms The greatest challenge to journalism in modern times may be the attempt to explain the very technical SALT II to a bewildered public . An advance 19-page " SALT Lexicon , " issued here by the American Enterprise Institute , includes two pages of SALT acronyms ( example : " MIRV ? Multiple Independently Tar-getable Reentry Vehicle ? see Reentry Vehicle " ) . Under the Constitution , Senate ratification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far , the anti-SALT forces seem to have stolen a march on the White House in their drive to block that majority .                     