@@734210

txt Initialing a US-China trade accord in Canton begins to put the United States into competition with Japan and Western Europe for a larger slice of the China trade pie . The agreement , once it is signed formally by both governments and approved by Congress , would pry open the trade doors in two ways : ? Washington would slash tariffs on goods coming from China , allowing to increase its sales to the US substantially . ? China would gain access to broader US financial credits , paving the way to greater exports of American technology to the Chinese . Peking already enjoys these twin benefits in its trade with Japan and leading European powers , with the result that the United States has been left behind in the scramble to exploit an expanding Chinese market . China 's desire for advanced American technology in mining , oil exploration , and some other fields should permit US firms to regain some lost ground , once the trade pact , initialed by Secretary of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps and her Chinese counterpart , comes into force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new China trade doors Next comes some tricky diplomatic footwork by the Carter administration to preserve an evenhanded approach to both Communist giants , China and the Soviet Union . Spurring this footwork is an amendment to the 1974 Trade Act , sponsored by Sen. Henry M. Jackson ( D ) of Washington and Rep. Charles A. Vanik ( D ) of Ohio , which ruled out most-favored nation ( MFN ) trading status for nations denying their citizens free emigration . Though the amendment was aimed primarily at Moscow 's restrictions on Jewish emigration , it applied also to China , with which the US at that time had no diplomatic relations . Shorn of MFN , China 's exports to the US are subject to the extremely high Smoot-Hawley tariffs of the 1930s , and Peking also lacks access to export-import bank credits . The White House , after the trade agreement with China is formally signed , will submit the pact to Congress , along with President Carter 's assurance that Chinese emigration is substantially free . Assuming Congress agrees , Mr. Carter can then waive the Jackson-Vanik @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year reached $1.147 billion , should pick up . Intense negotiations Meanwhile , intense negotiations are going on between Washington and Moscow , which also very much wants MFN and its attendant trade benefits . The Soviets , said a senior US State Department official , are expected shortly to furnish " information " on their emigration policly , which hopefully would permit Mr. Carter to waive Jackson-Vanik restrictions on Moscow for one year . This would give Congress time to decide whether to erase the amendment altogether . Meanwhile , the USSR would enjoy MFN status . Last year more than 30,000 Soviet Jews were allowed to emigrate , up from the average of 16,000 in the four preceding years . Nonetheless , says Senator Jackson , the outflow does not yet meet standards set by the Jackson-Vanik amendment . " We want , " said a senior State Department official , " to treat China and Soviet trade sep- arately , but to move as much in tandem as possible . " White House hope This expresses a White House hope that MFN can be granted both to Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers  --  Poland , Romania , Yugoslavia , and Hungary  --  now have MFN . Except for other Communist nations , the US grants most-favored-nation status to all other countries . Even when China enjoys all trading benefits granted by the US to other powers , American businessmen have a lot of catching up to do . " We 've got to get hundreds of businessmen out here in all sorts of fields , " G. Douglas Burck , executive director of California Trade Delgations , Inc. , told this writer recently in Peking , " to compete with the Japanese and Europeans . " Peking already has signed long-term trade agreements , involving billions of dollars worth of credits , with Japan and France , among other powers .                     