@@731947

txt Spacial to The New Tom Times MONTREAL , May 10 ? Surveying Canadian high-school students last winter , a publisher discovered that most had no idea what percentage of their country 's population spoke French or who the Governor General was . Many identified Harry S. Truman as a former Prime Minister , General Motors as a Canadian corporation and " All in the Family " as a Canadian television program . The survey , not so much in what it uncovered as in the fact that it was made at all and that its results were widely publicized and deplored , reflects an increasingly evident concern among Canadians over what they call their national identity . In print , in politics and in conversations from one end of this huge but underpopulated land to the other , they are asking such questions as " Who are we ? " and " What makes Canadians Canadian ? " " In a nation overwhelmed have a very special obligation to our children , " the publisher , Mel Hurtig , concluded after his survey . " If we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many ways in which Canada differs from its huge exporting neighbor , we ca n't possibly expect the nation to survive . " Canadian nationalism , often in the form of anti-Americanism , is nothing new . But the consuming preoccupation with the national consciousness and the struggle to define the national character , go far beyond the ranks of the nationalists , engaging many people no one would consider radical . Colombo 's Canadian Quotations , a kind of Canadian Bartlett 's that was published a few months ago , is selling briskly , even at $15 a copy . Articles with such titles as " What Is the Canadian Personality ? " and " Our National Dream " have become journalistic perennials . Although neither the dream by American influences , we Continued on Page 20 , Column 1 Canada Makes Increasing Effort to Develop National Awareness Among Her Citizens Associated Press Prince Charles , right , visiting Parliament in Ottawa last month , Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau is next to him . Although royal family 's following is still large , some  --  especially in Quebec  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with much precision or unanimity , many Canadians think that their being discussed at all indicates a healthy new degree of national independence . " We may not be able to say yet just what the distinctive Canadian character is , " a Toronto journalist explained , " but at least we 're beginning to acknowledge that there is one , which we would n't have 20 years ago . " In the schools Canadian history and literature are being taught to students whose parents learned only about English and American authors . In foreign policy Prime Min ister Pierre Elliott Trudeau 's Government has chosen what he calls a third option , meaning neither absorption by the United States nor continued domination by it but , rather , the development of a distinct presence in the world , a national personality that comes uniquely from Ottawa . Shift of Perspective " A shift of perspective is taking place in this country , " said Heather Robertson , a Winnipeg columnist . " We see ourselves now through our own eyes instead of in a British or American mirror . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what kind of country we want when it is achieved . " Partly because of Canada 's dominance by her southern neighbor and partly because of heavy British and French influences , she has traditionally had a kind of national inferiority complex . Northrop Frye , the Canadian critic , puts it this way : " All through its-history Canada has had .. tonleel apologetic for not being something more gla111940 . " The . United States , with 10 " - Otes the population just across the long border , has been the principal foreign influence , for as Peter Newman , a magazine editor , describes attitudes of the recent past , the ony real mark of acceptance in every field of endeavor came from the United States : " I bought it on Fifth Avenue , He studied at Harvard . We got our tan in Palm Beach . " Reinforced by Americans That little-brother role that Canada grew accustomed to over the years was reinforced by Americans  --  the business executive to whom the Canadian market was just another sales region , the tourist who expressed surprise that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only country with signs reminding tourists not to use American stamps on their postcards . ) Deep though it began automatic Canadian acceptance of things American was , eroding because of the war in Vietnam , which was widely unpopular here long before public opinion shifted in the United States , and then because of the Watergate scandals , which many Canadians still find baffling . Then , after generations of trying to squeeze into the American mold ? of being what Mr. Newman calls bastard Americans  --  the Canadian people began to realize that they had an agreeable identity of their own . Part of that identity results from what Margaret Atwood , a novelist and poet , terms the Canadian tradition of coping with a harsh and threatening climate . " The central symbol of Canada is survival , " Miss Atwood wrote in " Survival , " a recent survey of Canadian literature , contrasting that symbol with the American tradition of conquering the elements . In modern Canada , too , the frontier is never far away , and neither is its spirit . A traveler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the glossiest hotel in Montreal or Toronto without attracting undue attention . As for the neighbor to the south , Canadians increasingly , view it and its new problems with an attitude expressed by a British Columbia man just back from a visit to California : " I have seen the future and it does n't work . " In Europe young Canadian hitchhikers have sewed maple-leaf flags on their knapsacks because , they say , they are more likely to get rides if motorists know they are not Americans . Here at home people are pleasantly surprised to learn that " our life-style is becoming a source of international envy , " as John Craig Eaton , one of Canada 's leading retailers , put it . Visiting Americans are invariably charmed to discover cities that possess all the good features of places in the United States and few of the bad . A tourist from Connecticut , marveling at the safety of the Montreal streets , commented , " It 's like being in a nineteen-forties movie , everyone just strolling around without fear . " As Canadians keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also being discovered in other parts of the world . The number of immigrants Jast year was nearly twice the level of four years ago and four times the level of the early nineteen-sixties . The growth of immigration has become such a problem , indeed , that the federal Government is drawing up legislation to tighten entrance requirements , now among the most liberal in the world . It has asked for opinions from the public , encouraging a national debate that has frequently been acrimonious and emotional , casting doubt on Canadian fairmindedness . In contrasting this country with the United States in the area of race relations , it is not unusual for Canadians to remind their American friends pointedly that Canada was a haven for runaway American slaves . That is changing too . " We thought we had a very tolerant society , " explained Ann Macdonald , who lives in a part of Toronto that is filling up with black immigrants from the West Indies . " But the way they 're coming in now they 're changing the whole nature of the The provinces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also considering a bill that is likely to end the Canadian editions of Time magazine and The Reader 's Digest , in the hope that their place will be taken by indigenous publiCations more in tune with Canadian thought . Beyond all that , the emergence . of a special Canadian consciousness in recent years  --  and the Canadians ' desire to define and cherish it ? is nowhere more evident than in the sweeping new popularity of Canadian history and literature . Until recently Canadian literature was generally ignored or laughed at . In the nineteen-fifties . Hugh , the novelist , summed up a prevailing attitude this way : " Boy meets girl in Winnipeg , and who cares ? " A professor of creative writing recalled the time not long ago when his students laughed at his suggestion that they write a mystery set in Sault Ste. Marie , Ontario , but took the assignment seriously when he changed the setting to Cheyenne , Wyo . Compulsory Courses " When I went to high school , I did n't know there were any Canadian authors , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prolific writers . The change has been swift and dramatic . Responding to public pressure , Ontario , the most populous province , made the teaching of Canadian studies compulsory last year , and other schools are adding the course in rapidly increasing numbers . James Foley , a small-town English teacher who is in the forefront of the movement stressing awareness of Canadian literature , reports that he receives 2,000 letters a month about it , most of them from interested teachers . Mr. Foley , like Mr. Berton and others who have considered the phenomenon , regards the focus on literature and history as part of the eme:gence of a national myth in a country that has not had one . Mr. Berton , who has become a principal guardian of that myth , de ? scribes it thus : " This identity thing , the concern about what makes a Canadian , has been like going to a psychiatrist . History tells a nation about its roots , about where it came from and , from that , where it is going . The Americans and the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadians are just beginning to find out . " place , and I just do n't know if that 's what I want . " If Canadians have traditionally viewed themselves as relatively free of prejudice , many have also thought it a good idea not to be too stridently patriotic . Around a dinner table in Montreal several EnglishCanadians tried to persuade a friend that it might be dangerous to have an officially authorized national anthem , as is proposed in a bill before Parliament in Ottawa . In the century since this diverse land was pulled together into a confederation , Canadians have lacked  --  or studiously avoided  --  the symbols of patriotism that others cherish . There is no pledge of allegiance , and the federal constitution is nothing but an act of the British Parliament . Until the adoption of the maple leaf ID years ago , there was no distinctive flag . Again , some of that is changing . Under Phime Minister Trudeau there has been more and more talk about repatriating the constitution , and the institution of the monarchy is being openly questioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enthusiastic , there are angry letters to the editor cornplaining of the expense and the traffic jams almost every time a member of it visits this corner of the realm . In the French-speaking province of Quebec , stronghold of antimonarchist sentiment , months of private debate preceded a decision to invite Elizabeth II to open the Olympic Games next summer as Queen of Canada . " In that role Elizabeth represents a constitutional relic of colonialism that has little or no constructive meaning in modern Canadian life , " said The Toronto Star , the country 's largest newspaper , expressing a widely held view . " The Queen 's position , irrelevant as it is to the reality of a sovereign Canada , will be virtually impossible to explain to foreign visitors at  --  the Olympics except in terms of a lingering colonial relationship with Britain . " Investment Plans Screened The goal of protecting a special Canadian character ? or perhaps discovering one ? also underlies new national policies in economics and culture . Under legislation enacted a year ago the federal Government is screening foreign investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands .                     