@@729636

txt The Soviet Union broadened its unofficial contacts with Israel today with the arrival of the first group of non-Communist Israelis since Moscow broke diplomatic relations at the time of the 1967 Arab-Israeli war . A Soviet group known as the Peace Committee gave a warm welcome to six prominent Israelis , all of them critics of their Government 's policies , who came here at Soviet invitation for what they said they hoped would be meetings with Soviet Jews to discuss conditions here , for talks with prominent Russians on the Middle East situation , and for efforts to improve Soviet-Israeli relations . Continues Pattern The Soviet Peace Committee specializes in making contacts with nongovernmental foreign organizations to further Soviet foreign-policy objectives . The arrival of the Israeli group continued the recent pattern of greater Soviet attention to Israeli and Jewish matters . The trend has brought a marked increase in the flow of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union , considerably milder treatment of Israel in the Soviet media recently and other unofficial contracts . Since the six-day war in 1967 , a number of Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include non-Commu rusts . Tass . the Soviet press agency , reported in a one-paragraph item tonight that a group of " progressive public figures " from Israel had arrived for a visit " to become acquainted with the life of the Soviet Union . " Western diplomats believe the Soviet Union has been interested in broadening unofficial contacts with Israelis lately because Moscow felt at a disadvantage in the Middle East in riot being able to talk to both sides in the Arab-Israeli dispute while the United States has been able to do so . Another theory here is that the Russians may want to give the Egyptians something to think about , particularly after high , level Egyptian contacts with Washington . Soviet officials insist that it would be premature to resume diplomatic relations with Israel while she occupies Arab land seized in the 1967 war . But . one of the visiting Israelis , Dr. Dan Miron , professor of Hebrew literature at Tel Aviv University , said : " We are all more or less committed to the idea that an improvement of the relationships between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the very near future ? in the interest of peace . And we believe that our visit here is somewhat of a step toward such an improvement . " ' Gesture of Friendship ' Dr. Miron , who is soon to leave for the United States to teach for a year at Columbia University , said he regarded the Soviet invitation as a " gesture of friendship " toward " certain parts of the Israeli public , if not the Government . " A primary interest of the visiting Israelis , according to Dr. Miron and Nathan Yalin-More , a journalist who headed the Stern commando group during the period of the British Mandate , would be to visit Soviet 3ews . " We hope to talk to them , listen to them , learn firsthand their experience here , " Dr. Miron said . " We are certainly going to talk with our hosts and perhaps some other people about the political situation in the Middle East . I think there is a basis for understanding , even on that . " In reply to a question , , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Jews who want to emigrate . " If we can talk about them , with them , if we can discuss their problems with our hosts , we shall be very grateful . " Mr. Yalin-More explained that the Israelis had been invited as individuals and would be traveling individually , some to visit relatives . He said that he and others wanted to visit Riga , the capital of the Latvian Republic , and Vilnius , the capital of the Lithuanian Republic , and possibly Kiev , which has a heavy concentration of Jews . The four others in the group were Yaakov Riftin , long-time leftist deputy in the Knesset who recently quit the Marxist Mapam party ; James J. Rosenthal , retired parliamentary reporter for the newspaper Haaretz ; Moshe Eidelherg , a trade union official and secretary of the League for SovietIsraeli Friendship , and Mrs. Ruth Lubitch , a member of the Israeli Communist party . The airport welcome was friendly , though the group was not given the special treatment aiften afforded foreign digVtaries . But they were housed in the Sovetskaya Hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegations . Late in June Victor Louis , a Soviet journalist believed in the West to be associated with Soviet intelligence , visited Israel and met with Avraham Avidar , a leading staff aide to Premier Golda Meir . Soviet authorities have notably refrained from any public denial of speculation that late in May . Mrs. Meir met secretly with a Kremlin official in Scandinavia . Moreover , since March . So/let authorities have relaxed Ttestrictions on Jewish emigration . and Western diplomats now estimate that 5,000 Jews have left for Israel this year , about five times the number in 1970 . The flow has declined to about 200 to 300 a month recently om a peak of about 1,300 Om April .                     