@@730461

txt Remember that evening TV program you missed last year when guests ? arrivedjust asit began ? Would you like a second , possibly a third , chance to see the same program , or a chance to see something new in its place ? Members of some Hollywood unions say it is " grossly unfair " to viewers for networks to run programs more than once . It 's also unfair to them , they argue : more reruns ? less work , and in some TV unions 50 to 75 percent of the members now are unemployed . TV network officials favor giving you a " second chance , " sometimes a third , to see the program . They argue also that high production costs today make reruns a necessity : It costs a lot less to rerun a program than to pay people to make a new one . Entertainment unions , backed by the AFL-CIO , have called on the government to limit television network reruns on prime time . Through the federation 's executive council , the unions ask that " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more than 25 percent of total prime-time hours annually , about half as many as now . // *TV : old reruns vs. new ( cheap ? ) fare // STOP ( Save Television 's Original Programming ) complains that the reuse of old programs " has escalated to epidemic proportions " until even in prime time ? from 8 to 11 p.m ? " reruns often make up more than 50 percent of all television offerings . " Spokesmen for the TV networks concede that about 45 percent of prime time over a year 's time is devoted to reruns , for the most part during summer months . But , they say , if they are required to reduce reruns , they will be forced to use less expensive forms of programming ? less elaborate shows . Such a move could result in even fewer jobs . STOP , sponsored by the film and television coordinating committee of Entertainment Industry Unions and Guilds , has argued in a 76-page brief to the Federal Communications Commission that the newworks 's ' rerun policy has " reduced job opportunities catastrophically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the backing of California 's Gov . Ronald Reagan and Republican Reps . Barry Goldwater Jr . and Alphonzo Bell . More important , it has just picked up strong support from the White House President Nixon last week told Hollywood unions that he has instructed Clay T. Whitehead , director of the White House office of telecommunications policy , to look into the situation and to recommend whatever remedies might be necessary . Mr. Whitehead has made his personal position on this clear by referring in a speech to " the spreading blight of reruns . " The President , who seems more and more amenable to labor in this political year , wrote to John Gavin , president of the Screen Actors Guild , that " the increasing number of reruns . . . constitutes an economic threat to the talented men and women in the American film industry . No one will gain with this network practice , which has the long-range effect of drying up the domestic sources of new programming , " the President added . Voluntary approach first The President said that Mr. Whitehead would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future use of reruns . Otherwise , he said , the government " will explore whatever regulatory recommendations are in order , " to require more original programming . Mr. Whitehead followed up the President 's action ? in an appeal ? or warning ? to television networks . Conceding that the rerun problem is complicated , he suggested that it is not insurmountable and that consideration should be given to a solution quickly , at the start of the new TV season . A study made under the direction of Pauline Golden of the Screen Actors Guild , and submitted by STOP to the FCC , found that in one typical week there were only 74 first-run programs and 337 reruns on prime time on a single network in the Northeast ; 63 new programs and 238 reruns on another network in the Southwest ; and 110 regular programs and 297 reruns on a third network .                     