@@729612

txt The Western European nations were embroiled in deep conflict tonight on ways to end the monetary crisis created by the United States decision to end the convertibility of gold . France and West Germany both proclaimed the need for I harmony in the Common Market but were on a collision course on the eve of a meeting here tomorrow of the Council of Ministers . In Paris , the French GovernText of the French statement is printed on Page 20. ment declared that it would not float or revalue the franc . In Bonn , the West Germans reaffirmed the policy of floating the mark in effect since May . Common Market officials and monetary experts sought a compromise between the two apparently incompatible positions but the stiff and independent minded French stateIntent did not leave much room for maneuvering . The French attitude was embodied in a statement that accused the United States of breaking the monetary rules , reaffirmed France 's support for , fixed parities based on gold ( values and called for a monetary system that did not depend Ion the dollar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacation to confer with Premier Jacques Chaban-Delmas , Finance Minister Valdry Giscard d'Estaing and other top aides . The French plan to be presented tomorrow calls for a two-tiered system similar to that now operating in Belgium . One exchange market would be established for ordinary trade transactions according to , strict monetary fund rules and I would be sheltered from speculative money moves . Other markets would provide for other financial transactions with different rates that would be concerted among the six Common Market members . The desire to operate according to the rules was contrasted with the complaint about violation of the rules by the United States that ' was underlined in the French statement . While noting with some satisfaction the American desire to correct its financial situation , the French made it clear that France was not prepared to accept recovery measures that would adversely affect her own economic position . Bonn reaffirmed its policy of floating the mark after a Cabinet meeting . In Rome , the Italian Government was also critical of the United States for its trade measures but did not make any specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one measure taken by the United States , the 10 per cent import surcharge , there did exist unanimity . The six partners were hostile to it and were expected to put maximum pressure on the United States to remove it . But they were not expected to retaliate . The European Common Market Executive Authority , preparing recommendations for tomorrow 's meeting , came out against trade reprisals . In the words of External Trade Commissioner Ralf Dahrendorf , a German economics professor , these would be " just too dangerous for relations between the United States and the E.E.C . " The initials stand for European Economic Community , the Common Market 's formal name . The Common Market was also hoping to take a common stand in the currency decisions that have to be made before foreign exchange markets reopen in Europe . The commission and the E.E.C . Monetary Committee have proposed a joint float of the bloc 's currencies against the dollar . But the French minister , Mr. Giscard d ' Estaing , said tonight after a Cabinet meeting in Paris , " The franc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the six I Common Market members ? France , West Germany , Italy ; Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . The four candidates for membership  --  Britain , Ireland , Denmark and Norway ? have also been invited to send representatives to coordinate their responses with the E.E.C . ' s response . Britain is sending her Chancellor of the Exchequer , Anthony Barber . Trade reprisals could push the world into a commercial war with hazardous consequences for political as well as economic relationships . Paul A. Volcker , United States Under Secretary of the Treasury , spent the first two days of this week in Europe urging officials to respond sympathetically to measures taken by President Nixon , which , among other things , are aimed at restoring equilibrium to the ' American balance of payments . Currency Future Unknown The Common Market Commission 's position was the first indication that the Volcker mission may have met with some modest success . Mr. Dahrendorf said the commission intended to propose subsidies for Common Market industries that will be especially hard hit by the American action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States will be asked to explain its measures further at a meeting of trade ( representatives in Geneva next Tuesday . The Common Market will propose that a special study group be set up to examine the surcharge , which is technically illegal under the world 's trading rules . Britain had a temporary tariff surcharge in operation for two and a half years during the 1960 's . Though severely criticized by the trading community , it was accepted without retaliation . The Common Market Commission has figured , according to its spokesman Dr. Beniamino Olivi , that the American surcharge has the effect of canceling in one swoop all the trade liberalization measures taken by Washington since 1932 . The big question is what will happen to the Common Market currency rates . Other countries will be influenced in their own currency response by the market 's decisions : This is because of the enormous economic weight the six members wield in the world trading commie nity . The six countries represent the world 's biggest trading unit , as the French pointed out tonight . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive authority to set up a complicated double market system in their currency transactions . This represents a compromise between the oppoi ; ing French and German views . For : the currency used in foreign trade there would be a joint float against the dollar .. This means that marks , guilders , lire and French , Belgian and Luxembourg francs would move within a narrow margin .. against each other while fluctuating within a much wider range against the dollar . A second market would be set up for financial-and capital transactions . Here there would be no effort to align the Common Market currencies as they fluctuated against the dollar . Problems Are Enormous There are enormous technical problems involved in working out such a system . For ope thing , it means instituting tough exchange controls . The French believe in exchange controls , while the Germans do not . But the Germans have long advocated that the market 's currencies lock their rates together while fluctuating as a bloc against the dollar . At a Cabinet meeting in Bonn ? tonight the members decided to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A float would inevitably mean that the Common Market currencies would be more highly valued against the dollar . Under the fixed exchange rate system , central banks are obliged to buy dollars to keep ? their currencies from breaking through upper fixed limits . A float removes this obligation . The whole point of the operation is to prevent unwanted dollars from flooding Europe . In another development , Sweden , Norway , Denmark and Finland said jointly today that they would seek a common position in dealing with the monetary crisis , Reuters reported . Meeting in Stockholm The announcement was issued after a special meeting in Stockholm of the finance ministers and central bank chiefs . of the four nations . Swedish Minister of Industry P.une Johansson told a pensioners ' meeting in Sundsvall , central Sweden , today , that " Nixon should blush . What has happened in the past few days . has created an awful mess . " It has taken place for an egoistic purpose to save the U.S. economy . We have nothing against the U.S. trying to sort out its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense of other countries , " Mr. Johansson said , according to Reuters .                     