@@729385

txt The Cook County special grand jury has voted to Indict State 's Atty . Edward V. Hanrahan and several others for obstructing justice in connection with the police raid on a Black Panther apartment in December , 1969 , it was reported yesterday . The grand jury also voted to name Police Supt. James B. Conlisk Jr . as a coconspirator , but did not vote to indict him , the reports stated . THE TRIBUNE , tho aware for two days of reports speculating on the grand jury 's actions , did not plan to publish any stories on these alleged activities until they were disclosed in court . However , the reports of jury action were printed in Sunday editions of Chicago newspapers , three . of them neighborhood papers . Sources have told THE TRIBUNE that the special grand jury voted true bills or recommended indictments for as many as nine persons Thursday , including other high police officials and two assistant state 's attorneys . Other Names Not Known It was not known whether the 14 state 's attorney 's policemen who conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1969 , were named in the true bills , according to reports . Fred Hampton , 21 , and Mark Clark , 22 , were killed in the raid . However , sources pointed out that the grand jury 's actions in voting indictments are subject to change since the grand jury is still sitting , and its decisions have not been returned before a judge . There have been reports that when the indictments were presented to Judge Joseph Power last week , he refused to sign them and ordered the jury to hear additional witnesses , including Hanrahan , who had turned down an earlier invitation to testify . The true bills allegedly voted by the special grand jury apparently deal ' with the activities of the persons named after the raid and not with the raid itself . It was reported that the charges of the special grand jury deal with possible tampering with evidence and testimony presented at previous investigations of the controversial Panther raid . Fourth Investigating Body The present special grand jury is the fourth official body to conduct an investigation of the raid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ended on Jan. 21 , 1970 , with a finding that the deaths of Hampton and Clark were " justifiable homiaide . " The jury , composed of three blacks and three whites , exonerated state 's attorney 's police involved in the raid . Its findings , the jury said , were " based solely and exclusively on the evidence presented to this inquisition , " The second official probe of the raid was held by a county grand jury , which on Jan. 30 , 1970 , indicted all seven survivors of the dawn raid on charges of attempted murder and other counts . The charges against the survivors were dropped by Hanrahan on May 8 , 1970 , who said that the indictments were based in part on erroneous ballistics evidence introduced before the county grand jury . Precedes Federal Report Hanrahan 's announcements that the charges were being dropped came seven days before a federal grand jury , the third body to investigate the raid , released its 243-page report that was highly critical of the state 's attorney 's office , the Police Department 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the entire matter . The day before the federal grand jury released its report , Conlisk announced the demotions of Capt . Harry Ervanian , who was director of the police internal investigations division , which found " no apparent misconduct or improprieties by any of the officers " in the raid ; Capt . John Mulchrone , who had jurisdiction in the police Inquiry Into the raid ; and Capt . David J. Purtell , director of the police crime laboratory . The raid on the Black Panther Party headquarters at 2337 W. Monroe St. began at 4:40 a. m. on Dec. 4 , 1989 , and lasted for 12 minutes . Hundreds of shots were fired and when it was over , Hampton and Clark were dead , four of the other seven persons in the apartment were wounded and two police officers had suffered minor injuries . Sears Named Prosecutor The special grand jury investigation of the - raid began last June , when Bamabas F. Sears was named special prosecutor after several organizations , including the National Association for the Advance . meat of Colored People , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requested appointment of a special prosecutor . Judge Power , when contacted yesterday , refused to talk about the reports of the true bills and said , " Any comment I make will be made in court . " Sears also declined to comment . Hanrahan and Conlisk could not be reached for comment . The grand jury is scheduled to reconvene at 1:30 p. m. tomorrow .                     