@@731815

txt With Arab public opinion in suspense about the content of current Arab-Israeli negotiations , the Egyptian leadership has lashed out against some Arab newspaper insinuations that Egypt plans to sell out its allies ? Syria and the Palestinians ? for unilateral Egyptian gains . Egyptian ire focuses on the Lebanese press ? often described as the Arab world 's opposition press because of the freedom to publish in Beirut . Under President Sadat 's more liberal information policies , foreign newspapers ? including Lebanese papers in Arabic ? are generally available now to readers in Egypt , although occasional issues are still banned . Egyptian officials are concerned to counteract the impact of critical articles both on domestic opinion and on attitudes in other Arab countries . Egyptian People 's Assembly Speaker Sayed Marei , second to Mr. Sadat in official precedence here , has made several speeches attacking the Lebanese press for articles suggesting a strain has arisen between Cairo and Damascus over their attitudes toward U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger 's mission . Continuing to defend Dr. Kissinger , Egyptian papers claimed Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel until a new Arab-Israeli accord is reached . The robustly optimistic Egyptian line , faithfully reflected in Cairo newspapers , is that a second-stage disengagement is a near certainty during Dr. Kissinger 's shuttle in March and that it will provide substantial benefits for both Egypt and Syria . In private conversations , Egyptian sources say Syria can expect to recover another ribbon of territory along the entire length of the Golan front , including three hills which dominate the shattered regional capital , Quneitra . The radical Arab criticism of Egypt suggests that Mr. Sadat is desperately trying to make a deal through Dr. Kissinger to regain more of Sinai at almost any price . This analysis hints that Syria and the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) might realign themselves with the Arab hard-liners , who reject any attempt to negotiate with Israel . Strong indications challenge this view of Syria , where President Assad is in fact attempting to bolster the authority of Syrian moderates , notably inside the Baath t Arab Socialist ) Party leadership . The Palestinian issue , considerably more complex , appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinian leaders have criticized the Egyptian call for internationalization of Jerusalem . The PLO wants Arab Jerusalem to be included in an eventual Palestinian state , But PLO media have carefully steered clear of any open clash with Egypt . Mr , Sailat has invited PLO chairman Yasser Arafat to Cairo for urgent consultations . Egyptian officials hope the PLO will agree to work with King Hussein , as their best chance of eventually obtaining some territory on the ' West Bank of the Jordan River .                     