@@732241

txt A married woman must now get her husband 's consent before she can get an abortion in Illinois under a new law enacted Wednesday when the Illinois Senate overrode Gov . Walker 's veto of the measure . Antiabortion forces cheered Irani the gallery when senators gave the bill the 36 votes required for the override . Fifteen senators opposed the override . The new law also applies to unmarried girls under 18 who must get the consent of their parents . The law does not affect unmarried adult women seek . ing an abortion . Supporters of the measure said it will still permit abortions when necessary , but will assure the right to life of both the mother and the unborn child , THE LAW requires the consent of the husband or parent or guardian along with that of the pregnant woman unless a physician certifies that an abortion is necessary to save the mother 's life . " Anything that deprives a father to speak for the life of his child or a parent to supervise his children totally should be eliminated , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Life . " Every woman has a right to her own body , but not a right to make decisions by herself for another tivling body . " Maureen Rogman , state coordinator for the National Organization for Women NOW , however , predicted a " very difficult time for women wanting abortions in " TIIERE WILL BE no way out except the ' back alley butchers ' for women trapped in a marriage in which the husband will not give his consent , " she said . " NOW is not necessarily prosbortion , but until there is decent sex education and safe birth control methods , abortion Is going to be a reality . " Foes of the bill charged that it is unconstitutional and said that if . it is voided by the courts Illinois will have no abortion law on the books . Sen. Robert Egen D. , Chicago , Senate sponsor , said the bill was drafted carefully so previous state laws will be in effect if any part of the new law is held Invalid . WALKER had vetoed the bill sponsored by Rep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It could not withstand a constitutional test . Besides the consent provision , the new law reqWres that a doctor explain to a pregnant woman the physical competen ? cy of the fetus , including its ability to function as a human being , before an abortion is performed .                     