@@730527

txt Resistance of South Korea 's abrupt repression of freedoms is brave , sparse , and futile . It includes silence by a few well-known intellectuals , chanting of anti-government slogans by high-school students , and furtive grumbling by the man in the street , It runs the risk of arrest and or beating by South Korea 's all-powerful Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) . A few do try to resist the heavy-handed censorship and coercion of what is really a coup by a strong-man government against representative institutions , Donga llbo , Korea 's leading daily with a circulation of 600,000 and a history of closures and jailings as a nationalist paper during the Japanese occupation ? did not endorse martial law in its initial editorial following President Park 's declaration of martial law Oct. 17 . Less obviously , it waffled on its support of the Oct. 27 Constitution which gave total power to the President . For a newspaper whose doors now are guarded by paratroopers with bayoneted M-16 's , this showed great daring . Several leading commentators likewise have not praised the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join in the drumfire of adulation for it . A number of well-known names - including Hong Jong In , Korea 's Walter Lippmann - have been conspicuously absent from the pages of newspapers in the weeks since martial law was declared . // *Few resist new South Korea restrictions // In the high schools , students have been chanting slogans and distributing leaflets objecting to the new suppression . According to scattered reports from students and other sources , these have included at least four schools , with the ringleader being Kyunggi High School , Korea 's Eton . There have been no known incidents involving university students . The closing of universities that accompanied martial law  --  and the occupation of campuses by troops ? has prevented those students from gathering . As for the Seoul general public , one of the surprising things to a visitor is the widespread revulsion that President Park 's as sumption of authoritarian rule has aroused . This antipathy is voiced not only by the intelligentsia , who are in chronic conflict with the government , but also by a wide strata of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new dissidents now range from little shopkeepers who are forced to put hortatory slogans on their walls to- numerous government bureaucrats who still dare to talk to trusted friends . Typical comments heard by this reporter included exclamations that Mr. Park is worse than Syngman Rhee ( the strong-man president who was overthrown in student demonstrations in 1960 ) and rhetorical questions asking what the difference now is between the North and the South . Those who demur receive the penalty . Three Donga Ilbo editors were held overnight by the Korean CIA and beaten , according to one report . In another report they were simply intimidated by being held , but were not beaten . ( In the past , this was the more usual treatment of anyone of editorial rank ; rough handling was reserved for lower ranks of reporters . ) It is impossible to verify which report is true . When asked over a tapped telephone for an opportunity to meet him , Donga Ilbo 's publisher , Kim Sang Man declined , saying this was not a good time to talk , and he hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one reliable source reported seeing Cho Yun Ha , a minor opposition national assemblyman who previously had been in good health , in bad physical condition in a Seoul hospital . The source could not approach Mr. Cho , but believed that he probably was beaten by the Korean CIA . Opposition leaders generally are under a conspicuous surveillance that amounts to house arrest . Two well-known figures also are reported by reliable sources to be under full house arrest : Roman Catholic Bishop Chi Hak Soon of Wonju , and Hahm Seok Hun , a prominent Quaker and patriot , famous for his refusal to teach in North Korea as the Russians ordered in the 1940 's . As for the high schools , even students of Kyunggi have been arrested , according to reliable sources . One student source further reported hearing outsiders , presumably Korean CIA agents , beating up teachers at the high school in an attempt to find out which students had been distributing leaflets . No information was available about the physical treatment of the arrested students . Sentences meted to 18 As far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a total of at least 18 publicized courts martial , with sentences of two to five years , for " spreading rumors , " criticizing government policy , and profaning the chief executive . Those convicted have included merchants , a farmer , a housewife , and workers . Pointedly , the current campaign goes beyond the secret-police coercion of the past , in that people have been sentenced not only for statements in public shops , but also for statements made in the presumed privacy of their own homes . Despite the public 's widespread unhappiness with the government coup , observers do not believe any organized resistance will develop . There are no known cleavages in President Park 's power structure that might provide a channel for resistance . Furthermore , the society at large is too honeycombed with Korean CIA informers ? and too impregnated with fear ? for any spontaneous movement to develop .                     