@@733389

txt Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin and his Cabinet are face-to-face with something they have never had to grapple with before ? a concrete peace offer from an Arab leader , in the person of Egyptian President Sadat . It is something they have yearned for ever since the establishment of Israel three decades ago . But now that it has come so suddenly and unexpectedly , they find themselves agonizing . Since a genuine possibility of negotiating peace with the Arabs has never arisen before ? no Arab leader before President Sadat ever dared even to talk to Israelis ? Israeli politicians could till now only deal with hypothetical or theoretical peace options . Former Prime Minister Golda Meir used to call it " playing chess with yourself . " But the present Prime Minister , Mr. Begin , can no longer continue that relatively easy luxury . He finds himself across the chessboard. in an amiable albeit risky atmosphere , from a real , live , fellow master player from the Arab side : Mr. Sadat . The moves that Mr. Begin is being called upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening move in going to Jerusalem ? touch two issues central to Israel 's long-term security and existence . These are ( 1 ) the role of the Palestinians in a peace settlement ; and ( 2 ) the future status of the territory on the West Bank of the Jordan occupied by Israel since the six-day war of 1967 . At the top of President Sadat 's five points for peace spelled out before the Israeli Knesset this week were " termination of Israeli occupation of Arab lands seized in 1967 " and " recognizing the basic rights of the Palestinian people and their right to self-determination , including the right to establish their own state . " How to respond on these points was the central topic at this week 's extraordinary Cabinet gathering and will be at next week 's meeting of executives of the opposition Labor Party , now led by Shimon Peres Some influential Israeli voices are advocating that the Labor Party join the Begin-led coalition to exercise a moderating influence on the Prime Minister 's hitherto unbending stand against territorial compromise on the Jordanian West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being Biblical Judea and Samaria , is Israel 's by right in the light of Scriptural promise // From page 1 Begin 's move in Mideast chess game The parties in Mr Begin 's coalition are not unanimous on what to do about the %Vest Bank ? although there is Cabinet consensus to reject the establishment of a separate Palestinian state . Within the government itself , several views are represented . Mr. Begin simply wants to keep the West Bank . Defense Minister Ezer Weizman is less fervent and more flexible than Mr. Begin : he is mainly interested in suitable defense arrangements regarding the territory . Deputy Prime Minister Yigael Yadin favors a compromise with neighboring states on all occupied territories , including the West Bank . Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan proposes a " functional arrangement " whereby Jordan would be responsible for the civilian administration while the Israelis would maintain a military presence . Others thinking in similar terms call for a solution involving some Israeli-Jordanian " condominium . " If the Labor Party joined the coalition , the Allon plan would probably be revived , Former Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereby Israel would maintain defense positions dominating the Jordan Valley but would withdraw from the rest of the territory , which might thereafter reestablish a political relationship with the Kingdom of Jordan . The process of decisiomnaking , often not easy in multiparty democracies , may prove lengthy in Israel on this crucial question . But everyone here seems to agree ? government and opposition ? that the momentum generated by the Sadat-Begin talks should be kept up . As to what form this should take , no official information had been made public at this writing .                     