@@728585

txt The Soviet Union and the United States are maneuvering warily with respect to each other , in the atmosphere of crisis following the American entry into Cambodia . So dangerous and potentially disastrous would be a collapse of the " era of negotiation " which is struggling to be born , that both sides have so far avoided saying or doing anything drastic affecting the other , as this is written . The continuation and outlook of the Vienna arms-control talks with the Soviet Union , of course , hang in the balance . The United States , for its part , suddenly canceled the briefly enlarged bombing of supply dumps in North Vietnam , which was part of the new effort to put military pressure on the Hanoi government , just as Soviet Premier Alexei N. Kosygin from Moscow was denouncing it as " barbarous . " Signal attempted The U.S. also sought to signal to Moscow that its entry into ' Cambodia was a temporary raid-and would not halt the American troop withdrawals from Vietnam . A high White House offIcial , who may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following public statement earlier , while Moscow was still trying to decide how to react . This was a direct met-sage to the Soviet Union and may also have been sent privately to the Soviet leaders : - We would think that the Soviet Government should weigh very carefully its overall relationship to the U.S. against whatever propaganda advantage might be gained over what is a technical incursion into Cambodia . // * U. S. and Soviets tread cautiously  --  arms talks in balance // We believe that it undoubtedly will weigh this carefully . We also believe it will decide that President Nixon 's offer of an era of negotiations outweighs other factors , such as the developments in Cambodia . Question asked In return , Premier Kosygin refrained from anything conclusive , such as withdrawing the Soviet delegation from the Vienna talks . Instead , he asked a question which carried the most serious implications but did not include an action : " What , " he asked , " is the value of international agreements in which the United States takes part , or intends to take part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so unceremoniously . Although he did not go beyond raising a question , the Soviet Premier did touch the most sensitive nerve in the half-started relationship between the two superpowers , namely their tentative willingness to talk about nuclear-arms control . Meanwhile , President Nixon 's military planning for Southeast Asia goes well beyond his large-scale raid into Cambodia to destroy the southern supply dumps of the North Vietnamese . He is known to have worked out detailed contingency plans to deal with any immediate counterattack by the other side . Much more important , however , in the past few days he has reviewed the specific military actions that he would take if Hanoi attempted to open an offensive while American troops continued to be withdrawn from South Vietnam . These options include the renewed bombing of North Vietnam which Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird says he will recommend if an enemy offensive makes it necessary . The President has repeatedly warned the North Vietnamese Government against such an offensive and said he would respond with " strong action . " Warnings noted His warnings do not appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion or by the collective leadership of the successor government to Ho Chi Minh . Most everyone appears to have been taken by surprise when the American President did what he said he would do ? backed up his general warnings by sending ground troops into Cambodia . The public view of the President 's willing- ness to act now has to be reappraised in the light of what he has done . Equally important , the President expects that the government in Hanoi now will pay more attention to what he says and does . He wishes and intends to be taken seriously , and for this purpose Mr. Nixon puts his emphasis on acts rather than words . It remains to be seen whether Mr. Nixon thinks he can compel Hanoi to negotiate by increasing military pressure in this manner . Some news sources in the administration are saying this is another effort to force a settlement on the North Vietnamese . It may well be . However , the White House planners know that the Hanoi government is more likely , with backing from both Moscow and Peking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief Nixon motive may be to maneuver for what he hopes will be an improved military position as American troops are drawn down by the slow , steady withdrawals . White House strategy ? The United States now is potentially committed to retain substantial amounts of American troops in Southeast Asia for three years , by the President 's decision of two weeks ago not to increase the present slow rate of withdrawal . Beyond that , he is prepared to leave something like 60,000 military personnel in South Vietnam for an unspecified time . Throughout this period of time , unless Mr. Nixon is defeated at the polls in 1972 , his warning to Hanoi against jeopardizing the " security of American troops " in Vietnam will remain valid . The White House is confident that now it will have to be taken more seriously . The details of the President 's contingency planning for supporting his warnings are not known . But the general outline is visible . The White House thinking might go something like this , based on the indicators available : The North Vietnamese military position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take advantage of the change of government in Cambodia . The White House does not accept the opinion that Hanoi is merely pulling back for political reasons , waiting until the Americans have left in order to strike again . Supply line cut It is believed that Hanoi switched from general offensive to a period of quiet with what are called " occasional highpoints " of limited attacks only because it was unable to do more . When a conservative military regime took control in Cambodia in March , Hanoi was faced with the fact that its best supply line in the south ? through the CambOdian port of Sihanoukville and from the rice fields of Cambodia ? had been cut . For six months now , according to the White House , all supplies have had to be brought by the more difficult and dangerous route down the Ho Chi Minh Trail . So Hanoi took two actions . One was to move westward slowly , possibly in an effort to capture control of the Cambodian capital city and government . The other was an attempt to establish a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Cambodian seacoast , so that a new supply line by sea could be opened up . These actions could be successful only if the U.S. did not intervene with ground troops . So President Nixon decided that the risks of not intervening were greater than the risks of responding . For from here on , if Hanoi decides to break through the demilitarized zone in the north , the President is prepared to do likewise . The use of ground troops for large- and small-scale raids into North Vietnam , as well as the use of air action , can not now be ruled out . Reinforcement seen If Hanoi should move to take control of the Laotian Government and capital city , similar ground action could reinforce the present air action in the area of the Ho Chi Minh Trail . But barring a move to seize all of Laos , ground action in this region is not considered as productive as the raids against the supply areas at the southern end of the trail , where they now are being destroyed . Finally , the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strikes on the supply dumps to rally the independent countries of Southeast Asia to take defensive action of their own . The forthcoming meeting of key countries in Indonesia this month will give them an opportunity and favorable circumstances in which to organize the sort of regional defense forces that President Nixon advocated in his " Guam doctrine . " These are the essentials of forward planning by the White House , which the President is prepared to have judged by the success that they attain .                     