@@731856

txt REBEL CAMBODIAN gunners slammed more than 30 rockets and artillery rounds into Pochentong Airport Friday as intense fighting was reported in several areas within five miles of the capital of Cambodia , Phnom Penh . An Air Cambodia commercial flight from Saigon landed safely in the afternoon and took off with a full load of refugees , some wearing helmets and flak jackets . A French plane was expected from Bangkok to fly French and West European , , nationals out of Phnom Penh fttarday . Australia is closing its embassy in Phnom Penh Satur day and the French embassy has begun an airlift to evacuate Europeans , diplomatic sources reported . Other countries are expected to follow Australia 's action . IN SOUTH VIET Nam , the Viet Cong said Saturday they have taken complete control of the strategic Central Highlands provincial capital of Ban Me Thout . Col. Yo Dong Giang , deputy head of the Cong delegation in South Viet Nam , said planes have been carrying out heavy bombing and strafing raids on the city . Thousands of government troops have been captured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SAID Saigon is still sending more troops into the area around the city . The Saigon government command , however , said its troops were still holding on in Ban Me Thuot . The Saigon spokesman said there is still some fighting inside the city , altho reliable reports said Friday that streets battered by four days of fighting are now strangely quiet . Those reports said the battle for the town has switched to the surrounding countryside . South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu was quoted Friday as saying the Communists must be cleared out of the city " at all costs . " A U.S. EMBASSY spokesman said radio contact had not been regained with nine Americans trapped in Ban Me Thuot since the attack began . U. S.-chartered ? DC-3 cargo jets flying from Saigon made 11 trips into the battered Cambodian airport , carrying 972 tons of rice and 46 tons of kerosene fuel . In Washington , administration sources said President Ford hopes to win congressional approval for emergency military aid to Cambodia despite recent setbacks on Capitol Hill . The sources said the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change two or three crucial votes on the House Foreign Affairs Committee . There was no immediate word on the American nationals still believed holed up in a compound inside Ban Me Thuot in South Viet Nam .                     