@@731713

txt Letters to the Editor CLIFFORD FORSTERWALTER HOFFMANNDAVID CIVVALLIONEL J. LEITNERSAUL BLOCHBARRY P. 36 Letters to the Editor The New U.N. : Questions of Human Freedom and Survival pg . To the Editor : As a long-time collaborator of Roger Baldwin as staff counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union and counsel of the International League for the Rights of Man , I feel compelled to take issue with his letter of Dec. 28 , finding solace in the control exercised by the " new majority " over United Nations policies . This plea for support of the United Nations is completely untenable and does no justice to an old civil libertarian . The United Nations was not set up to establish a world government to which nondemocratic governments would belong for the purpose of keeping universal peace . The United Nations organization was based ideologically upon the Atlantic Charter , which President Roosevelt , one of its founders , affirmed included the Four Freedoms ? " freedom of speech , freedom of religion , freedom from want , and freedom from fear . " It is simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an organization dominated by a majority of states which practice no form of democracy and oppose any such model government . Even the A.C.L.U. recognizes that membership of Communists and fascists on its board of directors or staff is incompatible with establishment and protection of freedom . Mr. Baldwin , of all people , knows the language of the introduction to the Charter of the United Nations and the purpose and principles enunciated in its first chapter and first article . Rather than praise the development of control of the United Nations by nondemocratic and indeed anti-democratic nations , Mr. Baldwin would do better to seek creation of machinery at that organization to insure that freedom will not perish from this earth . Whether this is feasible is a matter to challenee even Mr. Baldwin 's expertise . CLIFFORD FORSTER New York , Dec. 31 , 1974 ? To the Editor : I wish to commend Roger Baldwin for his fine letter on the United Nations . Rather than wringing our hands over certain votes in the General Assembly , we should seek to correct the obvious weaknesses of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a U.N . Charter Review Conference . At such a conference we should then push for the abolition of the veto , which has so often in the past obstructed constructive action ; a more equitable voting system in the General Assembly in place of the present one nation , one vote system ; specific mediation and arbitration procedures ; compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice over disputes concerning international agreements ; some kind of independent revenue-raising power so the U.N . will not have to rely on member contributions to sustain its peacekeeping activities ; a permanent U.N . Peacekeeping Force , and finally , the authority to supervise and enforce a gradual step-by-step universal ( not unilateral ) disarmament . In this way , we can change the United Nations from a debating society into an institution that will have the capacity to bring about law , order and justice on the world level . Whether that institution will work will depend upon our collective commitment to it . But we will at least have given humanity a chance for survival , and the opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. , Dec. 31 , 1974 ? To the Editor : Roger N. Baldwin commends the recognition of the P.L.O . by the U.N . General Assembly and continues ; " It was the U.N . itself that created a Palestinian state which the Arabs themselves blocked by their war on Israel . " The Jordanian newspaper Falastin stated on Feb. 19 , 1949 : " The Arab States encouraged the Palestine Arabs to leave their homes temporarily in order to be out of the way of the Arab invasion armies . " There are , on the record , other similar Arab statements made at that time . The Palestinian Arabs , having created a situation of their own choosing , should not delude us by now posturing before the world as innocent victims asking for justice . DAVID CIVVAL Great Neck , L. 1 . , Dec. 29 , 1974 How to Sell More Cars : Cut Wages and Prices To the Editor : The automotive industry is in the midst of a severe depression . Projected unemployment in the industry is estimated at 25 per cent to 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable extent , this is due to the very large price increases which have been levied on the 1975 model cars . This has been due to a combination of factors , including added pollution abatement controls , wage increases and other inflationary costs . It would be in the self-interest of the auto workers and the auto companies expeditiously to negotiate a joint approach to the problem . The auto workers should agree to a 10 per cent reduction in wages and the automotive companies should agree to reduce prices by 10 per cent . The resultant price reduction of $400 to $500 per car should result in expanded sales and employment . This would also have a downward effect on the cost-of-living index and would help curtail inflationary pressures elsewhere in the economy . LIONEL J. LEITNER Convent Station , N. J. , Dec. 30 , 1974 Realty : Lost Tax Dollars To the Editor : In view of the very urgent need for huge additional tax dollars , is n't it about time that New York City and the other major cities of the state began to prepare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ add to their real estate tax rolls all currently exempt income-producing properties ? Any such properties that are only partially occupied by their To the Editor : Profs . Z. Brzezinsici , R. C. Cohen , W. E. Griffin and S. Hoffman deserve wide support for their protest of the repressive measures against the eight professors at the University of Belgrade ( letter Dec. 26 ) . Yet the context within which they couched their protest strikes me as being damaging to the human rights they wish to defend . By sugar-coating their protest with extraneous political judgments , the four professors have seriously compromised their own cause . Particularly damaging is their invoking the political distinction " that these Marxist philosophers are no ethnic nationalists " but " new leftists . " If the most basic human right to express one 's views is made dependent upon such discriminatory political judgments , then a one-party regime can arbitrarily deny this right as politically harmful . Only a few days earlier , In a letter to The Times ( Dec. 21 ) replying to an editorial on suppression of the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Embassy in Washington stated this Government-grant doctrine of human rights when he said : " In regard to the actions the Government of Peru has been compelled to take against certain periodicals and journalists , it must be asserted that the fundamental duty of a revolution consecrated to benefit the majority exempt owners should be taxed on a pro-rata basis that is determined by the amount of income-producing space of each such building or parcel of land . It would appear that the time is now ripe to change from an eighteenthcentury idea to a twentieth-century reality . SAUL BLOCH Brooklyn , Dec. 31 , 1974 Gold : After the Non-Rush To the Editor : In response to this week 's non-gold rush , I find myself faced with one of two contradictory conclusions . Either the average American has infinitely more confidence in the dollar than our leaders anticipated , or the effects of inflation have turned his speculative dollars to dust . BARRY PARKER Cazenovia , N. Y. , Jan. 3 , 1975 A Violation for Some To the Editor : This morning , as I was sitting on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is now a violation of the New York City Noise Code to play a radio or recording device on public transportation facilities . As I was reading the advertisement I had the pleasure of hearing a prerecorded message explaining the benefits of riding the subway on Sunday . It was delivered over the station 's newly installed speaker system , at a decibel rating rarely used on this earth . The message must have been considered important because it was repeated several hundred times . JOSEPH BRENNAN Brooklyn , Jan. 3 , 1975 of the people is to defend itself . Therefore , the Government can not accept subversive actions by an unrestrained press . " Freedom of the press no longer exists in Yugoslavia . But substitute the word " unrestrained universities " for " an unrestrained press " in the Peruvian statement , and you have the case against the eight Belgrade professors ( and others elsewhere in the country ) . The four professors missed an Important opportunity to reassert the principle that there is no rational or ethical basis for persecuting or prosecuting mere verbal expressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is particularly pertinent in the case of one-party states , including Yugoslavia , where it is already very difficult to have officially undesirable thoughts published at all . Having made the necessary point for the independence of human rights from political discrimination , I would like to conclude with a political judgment of my own . The worst political advice concerning multinational Yugoslavia is to encourage its reversion to centralism . It will ruin it . CYRIL A. ZEBOT Washington , Dec. 26 , 1974 The writer , a professor of economics at Georgetown University , has long studied postwar developments in Yugoslavia and written about them . Small Talk in the Cockpit To the Editor : Your Dec. 25 editorial " Find the Airport " gives a very false interpretation of a simple statement as well as other faulty conclusions . " Find the Airport " is a very common remark made by many pilots as they near an airport and is only intended as a rather dry humor and not a statement that they are lost . There are many other common phrases , such as , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exple , tive deleted ) off the ground , " or , " Turn to the page that tells how to land this thing . " Such remarks and other small talk help relieve tension and probably contribute much more to safety than absolute silence would . Of course , there are times when silence is the rule . I do not feel that another warning system would help . We already have so many different warning bells , horns , beepers , crickets , whistles , chimes , stick shakers and combinations of these that one more would only add to the confusion . In regard to the assorted small talk referred to on the Eastern Airlines plane , it should also be made known that the crew answered every radio call promptly , indicating that they were at all times attuned to the necessities of flight . In regard to the Turkish Airlines DC-10 , you are entirely correct . A known , extremely serious deficiency existed on the model and yet it appears that the F.A.A. failed to require immediate remedial action as a result of pressure from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Three hundred and forty-six per ; sons died because of this inaction , but the people who made it possible ( and even probable ) were not punished in any way . Contrast this with what happens when a pilot makes a serious mistake . You know the answer : He is dead . EUGENE W. GARGES Jr . Manhasset , L. I. , Dec. 28 , 1974 The writer is an Eastern Airlines pilot . The Panhandler on the Bus To the Editor : A couple of hours after midnight one morning , a man approached a lady friend of mine and myself on a sparsely filled First Avenue bus and aggressively asked each of us for 50 cents or $1 for something to eat . After his second approach , we moved toward the front of the bus . When the man continued to harass new passengers who sat in the back , I announced to the driver that the man was asking people for money . " That 's a problem between them and him , " the driver said . " Is he pointing a gun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he ? " I realized later that the driver 's refusal to take action could have been his crude way of coping with the dilemma faced by every bus driver . Untrained and unequipped to do police work , drivers are expected to stay with and rule over a vehicle that is sealed off from outside sources of help . Buses need quick , quiet communication with the outside . They should be equipped with an automatic radio signal and a set of outside alarm lights to alert police patrols when help is needed . THOMAS A.ZCAFFREY New York , Dec. 22 , 1974 Yugoslavia : The Flawed Protest                     