@@734070

txt Letters ELI B. SILVERMANRICHARD GLEHANFRANK CHURCHGEORGE F. MARKHAMDEBORAH FINNFRANK pg . A16 Letters Flawed Argument for Cutting City Services To the Editor : In a recent Op ? Ed article , Edward Costikyan offers what appears to be a compelling argument for cutting New York City 's services . The prescription is simple and seductive : Recognize that the city 's population figures are bloated and , pool , the rationale for sustaining current service levels disappears . Does population shrinkage necessarily imply shrunken services ? Population figures are doubtful . The census 's undercounting of minority population is a long-acknowledged problem . Offhand dismissal of illegal alien " estimates " discounts the very real possibility that this service-consuming group has increased . And census figures do not take into account a city 's " peak population , " when nonresidents are making the greatest demands upon services during peak working and entertainment hours . Other evidence offered as " compelling " signs of artificial population To the Editor : Ah , Francis Gabreski , we do not love you ! We do not love the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expectation the new day brings . We do not love you for the daily delays which exacerbate our mental and physical weariness in the late afternoon . We do not ? love you for providing heated cars in summer and bone-chilling air-conditioning in the winter . We do not love you for trite and overused excuses : broken-down Amtrak trains in the tunnels , switch problems , shortages of equipment , larger-than-normal commuter loads , late train crews , delays at Jamaica and snowflakes . We do not love you for continuing your incessant public relations campaign promising improvements in equip ment , on-time records and better preparedness for weather emergencies . We probably also do n't love you because of the sad realization that you lust ca n't run a railroad . Whatever happened to the basic principles of sound management ? Are the words planning , organizing , directing and controlling unfamiliar to inflation is no more convincing . The Finance Department recently predicted a $650 million increase in the value of the city 's taxable real estate for 1979 , reversing a four-year decline which Costikyan cites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one would conclude that population has increased and city services require expansion . Fluctuations , however , in assessed real estate values do not necessarily indicate population shifts . Proof has been replaced by an idiosyncratic reading of social indicators . Advocacy of the bloated-population argument may even be Counterproductive to reductions in city expenses . Since population is a major factor in calculating the city 's share of revenuesharing and other Federal and state aid , any reduction in outside support may place further demands on the city 's already limited resources . More importantly , the city 's population has become increasingly cornyou ? Is it too much to ask that this concept , which makes the successful companies successful , be applied to your railroad ? Would it be unreasonable for you to develop a plan to improve the railroad . and publish this plan so that we , the commuters , know what to expect and by what date you plan to accoinplish it ? Would it be presumptuous to suggest further that you mobilize your management team to carry out your plan effectively ? And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been implemented there will be more than passing interest in maintaining the new level of efficiency ? It is interesting to watch the cynical smiles that cross each commuter 's face as the morning announcement sounds the trouble for the day . If highquality performance were as regular as . these announcements , it would be truly a cause for celebration . It may seem unfair and less than objective to criticize the L.I.R.R. without including comments on its positive aspects , but the fact is there lust are no bright spots . RICHARD GLEHAI ' . New York , Feb. 27 , 197 ' , posed of the poor and minorities . As the Mayor recently pointed out , they consume a greater proportion of services than do middle- and upper-income groups . One only has to look at the utilization of the city 's education , hospital , criminal justice and social welfare systems . Finally , there are added costs in providing services to the disadvantaged . Students ill-prepared for school , for example , often require more costly remedial education in addition to the traditional courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseers must critically assess priorities and make necessary budget cuts is one thing . To offer , however , an oversimplified construction of population trends as sufficient ground for slashing critical services requires a " leap of faith " and a sacrifice of reason . ELI B. SILVEFtMAN Associate Dean of Faculty John Jay College of Criminal Justice New York , March 6 , 1979 The Importance Of U.S. Sugar To the Editor : Your Feb. 26 editorial concerning U.S. sugar policy seriously misleads your readers on the issues involved . It is ironic that the editorial begins by stating that the issue is complex.and winds up by offering the simplistic solution that we should become totally dependent on imports . About 85 percent of the sugar grown in the world is produced under special arrangements involving guaranteed profits and governmental support . The remaining volume constitutes the world market that The New York Times advocates our consumers rely upon . That market historically fluctuates wildly in price . Are our memories so short that we have forgotten that the world price of sugar shot up to about 70 cents per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mitigated for United States consumers because we have a domestic industry that can produce sugar for far less than that . We already spend over $1 billion per year importing sugar to supply half our needs . Why further add to our trade deficit and increase the erosion of the value of the dollar by becorning dependent on foreign sugar , as we now are on foreign oil and coffee ? If we phase out our production , as your editorial advocated , consumers can only look forward to repetition of the 1974 price spiral in the world sugar market . Meanwhile , an industry that employs 100,000 of our people and adds about ? 13 billion annually to our domestic economy would be lost . ( eILRCH United States Senator from Idaho Washington . March 5 , 197g To L.I.R.R. 's Chief Without Love Unfair Social Security Macrocosmic ' No Exit ' Lifesavers To the Editor : The Times is right in calling for amendments to the Social Security law to eliminate sex discrimination ( editorial March 1 ) . But in the effort to create a fairer system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of requiring identical contributions from white workers and from such groups as blacks , MexicanAmericans and American Indians ? Life expectancy of white males is about 68 , as against 60 for black men , 57 for Mexican-Americans and 4.4 for American Indians . Obviously , a far higher percentage of these groups than of whites never reach an age when they can receive benefits they supposedly have been paying for . GEORGE F. MARKItAM Northampton , Mass. , March 2 , 1979 Co the Editor : In his play " No Exit , - Jean-Paul Sartre gave us his vision of hell : three people , locked in a room for eternity , constantly shifting alliances : any two against the third ? forever . How applicable this model is to our current world - situation : China , Russia , America , each with its own possessions ( or satellites or friendly coun ! ries ) , aIly ; rig , breakineeo again . This revolving , engulfing enmity is fruitless and destructive . Yet it is encouraged by our governments and by our newspapers . Can we not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a better way ? Is there truly no exit ? DI . SoRAH FINN New York , March 2 , 1979 To the Editor : In the aftermath of the tragic automobile accident which took the life of my son 's two friends and seriously injured Kyle , his mother and I would like to express our deepest appreciation to the Palisades Parkway police , the ambulance unit which responded and the neurological and medical teams of the Englewood Hospital . It should be comforting for all of us hat there was no special treatment for my son , who was not identified until after the incredible performances by those involved had saved his life . He is now responding to treatment at New York Hospital . Our deepest sympathies are with the families of Kyle 's friends , Larry Mascetti and John Buckingham FRANK GIFFORD New York , March 8 , 1979 Occidental , Its Financings and a ' Scandalous Accusation To the Editor : Your Feb. 13 news article " How Is Occidental Run ? " contains several inaccuracies , some of which I note have been called to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Columbia Law School and special counsel to the special committee established by Occidental 's board of directors ; by Albert H. Gordon , chairman of Kidder Peabody , our lead investment bankers , and by Arthur Krim , chairman of the board of trustees of Columbia University and a director of Occidental . While I understand that your reporter , Judith Miller , spent several weeks getting material from sources in which you may have placed confidence , I believe the reputation and high standing of the above-mentioned individuals deserve your attention . The allegation , attributed to a former Occidental executive and an unidentified security analyst , that Occidental was forced to turn to European markets and other sources of financing to raise capital is untrue . During the pact eight years , Occidental had six public financings in the United States , as many as we wished in that market , given the other alternatives available to us , including private financing , both domestic and foreign . We did a $100 million straight industrial preferred issue in 1977 , the largest such publicly underwritten issue in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The managing underwriters , as well as the others . were among the most prominent in the world . The fact that we had more private and foreign issues was of our own choosing because terms and conditions for such financings were more favorable . As far as Occidental 's standing on wall Street is concerned , I would like to refer you to recent reports by Paine Webber Jackson &; Curtis Inc. , Blyth Eastman Dillon &; Co . Inc. and Cyrus J. Lawrence Inc . With regard to your reporter quoting a source at I.ehman Brothers that Occidental approached them for a proposed offering in the early 1970 's and was turned down , if your reporter had contacted the active partner at Leh man 's who is familiar with this inci dent , she would have been able to re port it accurately . Besides , Lehm:is Brothers has participated as an under writer in four of the domestic issues ii recent years , as well as in two foreiy , 1 issues . The technique of print toe a scandal ous accusation followed by a denia often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe the charge is true .                     