@@732403

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor To Curb Our Under-16 Criminals To the Editor : I read with keen interest , but not surprise , two articles which appeared in your March 2 edition relating to the juvenile-justice system and the juvenile-crime problem in New York State . The in and statistics presented in these articles have been apparent to me for some time . I have introduced legislation which would remove fourteen- and fifteenyear-olds who commit the most serious violence-related felonies such as murder , armed robbery , rape , manslaughter and arson , from their automatic juvenile-delinquent status and place them in the criminal-justice system . Under present law , any . person under the age of sixteen is not accountable for his or her criminal behavior . The law provides that a person under sixteen can not under any circumstances be held criminally responsible for his or her conduct even though such acts , if committed by a sixteen-year-old , would constitute a felony . The indifference youngsters have for our judicial system and the administration of justice is apparent in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that punishment , if any , will be short and no criminal record will be made has obviously been responsible for the alarming increase in criminal activities by persons under the age of sixteen . The statistics you present in your articles indicate to me that the time has arrived when persons fourteen and fifteen years of age must be held accountable when they commit violent crimes of murder , armed robbery , The Important Letters To the Editor : As a member of an inveterate letterwriting and globally scattered family , ' I find Joseph L. Hutner 's suggestion of a once-a-week residential mail delivery insupportable letter Feb. 29 . His views are most surprising , considering his own lucidity and facility with the written language , which would lead one to assume him a proponent of the rebirth of the penmanship so sadly lacking in this age of declining literacy . The vastness of this country , the high mobility rate of many of its inhabitants and its statistically significant immigrant population all contribute to the need for an efficient postal service . The telephone is a welcome and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Portland to Pittsburgh or Los Angeles to London are financially unfeasible for most while the cost of a stamp is still within reach . It would seem worth more than a passing thought that one of our current stock phrases is " lack of communication . " Surely such a situation were better remedied than reinforced by the involuntary curtailment of even one medium of communication . The volume of residential mail is " statistically insignificant " compared with what ? Mr. Hutner 's claim to the amount of unwanted and unsolicited mail foisted on us all is unquestionable , but if that same junk mail were removed from business deliveries , and also , if it were possible , all the unMarianas Facts To the Editor : I am writing in response to your Feb. 27 editorial " American Marianas . " As the floor manager of the bill which extended commonwealth status to the islands , I feel impelled to correct some of the misconceptions you seem to have of the facts of the situation . First , the United States has not been extended 3,300 miles further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marianas Commonwealth Covenant . Rather , sovereignty has been ' extended 44 miles north of Guam , the southern part of the Marianas , already a U.S. territory . Second , the covenant extended no new welfare or social programs . Under commonwealth status the Northern Marianas will most likely be put on an equal footing with Guam , which now enjoys only about one-tenth of the Federal programs available in the fifty states . I find it interesting that your editorial left vague the question of whether The Times opposes equal treatment for the territories with the states . Third , I am sure that you are aware of the fact that United Nations General Assembly Resolutions 1514 and 1541 are of a purely advisory nature and should not in any way be confused with international law . Moreover , there are precedents in the cases of Togoland and the Cameroons for rape , arson , sodomy and criminal possession of weapons . My bill would accomplish this . Persons between the ages of fourteen and sixteen , who under present law are absolved from any criminal responsibility for acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will under any proposal be treated either as youthful offenders or as adult criminals , depending upon the nature of the acts committed and the discretion of the court . If convicted , they would be incarcerated with sixteen- , seventeen- and eighteenyear-olds . BURTON G. HECHT Member of Assembly , 83d Dist. , Bronx Albany , March 3 , 1976 ? Toward Equal Punishment To the Editor : A main reason for our serious crime problem is our failure to have " equal justice under the law . " To aid in remedying this condition , I would suggest a panel of judges whose sole duty and responsibility would be to mete out punishment . When a person is convicted of a major crime by a jury of his peers , the presiding judge would submit to the panel complete minutes of the trial and only have authority to make suggestions . As it is now , two defendants convicted of similar crimes may receive vastly different punishment since the judges involved may be of different temperament . My plan may also prevent a presiding judge from being lenient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beach , L.I. , March 2 , 1976 ? necessary first-class business mail generated daily , the comparison might be less odious . Maybe the contributors to this page should be considered guilty of needlessly adding to the burden borne by the Postal Service . Undoubtedly , the number of people reading these exchanges is " statistically insignificant " compared with something . Let those in business use the phone , Mr. Hutner ; after all it 's a tax deduction for them , but do n't penalize those of us who still exercise and enjoy the communication of the written word . MARY O'MEARA New York , March 3 , 1976 the U.S. position on the Marianas . Finally , I must admit that I am at a loss to understand your assertions that the granting of commonwealth status for a people who voted 79 percent in favor of such status is expansionism ( read neo-imperialism ) , or that the only islands in the world from which atomic attacks were launched lack strategic value . J. BENNETT JOHNSTON U.S. Senator from Louisiana Washington , March 1 , 1976 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India put into orbit its first scientific satellite  --  Aryabhatta  --  there was criticism on your part on what a poor country like India was doing spending money and resources on space technology and scientific research of this sort while there were more urgent problems . Now , the United States has decided not to renew the contract under which an American space satellite provides education to 2,400 Indian villages . This shows that a country can not sit back , being dependent on another . It must try to stay abreast , in the best way it can , with scientific and technological progress . One hopes India will be able to put into orbit its own communications satellite very soon . SUKETU P. BHAVSAR Princeton , N. J. , March 2 , 1976 On Creating Jobs To the Editor : Charles Killingsworth 's Feb. 16 letter challenged the Council of Economic Advisers ' estimate that after two or three years about 90 percent of Federal funds for Public Service Employment ( P.S.E. ) tend to be used for jobs that would have been created even in the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Killingsworth does not offer the reader guidance on the extent to which state and local governments use Federal P.S.E. funds to pay for job slots that would have existed in any case . Our estimates of the replacement effect were derived from several research studies on public service employment and general revenue-sharing programs , including those by George Johnson ( University of Michigan ) and James Tomola ( Harvard ) , Alan Pechter ( Urban Institute ) and Orley Ashenfelter ( Princeton ) and Ronald Ehrenberg ( Cornell ) . These studies set a range on estimates of the replacement rate , and they all indicate that the rate increases the longer a program is in place . The rate we chose to use in our testimony is within the range indicated by these studies . Although the rate of 90 percent is high , it is hot surprising since state and local employment has been , and is expected to remain , one of the fastest-growing sectors in the economy .. For example , from 1974 to ' 1975 , state and local employment increased by 570,000 ' jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With a fast-growing labor force , it is not difficult to replace an expected job slot paid from local tax funds with a slot paid by P.S.E. funds . Even if state and local employment were to grow more slowly , because money is fungible it would be difficult to design a program that prevented high replacement rates . Why is the replacement rate important ? Because every time a planned job slot is filled by a P.S.E. employee , the Federal job-creating program fails to add a net new job to the economy . If a Senator or Representative is committed to increasing state and local employment above what it would otherwise be , say , by 500,000 , in the long run he may have to agree to funding four million P.S.E. jobs ( at $10,000 per P.S.E. job ) to get the 500,000 additional jobs he seeks . The implications would therefore include extremely large Federal budget deficits . PAUL W. MACAVOY Member , Council of Economic Advisers Washington , March 2 , 1976 ? John Jay ' Irony ' To the Editor : In a news article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gerald W. Lynch , president of John Jay College , is quoted as offering to cut his budget radically in return for keeping the college open , saying , " It is better than death . " Better for whom ? It certainly is n't better for the college-age population of the city . Every dollar spent on maintaining an additional facility and on the huge administrative machinery needed to administer that facility leaves that much less to be spent on admitting and educating people . It is n't even better for the CUNY faculty ( as a whole ) . To the contrary , money saved can be spent directly on educational programs , and that can only mean more jobs . In fact , it is clear that the only people that will benefit from keeping John Jay open are the administrators and faculty of John Jay . I find it a cruel irony that these " educators " should be willing to sacrifice the interests of the very people they purport to be so anxious to help  --  to save their own skins . The Board of Higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and administrators on the one hand and more students on the other . It boils down to a question of an Open Admissions policy for college students or an Open Admissions policy for college deans . The people of the city will be watching to see whether they are once again to be ripped off by , a special-interest group . RICHARD PALMER Flushing , N.Y. , March 4 , 1976 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? Gasoline Waste Incentive To the Editor : The sudden return to popularity el larger automobiles is not as surprising as The Times indicated editorially on Feb. 29 . Probably the key reason for the resurgence of large cars has been the reduction of gasoline prices , caused by elimination of the tariff on imported oil and the federally mandated rollback in the price of new domestic crude oil . U.S. oilmen accurately predicted the anticonservation impact of rolling back crude oil prices last year , but these predictions were ignored by the Congress , which in effect has given the green light to American motorists to " burn it up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption is now higher than In any comparable period in our history and that oil imports have risen to record levels . This is a concomitant result of our national policy of eliminating incentives for domestic oil producers and encouraging greater consumption through regulated prices . The Times has supported these counterproductive moves , so you , not we , share responsibility for the results . JOHN KIRCHER Deputy Chmn. , Continental 011 Co . Stamford , Conn. , March 2 , 1976                     