@@729885

txt The understandably reluctant decision of the State Legislature to impose $400 million in additional taxes brings New York to the end of a fiscal era . The decision had to be reluctant because New Yorkers are already the highest taxed citizens in the nation ; and as members of the Legislature face elections this year , they can hardly have been eager to alienate any voters . The decision was made , nonetheless ; and it was a responsible one . Additional revenues are absolutely essential to the " maintenance of basic services . But for all its variety and bulk , the tax package imposed by the State Legislature goes only one-third of the way toward closing , a budget gap estimated at $1,5 billion over the next fifteen months . Realization of economies - is expected to account for another one-third , while the state is left to rely on still-to-be-enacted Federal revenue sharing to complete the job . The budget remains only precariously balanced . In the period that Governor Rockefeller has been the state 's chief executive officer , the state has gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who think that Congress will approve Federal revenue sharing this year doubt that it will provide anything close to the sums the Governor and the State Legislature anticipate , The implications of the state 's delicately balanced budget , hanging as it does on the thread of anticipated Federal financial assistance , touch on the entire structure of American government , New York City became a client city some years ago , no longer able to provide its citizens with essential services from its own tax resources , increasingly dependent on both state and Federal fiscal aid . Last year and the year before and for several previous years , it was New York State that bailed out New York City . There was always acrimony , a fierce political struggle , but in the end the state came through , most recently with a form of no-stringsattached state revenue sharing . ? In its present fiscal plight the state is no longer able to bail out New York City or any other city . It is itself ? . a client state , deperidentmow forbalancing its budget on the enactment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To be sure , the state is not utterly devoid of additional tax resources beyond the package just approved . The Legislature could have enacted a 5 per cent surcharge on the slate 's personal income tax rather than the 2.5 percent surcharge it did adopt ; it could have eliminated the oil depletion allowance for corporations as well as for individuals . But such additional tax resources are minimal at best . As it is , New York imperils its business and industrial development by increasing the income tax when neighboring states like Connecticut and New Jersey , competing for this development , still have no income taxes at all . C. Federal revenue sharing has the great virtue of spreading the tax burden nationally . It would enable financially parched state and local governments to take advantage of the , enormously efficient Federal tax collecting mechanism . Years of matching-grant programs have forced states and localities to extend themselves financially on pain of losing Federal funds for programs that may not actually have been state or local priority items , Bloc grants , with no strings attached , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget , to be ' filled by shared revenues from Washington , underscores the urgency of positive Congressional action to open up a new era in Federal-state fiscal relationships .                     