@@732993

txt Millions of Americans out of work this winter due to gas shortages would like to know whom to blame , and many believe they have found a candidate . A report prepared by the Department of Interior points to the tardy development of offshore gas reserves leased to private producers . Gas industry critics take the Interior report as evidence that offshore gas producers are deliberately withholding reserves in expectation of higher prices later on . If only the lease provisions for speedy development had been enforced by the Feds , critics conclude , this winter 's severe gas shortages could have been avoided . How much evidence is there that offshore gas could have been developed more rapidly ? The Interior Department report does note a decline in gas production from some Gulf of Mexico fields , yet reaches no conclusions about the cause . Sluggish production may reflect constraints on tapping the fields efficiently or ? as critics suspect ? it may mean the industry is in no hurry to lose profits . Why look for gas to sell at $1.44 now when it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if producers are dragging their feet , more vigorous lease enforcement would represent no answer to the gas crisis for at least a year or two . Changes in enforcement policies ca n't increase the flow of gas from Federal property . And in the longer run , the amounts that could be coaxed ( or bullied ) from producers would not begin to meet expected needs . Critics do n't accuse the producers of shutting down existing wells ; their complaint is that the industry has been slow to drill for new supplies , or to construct pipelines to move new gas to , shore , once it is tapped . Hence , no prodding by Federal bureaucrats could much increase output in less than the several years needed to drill and transport gas from proven reserves . Even if the Interior Department could accelerate development , the prospects for closing the gap this way between supply and demand are negligible . The numbers show why . Gas flows from a field at its own pace ? try to increase that pace by much and some of the fuel is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the known gas down there can be extracted in any one year . To meet the expected demands of industry and households at current price ceilings , knowledgeable economists have calculated that the country would have to find and develop ? or , import at great cost ? about 100 trillion cubic feet of gas by the early 1980 's . That 's three times as much gas as is known to exist in currently producing offshore fields . Aggressive action might conceivably speed exploitation on leased Federal lands , yielding an extra 5 or 10 trillion feet , but that is n't much compared to 100 trillion needed . Where does that leave us ? Mighty cold . The Interior Department should , of course , deny rewards to leaseholders who cheat on their agreements with the Federal Government . But the real answer to gas shortages is conservation of the precious stuff . We need an energy policy , not a scapegoat .                     