@@730163

txt A gloomy uneasiness has settled over Moscow . For the first time since preparations began for the Soviet-American summit , diplomats are seriously weighing the possibility it will be canceled . They do not feel the high-level meeting is lost yet , but they think it is in grave danger . Three weeks ago the Kremlin reacted with restraint and caution to the stepped-up U.S. air war over North Vietnam . Its response , in fact , was milder than it had been in the case of serious American raids in the past . Preparations for the summit were going on even though there was no common ground over Vietnam . Plainly the Russians were endeavoring to keep the Vietnam issue isolated from the broader , more strategic considerations of a full-dress summit.conference with the United States . Options greatly narrowed But now that President Nixon has opted for a blockade of North Vietnam , it is believed that the options for the Russians have greatly narrowed . At this writing there has been no official reaction to the American President 's decisions from the Kremlin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech and termed his latest moves " overt acts of aggression which spell increased American intervention in Vietnam and violation of standards of international law . " The President 's statement , said Tass , abounds in assurances that the U.S. wants to end the war and bring its soldiers home . " But praqical steps , including those announced by the President . . . , point to the contrary , " it added , in what seemed a moderate statement . In fact the dispatch struck political observers as mild and straightforward , given the seriousness of the situation . It also quoted Mr. Nixon as saying that the action in Vietnam is " not directed against any other nation . " // *Gloom settles over Moscow // But this does not mean there will not be a buildup of Soviet anger and there is no doubt that the Soviet equivalent of National Security Council meetings are going on now within the walled Kremlin . Aside from the question of the summit itself , the Soviet leadership is confronted with the dilemma of what to do about the blockade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? In this connection it strikes observers as strange that Marshal Andrei Grechko , Minister of Defense , left Tuesday for a visit to Syria at a time when a crisis situation had developed in Vietnam It is premature to grasp at this as a hopeful sign but it is being noted . Diplomatic analysts now expect at the least a round of Soviet denunciations of the American action . There could also be a strong government statement ( as against a Tass statement , such as was issued following the American raids over North Vietnam several weeks ago ) and a diplomatic protest , perhaps about the " violation of international law . " All this could raise temperatures to a dangerous point . Summit preparations on Meanwhile , as Kremlin leaders ponder their response , preparations for the summit are in full swing . A White House advance party arrived here May 8 and spent Tuesday , a Soviet holiday ( Victory Day ) , conferring with U.S. Embassy officials . In Helsinki another session of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks ( SALT ) was held Tuesday and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and serious . " No side issues , i.e. , American mines in North Vietnamese waters , were raised . Currently Soviet Foreign Trade Minister Nikolai Patolichev is in Washington for talk s  --  orr  --  e-xpan-dirig- traife , a subject that is expected to get considerable attention if the summit takes place , And negotiations on settlement of the Soviet Union 's lend-lease debts also are under way . At this point it all seems to boil down to a simple proposition : If the Russians attach overriding importance to the summit meeting , they will make it go through . If not , they will sacrifice it .                     