@@730140

txt J. Edgar Hoover , who directed the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 48 years and built it into a dominant and controversial force in American law enforcement , died ' , during the night from the ' effects of high blood pressure . Mr. Hoover , who at 77 years of ago still held the F.B.L firmly within his control , died in his bedrOom after working a full day in his office yesteeday . He was found by his housekeeper at 8:30 this morning , slumped on the floor beside his bed . His home is near Rock Creek Park in the northwest section of Washington . Dr. James L. Luke , Washington 's Medical Examiner , attributed the death to " hypertensive cardio - vascular disease . " He said that Mr. Hoover had been suffering from a heart ailment for some time but pave no details . He said that death could have been caused by heart failure associated with high blood pressure , but that no autopsy would be performed because the - death was . known to be due to natural , causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced the death at 11 ' A.M. , . after Pal . offices around the world had been given the news and reports of it began to circulate here . Congress promptly voted its permission for his body to lie in state in the Capitol Rotunda ? an honor accorded to only 21 persons before , of whom eight were Presidents or former presidents . Mr. Hoover 's body will be taken to the Rotunda tomorrow morning and will lie in state until shortly before the funeral Thursday . Arrangements for the funeral were incomplete today , but it was learned that President Nixon would deliver the eulogy at 11 A.M. Thursday ) at the National Presbyterian // Church . As the only director that the F.B.I . ever had , the strong-willed and demanding bachelor molded the bureau in his own image  --  efficient , incorruptible and rigid . He presided over It from the day  --  May 14 , 1924 ? when he took over a small , politicsridden bureau , through the eras of its most famous exploits . These included the solution of the Lindbergh kidnapping , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' thirties when " G-man " became a byword , the capture of spies in World War II and the campaign against Communists in the postwar period . Yet toward the end of his ? reign , he became the target of critics from both the left and the right , from those who thought he rode roughshod over civil liberties and those who thought he was slighting the old F.B.I . role of spycatching . His death is expected to touch off a major political debate about the proper purposes and functioning of the agency , which has been accused by critics on the political left in recent years of devoting too much effort to pursuing radi cals and alleged subversives ' and too little to combating or. , ganized crime and white-collar ! offenders . For this reason , there was speculation today that President . Nixon might not name a successor until after the No vember elections or at least not until the current Senate struggle over Mr. Kleindienst 's MP nomination has ended . It was learned that an acting director would be named tomorrow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some time . Clyde A. Tolson , the 71-year-old associate director , who was said by Justice Department spokesmen to have assumed command of the F.B.I . today as its second-ranking official , is understood nOt to be in line to become acting director . In 1968 , Congress made the directorship of the F.B.I . subject to Senate confirmation . This will offer the Senate Judiciary Committee an opportunity when it holds hearings on the nominee , to delve into such festering issues as the agency 's secret dossiers on individuals , its surveillance of the radical left and its new computerized criminal record data bank . At least a score of persons were mentioned today as possible successors to Mr. Hoover . Most of then were veteran law enforcement figures , such as Evelle J. Younger , Attorney General of California , Peter J Pitchess , sheriff of Los Angeles County ; Jerry Wilson , chief of police of the Distrct of Columbia , and Cartha Deloach , former Assistant Director of the F.B.I . Supreme Court Justice Bryon R. White 's name has been suggested frequently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position . The mandatory retirement age for F.B.I . directors is 70 , but President Johnson waived it and so did President Nixon . Mr. Hoover had frequently given the impression that he hoped to remain on the job as long as he lived , or at least until the huge new F.B.I . building across Pennsylvania Avenue from the Justice Department was completed . It is scheduled to be finished in three years . Today , the Senate approved a resolution to name it for John Edgar Hoover . In recent years , Mr. Hoover had come under periodic pressure to resign , usually after some widely publicized public quarrel with figures on the political left . He exchanged insults with the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , accused the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy of ultimate responsibility for the F.B.I . ' s wiretapping when he was Attorney General and called former Attorney General Ramsey Clark " a jellyfish . " His most recent controversy grew out of his charge that the Rev. Philip F. Berrigan and other antiwar activists were plotting to kidnap Henry A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When a jury in Harrisburg , Pa. , found no conspiracy , there were renewed demands that Mr. Hoover retire . But he weathered the criticism . When he testified recently before the House Appropriations subcommittee , he was showered with the usual compliments , and in the ensuing exchange he assured the Congressmen that the F.B.I . contained no activists , " gay or otherwise . " Mr. Hoover appeared also to be in the good graces of . the Nixon Administration , although there was talk that he would be urged to step down if Mr. Nixon won re-election . President Nixon went to the While House press room this morning to comment on Mr. Hoover 's " unparalleled devotion and ability and dedication . " Major figures across the political spectrum joined in a virtually unanimous chorus of admiration . Representative Hale Boggs , Democrat of Louisiana , who last year accused the F.B.I . of having tapped his telephones , made a speech on the floor today declaring that he had never criticized Mr. Hoover personally . " I said then , and I say now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dedication , " he said . Dr. Benjamin Spock , the antiwar activist who is the people 's party 's candidate for President , called Mr. Hoover 's death " a , great relief , especially if his reIplacement is a man who better understands democratic institutions and the American process . " Gus Hall , general secretary of the Communist party , U.S.A. , called Mr. Hoover " a servant of racism , reaction and repression " and a " political pervert whose mashochistic passion drove him to savage assaults upon the principles of the Bill of Rights . " He charged that the F.B.I . under Mr. Hoover had hunted down Communists but failed to bring to justice " a single lyncher of 5,000 black Americans . "                     