@@728474

txt The Democratic National Committee responded acidly today to President Nixon 's " state of the world " report on his Administration 's approach to foreign policy . The Democrats issued a state= ment challenging the validity of the President 's concept and execution of foreign policy . ft was released by W. Averell Harriman , chairman of the international affairs committee of the Democratic Policy Council . The Democrats said they found the President 's message to Congress on Feb , 18 replete with " singularly empty phrases , " " simplistic sermonizing , " and " pious preachments , " " Nothing New " Is Charge On Vietnam , the Democrats said that the President 's message " might have been the vehicle for constructive initiative for a negotiated settlement " but that it " reveals nothing new . " It . said that the policy known as Vietnamization " at best can ' only perpetuate the fighting with continued U.S. involvement . " The President , the Democrats ? charged , failed " to provide either a program or a final date for the withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's statement said the Administration " continues to give a veto over U.S. efforts for a negotiated settlement to the repressive minority Government of President Thieu . " The Democrats said the conviction of Deputy Tran Ngoc Chau in Saigon for consorting With the North Vietnamese had been " another shocking instance of the pressure . to silence all South Vietnamese who want peace through a negotiated settlement . " Scored on Laos On Laos , the Democrats said briefly that it had been a measure of the President 's " candor that Laos was not mentioned and that less than three weeks later the Administration had to make detailed statements on this critical problem . " The statement today further asserted that " the Nixon Administration shows none of the urgency demanded by , the rapid and deadly developments in the . continuing arms race . " The President 's leisurely approach to the strategic arms limitation talks with the Soviet Union , Mr. Harriman said , " ignores the mounting pressures on both ) - sides for the deployment of weapons whose complexity gravely complicates the prospects for rational , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statement said , " the Administration 's recent announcement of the decision to deploy MIRV 's ( multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles ) in June is deeply disturbing . This decision invites reciproca escalation instead of mutual restraint in the nuclear arms race . " The Democrats pictured " an Administration that has con fused system with substance that has substituted institutionalized mechanics for creative action . " They said : " This simplistic sermonizing is accompanied by bureaucratic congestion . What is missing is an understanding that far more important than the procedures of decision-making are the decisions themselves and people who make them . A few good appointments are worth a score of committees . One wise decision is worth a stack of studies . " A spokesman for the White House said the Administration had no comment on the Democratic report . In his " state of the world " report , however , Mr. Nixon had said , on Vietnam , that " to seek a just peace , we pursued two distinct but mutually supporting courses of action : negotiations and Vietnamization . " On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States was not tied to a single position in negotiating with the Soviet Union on limiting strategic arms but had several different positions depending on United States decisions and on what might prove negotiable .. Attack Is Broadened The attack marked a widening of Democratic criticism of the President 's foreign policy . Senator Edmund S. Muskie , Democrat of Maine and a potential candidate for the 1972 Presidential nomination , contended 10 days ago that Mr. Nixon 's " Vietnamization " program would not work and called for a new national debate on Vietnam . Other prominent Democrats have continued to chide the Administration over United States involvement in Laos . Today 's document went beyond those issues , however , to criticize the Administration 's position in Latin America , Europe ; Africa . and Asia . as well as its policy on foreign aid , strategic arms ' limitation , deployment of antiballistic missiles and East-West trade . Mr. ? Harriman , who briefed . newsmen on Thursday , said the party waited until now to release its rebuttal to Mr. Nixon 's report because the message had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that while the Democrats had not argued over passages ni their statements , they had taken time to reach a consensus . He also said time had been required to have the statement approved by Hubert H. Humphrey , the 1968 Presidential candidate and chairman of the policy council , and by . Lawrence F. O'Brien , chairman of the Democratic National Committee . The Democratic statement did not mention the Middle East situation , which Mr. Harriman said was " too sensitive " to include . It also did not mention the Nixon policy of disengagement abroad and reliance on other nations to look to their own security . The report commended President Nixon on " the initial steps taken toward improved relations with Communist China . " It approved proposals for increased support of regional development institutions in foreign aid and said that " the proposals for multi-year funding are also sensible . " " We support the President 's initiatives " in restraining the use of chemical and biological weapons , the Democrats said . These include the President 's declaration that the United States would not use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratify the 1925 Geneva protocol prohibiting the use of chemical and biologoical weapons . Much of the Democratic report was , caustic , however . The President 's message to Congress , the Democrats said , " lacks substance and candor in laying out the many serious issues the country faces , and it fails to offer a creative program of action to deal with them . " " The ' state of the world ' pa , per is more notable for what it fails to say than what it says , " the Democrats declared . " Apparently , the Administration is content to substitute rhetoric and bureaucracy for effective and enlightened initiative in foreign affairs . "                     