@@734291

txt A delegation from the Palestine Liberation Organization joined Turkish officials yesterday in efforts to help negotiate a settlement's/4th four Palestinians holding about a dozen hostages in the Egyptian Embassy here . Three hostages , all of them women , were released last night , apparently the first result of the P.L.O . intervention , but the fate of the other hostages was still unclear . Two of the released hostages were identified as Turkish secretaries and the third as an Egyptian . The four guerrillas originally demanded that Turkey break relations with Egypt and recognize the P.L.O. , and that Egypt release two Palestinian prisoners . It was not known whether they were still insisting on these conditions . Decision on Prisoners Reported Meanwhile , Radio Cairo reported last night that Egypt had decided not to free the two prisoners . " Egypt will not yield to any threats , " the broadcast quoted an official statement as saying , " and the Turkish Government must shoulder its responsibility of safeguarding the lives of the Egyptian diplomats held hostage inside the Egyptian Embassy in Ankara . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men had told the Turkish Ambassador they preferred to remain in jail in Egypt because their lives would be endangered if they were released . The two are believed to have provided Egyptian authorities with information about guerrilla training bases and instructors in Lebanon and Syria . After the release of the three hostages in Ankara last night , one of the Palestinian negotiators , who identified himself as Abu Firaz , deputy chairman of the P.L.O . ' s political department , accused // Egypt of not living up to its pledge to release the two Palestinian prisoners . Speaking to journalists at the Iraqi Embassy , he said : " The entire responsibility of the seizure of the Egyptian Embassy and its consequences lie with the Sadat regime . " It was believed that this statement was part of the bargain to obtain the release of the three hostages . Meanwhile , shortly after midnight , one of the embassy windows was opened and someone cried out in Turkish : " I 'm coming down to open the door to get food . Do n't shoot . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remaining hostages . By 2 A.M. today , most of the high-ranking Turkish security officials had disappeared , apparently in need of a few hours ' sleep . There was no indication of either an agreement with the guerrillas or a decision to storm the embassy . Three persons have been killed since the Palestinians stormed the embassy on Friday . Two Turkish guards were killed in the initial assault and an Egyptian hostage died after falling from a third-story window as he tried to escape . Three hostages escaped yesterday ? an Egyptian who jumped from the thirdstory window and was badly injured but survived , and two others who reached safety through a first-floor window . A Turkish secretary was released Friday . The Egyptian Ambassador , Ahmed Kemal Ulma , and 11 other hostages are reportedly still in the building . There is no information on their condition . After more than 24 hours of fruitless negotiations , it was announced that four Palestinian guerrilla leaders arrived from Damascus yesterday afternoon to try to reach a settlement with the four . Palestinians in the embassy . Yesterday the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been sent by the P.L.O. , which has strongly denounced the terrorist attack . The Turkish Government imposed a news blackout on the negotiations , with its officials refusing to make any comment on the situation or give any indication what the next move might be . About 500 military police and secret servicemen held their positions around the embassy building . Several armored personnel carriers were stationed on the embassy grounds and nearby streets . Medical personnel and a dozen ambulances were also near the embassy , and special shipments of medical supplies were flown in yesterday from Istanbul . Shortly after dusk yesterday , official cars drove up to the front gate of the embassy with two of the P.L.O . officials , the Turkish Minister of the Interior , Hasan Fehmi Gunes , and Gen. Kenan Evren , the Chief of Staff . Twenty minutes later , the P.L.O . delegates walked out of the embassy accompanied by the three women hostages . A typical incident was the sudden scare late yesterday when a shot rang out from behind the embassy . Turkish sharpshooters who had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulled out their automatic rifles and crouched into position behind the armored cars , but nothing followed . Impact on Talks Discounted Special to The New York Times CAIRO , July 14 ? Egyptian officials said today that the terrorist attack on the embassy in Ankara would have little long-range impact on Palestinian autonomy talks . There was speculation here that a primary goal of the terrorists might be to discredit and discourage more moderate factions in the P.L.O . Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil , who was designated by President Anwar elSadat to handle contacts with Turkish officials on the siege in Ankara , has said for the past two days that Egypt holds the P.L.O . and all its factions responsible for the terrorist attack .                     