@@734075

txt ions than currently exist . Thrice critics who contend that Federal action already is too weak in food regulation immediately attacked the academy report as a sellout to economic pressures and predicted that , under the report 's recommendations , oversight of food safety would return to what existed before enactment of the Pure Food . Drug and Cosmetic Act in 1938 . But at a news conference at the academy headquarters here , Dr. Robbins s:igeested that consumers were not faced with the " hazard of the week " at the supermarket . " The techniques for estimating the risks of additives are not precise , so decisions are going to have to be tempered by judgment . " Dr. Robbins said , adding that in food regulation " we should not expect too much out of classical science . " Dr. Robbins , dean of the medical school at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland . said . " One can not live in a risk-free environment ; it does not exist . " His panel 's major recommendations to amend the so-called Delaney Clause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to abolish the differences in the statutory standards among categories of substances , and create a single standard for food safety regulation applicable to all food substances . " One of the most controversial recommendations would have Government regulators take into account such questions as economic costs of banning a substance as well as the potential health hazards to the public . Thus the Food and Drug Administration would be allowed to weigh the benefits of a particular food additive , such as saccharin , as well as its drawbacks . The cornerstone of the suggested new system would be a law defining the categories and degrees of risk of individual substances , " and how these risks should be weighed by administrative agencies and the courts . " The F.D.A. should have statutory authority and resources to assess the risk of all constituents in the food supply , " the report said in one conclusion . The committee suggested that the agency be allowed to set three levels of risk ? high , moderate and low " to provide a rating scale to help determine regulatory response and priorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or food substance has been established according to its potency and exposure level and a risk category has been assigned , the optimal regulatory strategy must be selected , " the report continued . " This should take into account not only the risk of continued use but the risk of limiting or discontinuing use . " To better inform the public of the riskbenefit analyses , the committee suggested the development of symbols , such as those used to call attention to poisonous or radioactive materials . Further recommendations would give the Food and Drug Administration the right to allow high-risk materials on the market under a set of complicated safeguards and give the agency greater legal authority and a larger regulatory staff . Should Congress decide to allow saccharin to remain on the market , the Robbins committee noted that it would have which the Food and Drug Administration cited as authority when it announced two years ago that it would ban the chemical sweetner . Enacted in 1958 , the Delaney Clause called for banning the use of chemicals in foods , even in the range of per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancer in either animals or humans . The Delaney Clause , whose author was former Representative James J. Delaney of Queens , has seldom been invoked , but It has repeatedly been used as a standby legal weapon to force hazardous materials off the market . Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe , director of the consumer-oriented Health Research Group , complained that if the suggestions of the committee were enacted , " the food industry is going to take control of Federal food regulation once again because corporate health would take precedence over public health . " Yet the Calorie Control Council , the lobbying group created by the diet food and beverage industry two years ago , after a saccharin ban wfts proposed , voiced its approval of the committee 's suggestions . Robert H. Kellen , the council 's president , said the report could lead to " a more rational food policy , which we strongly support . " Five members of the 37-member academy committee disagreed with the recommendations dealing with saccharin and revision of the food safety laws . This group contended that saccharin was indeed harmful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority opinion included in the report .                     