@@730456

txt Onetime leftist terrorist Alvaro Robles is finding it hard to go straight . Two years ago , this young Guatemalan in his late 20 's quit the life of a guerrilla and began a return to a more-traditional lifestyle . He has found the change-over not only difficult , but also dangerous . Obtaining a job and taking a place in traditional society after a six-year period of terrorist activity has proved considerably harder than he had anticipated . Even more challenging has been the constant threat of bodily harm from some of his former terrorist associates who resent the change-over and also from Guatemala 's vengeance-seeking , rightist terrorists . Alvaro Robles ' situation is not unique . All over Latin America , and particularly in countries such as Guatemala , Bolivia , and Venezuela , where guerrilla activities grew to major proportions in the 1960 's , there is a growing core of onetime guerrillas trying to live down their former activities and in the process carve out a new way of life . Going gets rough Like Alvaro Robles , they are finding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be easy , " he says , " but it is more difficult than I thought it would be . I am something of an outcast , and I 'm branded for what many Guatemalans think was a wrong way to live . Yet-Guatemala would not be making the social and economic changes now evident if it were not for the guerrillas . I still think I was right in choosing the terrorist path when I did it . " And he obviously feels that he was right in opting out of the terrorist role two years ago to seek a new life-style . " Guerrillas have done their job , " he says . " Guatemala needed to change and still needs to change much , much more , but it would not be changing now if the guerrillas had not called for social and economic change when they did . " Background suspected Not everyone with whom Robles comes in contact knows of his background , but many suspect it , as he found out when he went job hunting . Trained as a lawyer at Guatemala 's San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs scarce , but also there were many who qUestioned why he had not sought work immediately after graduation . If he answered the question and admitted that he had been with the terrorists , doors were immediately slammed in his face . With the scarcity of jobs in the first place , an evasive answer did little better . Robles was attending university when he first joined up with the guerrillas as a " weekend warrior , " going out into the countryside on school weekends to carry out terrorist activities against the government of - **41;879;TOOLONG midway through the term of Julio Cesar Mendez Montenegro when some of the social and economic changes called for by the guerrillas were being implemented  --  And-it - was- dur g this period that he began to question if the guerrilla way was what he wanted . What brought about change " I suppose it was the evidence that the Mendez Montenegro government was carrying out reform and improving the lot of the peasants in the countryside and building social-betterment projects in the city for the urban poor that brought about my change of thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not like the election results in 1970 which saw the election of Col. Carlos Arana Osorio , it seemed to me that the concept of reform and change was now so much a part of things that there could be no turning back . I think so even more today even though I do not like this government . " One thing that worries Robles is the alleged government connivance in the rightist vendetta against terrorists , former terrorists , and reform-minded political , labor , and educational leaders . " My home has been machine-gunned at least six times in the last year - and Ojo por Ojo one of the rightist terrorist groups has claimed credit for severeral of the incidents , he states . But some of his former leftist guerrilla associates have also threatened his life , and he escaped capture by a group of them when he hid out for a week in the home of his aunt and uncle in Guatemala City .                     