@@734113

txt deleted 9 lines stated purpose of improved student performance is an open question , a question not fully answered in other districts either as the trend toward such tests has spread nationwide . Only 4 Diplomas Withheld Last June 's high school graduates here scored no higher on the tests than did the class of 1975 . Last year Bakersfield withheld diplomas from only four out of 3,300 seniors because of the tests , in a pattern noted elsewhere as well . " Everyone seems to feel good about the program , " said James Fillbrandt , the principal of Bakersfield High School , who helped design the program . " But it does n't seem to make much difference . " In the last four years , the movement for what educators term minimum competency programs has become the most powerful new force in American elementary and secondary education . According to Christopher Pipho of the Education Commission of the States , at least 37 states have adopted minimum competency programs , which vary widely in the level of the skills tested and the amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All the exams now test very basic skills that most students have when they enter high school . As a result of protests that its tests were too easy , New York State will institute in 1981 the first testing of skills not normally taught until high school . Districts that have had such programs for several years report that they have improved the morale of many teachers , shaken some students out of academic lethargy and led to an infusion of millions of new state dollars into public school budgets for remedial programs . " The competency program has made all of us sit down and think through what our goals are and what we are doing to meet them , " said Susan Storms , a physical sciences teacher at Roosevelt High School in Portland , Ore. , which had one of the earliest programs . On the other hand , representatives of these districts say that virtually no students are being denied diplomas because of the tests , and they produce only mixed evidence that they have improved overall student learning . Critics frequently complain that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects . Teachers Provide Assistance Often , teachers and other educators ? many of whom opposed the adoption of minimum competency programs ? have found ways to get students over the new graduation hurdles without major changes in either academic methods or student achievement . " We have a little system going , " said Dorothy Wood , a mathematics teacher at Bakersfield High School who helped develop the district 's competency program . " We send students over to a ' math clinic ' or a ' math lab , ' where an aide gives them worksheets for each of the 15 objectives . She sits down with the kid and has him do some exercises , and then she gives him a little test and checks him off . " " We run them through the machine , and they come out knowing about the same amount as when they went in , " she continued . " The question is not whether they know math , but whether they will graduate . " In virtually every state , the pressure for minimum competency has come from outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , developed one of the first statewide programs after a series of public hearings revealed a widespread belief that the high school diploma had lost its credibility . " They said , ' A high school graduate comes to work for us , and he ca n't even read the safety signs in the shop , ' " recalled W. R. Nance of the Oregon Department of Education . Standards Set in 17 States Seventeen states , including New York , now require students to pass statewide tests in basic skills to receive a high school diploma . Others , including New Jersey and Connecticut , have instead established standards for various grade levels and give remedial help to students who fall short . The effect of such statewide programs is just beginning to be felt , because most of the earlier minimum competency programs were started by individual school districts . Their most conspicuous result is that they cost few students a high school diploma . In Denver , for example , where a program has been in effect for 17 years , Ito 3 percent of each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests . At Westside High School in Omaha , only four out of 765 seniors failed the required tests in 1977 . Florida attracted considerable national publicity last year when a substantial percentage of juniors failed its new tests , but officials expect that when the students take the tests again this year only about 5 percent will fail . One exception is New York City , where about 15 percent of this year 's senior class had not completed the state 's new reading and mathematics tests last month . Lack of Data Is Cited The other conspicuous feature of existing minimum competency programs is : the lack of any definitive data showing that they are improving student achievement . The most promising figures come from ! Florida , where 36 percent of the juniors : failed the new communications test last year and 8 percent failed the math exam ; the figures this year are 26 percent and 3 percent . " This is a dramatic improvement , and we are delighted , " said Nan Buchanan , spokesman for the Florida Department of Education . In Gary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1977 , scores rose the first year but dropped back last year . Gordon , the , superintendent of schools , said he found ' comfort in the fact that the number of graduates reading below the sixth-grade level fell from 10 percent to 6 percent since the minimum competency program was established . But he added , " I would n't want to make any definitive judgment based on these figures . " In Berea , Ohio , a suburb of Cleveland , the number of eighth graders scoring at the level of high school proficiency has risen from 74 to 81 percent in reading and from 74 to 84 percent in math . Popular With the Public " The results are extremely impressive , " said Dean Kelly , assistant superintendent of schools . " But I ca n't tell you the cause . Maybe it 's just because we ? parents , students and teachers ? are taking school much more seriously now . " Interviews around the country suggested that minimum competency programs were popular with the public and that educators now believe that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donaldson , a 17. year old senior at Coral Gables High School in Florida , said , " It made us work harder . " Minimum competency programs have focused public attention on basic education , and in some cases have increased parental involvement in their children ' - ; education . " I have n't had to go to the parents yet , " said Miss Storms , the science teacher in Portland , Ore . " Instead , they 've been calling me . I think it 's great . " Teachers ' Objectives Sharpened Perhaps most important , teachers report that the programs have sharpened their professional objectives . " Whereas in the past kids who got past the 10th grade without basic skills were left to drift , " said Mr. Fillbrandt in Bakersfield , " we now have remedial programs in reading and math and will soon have them in writing at the 11th grade . " Educators in Florida and elsewhere argue that the reason the tests cost few students their diplomas is that remedial programs identify weaknesses and correct them . Others , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the competency tests . In Bakersfield , for example , students who had passed all the math tests in 1976 and 1977 were retested last year , and only one in 10 passed them all again . The average student passed 10 of the 15 tests . " The kids bone up and then forget , " said Miss Wood . " The argument for keeping the tests is that at least they have learned it once , and perhaps it will come back when they need it . " Enormous Pressure on Schools Another frequent comment is that most students pass the tests primarily because the schools are under enormous public pressure to see that the students do so . " Schools work terribly hard to make sure nobody fails , " said Robert Frahm , a Racine , Wis. , journalist who recently completed a study of minimum competency programs for the Ford Foundation . " Teachers hound kids until they pass , and almost anyone can pass this kind of test if he takes it enough . " Mr. Fillbrandt said the Bakersfield program had probably benefited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after failing the first time around , but added that , below this level , the program had little discernible effect . The main reason , he suggested , is that the program has not forced schools to make any ma ior changes in teaching strzcg ; t .. " Thcre 's , Ion that we 've been making ? that teachers and students are highly susceptible to modification , " he said . " But we have a highly simplistic view of change . "                     