@@728605

txt Vermont starts enforcing some of the toughest environmental control laws in the nation June 1 when its new Environmental Conservation Agency gets going . One water-control law  --  first of its kind in the country  --  will force polluters to pay a daily fee for fouling the state 's lakes and streams . The idea : to encourage individuals to install septic tanks and industries and communities to put in water pollution control devices . Next year Vermont 's Lakeshore Zoning Act will compel towns to zone land around all lakes and ponds . This strip must extend at least 500 feet from the water , and possibly up to 1,000 feet . This is to prevent crowding of summer homes and camps around lakes ( with the sewage problem this presents ) , plus keeping lake shores open for Vermonters . And the state 's new land development control law requires all developers of more than 10 lots to get permits from district environmental commissions , whose decisions will be based on rigid standards set forth in the law . ? Planning for safety Federal officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pittsburgh  --  and presumably all across the nation . Heads of federal agencies have been meeting in the steel city at the urging of U.S. Attorney General John Mitchell , according to an informed source . Mr. Mitchell , the source says , hopes to create an overall security plan for federal facilities in all major cities . U.S. Attorney Richard L. Thornburgh in Pittsburgh confirms that the meeting took place but denies Mr. Mitchell was responsible for it . Mr. Thornburgh says local officials are trying to ensure that federal agencies do n't overreact to demonstrations . e Built for two Mountainous Morgantown , W. Va. , may some day have a fleet of " StaRRcars " ? tiny two-seaters traveling over a network of guideways and controlled by a central computer . Alden Self-Transit Systems Corp . of Bedford , Mass. , is doing a preliminary engineering design study  --  its first under contract  --  for West Virginia University . More than 20,000 students are scattered over three campuses , one downtown , two others a mile and a half away . The 15 buses now used are felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area 's steep terrain , which inhibits walking , and a virtually captive student market for frequent trips over short distances , combine to make Morgantown an ideal location to showcase its StaRRcars . CI ) How much is too much ? A growing debate is embroiling plans to augment Boston 's water supply . The proposal is to divert water from the Connecticut River at a point 14 miles downstream from a nuclear power plant now under construction at Vernon , Vt . But testimony by experts is contradictory . Some say that radioactive discharges from the nuclear reactor will be well below Atomic Energy Commission maximum standards for health and safety . Others contend it is unsafe to add any amount of radioactivity to water . Left holding this grab bag of mixed opinion , the Massachusetts Legislature is having to decide whether the risk is worthwhile . Informed sources say that water diversion plans may possibly be shifted to Millers River , which should provide enough additional water for Boston for the next 10 years . By then it is hoped expert opinion can reach agreement . m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere , are rapidly facing a rental-rate crisis . It could shove rates for low-income families high up into the middle-income rental bracket . According to Simeon Golar , chairman of the New York City Housing Authority , some families may face rent increases as high as $100 a month . Cause of the crunch : legal requirements that public housing be maintained out of operational income . Operating costs have been escalating along with all other costs in an inflation economy .                     