@@733226

txt South African Prime Minister John Vorster , in an exclusive interview here . made these points : ? Rhodesia : A prerequisite for a solution is the identification of a black leader by either a black referendum or a black election . Without expressly saying so , Mr. Vorster did not exclude from such a test of popularity the black Rhodesian leaders with guerrilla connections , Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe , both of whom are anathema to white Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith . ? One-man , one-vote in South Africa : This is absolutely not negotiable ? meaning that the South African Government will never agree to blacks here having a vote for or in a white parliament . ? South African-U.S. relations : While Henry Kissinger was secretary of state , things had been moving forward . But with the arrival of the Carter administration in Washington , " we had to start from the beginning again . " " The main difference between the Carter administration and the South African Government , " Mr. Vorster said , " can be put in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador Mr. Young , wants to equate the position of the American black in the South with the position of the black man in South Africa . Our standpoint is that you can not equate the two whatsoever . " ? Namibia : It is quite possible that the presence of South African troops in the territory ( known here as South-West Af-. // From page 1 Vorster talks of solution for Rhodesia rica ) , will be an issue when representatives of the five Western members of the Security Council confer at United Nations headquarters in New York on their latest discussions with Mr. Vorster here on independence for the territory . A difference drawn On the differnece between the American black and the black man in South Africa , Mr. Vorster said : " The black man in the United States has been divested of his African personality , his culture , his language , his tradition , and his way of life , and he is the descendant of slaves . The South African black was never a slave . lie is a member of a nation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own traditions , and way of life , with his own land and his own laws and customs. ? Our aim and object is that each nation i.e. , tribal homeland , should become independent . " Mr. Vorster said that this standpoint had been at the center of his discussions with U.S. Vice-President Walter Mondale in Vienna in May and that he had argued it very forcefully . But he could not judge how far it has now been accepted by the Carter administration . The Prime Minister said his government welcomes U.S. interest in southern Africa , but " we will not accept that the United States has a right to prescribe what should be done . We are prepared to discuss but we are not prepared to take orders . " Singling-out imperative Discussing Rhodesia , Mr. Vorster said there are so many claimants to black leadership that it is imperative to identify the one having the confidence of the majority of blacks . He declined to say whether South Africa would accept or want the names of Mr. Nkomo or Mr. Mugabe on any ballot , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he added that the South African Government would accept any eventual black government in Rhodesia that " did not meddle in our business or accept bases on its territory directed against South Africa . " Turning to Namibia ? until now run by South Africa ? Mr. Vorster gave the impression that there are no hitches between the Western powers and his government about the process of Sven Simon Vorster : ' You ca n't equate the two ' appointing ' a UN representative to supervise elections as a prelude to independence . But his remarks were open to the inference that difficulties could arise over the continued presence of South African troops during the election . The question was raised when the Western powers had their talks in New York with Sam Njoma , leader of the South-West Africa People 's Organization , the most articulate and active African political party in Namibia . South Africa was initially reluctant to Include SWAPO in Namibia elections . but no% ? has agreed to this . SWAP0 , - however , has so far taken the line that elections can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign and voting . Asked if the South African Government has given the Western powers its final offer on Namibia , Mr. Vorster said : " We have put our point of view very clearly . We do n't do horse ? trading , and that is the end of it . " The South African Government 's attitude perfectly fair and perfectly reasonable : that the territory as a whole become independent and that the people have a right to decide their future and elect their government . " Until that day arrives , South Africa is re sponsible for law and order and for safeguarding the integrity of the territory ? and that we will do . "                     