@@733828

txt Brooke , the Senate 's only black , survived a strong right-wing challenge in Massachusetts Tuesday , but Democratic Gov . Michael Dukakis was ousted by voters apparently fed up with high taxes . Brooke defeated conservative TV talk show host Avi Nelson , who has never held political office . With 35 per cent of the state 's precincts reporting , Brooke had 53 per cent of the vote to 47 per cent for Nelson . Businessmen and former professional football played Edward J. King dumped the liberal Dukakis , who raised taxes after promising not to . King said his victory was " a message loud and clear for all to hear . You have said , and I agree , that Massachusetts needs a Proposition 13 now . " He was referring to the California ballot proposition of last June mandating a cut in property taxes . King will face state House GOP leader Francis Hatch , who defeated business // Brooke withstands challenge // man Edward F. King , no relation to the Democrat . IN A PRIMARY in Oklahoma . meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the GOP 's Kemp-Roth tax cut plan , easily won his party 's nomination to the Senate in a runoff against former Rep. Ed Edmondson . He will face Robert Kamm in November 's contest to succeed Republican Sen. Dewey Bartlett , who is retiring because of cancer . Boren , 37 , defeated the 59-year-old Edmondson , a member of Congress for 20 years , by 97,000 votes in an Aug. 22 senatorial primary , but the runoff was mandated because neither received a majority . Oklahoma 's lieutenant governor , George Nigh , won the Democratic nomination for governor to succeed Boren . And in Washington state , six of its seven congressmen were seeking reelection in the day 's third primary and all were leading in the early counting . Five Republicans and five Democrats were running for the seventh congressinal seat . Results were incomplete . IN TIM MASSACHUSETTS gubernatorial primary on the Democratic side , King compiled 50 per cent of the vote to Dukakis ' 43 per cent , with Barbara Ackermann getting 7 per cent . In a nip-and-tuck race for the Democratic senatorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul Guzzi were tied at 33 per cent . Among others running were Kathleen Sullivan Alioto , a member of the Boston School Committee and recent bride of former San Francisco Mayor Joseph Moto . BROOKE . 58 , for 12 years has been the nation 's only black senator . Nelson , 3fi , an opponent of court-ordered busing , abortion and the Panama Canal treaties , was backed by a highly organized effort by conservatives . Dukakis , seeking his second term as governor , had based his campaign on his contention that the state 's finances are in good health . But his opponents pointed out that taxes made the sharpest increase in the state 's history during his tenure .                     