@@733637

txt The Carter administration appears to be close to a compromise with key senators and supporters of Israel over the proposed warplane sales to Egypt , Israel , and Saudi Arabia . Such a compromise might involve , among other things , increasing the number of jets to be delivered in the mid-1980s to Israel . But even if something which could be called a compromise is reached this week , the emotions which have been stirred in the American Jewish community against the White House over this and other Carter administration approaches to the Middle East are not likely to subside quickly . Under most of the compromise formulas being negotiated now , President Carter would win a victory on the most controversial part of the package : his proposed sale of 60 advanced F-15 jets to Saudi Arabia . The Saudi part of the package has been bitterly contested by the main pro-Israel lobbying organization on Capitol Hill , the American Israel Public Affairs Committee . Indeed , both AIPAC and the Carter administration have lobbied so furiously over the proposed jet sale that the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a symbolic test of strength between the administration and the so-called " pro-Israel lobby . " If AIPAC loses on the issue , it will be the first major defeat for that influential lobbying group . What the supporters of Israel appear to fear // From page 1 Mideast jets : compromise solution ' near at hand ' most is not the military impact of the delivery of F-15 jets to Saudi Arabia , but the fact that Mr. Carter 's " packaging " of that sale together with the delivery of jets to Israel tends to negate the " special relationship " which Israel has so long enjoyed with the United States . By threatening to withdraw the offer of new warplanes for Israel if the Saudi sale is disapproved by Congress , Mr. Carter appears to be placing the U.S. relationship with the Saudis on a level equal to that of the U.S.-Israel relationship . In order for the Saudi sale to be disapproved , both houses of the Congress must vote against it , by simple majorities , within the next 18 days . AIPAC 's 19th annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are running within important sectors of the American Jewish community over the proposed jet sales and the larger issue of the U.S.-Israeli " special relationship . " Sen. Lowell P. Weicker Jr . ( R ) of Connecticut , one of the three guest speakers at a May 8 AIPAC ' conference dinner , stirred repeated applause . with a savage attack on the Carter administration . In his speech , Senator Weicker accused President Carter 's national-security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski of sing ling out American Jews as " an impediment " to the administration 's foreign policy . " We know from history that time and again , when national leaders ran into difficulties , they found it convenient to blame their problems on Jews , " Senator Weicker said . " And we know what were the results , " he said , apparently referring to the persecution and slaughter of the Jews in Nazi Germany . " If there is a meaningful distinction between these historical proclivities , and the signals which Brezezinski is sending today , I do n't know what it is . " When Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator 's speech and made a strong rebuttal of the wide-ranging allegations against the administration , he was greeted with boos . Mr. Lipshutz nonetheless persisted , accusing the Senator of impugning the character and integrity of the President of the United States . Ile declared that " America will never abandon Israel ? never ! " And he concluded that " as an American , as a member of this administration , and as a Jew , I must express to Senator Weicker my deepest sorrow . " Some of the guests at the dinner seemed to feel that Senator Weicker had played irrespon sibly on the fears of American Jews . But there also seemed to be a widespread feeling that the administration needed to be given a message about its Middle East policies ? and that perhaps the way to get that message through was by means of a brutal speech from Senator Weicker . A leading AIPAC member denied , however , that the organization had seen an advance copy or been consulted on the speech . In a closed meeting of delegates to the Al-PAC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former White House aide and ex-White House liaison with Jewish groups , said that the White House had written off Jewish support and purposefully created the jet-sales " package " under Brzezinski 's leadership to force a historic confrontation with the American Jewish Community and its representatives . According to persons who were present , Mr. Siegel indicated that Mr. Brzezinski was contemptuous of the " special relationship " between Israel and the United States . A spokesman for Mr. Brzezinski said May 9 that the allegations made by Senator Weicker were " the kind of false , inflammatory statements which are unworthy of comment and are counterproductive for serious discussion of the Mideast problem . "                     