@@728819

txt President Nixon sent Congress today the first White House report on the " state of the nation 's environment . " The document gave an exhaustive analysis of the ecological problems facing the country but offered few new proposals for solving them . Instead , the first annual report of the Council on Environmental Quality , prefaced by a personal message from the President , urged enactment of major Proposals already pend-1 ing in Congress and called for further research and Monitoring to measure with greater precision both the causes and effects of pollution . The report 's major departure was its recommendation for what would amount to a national land use policy to match the country 's available land resources to its rising population in an " orderly " manner . Slums and Sprawl The report also called attention to several Federal policies and programs that , in the council 's view , provide inicentives for suburban sprawl , the perpetuation of city slums I and the exploitation of federally owned lands . Federal grants and loans for such projects as highway and housing construction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a lever to insure that the development does not spoil the environment , the council said . The report , prepared in less than three months , was written under the direction of the council 's chairman , Russell E. Train , and its two other members , Robert Cahn and Gordon J. Macdonald . In a brief preface , the authors made it clear that their main purpose was to describe problems and issues and to await further research be1fore offering a list of policy proposals . The report covered all the major ecological areas of concern  --  water pollution , air pollution , the long-term effects of human activity on climate , solid-waste disposal , noise , pesticides , international cooperation to solve pollution problems that transcend national boundaries . Inscribing a copy of the report for Mr. Train this morning , Mr. Nixon called the document a " historic " prelude to further government action in the environmental field . In an informal and obviously relaxed mood , the President sat at the table in the Cabinet room , surrounded by Mr. Train and about two dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pollution problem . He said he saw no " irreconciliable " conflict between economic growth and the objectives " clean air and clean water ; " he said that while unchecked economic growth raises dangers it also " gives us the resources to deal with the problem . " . A far greater danger , he suggested , is complacency , especially the tendency to regard environmental emergencies such as the recent smog problem on the Eastern Seaboard as " a temporary phenomenon ; " if the 3overnment sits idly by , he said , these and other ecological problems will become " a permanent affliction . " Mr. Nixon then shook hands with members of the council staff , pausing long enough to chat with each one individually and encourage them to continue in what he called " work of enormous importance ? ' SST Questioned While short on specific recommendations , the report Dulled together much existing knowledge of the pollution problem and offered judgments on matters of , controversy within the Administration itself . In two places , for instance , the council expressed evident skepticism toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impact of the plane could be more fully evaluated . Of all the problems facing the environment , the report found misuse of the country 's available land resources " the most ' out-of-hand and irreversible . " The report urged the Government to use some of its grant " and loan programs ? such as water and sewer grants to suburban communities ? to require sound community planning instead of allotting funds to development projects " which merely respond to uncontrolled growth . " Similarly , the council suggested a careful look at the tax laws , which , it said , encourage exploitation and cheap construction ; and it proposed a variety of other measures ranging from quick Federal purchase of available wilderness areas to more vigorous metropolitan planning to insure wiser use of public and private lands . On the more familiar subject of air and water pollution , the council reinforced Mr. Nixon 's conviction that properly managed economic growth posed no basic threat to the environment . But it also warned that the country might have to forgo some conveniences and pay higher prices if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report placed much of the blame for air and water pollution on what it called " misplaced economic incentives , " arguing that " our price system fails to take into account the environmental damage that the polluter inflicts on others . " The council suggested a variety of remedies without expressing a clear preference for any single one . ' At one point it suggested taxing or otherwise penalizing the producer who causes the pollution ; at other points , it suggested including the price of pollution control in the cost of the product and passing it on to " society " at large . Mr. Train said this morning , that the best combination might be a joint system of effluent charges ? in effect , taxes on the companies that pollute ? and stiffer regulation .                     