@@733445

txt CTA , rails to help Ryan , Rock Island riders HERE ARE the best ways for riders of the Dan Ryan rapid transit line and the Rock Island Railroad to reach downtown Chicago while service is curtailed on those two routes . Ryan alternatives THE CHICAGO Transit Authority said 98 transit cars are available to operate between 95th and 35 streets , in the Dan Ryan Expressway median strip . Those who normally ride the Ryan line can get off at 63d Street and walk a half block west to the Harvard station of the Englewood-Howard line , which will take them into the Loop under State Street . Riders can also ride the Ryan line to 35th Street and walk or ride a 35th Street bus a few blocks east to the Howard line 's 35th Street station . A number of CTA buses that normally feed into the 95th Street station of the Ryan line will instead feed into the Englewood-Howard station at 63d Street and Ashland Avenue and the JacksonHoward station at 63d Street and Stony Island Avenue . Trains that can be boarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street and continue north to Howard Street . THE REGIONAL Transportation Authority said Suburban Transit buses serving the south suburbs that normally feed into the Ryan 's 95th Street station will instead feed into the Howard-Englewood station at 63d Street and Ashland Avenue , from which passenters can continue to the Loop . The RTA said South Suburban Safeway buses will terminate at 95th Street and King Drive where special buses will take passengers to the CTA station at 63d Street and Stony Island Avenue , from which passengers can continue to the Loop . Passengers riding the Lake Street rapid transit line to the Loop will find service normal . However , Lake Street trains will terminate in the Loop rather than continue south to 95th Street and the Ryan Expressway as they do normally . Rock Island alternatives THE ROCK Island will operate commuter trains between Joliet and 87th Street in Chicago . Riders can leave Rock Island trains at Blue Island , walk to the adjacent Illinois Central Gulf station , and ride IC trains to the railroad 's downtown stations at Van Buren Street at Michigan Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emergency . Rock Island commuters from Mokena and New Lenox will be provided with bus service from those suburbs to Joliet by the Joliet Mass Transit District . Riders can take Illinois Central Gulf diesel commuter trains from Joliet to Chicago 's Union Station at Canal and Adams streets . These commuter trains were formerly operated by the Gulf , Mobile &; Ohio Railroad . The Norf olk &; Western Railroad , which also operates in the southwest suburbs , will not honor Rock Island commuter tickets , but the RTA has agreed to reimburse Rock Island riders who choose to use the Norfolk &; Western . The N &; W operates commuter service from Orland Park through Palos Park , Worth , Chicago Ridge , and Oak Lawn to Union Station .                     