@@728654

txt President Nixon is on the brink of a decision on whether to adopt voluntary wage-price restraints . A number of alternative plans produced by his officials are already on his desk . If he overcomes his misgivings about any such anti-inflation approaches , insiders say , he will most likely pick a relatively mild plan  --  the creation of a special panel of private citizens that would put the spotlight of publicity on major price and wage increases . The most extreme approach of mandatory price and wage controls is not in the running , and an appeal for a temporary voluntary " freeze " has been set aside as too likely to be shattered by the auto-industry labor settlement to be negotiated this summer . But the possibility of reviving percentage " guidelines " as a test of whether wage and price moves are to be branded inflationary is n't totally ruled out . Whatever the President decides , some aides say , he probably will do it soon and make his decision a key part of the long-promised television address on the economy , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of doing something right now , " one adviser observes . A Surge of Support - While competing plans have been shaped by various Administration officials and while some aides still strongly oppose any of them , there 's a surge of support among insiders for some sort of voluntary restraints . If properly handled , they reason , such restraints might serve to slow the pace of inflation a bit and to silence criticism that the President is overlooking one major means of stabilizing the economy . Some Nixon aides suggest the best course would be to create what they refer to as a " citizens commission " or " incomes board " on which business , labor and consumer interests would be represented . The panel would have its own staff , so that at least once a month it could publish an analysis of key price and wage developments . Whether such a panel would go so far as to condemn any specific pay or price boost as inflationary is n't certain . But merely singling out actions for public scrutiny could have a deterrent effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a Democratic Administrationstyle " guideline " formula will be created as a test of whether price and wage changes are economically acceptable . " It would sure help us , " suggests one insider , if Congress would set the standards . A Safer Course To have a review board formed mainly or even solely of private citizens would be politically safest , it 's reasoned ; if the operation should misfire , the President 's prestige would n't suffer as badly as if he personally had denounced a business or labor move and were rebuffed . In the Kennedy-Johnson Administrations , the Chief Executive himself sometimes struck out at " excessive " actions , while the President 's Council of Economic Advisers frequently resorted to public criticism if private overtures failed . The council is the body that would perform the wage-price review functions under a proposal by Republican Sen. Jacob Javits of New York , but Paul W. McCracken , council chairman , has argued that this would " impose an almost impossible burden " on the three-man council and its staff of about 20 economists . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be by somebody else , " says one council source . Similarly , Arthur M. Okun , a council chairman under President Johnson , has proposed a separate panel to do this detailed work , and Democratic Rep. Henry Reuss of Wisconsin has sought legislation to create one . The strongest support within the Administration for some wage-price restraint appears to be building in the Treasury Department . While Secretary David Kennedy 's latest public word on the subject is still that he wants to keep his " options open , " the department 's attitude is evidenced by Under Secretary Charts Walker 's recent reversal of former opposition and by the disclosure during a Congressional hearing by Murray Weidenbaum , Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy , of his long-held leanings in this direction . Paul A. Volcker , Under Secretary for Monetary Affairs , is believed to share their views . The Opposition View Apparent leaders of the opposition have been Labor Secretary George Shultz and Herbert Stein , a member of the Economic Council . Both are closely associated with the " monetarist " views of the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's money supply near a 4% annual rate of increase is all that 's needed to avoid inflation and that other intervention in the private economy should be shunned . But the Federal Reserve Board has ignored the Friedman view and let the money supply grow at an annual rate of around 10% in the past three months . Although Mr. Nixon until now has rejected the idea of pressuring business and labor , some of his aides have always privately harbored a hunch that " jawboning " or " moral suasion " ' could be a useful supplement to the main antiinflation weapons of credit , tax and spending policy . Now they believe these basic weapons have squelched " excess demand " so thoroughly that inflation springs mainly from the decisions of strong companies and unions . Mustering public opinion against them , these officials contend , would attack inflation at its present main source . The question of wage and price curbs moved into the active-consideration stage last month when Federal Reserve Board Chairman Arthur F. Burns suggested in a speech that an " incomes policy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the period between suppression of excess demand and restoration of reasonable price stability . " With price rises continuing far in excess of Government expectations . some observers figure Mr. Burns ' main concern is that without some new restraint the economy would have to be kept very sluggish much longer and that unemployment would stay high well into 1971 . Meantime , calls for the President to take some new action on the wage-price front have been mounting from many quarters , including prominent bankers , businessmen and international monetary authorities . Congressional Democrats are pushing legislation that would give the President unsought standby power to impose direct controls , and Sen. Javits ' approach ? which appears to be the basic proposal on which the Administration would build ? has broad backing among Senate Republicans . Disappointment that prices have n't responded to their fundamental remedies of tight money and tight budgets is making Administration men more amenable to trying something new . They took office talking confidently about trimming the general price rise in 1969 to about 3r , , ; from ** But they ended up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to over in 1970 's first quarter . Witii unemployment heading toward from 3.5 , / , a year ago as Congressional ekelions approach , few officials feel it 's politically feasible to simply appeal for more " patience " with present policies . Indeed , one Government economist suggests , a Presidential announcement of some new inflation curbs might be just the sort of dramatic step needed to buoy confidence in the economy  --  and sustain the stock market 's recovery . However feeble the effect might be in the long run , he figures , " sometimes it helps to look like you 're throwing the book , " maybe leaving labor a shade less inclined to make ambitious demands and busin6ses slower to post anticipatory price boosts . Even some of the more skeptical Administration aides are coming around to the view that there could be a long-run benefit , ton . They reason that any review board would inevitably have to emphasize that pay boosts must pi ove illusory if they exceed gains in productivity , or output per man-hour ( the same concept on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the widely acknowledged drawbacks of even an " educational " approach by outsiders under Administration auspices could still deter the President . The basic worry that has haunted Mr. Nixon all along . associates note , is that failure of such a first step could entrap him into progressively tougher moves culminating in an oppressive web of mandatory controls . Moreover , Mr. McCracken has often counseled that the voluntary approach is " discriminatory and inequitable " because any successes are scored against a relative handful of prominent industries  --  while leaving unscathed independent repairmen , doctors , construction workers and others whose incomes have been advancing most rapidly . The term " incomes policy " used by Mr. Burns to denote voluntary restraints ( and commonly employed in Europel is still so unfamiliar here as to be something of a handicap , officials admit . One of the more ardent Administration advocates reports that his wife asked the other night : " Does this incomes policy you 're talking about mean my income will go up ? If it does n't , I 'm not sure I 'd be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                