@@734447

txt The seizure of the American Embassy in Tehran by Muslim students calling themselves " followers of the Imam " ( Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ) should be seen against the following background : ? Short-term , the persistent vengeful desire of Iran 's most ardent revolutionaries to bring the ousted Shah " to justice , " and the opportunity the Shah 's presence in New York for medical treatment gives them to blackmail the United States Government into surrendering him . ? Longer-term , the sharpening struggle at the top in Iran between the hard-line religious fundamentalists and the pragmatists . The fundamentalists want to establish a theocratic republic with a government run by Shia Muslim clergy . The religious pragmatists would prefer a secular government , but one sensitive and responsive to the demands of Shia Islam . Both camps would publicly demand that pressure be put on the US Government to surrender the Shah . But the fundamentalists would be much readier to go to the ultimate in putting the squeeze on Washington ? hoping thereby not only to get the Shah but also to discredit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nov. 4 , the students who had seized the embassy were still in control of it and were said to be holding hostage as many as 60 of the staff , most of them Americans , including at least 10 US Marines . An eyewitness said one of the students at the embassy gate had told him that unless the US surrendered the Shah , the American hostages would be tried by Islamic revolutionary tribunals . The students claimed to have acted with the approval of Ayatollah Khomeini . An eye*Please turn to Page 13 From page 1 Embassy seizure witness of the takeover said the Iranian police on duty at the embassy had put up little or no resistance to the students . The fundamentalists have the ear of Ayatollah Khomeini , a near-octogenarian who often seems utterly frustrated by the complexities of the modern world . But even among the fundamentalists there is under way a fierce struggle for personal power among clerics or other groups who seek influence by claiming to speak for him or to be acting in his name . The Ayatollah himself is an absolutist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( perhaps for personal ends ) has presented him with a situation report on this crisis or that . Sometimes he finds himself having to backtrack from a particular anathema or fulmination . This explains much of the erratic course of the Iranian revolution . Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan , trying to explain the Ayatollah to Italian journalist Oriana Fallaci , said : " Everything-at-once is an old Iranian vice that brings along a lot of perils . " Mr. Bazargan has wanted to resign more than once because of being overruled or thwarted by the fundamentalists . In recent months , his position has , in fact , strengthened . He told Miss Fallaci that the Ayatollah had responded to his most recent attempt to resign by Baying : " I have no one else . Nobody . Stay . " The whole interview with Miss Fallaci suggests the reason for Mr. Bazargan 's survival to date and his potential for ending up yet as president of the new Islamic republic of Iran . He combines a basic loyalty to and understanding of Ayatollah Khomeini with a persistent opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Persian balancing act in which his now-proven skill enabled him to say confidently to Miss Fallaci : " I 'm by no means willing to let myself be thrown to the wolves . " It is conceivable that one of the motives of those who ordered or effected the seizure of the US Embassy Nov. 4 was to embarrass or even deliver a coup de grace to Mr. Bazargan . The hard-liners in Tehran were already criticizing him for having spent over an hour talking to President Carter 's National Security Adviser , Zbigniew Brzezinski , at the end of last week . Both men were in Algiers for the 25th anniversary of the outbreak of the Algerian revolution . Mr. Bazargan is already back in Tehran . So is his Foreign Minister , Ibrahim Yazdi , who was also in Algiers ? and he is another man whom the fundamentalists might want to discredit , not least because of his American connections . When armed revolutionaries seized the American Embassy in Tehran on an earlier occasion , in February of this year , Dr. Yazdi negotiated the release of hostages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have taken over the embassy and its parklike compound have indicated their reluctance to let Dr. Yazdi be an intermediary . Mr. Bazargan and Dr. Yazdi do not see eye to eye on everything ? a generation separates the two men in terms of age ? but for all his radical , third-world rhetoric , the younger Dr. Yazdi is as relatively " open-ended " on foreign policy as Mr. Bazargan is on domestic policy . ( Dr. Yazdi spent much of his political exile from the Shah 's Iran on the medical faculty of Baylor University in Texas ) . Bruce Laingen , the US charg ? d'affaires who runs the embassy in the absence of any ambassador , was at the foreign ministry conferring with Dr. Yazdi when the embassy was seized , and evaded capture . In terms of political parties , the struggle between the fundamentalists and the pragmatists finds expression in the sharpening competition between the Islamic Republican Party of Ayatollah Muhammad Beheshti , a hard-liner , and the Muslim People 's Islamic Republican Party , which enjoys the quiet patronage of the relatively moderate Ayatollah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important religious figure . While Ayatollah Khomeini was in exile , Ayatollah Shariat-Madari was recognized as the top man in Shia Islam within Iran . He is a potential and important rival to Ayatollah Khomeini , but since the latter 's return he has kept a low profile . The fundamentalist Ayatollah Beheshti  - -  whom some suspect of wanting to be president of the republic ? holds a key position as vice-president of the Assembly of Experts , which is putting the final touches to the new constitution . No less ambitious is the hardline president of the Assembly of Experts , Ayatollah Hussein All Montazeri , said to have the backing of Libyan leader Col. Muammar al-Qaddafi . But his Libyan connection puts a strain on Ayatollah Montazeri 's relations with Ayatollah Khomeini . This is because Colonel Qaddafi is blamed for the disappearance of Moussa al-Sadr , the Iranian citizen who was until last year religious leader of the Shia Muslim community in Lebanon . The Khomeini and Sadr families are related by marriage . The shadow of Moussa al-Sadr may also be a factor in the fortunes ? this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Defense Minister Mustafa Chamran . Like Dr. Yazdi , Mr. Chamran spent years of political exile in an American university , in his case at Berkeley , California . He returned to Iran by way of Lebanon , where for a time he was involved with the local Shia Muslim community . Some Iranians criticize him for his handling of the Kurds ' revolt against too tight a control by the central government in Tehran ? a revolt that just will not go away . But with SAVAMA , the new secret police that has replaced the Shah 's hated SAVAK , at his disposal , Mr. Chamran has a powerful weapon in his hands . His own immediate political ambition is not clear . Mr. Chamran , of course , is the titular civilian head of the armed forces . Of these , the Army , has always been the most important . But with the Shah 's departure from Iran last January , the Army virtually fell apart . During the summer , it has pulled itself together to an extent . Today its officer class reportedly is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has attached itself to the religious fundamentalists and that is in effective overall command . 2 . An equally small faction that harbors a lingering loyalty to the ousted Shah , but that must necessarily not show its hand . 3 . A much bigger faction waiting to give its active support to a secular government , rather than one manned or controlled by religious fundamentalists , in a new Islamic republic . At the moment , it is to the Navy ? not the Army ? that one must look if one is searching for a senior officer with apparently increasing political ambition . He is Rear Adm . Ahmad Madani , Governor of Khuzestan , the oil-rich and partly Arab-populated province at the head of the Gulf . Admiral Madani has proven himself since the revolution last February both a doer and a survivor . Khuzestan is as hot a potato for the central authorities in Tehran as is the Kurdish-populated province of West Azerbaijan . The Arabs are as disaffected as are the Kurds with what they see as the repressive policies of a basically Persian government at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Madani has more or less held things together in Khuzestan , despite threats to oil production from sabotage either by Arabs or by Marxist extremists in the oil workers union . But now , Admiral Madani has told Prime Minister Bazargan he will quit as governor of Khuzestan unless Tehran stops interfering and thereby thwarting his efforts both to quell Arab dissidence and to keep the oil flowing despite Marxist agitation in the production areas . Some wonder if this is not a calculated move by Admiral Madani to free himself from the provinces so that he can establish himself as a power at the center in the capital . A resolution of the crisis precipitated by the seizure of the American Embassy in Tehran may well depend on somebody in Tehran having second thoughts about it ? and on that somebody 's being influential enough to persuade Ayatollah Khomeini to edge back from another of those " all-or-nothing " or " everything-at-once " perils . In the US , the question is : Will the political situation , with the Kennedy challenge , let President Carter give the Iranians sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    