@@728565

txt A bomb mailed in Seattle to the White House was detected and deactivated in Washington , D. C. , officials said tonight . Another bomb , mailed to national selective service headquarters , was also intercepted , they said . Elmer Moore of the secret service and Ralph Andersen , United States postal inspector here , said full details could not be made public Still Under Investigation " The case still is under investigation , " Moore said . They did not say when the bombs were discovered . The bomb sent to the White House was detected in a. routine examination of all packages so addressed , Moore said . That prompted an alert leading to detection of the device addressed to , the draft headquarters . In Washington , a spokesman for the White House and the secret service declined comment . In Seattle , United States Atty . Stan Pitkin said the packages were brought to his attentionl " a couple of weeks ago " by justice department officials in Washington . " They contained a modest amount of explosives in the form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ packages contained a primitive device incorporating a small amount of explosive of the type used to signal railroad . crews , " Pitkin said . He said the main explosive was a signal , cap , called a " torpedo " by trainmen , that is placed on railroad ? tracks to warn of danger ahead . He did not explain how the bomb would have been detonated or whether a blow  --  such as the package being dropped ? could have set off the bomb in the mails . " I have no knowledge of any other similar incidents or of any other packages that may have been sent , " he said . Andersen said the parcel mailed to the White House was small and bore . a , return address . " The return address turned out to be an unoccupied residence , " he said . He did not disclose the address . Discovered Days Apart Andersen said the parcel was mailed to the White House " at least three weeks ago . " He said the one at the national draft headquarters was discovered several days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The address was " handwritJ ten or printed , handwritten , I believe , " Andersen said . He said he had seen a photo . graph of the contents of the first parcel but declined to comment on it " because it 's not in my field . " Recruiting Office Bombed New York , April 24 IR ) ? A pipe bomb Explosion rocked an army and air force recruiting office in Harlem late yesterday afternoon , pushing out one wall and narrowly missing four sergeants and a woman applicant . The blast overturned furniture and shattered two large plate glass windows , showering debris onto the sidewalk from the second floor office . Police said the device had been placed in a toilet . Sgt. Louis Lawrence said the explosion did not deter Deborah Love from signing her application to join the air force .                     