@@728566

txt This nation is once again involved in a major reexamination of the merits of integrating its schools . Many thought the basic question was settled with the Supreme Court 's Brown v. Board of Education decision of 1954 , underlined 10 years later with congressional passage of the Civil Rights Act . But in recent months many of the old doubts have been rekindled . There is widespread questioning as to just how desirable racially mixed schools really are in a strictly educational sense and whether the effort is worth all of the frustration and bitterness often involved . A Gallup poll taken this month showed 86 percent of the nation 's adults opposed to bussing as a means to achieve integration . Recently , conservative Southern whites have found their ranks bolstered by a number of Northern whites and blacks from around the country , who offer evidence that integration ca n't work . These people contend that more money for racially isolated schools is the only way to provide equality of educational opportunity . One of the staunchest advocates of this thesis is Roy Innis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strand by strand , the " white suburban noose " that keeps blacks and other minority-group Americans locked into the central city is being snipped away . Not by bombs , not by Molotov cocktails , not by violence , but by the sharp cutting edge of the law . While white America 's attention is diverted by the violent actions of a few black militants in the cities , more sophisticated fighters for minority-group rights are developing skills in using quieter but ultimately more effective tools . For example : The National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing ( NCDH ) has been quietly pushing lawsuits in such suburban enclaves as Montclair , N.J. ; Union City , Calif. , and Lawton , Okla . Another civil-rights group , the National Association for the Advancement of Colored Peo. pie , is fighting a similar battle in Oyster Bay , Long Island . Their purpose : to establish legal precedents in revoking such exclusionary practices as large-lot zoning , minimum sizes on buildings , maximum limits on the number of bedrooms for apartments , exclusion of multiple-dwellings and mobile homes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. study // Certainly the Nixon administration 's noticeable slowdown in integration enforcement efforts ? and the ensuing resignations of ? three-civil-rights officials in the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare and a letter of protest to the White House from 125 others in that office ? were contributing factors to the reexamination . Many count it as a sign of the times that President Nixon , prefacing his March 24 desegregation message , asserted that one of the major objectives of the statement was to reaffirm his " personal belief " that the 1954 Supreme Court decision was " right " ? both constitutionally and humanly . One of the most visible-efforts to reexamine scholarly theories and practice in this field is being made by the Senate 's new Select Committee an Equal Educational Opportunity . The 15-man committee grew out of the lengthy debate last February over antiintegration amendments proposed for the extension of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act . Chaired by Sen. Walter F. Mondale ( D ) of Minnesota ( and originally proposed by him ) , the committee was charged among other things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolation , examining the validity of de facto and de jure distinctions , and reviewing the status of compensatory programs and of efforts to desegregate . Timetable sketched The committee is scheduled to present an interim report on its progress by August and come up with final recommendations and findings by January . Hearings began this week . Already the committee has heard from such distinguished academic advocates of integration as Dr. Kenneth B. Clark , a black professor of sociology at Johns Hopkins University , and Dr. James Coleman , professor of psychology at City College in New York . Dr. Clark , who had submitted a supplemental brief which played a strong role in the Supreme Court 's Brown decision , told the Senate committee that his psychological research work substantiated the thesis that racial iso- lation harms whites as well as blacks . ' 66 findings cited Dr. Coleman resurrected before the committee his research findings of 1966 ( done in response to a Civil Rights Act request ) . This report stressed that background and home influence have more impact on a child 's achievement than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the number of books in the library or the pupil-teacher ratio . Noting that school is far from the all-important educational influence on children that educators like to think it is , the Johns Hopkins professor , who delivered his research findings in an impressive , low-key manner , conceded that the gap between the average black . and average white child can be narrowed " only " 20 to 25 percent through an integrated school setting . Asked by Sen. William B. Spong ( D ) of Virginia about " the point of diminishing returns , ' ' Dr. Coleman replied that when the school popialation reaches . 50 percent from disadvantaged backgrounds the performance of the youngsters from better backgrounds is reduced  --  but only about half as much as the performance of the disadvantaged students is improved . Priority sought At one point in the deliberations , Senator Spong volunteered : " This committee can focus on segregation or integration and bring in education or we can focus on education and bring in the other . . . . The focus is important . " Dr. Coleman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , integration second " that so cial improvement is not the sole justification for integrated schools . Rather , he argues , the quality of education can be directly improved . Sen. Peter H. Dominick ( R ) of Colorado voiced a concern of many when he asked the John Hopkins sociologist : " Should we be mixing economic and cultural backgrounds rather than races and creeds ? " There is little evidence to date that compensatory efforts in racially isolated schools have been very successful , the sociologist contended . He pointed to the More Effective Schools program in New York City , where in target schools the pupil-teacher ratio was reduced and per-pupil spending doubled . Evaluation here has shown little change in student achievement . Dr. Coleman would prefer to see such compensatory funds  --  as well as the $1.5 billion earmarked for use over the next two years by the President 's new task force on integration  --  set aside for use in integrated programs outside the school system . He has been working with White House staffers Robert C. Mardian and Leonard Garment in developing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing is sure . If the commitment to integrated schools is reinforced , there is still a long way to go . Most recent Office of Education statistics show 61 percent of the nation 's black students are still in schools with a 95 to 100 percent minority-pupil population . *Pockets of legal action fray suburban housing ' noose ' // These practices are seldom deliberately adopted to exclude minority or poor groups . Mostly they serve a valid purpose in orderly planning and development . But they have also frequently had the effect of locking out poor citizens , which means most nonwhite Americans . The suburbs are reluctant to change such practices because , even if they want to give inner-city dwellers a better break , they are concerned that an influx of poor citizens will drive their already inflated property taxes up to the confiscatory level . The NCDH study tackles the problem in two ways . One is through persuasion . It believes its statistics prove that exclusionary practices hurt not only the ghetto poor , but the white suburbanite as well . Where pursuasion does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court . Its studies will be introduced there as evidence that these practices are unconstitutional on grounds they deny some citizens their guaranteed rights . Says Robert Carter , NCDH president : " The report shows how discrimination and de facto segregation are making life unbearable for both whites and blacks in the New York metropolitan region . " Three-state study The two-year study is being funded by the Carnegie Corporation of New York at a cost of $480,000 . Ernest Erber , director of research for the NCDH , is directing the seven-county study , which covers a three-state region centering on New York City . It is believed to be the most comprehensive regional study ever done of job and housing opportunities and of how building and zoning practices distort the markets . Its findings are no surprise to students of such matters . Among them : ? As both the white middle class and industry have left the central cities , metropolitan areas are paying a double penalty  --  unemployment in the inner city and labor shortages in the suburbs . ? Exclusionary housing practices in the suburbs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Filtered-down housing o " Filtered-down " housing , the historical process by which upward-mobile groups take over better housing left by others who have climbed up the economic ladder , no longer works for inner-city blacks . Residents in the white suburbs tend to stick to their present homes , or buy better ones within the same community , rather than move farther out to exurbia and increase their daily commute to the city , where their jobs are . And filtered-down housing in the central city is meaningless to poor people if their job prospects are increasingly in the suburbs . ? The only way out of the dilemma is new housing for low- and moderate-income families in the suburbs . However , the combination of high costs for any kind of housing plus exclusionary practices in the suburbs rules out this solution . The above points are only highlights in the " suburban noose , " which , like Saturn , has many rings  --  economic , political , social , and legal . The NCDH research effort hopes to document these areas statistically to demonstrate in the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans of their constitutional rights . Landmark case possible The Union City , Calif. , suit may well become a landmark case in this legal effort to cuttthe noose . The case revolves around efforts of a Mexican-American organization that wanted to build 280 units of low-income housing on land presently zoned for agricultural use . Union City officials were willing to rezone the land , but local homeowner opposition resulted in a defeat by referendum vote . The NCDH , representing the local Mexican-American group , took the case to a California District Court . It charged that the referendum was a violation of due process and equal protection of the laws . When the district court refused to grant an injunction against the referendum , the case went to the United States Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit . The injunction was denied a second time , resulting in a procedural loss , but an important side-victory was gained . In effect , the court said the case raised two questions : ? Did the referendum , regardless of motivation , result in discrimination against the individuals involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result in barring poor persons , unconstitutional for that reason  --  regardless of motive ? The NCDH is expected to go back to the California district court to argue these constitutional questions . If it wins its case , a precedent will have been set for similar attacks against suburban zoning regulations across the nation . Property tax already heavy While important , the victory would only break through one ring of the suburban noose  --  the legal barrier . The economic wall may be an even tougher one to hurdle : While the courts can forbid a community for barring low-income housing , they can not order that such housing be built . And as long as such housing remains unprofitable , it will not be . built . A panel of housing experts said as much at a hearing held by the New York State Division of Human Rights April 14 and 15 . It will do no good , they said , to dismantle land-use controls at the local level until , a higher level of government is willing to pick up the costs not only of building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' needs . The suburbs already depend too heavily on the property tax to support the cost of schools and other services to their middle-income families , noted Prof. Norman Williams of Rutgers University . In New Jersey , he said , the state initiated important moves in removing land-use controls . " But nobody ever considered who should pay for the extra services needed by low-income families in the suburbs , " he added . " If the state is not prepared to pick up the tab , it is hardly in a position to push the suburbs into such housing programs . "                     