@@733074

txt THE NATION 'S Roman Catholic bishops voted overwhelmingly to repeal the century-old church penalty of excommunication for divorced Catholics who remarry without church approval . The bishops , after only 30 minutes of closed-door debate , voted 231 to 8 to do away with the rule , adopted in 1884 , The action , subject to Vatican approval . came as the bishops ended a second day of meetings of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops , which is to end Thursday at the Palmer House , The repeal decision followed an earlier vote that fell just short of the needed two-thirds majority to ' approve a change in an 1,100-year-old communion practice adhered to by American Catholics . Because the vote was so close , church rules require that 28 prelates , absent from the proceedings but eligible to - vote , be polled by mail before the vote tally is official . The proposed change would give the nation 's 49 million Catholics the option of receiving the communion wafer in their hands instead of having it placed directly on the tongue , READING FROM a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excommunication penalty , Bishop Cletus O'Donnell , of Madison , Wis. , said , " The dimensions of fills decision are very real . " It welcomes back to the community of believers in Christ all who may have been separated by excommunication . It offers them a share in all the public prayers of the church community , It restores theft- right to take part in church services , " But the statement emphasized : " Lifting of the burden of excommunication does not of itself permit those who have remarried after divorce to receive the sacraments of penance and the Holy Eucharist . " The bishops said the divorced and remarried Catholic should see the decision as a " genuine invitation " and " a gesture of love and reconciliation " to return to the church where " clearer and simpler procedures " are available for resolving marriage problems in accordance with church law , ESTIMATES OF THE number of divorced Catholics in America have been ? as high as 8 million , with half of them believed to be remarried . The U.S. has been the only nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule 's adoption last century . When asked to predict how the pope might respond to the repeal recommendation , Bishop O'Donnell said , " I think that I would be the most surprised individual if he ' did n't grant it . " During the 90 minutes of discussion on communion , Bishop Joseph Sullivan , of Baton Rouge , La. , argued that the bishops would " shock our people by making this change . Our people are going to interpret It as another way of degrading the sacrament , " But . Archbishop John R. Quinn , of San Francisco , contended that the Vatican appa1rently feels the communion change N not degrading , since the Pope has already approved the new practice in 50 other nations , including Mexico and , Canada . ' Some *bishops advocated - the communion reform because the practice of communion in the hand is already observed  --  although unauthorized  --  in some U.S. parishes .                     