@@728367

txt The federal government 's Philadelphia plan to bring racial integration to the construction trades , inspires remarkably little enthusiasm in this historic City of Brotherly Love . A reporter visiting Philadelphia finds the plan condemned by unions and the construction industry and ridiculed as inadequate by a number of responsible Negro leaders . Most , however , agreed that the plan is at least a step toward groups in their work crews . Under the Philadelphia plan , firms seeking federal building contracts are required to hire specific numbers of minority group members in their work crews . Hit Quota System Industry and union officials charge that this is a quota system that is in violation of federal civil rights laws . Industry also condemns the proposal because under the plan it must bear the full burden of integrating work crews . Some Negroes belittle the plan because it contains few Provisions for training blacks for construction trade jobs . Praise Chicago Plan Some members of all three groups spoke favorably of the so-called Chicago plan , a voluntary program for training large numbers of Negroes for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Philadelphia plan was . launched after an investigation by the . department of labor of job discrimination in the Philadelphia construction industry . The bulk of the task was undertaken by Arthur Fletcher , a Negro assistant secretary of labor , and a former professional football player and onetime special assistant to Gov . Daniel J. Evans of Washington . Fletcher revealed a pattern of discrimination in six craft unions . He determined " such a low rate of participation is due to the traditional exclusionary practices of these unions in admission to membership and apprentice programs and failure to refer minorities to jobs in these trades . " Records here indicated the 1969 membership and minority employment in the six crafts were as follows : Ironworkers , 850 members , 12 or 1.4 per cent minority representatives ; steamfitters , 2,300 , 13 of whom or .65 per cent were from minorities ; sheetmetal worker s , 1,688 members with 17 or 1 per cent minority representation . Of 2 , - 274 electricians , 40 or 1.76 per cent were , black . The elevator construction workers had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the plumbers and plpefitters showed a membership of 2,335 and only 12 or .51 per cent black . This was five years after enactment of the civil rights act of 1964 which barred racial discrimination in hiring practices , and two years after President Johnson 's executive order which barred discrimination on all federally funded construction projects and provided sanction , including cancelation of contracts , for violators . To date not a single contract in the Philadelphia area has been canceled . Backed by White House Fletcher 's Philadelphia plan to . correct this situation has had the full backing of the White House and Labor Sec . George P. Schultz . The plan was first introduced la.t June and rev ised in September . Its provisions were clear . Henceforth , a 1 I contractors in the Philadelphia area and five surrounding counties would submit with bids on federal projects or federally assisted projects of more than $500,000 definite commitment to hire a certain percentage of minority group workers in each of six trades . The ultimate goal in the Philadelphia plan is to provide that at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on all federal projects be from minority groups . Under the plan , contractors must seek the minority workers , with or without union support . Failure to comply can mean cancelation of contracts , refusal by the government to accept contractors ' bids , and other sanctions . Plan Called Nonsense " This plan is nonsense , ' said Harry Taylor , executive director of the General Building Contractors association , Inc . " The contractors are forced to guarantee results within a quota which is clear violation of the civil rights act . In fact , it 's discrimination in reverse . " Taylor said , " The federal government is using its contracts to force contractors to do something beyond its power . The government stripped us of that power when it enacted the various labor laws favorable to unions . " Taylor , who heads the association of 104 general contracting firms doing about 85 per cent of the government contracts in the Philadelphia area , said the group has been actively encouraging b l a c k youths into building trades careers since 1961 . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all the trades . The unions boycotted the scheduled meeting to formally propose the program , but without union support the plan had to be abandoned . Taylor suggested the government deal directly with the unions and use the power it has vested in the justice department to correct instances of discrimination . Pull Out Stops Top labor leaders , including George Meany , AFL-CIO president , and a long-time champion of civil rights and equal job opportunity , have pulled out all the stops on Capitol hill to fight the Philadelphia plan . Joined by contractor association lobbyists they have also carried the fight to the courts . The latest effort is a federal District court suit filed here Jan. 5 by the Contractors Association of Eastern Pennsylvania challenging the constitutional validity of the plan . The group charged that the requirement to use race or national origin as a specific criteria for hiring and the quota system is unconstitutional . " If we are forced to adhere to this plan construction costs are going to increase , " an association spokesman said . " We work on very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government holding up funds every time some hair-brained militant claimed there was discrimination on a job . " What about Philadelphia 's black community and the plan ? Coalition Leader Speaks " If I were a union leader I 'd ignore it , " asserted Charles W. Bowser , executive director of the Philadelphia , Urban coalition . " All it says is that they the government want reasonable goals if there are black journeymen available , and that they will take affirmative steps to train them . That 's all it says . " The fact of the matter is that in most towns they 're not going to find black journeymen . But because they unions and contractors are kicking up such a storm about it some people are going to get the black journeymen ready . " Bowser , a 39-year-old black attorney , is a former deputy to Philadelphia 's Mayor James H. J. Tate . The urban coalition office is on the fourth floor of a nonelevator building . It is reached by climbing three flights of stairs . The office does not serve as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for diligent , hard-working blacks and whites overseeing programs valued at more than three million dollars , and 49 individual self-help community projects funded thru the coalition . Bowser said he is not " high " on the federal government 's plan but said he feels ti is a start . The effectiveness of any plan , he said , relies on auxiliary programs to provide the training , ? funding , technology , and business backgrounds for blacks to participate in all facets of the building industry . Bowser and the coalition anticipated reluctance , and in some cases outright hostility , to the Philadelphia plan by contractors and unions a n d took steps to meet the challenge . It organized a 109-member organization of Negro builders called the General &; Specialty C o n tractors Association of Philadelphia G. A. S. C. A. P.. Members are learning how to estimate , schedule and bid on government jobs and how to acquire the necessary performance bonds . Establish Loan Fund A revolving loan fund was set up at the Fidelity bank to provide $200,000 in working capital when black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal government grant of $500,000 for loans , management training purposes , and the training of the socalled hard core for construction jobs . G , A , S , C.A.P . presents a serious challenge to contractors and the unions . In cases where contractors and the unions shut out blacks in violation of the Philadelphia plan , Bowser is preparing black contractors to bid on , the projects and put black tradesmen to work . Bowser is not anti-union.                     