@@729661

txt The European Economic Community 's executive commission formally proposed today that the United States devalue the dollar as an integral part of a major realignment of the currencies of the main industrial countries . The proposal was contained in a five-page document that was submitted by the commission to the Common Market 's decision-taking Council of Finance Ministers for consideration at its meeting in Brussels next Monday . The E.E.C . ministers are to discuss the reform of the international monetary system then . The commission stated that a satisfactory equilibrium in international currency relations could be re-established only by a realignment of parities by the major industrialized countries . " Such a realignment should include the currency of all the countries concerned , including the dollar , " the commission added . ' Burden of Adjustment " This process " should b66rried out in such a way to allow the distribution ' of 4 ' + he burden of adjustment to account of the relative nomic situation of each c try , " it stressed . The United States was morei. over warned to keep its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noting that the new monetary equilibrium could only be maintained if all coun-.1 tries respected the obligations and constraints of the adlustment process . Other major proposals urged by the commission were the gradual phasing out of the re : serve role of national currencies and a corresponding increase in the role of Special Drawing Rights in international liquidity . Special Kind of Money Special Drawing Rights were created by the International Monetary Fund in 1969 to serve as a special kind of international money  --  or " paper gold " ? that central banks could use to make payments among themselves . At the end of July , ' S. D. R. 's equal to $6.4-billion were outstanding , of which $1.1-billion were held by .. the United States and $2.2-billion were held by the industrial European countries . The commission stated that international liquidity would continue to be based on gold and " to an increasing degree by reserve instruments protectively created and directed on an international level , " " This implies the application and development of the Special Drawing Rights system . It is thus important to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national currencies , " it added . The commission stressed that fixed parities mug still constitute one of the main pillars of the reformed international monetary system in order to safeguard trade , It said , how ever , that it was necessary to , take action to prevent exces- , sive inflows of speculative capital attracted by high in'terest rates in one or another of the Common Market 's six member countries , France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxemburg . This , it added , could best be done by widening the margin of fluctuation of E.E.C . currencies against third countries . ' No proposals were advanced by the commission on the joint action to be taken by the E.E.C . on the commercial measures , especially the imposition of the 10 per cent import surtax , announced last month by President Nixon . The commission said that abolition of the surtax would contribute to a solution of the problems posed by a realignment of exchange rates . Political Discussion Set The foreign ministers of the six E.E.C . countries are expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American moves at a meeting in Brussels on Sept. 20 . The commission intends to submit a detailed and comprehensive analysis for that meeting on the effects of the surtax on world trade . A working group of commission experts was set up this week to study the question . Commission sources stressed however that the Common Market countries stood to lose hevily if this tax was not speedily removed . They pointed out that 88 per cent of the E.E.C . ' s exports to the United States would be affected by the tax . The breakdown of each country 's exports is as follows : West Germany , 94 per cent ; Italy , 86 per cent ; France , Belgium and Luxembourg , 83 per cent , and the Netherlands , 75 per cent . The commission also pointed out that the E.E.C . had constantly registered a heavy deficit on its trade balance with the United States . This is , on average , $2-billion a year . American exports to the Common Market have been steadily rising , In 1958 , they totaled $6.3-billion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase over the 12 years was 341 per cent against an increase of 249 per cent for American exports to the rest of the world . The commission said it intended to keep on the table its proposals made earlier to try to resolve the short-term problems posed by the dollar crisis . Because of differences between France and West Germany the E.E.C . is stalemated in its efforts to reach a common position on this matter . The commission proposed establishment of " fixed and realistic exchange rates " among the six nations combined with a joint float and concerted intervention by the E.E.C . ' s central banks in the exchange market . The Paris-Bonn differences center on France 's refusal to alter the parity of her currency . The six have temporarily abandoned efforts to reach agreement on the short-term problems and are concentrating efforts now on reforming the monetary sysatem.                     