@@729722

txt The momentous question as to who will represent China at the UN remains a cliffhanger . The crucial debate on China begins in the General Assembly Monday . Various unofficial head counts that attempt to nail down delegation support are so inconsistent as to the outcome that pundits here are left in a state of tantalizing uncertainty . Seldom at the UN has an issue excited such an inordinate  --  amount of delegate interest , or been so unpredictable in its outcome , or been so important in its imphcations . Will Communist China , embracing a quar ter of the world 's population , remain a political outcast at the UN , excluded from common discussion on such issues as disarmament and the Middle East ? Of equal concern to the United States is whether the UN may set a precedent by expelling Taiwan , a country the U.S. considers loyal and faithful in. its obligations . Moreover , Taiwan 's 14 million population exceeds that of two-thirds of the individual member states . With such dramatic possibilities facing the General Assembly , it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since the margin between the two sides is so narrow and since just a small bloc of nations still remains uncommitted the result could go either way . A steady erosion of support for the American resolution which would keep Taiwan in has been apparent for some time , but the Americans have fresh confidence they will win . According to one of their spokesmen , " There is a distant feeling after a psychological trough that the U.S. is going to- the top of the wave again and that things look better . " Confidence , of course , is essential in this psychological warfare . Meanwhile , the backers of the Albanian cosponsored resolution which seeks to oust Taiwan believe the Americans are " running scared . " // *UN 's China cliff-hanger // To them this explains why 300 House them this explains why more than 300 House of Representative members and 21 senators are pushing for a reduction in the U.S. contribution to the annual UN budget if Taiwan is dropped from membership . Separate tables The issue would not be complicated if the People 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nationalist China . Since it is not , a number of nations who might otherwise vote for Taiwan are expected to back the Albanian resolution because they consider entry of the People 's Republic of China to the UN a political necessity . The other disadvantage for Taiwan is that a significant , number of states who are otherwise sympathetic to it are reluctant to imperil their own future relations with Peking by voting for the American dual-representation resolution . Their concern of being diplomatically exposed is all the more real in the light of America 's own efforts to normalize relations with Peking . Six days for debate Six full days have been set aside for the China debate . Since more  --  thaTC100 ? countris -- have expressed a desire to speak , the probability is that the debate will go beyond its allotted time . Only then when the debate ends and the voting begins will the real struggle start . Delegates here are convinced that for American hopes to stay alive it is absolutely imperative for the U.S. to secure priority for its " important question " resolution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such importance that it requires a two-thirds majority to pass . It would take only a simple majority to effect such a resolution . If the Americans do achieve this goal , then it is considered unlikely that Albania and its cosponsors could muster the two-thirds vote that would then be required to oust Taiwan . Possibility noted The alternative is obvious . As a well informed UN commentator put it . " If the Americans lose on the two-thirds vote then they have had it . The Albanian resolution then comes forward and is carried by a simple majority " ( the Albanians secured a 51-to-49 majority last year ) . That being so , the American substantive resolution calling for dual representation for the People 's Republic of China and Nationalist China becomes irrelevant .                     