@@734396

txt Alan Riding 's article ( " Facing the Reality of Mexico , " Sept. 18 ) was a thoughtful and stimulating analysis of an exciting country , which those of us who live here find endlessly fascinating . But as an American who has been associated in business with Mexicans for more than 30 years , I believe that Mr. Riding is mistaken in implying that Ambassador Patrick J. Lucey unwisely limited his contacts within the Mexican Government to former Foreign Minister Santiago Roel . The Lucey-Roel friendship was well known , and was regarded by many as an asset in repairing the many years of misunderstanding and neglect that Mr. Riding accurately criticized . However , I have personal knowledge of Mr. Lucey 's close friendship and working relationship with many other key Mexican Government officials with whom it is imperative to maintain a personal dialogue to develop a clear understanding of the vital issues between our countries . We have a habit in the United States of unduly criticizing our public servants . Mr. Lucey is a good one , who represents his country well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willingness to understand the Mexican point of view and explain it to his countrymen . VICTOR N. AGATHER Mexico City I read with great pleasure Alan Riding 's superb article . In discussing the psychological difficulties between Mexico and the United States , however , I wish he had quoted the Mexican saying : Pobre Mexico , tan lejos de Dios y tan cerca de los Estados Unidos ( Poor Mexico , so far from God and so close to the United States ) . DONALD D. WALSH Madison , Conn . The Great S.A.T . Debate Bravo to Thomas C. Wheeler for his well-aimed attack on the use of multiple-choice College Board exams ( " The American Way of Testing , " Sept. 2 ) . There is no question that such exams teach students an important lesson : Do n't think ! Just get the right answer . The machine that grades your exam does n't care about your thought processes . THEODORE L. STEINBERG Department of English , State University of New York Fredonia , N.Y . Every year we congratulate ourselves for recruiting a group of freshmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national average , and by midSeptember every year we are again disillusioned by their poor performance in class . The problem is , as Thomas Wheeler points out , that what is being taught at the secondary level is not how to write , but rather , how to take the S.A.T . The results are predictable : high scores and poor performance . We somehow need to test a potential student 's ability to do math . not to take a test . WALTER L. PERRY Major , U.S.A. Assistant Professor of Mathematics , United States Military Academy West Point , N.Y . On behalf of the more than 2,500 colleges , universities , and secondary schools that make up the membership of the College Board , I would like to express my surprise and concern at your publishing Thomas Wheeler 's article . Among Mr. Wheeler 's major misconceptions is that the S.A.T . is a device invented by Educational Testing Service and imposed capriciously upon students . E.T.S. is a separate and independent research and measurement agency with whom the College Board contracts to provide many services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutional members of the College Board are primarily responsible for the S.A.T . and its use in education today . Thousands of studies by colleges and universities show beyond doubt that the S.A.T . is a good predictor of some of the qualities needed to succeed academically in first-year college work  --  which was its purpose in 1928 , and remains so today . Mr. Wheeler fails to take into account one of the most important innovations of the past quarter century , the Advanced Placement Program , sponsored by the College Board , which depends upon a series of rigorous subject-matter essay examinations as a key part of its purpose . A.P.P. offers about 100,000 students each year an opportunity to carry out college-level studies // in their own high schools , to be examined on their achievement , and to receive college placement or credit upon entering college GEORGE H. HANFORD Acting President , The College Board New York City Mr. Wheeler failed to mention one contributing factor to students ' inability to write ? the widespread use of workbooks in elementary schools . Students are required to read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than sentences . Teachers favor workbooks over written compositions because of the ease and speed of grading , but it is evident that students are being victimized to benefit teachers and textbook publishers . Down with workbooks ! Up with composition ! DORIS R. ASMUNDSSON Professor of English , Queensborough Community College Bayside , N.Y . Friends and Lovers In Marriage li sex therapists are seeking the answer to why there is rarely passionate sex within marriage ( " Is There Sex After Marriage ? " by Carol Botwin , Sept. 16 ) , they will never find it unless they explore the profound inequalities between women and men in our culture . They do suggest that " underlying rage " is partially responsible , but no analysis is given as to the source of that rage . It is the separate roles that cause the rage : the woman 's changing her name and domicile to follow her husband ; the man 's being responsible for providing the money and the " manly strength . " It is no wonder that the behaviorists report only a 10 percent " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for each other . Touching exercises wo n't work ; antidepressants wo n't work . When men and women can be equals , they will be friends . And friends do n't need aphrodisiacs in order to have lusty fun in bed . KAREN DEC ROW Syracuse , N. Y. There are sexologists who believe that when a couple has maintained a good friendship over the years , sex is dull ; but that when there is an element of hostility in the relationship , sex is often very exciting . MORTON I. MOSKOWITZ Brooklyn , N. Y. I got a kick out of Carol Botwin 's article . I especially prized the discovery of " desire " as the crucial fifth phase in the conceptualizaton of the sex act . When I asked a friend what she thought the other four phases were , she suggested : yes ; no ; maybe ; forget it . MARK K. DOEFFINGER Plymouth , Mich . Fashionable Accents To show that language scholars once railed against some elements of style that are acceptable today , LauBlocked due See full pal micro rence Urdang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richard Grant White , who in 1889 pontificated that the broad " a " in such words as glass and father , was a shibboleth to determine whether a speaker was the beneficiary of a social culture that began at the cradle . Until the end of the 18th cenury , the vowel in these words was pronounced like the " a " in cat . About 1780 , the broad " a " began to be heard , but it was considerd a rusticism and avoided by careful speakers in England and America . A little later , however , for reasons unknown , its use became fashionable in London and spread to New England , but not to the rest of the United States . FRANCIS GRIFFITH Port Washington , N.Y .                     