@@732125

txt Brushing aside warnings that New York City 's fiscal crisis should be a warning against government overspending , the House of Representatives Tuesday easily overrode President Ford 's veto of a $7.9 billion education appropriations bill . The vote , , which was 379 to 41 , or 99 votes more than , the required two-thirds majority , was taken at almost the same time that Ford was vetoing another and nioie controversial measure extending price controls on most domestic oil for six months . , The Senate is expected to override the veto of the ' education bill Wednesday Immediately after it undertakes the more difficult task of trying to override Ford 's veto of the oil price control measure . A SENATE VOTE to override the veto of the education bill would mark only the second time in six attempts so far this year that the heavy Democratic majorities in both houses have mustered two-thirds margins to enact a bill rejected by the Republican President . Congress overrode his veto of a $2 billion health care bill last July after the House failed earlier in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing , strip mining , and public-service jobs legislation . According to a tally by the House Democratic leadership , if the Senate overrides the veto of the education bill Wednesday , " Congress will seta recordfor overriding the vetoes of Republican Presidents in this century . " It would be the sixth override of a veto since Ford took office 13 months ago , against five overrides of vetos by former President Richard M. Nixon . FORMER PRESIDENT Harry S. Truman , a Democrat , had 12 vetos overridden by Congress . Ford , however , also has had eight votes sustained by Congress . Ford , stressing the need for fiscal discipline , vetoed the bill July 25 on the ground that it provided $1.5 billion more than he requested . The bill provides funds for federal aid fOr elementary and secondary and higher eduCation , plus programs such as bilingual education , vocational education , and student loans . The few Republicans who urged that the veto be sustained warned that the federal deficit could top $80 billion in the current fiscal year unless Congress shows restraint . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing programs , " Rep. Barber B. Conable Jr . ( R. , N.Y. said : " We should learn a lesson from them , because the federal government is in worse shape than New York City . " He said the reason the federal government does not have the obvious fiscal crisis of New York is that Washington has " presses that print money . " In urging that the veto be overridden , Rep. Daniel , J. Flood ED : , Pa. ; floor manager of the measure , contended that the funds provided in the current fiscal year are only $255 million , or 3.6 per cent , above those of the previous Year . " That 's far below the cutient inflation " rate of 8 per cent , " Flood said . Only five Democrats and 36 Republicans voted to sustain the veto , while 276 Democrats and 103 Republicans voted to override .                     