@@729241

txt Prime Minister Heath 's decision early this month to let Rolls-Royce go into bankruptcy dramatized the radical nature of his politico-economic strategy in a way that months of speeches , legislative proposals and even budget revisions failed to do . The refusal of further subsidies to the aerospace and auto company brought home Mr. Heath 's intention to reduce the role of Government and rely morn on private enterprise to spur Britain 's economic growth rate after a quarter-century of near-stagnation . Mr. Heath hopes that the enterprise element in the flabby free-enterprise half of the economy can be revitalized for the harsher competitive climate Britain will face after entry into the Common Market . The immediate task is to hold back wage inflation , which threatens to lift internal demand and imports , endangering exports , the balance of payments and the results achieved through devaluation of the pound . Over the last decade , Britain has tried to limit wage and price rises through statutory controls , official guidelines , voluntary guidelines and prior examination by a prices and incomes board . Despite brief periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently rising at a rate of 7 or 8 per cent annually and wage settlements providing annual increases of about 14 per cent . Labor party spokesmen favor reliance again on some form of , wage-price control for a brief period while the economy is stimulated by increased Government spending and expansion of credit . Mr. Heath , philosophically opposed to reimposition of Government controls , is holding credit firm and attempting to mobilize public opinion in support of a different approach . He is seeking gradually to reduce wage settlements from 14 per cent to 10 per cent or less . His lever is resisting larger increases in the public sector , accepting strikes if necessary , and exhorting private firms to do the same . Mr. Heath has had one limited success . Public pressure in December led workers in the nationalized electricity industry to halt slowdowns and accept a study by a fact-finding board . The board recently recommended raises that the Government says would average just under 11 per cent , though some economists believe the actual mean would be far higher . Postal workers have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pat on its offer of only a 9 per cent raise . In the private sector , Ford , with Government encouragement , is holding firm on a similar offer . Mr. Heath is apparently in no hurry to achieve his objective of an increase in the growth rate from 2.2 per cent to 3.5 per cent a year ; he prefers a slow rise . He is anxious to safeguard Britain 's comfortable payments surplus abroad , which may have exceeded $1.5 billion last year ; that is ' sufficient to repay short-term and medium-term debts while leaving enough to finance Britain 's Common Market entry . Yet even with a working majority in Parliament and no need to call elections until 1975 , Mr. Heath is under pressures both to reflate the economy and to take more drastic action against inflation . Many economists believe he still will have to resort to more formal wage-price controls . Unemployment in early February reached its highest level in eight years . A committee of experts appointed by the previous Government is now urging Mr. Heath  --  despite his decision to let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ailing machine tool industry . Mr. Heath has demonstrated dramatically that his faith in private enterprise and his abhorrence of Government subsidy for industry are more than rhetoric . But it is too early to conclude either that this strategy will work for Britain or that he will be able to stick with it over the long haul .                     