@@733187

txt Widespread looting in New York City continued into the daylight hours yesterday in the aftermath of the blackout , with more than 3,300 people arrested ? for plundering and vandalism . The violence erupted in all boroughs except Staten Island and left hundreds of stores with merchandise stolen and miles of streets littered with glass and debris . The heaviest hit areas were the primarily black and Hispanic neighborhoods of Harlem and East Harlem , the South Bronx , the Bedford-Stuyvesant , Bushwick and Crown Heights in Brooklyn and Jamaica , Queens . By 10 P.M. , calm appeared to have been restored to the hard-hit areas of Brooklyn , including the East Flatbush , Crown Heights , Brownsville , BedfordStuyvesant , Bushwick and Flatbush sections . Even as Mayor Beame was decrying " a night of terror " at a noontime City Hall news conference , roving bands of ouths and adults were breaking into ores carrying off food , furniture and television sets . The Mayor said that he had been in touch with court officials and had been " assured the looters will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appliances or even furniture . In the Bronx , an automobile dealer said a steel door and window in his showroom had been smashed and 50 new cars driven away . The mass arrests created severe overcrowding in the city 's prisons and long delays in the arraignment courts . The city obtained permission from Federal judges to temporarily reopen the Tombs prison in Manhattan , and at least one juvenile jail , which had been closed by the courts because of their decrepit condition . The arraignment process was snagged by the slowness in checking the criminal records of the 3,300 suspects because of the power failure interfered with a central computer system in Albany . There were scattered complaints from businessmen and bystanders that the police sometimes ignored the looters , However , in making arrests and dispersing rioters , more than 80 policemen were injured , including one officer in the Bronx who was shot in the leg . Other officers came under attack from snipers and rock and bottle throwers . One looting suspect was shot and killed by a Brooklyn merchant in the Fort Greene section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded after they looted a liquor store at 2764 Eighth Avenue the police reported . The owner of the liquor store , who has a pistol permit , was questioned in the incident , the police said , but she denied doing the shooting . Along with the looting , a wave of fires ? many of them believed to be the work of arsonists  --  plagued the fire Department . At one suspicious fire in Brooklyn 's Bushwick section , 22 firemen were injured . In . the Ocean Hill section of Brooklyn a fire that started in a looted factory warehouse leaped across the street and destroyed four tenements , then spread to two other houses behind the warehouse . Assistant Fire Chief Adolph Tortoriello said that firemen had been called to the scene ? at Stone Avenue and Somers Street  --  one hour earlier and extinguished a small blaze . Chief Tortoriello said it " definitely " appeared to be a case of arson . Firemen fought the later blaze , which went to five alarms , for about three hours before bringing it under control shortly before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in four of the buildings destroyed by the fire . He estimated that about 30 people were evacuated . Of the four t ' buildinc , s on the other side of Stone Street , only two were occupied . According to several witnesses , the factory housed an appliance warehouse on its lower floor and a small garment factory upstairs . The ' looting reportedly took place in the appliance section . Even after the blaze , had been brought under control , the cellar of the factory resembled a coke oven in a steel factory , filled with hot coals and flames . According to firemen , it took only 45 minutes for the building to collapse after the fire began . Police officials were unable to determine which of the vandalized Imes . had sustained the most damage . But a Fire Department spokesman said a fire-ravaged commercial area on Broadway in Bushwick was the city 's worst-hit section . For most of yesterday , the police maintained a force of 11,000 officers and supervisors to cope with the robberies and thefts . All days off were canceled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , at the height of the disturbances yesterday , between midnight and 4 A.M. , the police were able to muster fewer than 8,000 of their 25,000 officers and supervisors . About 10,000 officers who were neither on vacation nor sick leave apparently failed to heed , or did not hear of , Police Commissioner Michael J. Codd 's order to report to duty immedi -- ately . A sergeant in Brooklyn 's 78th Precinct said many policemen disregarded Commissioner Codd 's order because they were " disgruntled " over working conditions . The crime outburst during the power failure contrasted sharply with the last massive blackout 12 years ago . At that time , there were 96 arrests , mainly for minor offenses , With no attacks on the police and no looting . Almost as soon as the lights went out Wednesday , the police were flooded with reports of muggings , pocketbook snatchings and numerous break-ins at stores . Before the sun rose , gunfire crackled in many neighborhoods with the police reporting that they were under sniper fire . At the 24th Precinct ' station house on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " there were quite a few shots fired all around the West Side " but he was unable to say whether it was sniper fire or police trying to disperse looters . Dr. Steven Mills , director of the emergency room at Harlem Hospital , said that " a lot of gunshot wound " cases were brought into the hospital although he could not give specific numbers . Most of the patients with bullet wounds told hospital personnel that they had been " shot while running away , " Dr. Mills said . Although helmeted policemen carrying riot clubs were out in greater force by daylight , the officers were unable to completely halt the looting . At the Strauss Auto Supply Store a 110th Street and Eighth Avenue , the doors were smashed open , and dozens of people were carting off appliances . One woman in her middle 50 's , carrying a shopping bag , walked into the store and said laughingly : " Shopping with no money required . " On 138th Street between Brook A:venue and Cyprus Avenue in the South Bronx , policemen were bombarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looters from stores . The police eventually closed the street to traffic and routed the vandals from the roofs , where they found stockpiles of bricks and bottles . " Twenty businesses have been wiped out in this neighborhood , including jewelry stores , pawn shops , supermarkets and liquor stores . " said Detective Thomas Lonergan . " It 's just like , war . " On Ralph Avenue in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section , men and women were helping themselves to canned goods inside a supermarket . Among the major incidents reported yesterday were these : gAt the Ace Pontiac Showroom , 1921 Jerome Avenue in the University Heights section of the Bronx , 50 new cars , valued at $250,000 were stolen . Carl Neufeld , the owner , said a steel door and windows had been smashed to drive the cars out of the showroom . 9Along East 14th Street , youths roamed the streets , snatching purses from women . gin Jamaica , Queens , 32 stores were smashed open , with most of the targets jewelry , liquor and record stores . Most of the windows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Throughout the city , groups of 30 to 40 people , mainly teen-agers , gathered outside the vandalized stores , urging one another : " Let 's do it , let 's do it . " After breaking into a store , they fled upon hearing a police siren . But , soon after , if not arrested , they would smash another window or pull apart a protective door grating . Officer Gary Parlefsky of the 30th Precinct in Harlem said that , while trying to arrest looters , he and other officers came under fire from guns , bottles and rocks . " We were scared to death , " said the 30-year-old policeman . " Anyone who says he was not is lying  --  but worse than that , the blue uniform did n't mean a thing . " " They could n't understand why we were arresting them , " continued Officer Parlefsky . " They were angry with us . They said : ' I 'm on welfare . I 'm taking what I : teed . What are you bothering me for . " Officer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If he holds a flashlight and his other hand is wrapped in a towel , it 's a looter , " he explained . Many merchants rushed to their stores with gun 's to guard ? against looting . The police said that Dave Geller , a 44-year-old druggist at 392 Myrtle Avenue in Brook . lyn shot and killed a looter who broke into his store . Of the first 2,718 arrests related to the blackout , the police reported that the Bronx had 915 ; Brooklyn , 890 ; Manhattan , 750 ; Queens , 161 ; and Staten Island , 2 . The Bronx House of Detention was the only city prison that experienced any disturbances . Correction Commissioner Ben . jamin J. Malcolm , personally led a squad of correction officers armed with nightstick and shields , to retake dormitories where inmates were rioting on Wednesday night and early yesterday . There were no serious injuries reported . The only police officer reported to have been seriously injured yesterday was James Davey , 29 years old , who was shot in the leg while trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Burnside Avenue in the Brotut . Governor Carey ordered 250 state troopers sent to the city last night to assist the police in directing traffic at Intersections where street lights were . still out because of the power failure .                     