@@733455

txt Moscow is being forced anew to look two strategic ways at once : Not only toward the West , where it faces the United States and NATO , but to the East , where it sees a dark Chinese hand behind the new war in Asia between Vietnam and Cambodia . This double challenge is the central foreign policy issue the Kremlin faces as long as the split with China remains . The judgment here in Moscow is that the split is as deep as ever these days ? perhaps deeper . A lull in Soviet invective after the passing of Chinese Chairman Mao Tse-tung ended when those officials here who argue that the new Chinese leader , Hua Kuo-feng , and his men are uninterested in better Chinese-Soviet ' relations apparently won the day in the Politburo . // From pa e 1 Moscow : Cambodia hit Vietnam Recent year-end commentaries here have accused Mr. Ilua of simply " prettifying " Maoist policies and of actively working with imperialists ( i.e. , the United States ) in its foreign policy in general . An Asian as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart from America 's defeat in Vietnam . It praises Vietnamese achievements to the skies . It talks of the need of all " progressive " Indo-Chinese and Asian states to combat what it sees as Pentagon efforts to recoup the Vietnamese defeat . It also wants to block Chinese influence in Asia wherever possible . So . when hostilities broke out between Vietnam and Cambodia . Soviet response was predictably swift . From the start Moscow made it clear it fully supported Hanoi 's position that Cambodia was the aggressor . Moscow called for a cease-fire . Cambodian ithdrav , - als. and peace talks . It has mainly confined its public statements to replaying Western press reports critical of Cambodia and pointing to Chinese involvement in the Cambodian side . The Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda said Jan . S that many organs . ' of the foreign press reported " foreign military advisers in Khmer ( Cambodian ) military units . " But the underlying message has been plain . Western analysts agree . " The Vietnamese are our allies and friends " Moscow is saying . in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reacted sharply to a statement by White House National Security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski who said on television that the border clashes constituted a " proxy war between China and the Soviet Union . " Tass rejected claims that the Vietnamese also have been using " foreign advisers " ( whichwould mean Soviet advisers ) . The real U.S. aim in spreading such statements , Tass said , was to worsen relations between the Soviet and Chinese peoples . Dr. Brzezinski , wrote veteran Tass commentator Yuri Kornilov , was " passing off the desirable for the real . " Until about two months ago Moscow was avoiding any harsh comments on the new rulers of Cambodia , dismissing reports of a massacre of Vietnamese in Cambodia as propaganda . Now however , the Kremlin seems to have decided to consolidate its position in Vietnam at the risk of alienating the Cambodians . The Soviets have little influence in Cambodia . Their diplomats , along with most other outsiders , were expelled two years ago . China has the superpower edge there . Moscow has reported disapprovingly that Cambodian officials in Hanoi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite the fact that Hanoi did not order them to leave . Moscow labels as " slanderous " Cambodian claims that Vietnam has been attacking Cambodian territory . The Soviets , however , give only the sketchiest outline of the fighting itself . In vague language Pravda accuses " the supporters of an aggravation of tensions " as trying to fan hostilities . - Somebody " does not like the " principled and peaceful policy " of Vietnam . Pravda writes ? leaving the reader to judge whether the " somebody " is China and/or the United States acting in collusion . A news commentary on Tass Dec. 21 in effect condemned Peking for following the same policies as Western " imperialist " powers throughout the just-ended United Nations General Assembly session in New York . Previously the Soviet press had warned that Cambodia is responsible for its own acts and that it should beware of the consequences . There is no public indication of whether Moscow is stepping up military or economic aid to Vietnam . It is much better able to supply such aid than China , it is thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid when he met Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev here Nov. 4 . The Soviets are working on some 40 major projects in Vietnam , ranging from hydroelectric power stations to coal mines . Soviet technicians are also helping the Vietnamese prospect for oil , . gas . and minerals and improve agriculture . Moscow also is assumed to be providing considerable military aid .                     