@@729391

txt A Inew report to Congress on podice eavesdropping shows that ' the number of court-approved wiretaps used by Federal and state law enforcement agencies almost doubled in 1970 over the figure for 1969 . Last year , 597 court orders were granted throughout the United States authorizing the installation of electronic listening devices by state and Federal officers . In the previous year , the figure was 302 . The surge in wiretapping by law enforcement officers was marked by a sharp rise in surveillance by the Justice Department and the State of New Jersey . The Justice Department , which obtained 33 orders to eavesdrop in 1969 , got 183 last year . New Jersey , which has developed an aggressive agency in the office of Attorney General George F. Kugler Jr . to fight organized crime , got 132 court orders last year , compared with 39 the year before . The wiretap report , which was sent to Congress last Friday by Roland F. Kirks , Administrator of the United States Courts , has not yet been made public . A copy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covers only electronic sur-1 veillance that is used in criminal cases with court approval , Not covered is wiretapping done by Federal agents without court approval in internal ' security investigations . President Nixon said at a news conference yesterday that his Administration was doing less internal security eavesdropping than was done in the Kennedy Administration . At no time , he said , are more than 50 internal security wiretaps in operation under his Administration . He added that , in 1961 , 1962 and 1963 , the ceiling in effect was 100 devices . Court-approved eavesdropping by Federal and state anticrime investigators was authorized by Congress in the omnibus Crime Control Act of 1969 . The law requires each agency to report its surveillance activities each year to Mr. Kirks , who compiles a national report and files it with Congress . The report filed Friday was the second such report covering nationwide police eavesdropping for an entire year . The report showed that New York , which pioneered courtapproved police wiretapping four decades ago , still authorizes more of it than any other jurisdiction . There were 215 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with 191 in 1969 . The data indicated that policemen and prosecutors were becoming more skilled in using electronic eavesdropping . A higher percentage of the interceptions were incriminating last year than in 1969 and more arrests resulted . Last year , 1,874 arrests were said to have resulted from eavesdropping , compared with 625 the year before . The average device picked up 655 interceptions , of which 45 per cent were said to be incriminating . In 1969 , fewer interceptions were picked up on the average device and a lower percentage were incriminating . Because of the numerous reviews that are required before a court order for eavesdropping will be granted , wiretapping tends to be used in investigations of criminal activity that operates out of permanent quarters . In the Justice Department , an agent 's request for wiretap permission can move through 10 officials before it reaches Attorney General John N. Mitchell for his approval . By the time a judge approves it , two to three weeks have usually elapsed . Thus , 326 of the devices were placed in gambling establishments . Narcotics cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 20 , and bribery and loan sharking , 16 each . The report showed that the police preferred to use wiretaps of telephone lines rather than hidden microphones , called " bugs . " Of the 597 devices authorized , 539 were wiretaps , 29 were bugs and 29 were devices that picked up room conversations as well as telephone talks . Experts on electronic surveillance say that the heavy ratio of wiretaps shows a relatively reduced threat of invasions of privacy , as bugs can be monitored around the clock , in bedrooms and other private premises . However , the report showed that some policemen were overstepping the law 's intent , which was that surveillance should be directed at solving specific crimes and conducted for only brief periods . One wiretap , for instance , was placed on a private home in upstate New York in an " intelligence " investigation . It was left in operation for 414 days .                     