@@733875

txt Letters ( Rabbi ) BERNARD ROSENSWEIGSYED T. RAZARICHARD SWERDLINSYLVIA KRUGMANEUGENE R .... Letters Mideast Peace Talks : The Carter ' Brakes ' To the Editor ; There is a growing fear throughout the American community that the spirit engendered by Camp David , and the significant achievements which it inspired and produced , is in danger of being undermined and negated by the apparent radical shift in the policy of our President . President Carter made a significant contribution to peace at Camp David . His recent statements and actions threaten to reverse both the spirit and the process . There was no linkage at Camp David between the two " frameworks of peace , " between the Egyptian-Israeli peace proposals and the plan for the West Bank . The President himself conceded that the two were not " legally interconnected . " Nonetheless the Administration , in its desire to appease the so-called " moderate elements " in the Arab world , has insisted , almost obsessively , that the two documents must be inextricably connected in the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty . Why should the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of the United States ? It has become obvious to many that the slowing down of the peace ne gotiations between Egypt and Israel is not due to either Prime Minister Begin or President Sadat but to the brakes applied by the Government of the United States to the process . But what is even more disturbing is the dramatic shift in the role of the United States in these negotiations . Up to this point America has acted as the honest broker , the impartial mediator , trying to reconcile the differrences between the contending parties and nudging them toward agreement . However , the answers which the State Department submitted to King Hussein and the recent trip of Under Secretary of State Harold Saunders to the Arab world have made the United States a party to the dispute ? on the Arab side . How else are we to account for the reference by Mr. Saunders to East Jerusalem as " occupied territory " ? During the 19-year-period when East Jerusalem was in the hands of Jordan , the holy shrines of Jerusalem were systematically desecrated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sites . During the 11 years of a united Jerusalem , under the sovereignty of Israel , Jerusalem has become the universal city of mankind . It seems to us that the role of the United States should be to bring together the principals concerned with the West Bank for face-to-face negotiations , without preconditions , in the same manner in which the President succeeded in bringing together Presi. dent Sadat and Prime Minister Begin at Camp David . However , by its response to King Hussein and through the Saunders visit of clarification the United States has in effect set down prior conditions to the negotiations . The American Government , in essence , has dusted off the long-outmoded and discredited Rogers Plan , which Israel has rejected on more than one occasion . We would urge the President and the Administration to rekindle the spirit of Camp David , to assume the role of active moderator and bring together Israel and its Arab neighbors in a process which will lead to a just and lasting peace for all the parties in the area . ( Rabbi ) BERNARD ROSENSWEIG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1978 Of Iran 's Shah and the U.S. // Robert Neubeeker To the Editor : I am surprised and disappointed at the announcement by the Carter Administration and the U.S State Department regarding strong support for the Shah of Iran in that country 's recent political trouble . I believe that this stand is against the foreign-policy goals laid down by President Carter himself over the last few years . Moreover , it is self-defeating . Every indication is that the Shah of Iran is extremely unpopular among his people and that he has ruled Iran with an iron fist too long . The people there have risen against him and are not going to accept anything less than the end of his rule . The change from a civilian to a military government yesterday may quiet things down temporarily . However , I believe that this will not end the troubles in Iran for any length of time . The will of the people will eventually succeed . There will be drastic changes in the Iranian political setup within the next few months or years . And then the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because U.S. prestige will be linked closely to the discredited Shah . The United States should stay strictly neutral at the present time and perhaps should develop contacts with the emerging leadership in the opposition groups in Iran so that at least there is hope for continuation of the present close association between the two countries . For , after all , the only lasting thing is the people of Iran and the people of the United States , not the Shah of Iran or any individual- in the United States . With President Carter 's record , I had hoped that he would not repeat the past U.S. mistakes of identifying with various military or dictatorial regimes in different countries rather than with the peoples of those countries . It is simply disappointing . SYED T. RAZA Snyder , N.Y . Nov. 7 , 1978 Shopping in America : The Lazy Spenders To the Editor : ' Surveys indicate that many Americans find it hard to do even simple calculations involving pricing and spending . A possible explanation is an excessive gap between the teaching of abstract and applied facets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is overshadowed by laziness and indulgence to the point where using money wisely runs a poor second to considerations of convenience and pleasure . For years consumer advocates have pressed manufacturers and retailers for more information about their . wares . In rebuttal it was argued that few shoppers were really interested in details . Unfortunately this argument is borne out by studies of shopping habits . Even readable and useful unit price labels are ignored by many shoppers , despite their vociferous agonizing over high prices . Knowledge is never relevant unless students have the gumption to use it . Thus putting mathematics to work in daily life is at least as contingent on the attitudes of students as on the expertise of teachers . RICHARD SWERDLIN North Texas State University Denton , Tex. , Nov. 3 , 1978 Welcome Back ! ' To the Editor : How do 1 know what I think ? till I see what I say . E. M. Forster In any phraseology , welcome back ! At long last ! SYLVIA KRUGMAN New York , Nov. 7,1978 The Dollar 's Weakness Has Probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the significance of the dollar 's decline over the last several months is not exactly understood in this country , as its effect is less bad for the U.S. than is generally believed . Nor are the favorable changes now occurring to improve the dollar 's value properly appreciated , - both here and abroad . President Carter 's recently announced $30 billion support package and other measures will prove helpful , but not so much as the fundamental facts and improvements which , speaking only for myself , I have summarized in this letter . Clearly our principal industrial allies and our oil-producing friends are desirous of a stronger dollar . Our trading allies are paid primarily in dollars for the bulk of their exports ; they must hold most of these weakening dollars as the bulwark of their depreciating external reserves . Worst , they are finding it increasingly difficult to hold world markets for their exports against the U.S. with a weak dollar . These reasons alone are sufficient for the major E.E.C . countries , Japan , Saudi Arabia and certain other oil producers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strengthen our currency , and much behind-the-scenes pressure has been exerted on this Administration . From the U.S. point of view , however , the situation is somewhat different . In the first place , a weak dollar is the best competitive instrument available to help rectify the dangerous deficit in our balance of payments . The dollar at current levels helps our competitive position generally in our fight to develop new export markets , which will help our domestic economy in real terms . The dollar 's weakness also holds down imports because of their increased costs , which also helps our balance of payments . Very important , the decline of the dollar 's value does not hurt our external accounts as it does those governments holding dollars as an important part of their nation 's reserves . Obviously the dollar 's sharp decline has added some fuel to U.S. inflation , because of the increased cost of imports and the necessity for passing that on in the form of increased prices . But the degree of the dollar 's role in our present inflationary spiral may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire to pass the buck onto a condition over which they have little control . There is the very real fact that a weak dollar may well prompt OPEC to increase oil prices by an amount to once again create disturbing worldwide payment imbalances . Prime Minister Callahan stated in the House of Commons last week that , clue to speculative fever , the dollar 's value exceeded the present market 's judgment . He was probably referring to the following facts and prospects : ? The dollar 's continued weakness has occurred despite favorable news about the U.S. current account deficit in 1979 . ? In the five-month period ended in August , the U.S. trade deficit ran at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $27 billion , compared with $39 billion in the first quarter of 1978 . There has been a noticeable slowing in the U.S. import volume since the second half of 1977 , and a more recent pickup of U.S. exports , beginning in the second quarter of this year . This stems primarily from the dollar 's real effective depreciation . A 10 percent decline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the Administration 's goal . Just prior to the $30 billion stabilization package , the dollar was down over 13 percent from the value set in the 1971 Smithsonian Agreement . ? The I.M.F . ' s staff and the O.E.C.D . projections now call for the U.S. current account deficit to be cut roughly in half during the first half of 1979 from the projected 1978 levels . According to these forecasts , the U.S. current account deficit in 1979 would be from $5 billion to $10 billion , compared with more than $15 billion in 1978 . They also project that the U.S. could approach current account equilibrium by 1980 with the U.S. economy growing at a 3.5 percent rate . ? Both the I.M.F . and the O.E.C.D . economists have also revised their growth rate forecasts for the major industrial nations , including the U.S. There is now considerable accord about prospects for convergence of growth rates , at a level somewhat below 4 percent , among the key industrial nations over the next 15 to 18 . months . If this occurs , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imbalances during 1979 , which in turn will have favorable effects on the dollar . ? The passage of the energy bill , the recently announced inflation program , the increase in the Federal Reserve 's discount rate to an all-time high and the dollar support program ? all indicate the Administration 's seriousness to confront the fundamentals of the dollar problem . All in all , the dollar 's weakness has probably been exaggerated both in respect to its harmful effect for this country and in relation to the basic economic forces that are now turning the situation around . On balance , a stronger dollar is good for the U.S. and the world as a whole , and if present trends continue we trust that this will come about both from natural and supportive causes . EUGENE R. BLACK JR . New York , Nov. 7 , 1978                     