@@731676

txt The Ford administration is surprised , puzzled , and concerned by criticism now welling in Congress of the tentative U.S.-U.S.S.R. arms agreement . Administration officials feel they must defend anew the Vladivostok achievement of President Ford and Soviet Chairman Leonid I. Brezhnev as an important step in halting the nuclear arms race . If it leads to a formal agreement which is approved by Congress , they intend to follow it with an effort to negotiate a substantial decrease in the number of nuclear weapons on both sides . They view the present effort to stabilize the nuclear arms race as the necessary prerequisite to such an effort . The administration is concerned that opposition within the U.S. , particularly in Congress , could torpedo the present tentative agreement . State Department sources somberlywarned this week that opposition of this magnitude could seriously harm Soviet-American detente . The same day , the Ford administration twice warned Congress that opposition to another administration position , on trade reform , also could harm detente . President Ford said Tuesday night that the trade bill , now in the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day , in testimony before the Senate Finance Committee , Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger warned Congress that too much public debate over the Jewish emigration section of the trade agreement would anger Soviet leaders and harm detente . Thus does the Ford administration prepare to face questioning and congressional concern from two directions about the arms agreement . Some skeptics , notably Sen. Henry M. Jackson ( D ) of Washington , express concern that the agreement may have set ceilings that are too high . Others wonder whether the U.S. protected itself adequately in obtaining agreement with the Soviets . // * Ford worries about criticism // It is against this background of rising administration concern and congressional questioning that Secretary Kissinger appeared at midweek in closed-door session to brief members of the key Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the agreement . He is trying to explain details of the agreement and the need for it , to assuage potential critics both ! n the liberal and conservative camps . By so doing he would obtain broad congressional support for the essential and delicate negotiations to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement . Warhead verification Key to these negotiations , State Department sources say , is Soviet acceptance of the American proposal for verifying those missiles which carry multiple warheads , and those which do not . The U.S. proposal automatically would assume that any Soviet missile capable of carrying such warheads In fact does . I                     