@@728855

txt Lake County funeral directors have served as both deputy coroners and undertakers in 95 deaths this year and have received more than $9,000 for 40 funerals paid for by public funds , a TRIBUNE investigation has disclosed . j One of the directors who has held a public-paid funeral is Joseph J. Nemanich , a deputy coroner and member of the Lake County Board of Supervisors . State Law Told An Illinois statute prohibits public officials , elective or appointive , from having a direct or indirect interest " in any contract or the performance of any work in the making or letting of which such officer ' may be called upon to act or vote . " An Illinois attorney general 's opinion that has been on the books for 37 years states , " The coroner can not act in his official capacity and also as an undertaker. lie can not do his duty and give a body a decent burial as coroner , and give orders and directions to carry out that purpose to himself as undertaker. " 175 Deputy Coroners Coroner Orville S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them full-time and salaried . In 95 coroner 's cases this year tit e funeral directors served in both capacities and signed the death certificates . In only 32 of these cases was an autopsy held and in only three cases was an inquest held . The funeral directors signed the death certificates in 53 other deaths but the funerals were held in other chapels . In none of the cases did a doctor cosign the death certificate . The public-paid funerals were for 40 indigent persons who have died since Jan. 1 , 1969 . Their funerals were paid for by township relief funds , Veterans Administration , social security , or the Lake County branch of the Illinois Department of Public Aid . Altho autopsies and inquests are not always required and deputy coroners are authorbed to sign death certificates , the Orville S. CI avey Lake County system has been criticized by several public officials as causing a possible conflict of interest . Set Up for Expediency Clayey said the dual practice was developed for expediency . " The conflict is immaterial because we send the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The funeral directors sign nothing until they talk to me or my fulItime deputies and we tell them what to put on the death certificate . It saves us a lot of running around . The funeral directors do not act as deputy coroners in violent deaths . " I also have several policemen as deputies so they can move the body without waiting for me . I have deputies in every funeral home . So what am I going to do on public-paid funerals , move the body to Chicago ? If 1 deputized only half of the funeral directors , the other half would be screaming . " Nemanich said he has never acted as a deputy coroner and " if somebody else wants these public-paid funerals , they can have them . You lose money on them . "                     