@@729332

txt The two candidates in tomorrow 's mayoral election showed markedly different campaign tactics yesterday , with Richard E. Friedman setting out on a nonstop , 40-hour last - minute bid for votes , and Mayor Daley confining his activities to one brief appearance at a Democratic rally . Friedman announced that he intends to campaign nonstop until midnight tonight in an effort to garner more support before the voters go to the polls tomorrow . His last burst of campaign energy was indicative of most of his last several weeks of electioneering . Daley 's Sole Appearance Daley made his only campaign appearance yesterday when he attended a rally held by the Women 's Auxiliary of the 6th Ward Regular Democratic Organization in the Colonial House , 914 E. 79th St. He left the brunt of his last hours of campaigning to the organization 's well - drilled p r e - cinct workers and 500 volunteers from the We Care Committee , who moved into neighborhoods seen as possible Friedman strongholds . T h e door-to-door canvass by We Care members was conducted mostly by young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and one , the 25th Ward dinner-dance in the Sherman House , was billed as strictly a social event . Daley Repeats Predictions The mayor , speaking briefly to about 1,000 persons , repeated his predictions , of election victory and criticized Friedman for not discussing accomplishments of the city and concentrating on problems . On Saturday , Daley made only two campaign appearances . Friedman , the 41-year-old Republican-endorsed independent candidate , concentrated on G.O.P. ward meetings yesterday and encouraged precinct captains to not only " get out the vote , but to protect It also . " " Mr. Daley , if things start getting tight Tuesday , will steal as many votes as he can , " Friedman told 100 1st Ward representatives in a meeting at 400 E. Randolph St. In the meantime , campaign forces for both candidates fled to the streets in last-minute efforts to turn out the vote when the polls open at 6 a. rn. tomorrow . The Daley Style Daley aides said that the mayor would make relatively few appearances in the campaign 's final hours . Observers noted that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of precinct organizations . Edmund J. Kucharski , chairman of the Republican Central Committee of Cook County , reported that G.O.P. workers were in every ward and precinct in tho city , " and they will be working right thru Tuesday , " he said . Friedman started his lastminute campaign trek by appearing at a press conference in his headquarters at 105 S. La Salle St. with neighborhood representatives who are fighting to block construction of the Crosstown Expressway . He said the southern east-west leg of the proposed expressway , which Daley has been promoting , " points directly toward Lake Michigan and the site of the mayor 's proposed lake airport . " " Mayor Daley will ram the Crosstown thru South Shore and under Lake Michigan to his lake airport if he is elected , " Friedman said . He also charged that completion of the Crosstown would mean that as many as 5,000 families would be displaced as well as two schools and countless businesses . The Republican candidate also charged that " much of the land on the route of Daley 's Crosstown is locked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that insiders and favored politicians are holding the right-of-way land for handsome profits . " Friedman then embarked on his last campaign swing thru the city 's neighborhoods , where lie has spent most of his time in ' he last four months . a 33d Ward meeting of the Regular Republican Club , 2022 W. Roscoe St. , Friedman told 80 precinct workers , " We are on the brink of victory . " Pi alses Workers At a 47th Ward meeting , later , he said , " We will turn this city around Tuesday with people like you working so hard . " Friedman appeared at 20 such meetings and addressed workers from all 50 wards . During the night he planned to appear on television and radio talk shows and then cruise the city to visit with employes at Cook County 11 ( w pital , Police Headquarters at 11th and State Streets , and the meat and produce markets on Fulton and Halsted Streets . Daley 's campaign has lacked the fever pitch maintained by his opponent . The mayor has restricted his appearances mostly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonpartisan group that has been working to reelect Daley to a fifth term . Daley has primarily been campaigning on his record since he first took office in 1955.                     