@@733874

txt To the Editor : Your report on the " Berlin Wall " ( news story Nov. 7 ) at El Paso reflects the muddled thinking of otherwise intelligent people in both Mexico and the . United States . As everyone knows , the Berlin Wall divided the same country ; the proposed wall along the MexicanAmerican border would separate two different countries , however close they may be geographically and historically . Apart from the fact that illegal aliens may add to our economic woes ( a debatable point ) , their unlawful entry prevents us from checking on matters of health and character . This is not to say that they are lacking in either but that we simply have no way of telling . Surely every country has the right to some small amount of information about its immigrants without instantly being labeled a police state , just as an individual inspects the credentials of strangers before admitting them to his house . Furthermore , illegal aliens are vulnerable to unscrupulous exploiters To the Editor : The merciless massacre of the people of Nicaragua by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the United States to learn that it is wrong and imprudent to support despots and tyrants in Latin America under the pretext of protecting the area from Communism . Communism , to the great majority of Latin Americans , is something very foreign , as is Yankee imperialism , because the people of that area have realized that both are detrimental to their development . The United States , by cooperating with , if not sponsoring , regimes like those of Somoza in Nicaragua , Pinochet in Chile , Stroessner in Paraguay and Duvalier in Haiti , is preventing great numbers of citizens of those countries , who hold a profound democratic vocation and are committed to ideological pluralisim , from finding the path to much-needed reforms through a democratic process by the utilization of the elements relevant to their own realities . By helping these authoritarian governments , the United States contributes a great deal to the development of anti-North American feelings , which are masterfully exploited by Communist extremists . These extremists easily appear as the only viable alternative and , if successful , will become and can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a situation that creates still more injustice . What troubles me is our cavalier attitude toward the law . We pity the poor of Mexico ( who , strictly speaking , are the responsibility of their own Government ) to such an extent that we regard a fence marking a legal line between countries as some instrument of torture which prevents people from claiming their rights . Citizens of this country have rights too , and the hard fact is we have done little enough for our own poor , who must be served first . Mexicans should be no more privileged than any other group that chooses the U.S. as its home . Perhaps the fence can not prevent people from entering , but it may slow the stream , giving both sides in the dispute time to study the problem rationally without reviving old grievances , real and imagined , and hurling ethnic abuses at each other . MILDRED KUNER New York , Nov. 8 , 1978 despots just like the ones who have Washington 's blessing . I believe that President Carter 's greatest mistake in . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congratulate , only two months ago , President Somoza of Nicaragua for his achievements . The members of the U.S. Congress who criticized Mr. Carter on that occassion remembered well that the republic of Nicaragua , since it was given by the U.S. Marines to the Somoza family in 1933 , has been run as a feudal property . It is my firm belief that the United States , which is based on the rights to life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness , would never inflict on itself , and even less permit others to inflict on it , anything which would.contribute to its downfall in the way ' that the U.S. creates , sponsors and cooperates with governments whose sole purpose is to perpetuate the misery , hunger , exploitation , ignorance : and injustice ' inflicted on the people of those countries . The hope of the Latin American countries is in the democratic process . It is time for the United States to realize that democracy is not its monopoly and to remember that one of the virtues of its being an independent country itself is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . VICTOR V. MARIDUENA Jamaica , N.Y. , Nov. 7 , 1978 To the Editor : William Tucker 's " Anti-Tamperism " on the Nov. 7 Op-Ed page focuses directly and succinctly on the religiosity of the environment movement and the tendency by many environmentalists to impute a moral polarity to every economic issue and project they control . I suspect that most of your readers were not aware that the Sierra Club defines a " degraded environment " as any place affected by human activity . Presumably , that includes the Acropolis , St. Peter 's , the Great Wall of China , Taj Mahal , the Pyramids of Egypt and similar places befouled by ; he hand and presence of man . Incidentally , there is no small irony ( intended , I hope ) in your placing Mr. Tucker 's column . directly opposite Ruth - Weiss 's letter about the alleged perils of ' nuclear waste . She:provides us with a perfect example of what I am tempted to label that " moral mindlessness " which Mr. Tucker decries : " We can not continue on the path @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other path , that of alternative energy development . . fs more in keeping with life-centered , natural processes which , are readily available to all . " - It is not fair to charge the entire environment movement with this moral mindlessness ; there are many responsible , intelligent environmentalists who recognize and support the notion of balancing environmental values against needed economic development . But the  --  extremists should be reminded now and then that there is another kind of environment ? the unemployment line which is also degrading to people as well as to the planet . THOMAS R. JORDAN New York , Nov. 7 , 1971 Latin America : Helper of ' Tyrants ' City Dogs in Need of New Homes To the Editor : Surely an early issue of The Times after your resumption of publication should express gratitude to the dog owners of New York City for their compliance with the dog litter law . Two side effects have resulted from that law : one positive , one negative . The first has been that many more dogs are now on leashes , greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the cruel abandonment of animals by uncaring people Missing Dollar Lecture To the Editor : As a frequent visitor to and lover of your country , I learn with great sorrow about your economic difficulties and the inexplicable decline of the value of the once-almighty dollar . We in England know only too well what such a situation feels like . However , you have one great advantage over us . When we were in a similar plight three years ago , your famous Milton Friedman arrogated to himself the right to criticize and lecture us on the conduct of our affairs . You now have the benefits of his advice " for free " even though I have so far not read a word from him concerning your own crisis . HENRY MORTIMER Leicester , England , Oct. 27 , 1978 who should never have owned a dog . This latter situation is one where our suburban neighbors could help . If they are contemplating acquiring a dog and ca n't find one to suit them in their local shelters , I would urge them to turn to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendid selection . The adoption of the foundlings is the remaining step to be taken before we can cheer the success of our welcome new law . M. MCCRUM New York , Nov. 7 , 1978 A Friend Returns To the Editor : I imagine you 'll be getting a slew of letters from people telling how it was the day The Times came back . Like them , * I 'm eager to share this special moment , private but universal . Inexplicably I find myself all dressed up in my new jumper ( instead of slacks ) , real shoes and hose ( instead of clodhoppers and socks ) , hair and face in place ( instead of ugh ! ) ? before breakfast . Suddenly I realize the implication of this untoward sequence of events . My subconscious readied me for the role of hostess about to receive a long-absent , muchloved guest into my home . Welcome , morning friend ! PEGGY BOF.HM Rye , Nov. 6 , 1978 Frustrated Readers To the Editor : Historians of our time will find it symptomatic that , while pornographic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , one block away the central New York Public Library-is forced to lock up the sources of our civilization two full days a week , and every night but one . These are the very times when most working New Yorkers can avail themselves of that main repository of knowledge . Politicians interested in more than lip service to our citizens should start with making the library available to people when they need it , and encouraging fuller use of its cultural resources . R. ELTON New York , Nov. 6 , 1978 Theft-Resistant Basket To the Editor : In reference to the problem of litter baskets being stolen , I offer the following possible solution : Put plastic garbage bags inside each litter basket and bolt the litter baskets to the sidewalk . Not only would this possibly reduce theft of litter baskets , it would also make work easier for the sanitationmen . JESSE BRYANT New York , Nov. 7 , 1978 Ian Smith and the Rhodesian Issue : A British Perspective To the Editor : You may care to hear the views of a British reader of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith 's visit to the United States and the Rhodesian problem in general . At the time of the unilateral declaration of independence the British Government would have dearly loved trouble-free independence for Rhodesia , as for other colonies , with the changing of flags to the sound of " Auld Lang ? Syne . " But with the recalcitrance of Ian Smith came not only a blow to Britannia 's good intentions but a threat to her wallet : the near certainty that weakness would damage trade and good relations with the rest of Africa . And so we had sanctions , always a slippery weapon and in this case a political rather than a moral action . After all , in the somber record of man 's inhumanity to man , white Rhodesia came well down the list of countries meriting excommunication . There might have been a case for Britain , alone and in tattered dignity , refusing any contact with the rebels , but to harangue the United Nations to do likewise was unbelievable . After the recent revelations about the farce of the oil embargo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it must be said that almost the only country outside the Eastern bloc to take sanctions seriously was Zambia , much to that country 's economic damage . The reactions of the British people as a whole to all this has been , as usual , muddled and ambivalent ; something much less than enthusiasm for successive governments ; irritation with Ian Smith ; recently a great revulsion against that 20th-century refinement , terrorist and guerrilla warfare . and an uneasy look at the U.S.S.R. , not concerned with ideology but good oldfashioned imperialism , with Russia now poised on the borders of India and penetrating deep into Africa . We ? and even you ? may forgive some ineptitudes in the last twilight flicker of the British Empire , so may 1 conclude with a little flag-wagging . The afternoon of the Empire had a good deal of arrogance , greed , pomposity , hypocrisy and bad temper , presided over , for some years , by a rather stupid old lady . But nevertheless , with the paradox and relativity inherent in human affairs , there was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands during the last century . And if you will forgive me , I doubt if much of the world has been better ruled , before or since . G. V. BIRD Petworth , England , Nov. 2 , 1978.                     