@@734384

txt What would the men contending for Jimmy Carter 's job do about the Soviet troops in Cuba if they were president ? Most of them , after registering their concern , essentially line up behind Mr. Carter 's restrained diplomatic approach or propose no alternative strategy . But others advocate sterner measures . Conservative Republican Rep. Philip M. Crane of Illinois would give the Soviets 48 hours to agree to a pullout , under threat of a holdup on the pending strategic arms limitation treaty ( SALT II ) or a naval blockade of Cuba . Another GOP conservative , former California Gov . Ronald Reagan , would cut off communications with the Soviet Union until its troops are removed . Others suggest retaliating by shelving some technological , economic , and cultural exchange agreements with the Soviets . Closest to the President 's stance are his two chief ( but unannounced ) potential rivals in the Democratic Party : Sen. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Gov . Edmund G. Brown Jr . of California , both of whom endorse diplomatic negotiation . Here is how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper , say they would handle the situation : Rep. John B. Anderson ( R ) of Illinois urges " continued use of quiet and patient diplomacy in negotiating the issue , " and calls for " a more edifying display of bipartisanship . " Before resorting to suspending Senate ratification of SALT II , he suggests considering freezing cultural and technological exchanges and heightening surveillance of shipping into Cuba . Like several others , Mr. Anderson backs Mr. Carter 's recent resumption of intelligence reconnaissance flights over the island by SR-71 spy planes , which had been grounded in 1977 // From page 1 How Carter 's rivals view troops in Cuba Senate minority leader Howard H. Baker Jr . ( R ) of Tennessee is observing a " gentlemen 's agreement " with the President to refrain from publicly offering his advice . He says he is " withholding judgment of what ought to happen " in order to " be of assistance to the President ... and give leverage to the administration in trying to negotiate a removal of the troops from Cuba or an otherwise satisfactory resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surfaces soon , he is expected to end his nearly two-week moratorium . Governor Brown praises the President 's restraint in handling the issue , but urges him to " come forward with all the facts . " He notes that the Soviet troops " might well have been detected " earlier if Mr. Carter had not suspended the reconnaissance flights . Former Republican national chairman George Bush , calling the Carter response " timid and inadequate , " advises the President to " tell the Russians not only that he will pull back the SALT treaty , but review seriously our wide range of technical and economic agreements . " Former Texas Gov . John B. Connally says he is " very distressed " at the presence of the Soviet troops in Cuba , and even more so that the possibility of their long concealment " reflects badly on our intelligence-gathering capabilities . " But so far he has offered na countermeasures . Congressman Crane would set a 48-hour deadline for the Soviets to announce a withdrawal of their troops from Cuba and one week to complete it . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " then , if necessary , impose a naval blockade around the island , as President Kennedy did in the 1962 Cuban nuclear missile crisis . Sen. Robert J. Dole ( R ) of Kansas advocates legislation calling for the Senate to postpone action on the SALT treaty until the President provides written notice that " ( 1 ) all Soviet combat troops have been removed from Cuba , or ( 2 ) any Soviet troops remaining in Cuba pose no threat to the security or foreign policy interests of the United States or of our treaty allies throughout Latin America . " I agree we must let diplomacy work ... , " he says , but " I believe the Senate must take a firm stance on repeated Russian intransigence and double-dealing .... " Senator Kennedy , terming the presence of Soviet combat troops in Cuba unacceptable , says the diplomatic process to gain their removal must go forward . He says the troop issue should not impede consideration of the arms limitation treaty , but the Soviets should be aware that this issue does affect the attitude of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States should have no further communications with the Soviet Union until Soviet combat troops are pulled out of Cuba . " The Soviets certainly violated the spirit of d ? tente by stationing combat units in Cuba , and the United States should tell Moscow that d ? tente must be a two-way street or there is no de'tente. "                     