@@728643

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Role in Southeast Asia To the Editor : Your editorial of June 3 " Thailand Joins the Fray " brings to mind the brilliant story you carried a few years ago on the brutal slaying of Kitty Genovese in Queens as 38 men and women heard her cries for help but pretended not to hear . You write " The Thai move is almost certain to provoke a reaction from Communist forces already operating inside Thailand and along the long , porous Thai border with Laos . It could , in time , lead to a more substantial extension of the Indochina war to Thailand itself . " It is one thing to argue that the United States should not be involved across the Pacific , but do the individual countries of Southeast Asia have to stand by and watch their neighbors be overwhelmed by Communist forces in the hope that they will be spared ? It is reminiscent of the thirties , when rationalizations were used not to confront the aggressors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Should Thailand really stand by ? as those 38 people did while Kitty Genovese was being brutally murdered  --  while the Communists take over in Cambodia , in the hope that she will be spared ? Do we really believe she will b " spared ? And what should we do when Thailand 's head goes on the block ? It is of course not too late , for we can and must make a thoughtful and unemotional appraisal of our responsible role in Southeast Asia . DONALD J. IRWIN ANDREW N. G. SAXE Norwalk , Conn. , June 6 , 1970 ? Vietnam 's Rulers To the Editor : In his recent remarks to the graduating class at West Point , Vice President Agnew referred to " the charlatans of peace and freedom who eulogize foreign dictators . " This seems applicable to the Administration 's continued vigorous support of the Thieu-Ky regime , especially when Mr. Agnew speaks of the " series of genuinely free elections " we have sponsored in Vietnam . Surely he knows that Communists and even neutralists have been barred by law from those elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the newspapers closed down . the imprisonment of students , religious leaders , and political critics ? Presidential candidate Dzu is still in jail , as is legislator Chau ( even though recently acquitted ) . There can be no true peace until we promote a political resolution in Vietnam by withdrawing blind . support from the military clique which now rules in Saigon . JAMES H. MATLACK Ithaca , N. Y. , June 5 , 1970 ? Dissent and Dress To the Editor : Regarding your June 8 news report on commencement exercises art Syracuse , why do young Americans , who for the most part have enjoyed the benefits of an education at a fine American university at the expense of their parents and others , have to dress like slobs ? Would neatness , cleanliness and orderliness interfere in any way with their right to dissent ? It did n't in Jefferson 's day . JAMES F. KELLY New York , June 9 , 1970 ? Data on Methadone To the Editor : The Times May 15 editorial asserts that the city 's methadone maintenance program is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller University program 's computer and asks why not . First , profile data on the city 's program participants is in fact submitted to the Methadone Registry maintained by Rockefeller University . This registry operates to prevent patients from simultaneously obtaining methadone from different programs . It obviously makes sense to cooperate . Second , the city program is currently receiving most of its funding from the National Institute of Mental Health ( N.I.M.H. ) and , under the terms of the grant , must submit quite extensive descriptive data on each patient to N.I.M.H. This data is more comprehensive than that gathered in the Rockefeller University program . It is collected and delivered in a format which N.I.M.H. uses on a national basis , thus permitting nationwide comparability of N.I.M.H. funded programs . To regenerate only a part of the data in the special format utilized by the Rockefeller University computer would be extremely expensive . Moreover , it seems reasonable to suggest that greater data-sharing and comparability would be possible if all methadone programs were to submit comprehensive data to N.I.H.M. , thereby making possible a broad evaluation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This , if I understand your position , is what you propose in your editorial of May 16 , and what we already are doing . NICHOLAS deB . KATZENBACH Chairman , Addiction Research and Treatment Corporation New York , May 28 , 1970 ? Newspaper Pollution To the Editor : The Times May 31 news report about " newspaper pollution " calls attention to a serious matter . It . is my understanding that about 350,000 tons of used newspapers find their way to the refuse containers of New York City each year . Since it costs about $30 a ton to collect and dispose of refuse , newspapers account for about $10 million a year in Sanitation Department costs . They make up an important component of street litter . The reported proposal to sell the Sunday editions by individual sections is not practical in my opinion . As reported in The Times on March 15 , I have advocated recycling of the paper , . using technology that alreadyexists . The fact that it costs the city $30 per ton to collect ; and dispose of old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reuse of newspapers could be subsidized , to everyone 's advantage , assuming . that the process is technically feasible but not economically , viable without such subsidy . Value of Study - A thorough economic and technical analysis of this subject should be undertaken , particularly since such a study could serve as a prototype to help us understand how to deal : with other problems of a similar nature , in which the cost Of : disposal of a used product is greater than the subsidy required to salvage and reuse the material . The study must go beyond mere economic analysis of the process . It must be established , for example , . that newspaper , reprocessing does not become ? a new source of pollution . This , would be a substantial gain , since incineration of our discarded newspapers pollutes the ? air of our city , and newsprint production is apt to cause pollution of the streams on which the plants are located . Such a study should also inquire as to the actions that ' should be taken to compensate . for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the newsprint production plants and the lumbering activities are located . Many of the decisions we will make in the interest of pollution con- ? trol will have profound economic implications with whichwe must learn to deal . MERRIL EISENEH/D Professor , N.Y.U. Medical Center ? New York , June 1 , 1970 The writer was Environmental Protection Administrator for . New York City until May 1 , 1970.                     