@@730964

txt IN A SERIES of blistering attacks yesterday State 's Atty . Bernard Carey accused Mayor Daley of sanctioning and condoning crime syndicate policy wheel operations . Carey also said Democratic precinct captains are policy runners . " He Daley is sitting on corruption . .. he has condoned the corruption around him , " Carey said . Carey also said policy wheel gambling " could not have existed to this extent uninterrupted over the years without the complicity of top police and political officials . " A REPUBLICAN , Carey charged that Democratic machine precinct captains , as policy runners , are " milking the ghetto ... taking money out of their area and it 's ending up in the pockets of politicians and the crime syndicate . " In a telephone interview with The Tribune Carey said , " The crime syndicate operates openly in the city of Chicago ; it could n't do it without his Daley 's sanction . This would indicate that Daley himself condones this situation . " Carey also characterized Daley as " the man " who sits atop a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's raid on 53 suspected policy wheel locations by 300 Chicago policemen . Fifty-one persons were arrested in the simultaneous raids , and all 20 of the others sought have arranged to surrender thru their attorneys . Carey denigrated the scope of the crackdown , observing that investigators f ailed to seize any printing presses used in the widespread operation . Carey said that the illicit operation was " back in business hours after the arrests . None of the big guys was touched  --  just little fellows who always get . picked up in alleged crackdowns . " CAREY SAID that " thousands of honest cops have had their hands tied when it came to arrests of numbers runners , because the policy runners have been and still are precinct captains . " Carey expanded on his allegations in a second telephone interview last night with The Tribune and in a television interview wth two WBBM - TV reporters . " Do n't kid yourself . The syndicate could n't run for five minutes without protection from City Hall , " Carey said in the WBBM-TV interview In each interview @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians and police officials allegedly shielding syndicate gambling operations . He refused . RESPONDING TO Carey 's attacks , Deputy Police Supt. Mitchell Ware , who helped supervise Tuesday 's raids , said , " All he knows is how to downgrade the good work of the police department . Why does n't Carey make his own ar-rests ? " Ware added : " I 'll furnish Carey with a list of top syndicate operators who live out of the city and who are involved in these operations and we 'll see What he 'll do about it . " Ware said that an alleged coowner of the illegal operation , Willard Hines , 43 , of 9215 S. Ada St. , has arranged thru his attorney to surrender today . Ware said the operation known as the " Green Dragon ? Times Square  --  Keno " ? was Chicago 's biggest and grossed $3 million a year . Ware also said the raids put the policy wheel business out of business . Ald. William Cousins Jr . 8th questioned the purpor t ed breadth of the crackdown : " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It netted only small fry . " Reacting to Cousins ' criticism , Police Supt. James Conlisk Jr . said , " Sure , it 's only the small fry whom we have arrested now , but it takes the small fry to bring in the big fish . " Conlisk said it was the goal of the raid to " get the little fish before the grand jury . "                     