@@732972

txt NEW YORK  --  Hang on to your great grandmothers , boys and girls , and turn on your tape recorders . Getting the dear old ladies to talk is the best way to begin your search for your roots . You may have to tape several times , because their memories are irregular , but get those dates , places , and names pinned down . Be tactful . Every family tree has embarrassing incidents hanging on its boughs which sometimes turn off the matriarchs who hold the family 's spoken tradition . Then you can join the millions besieging health departments for copies of old certificates or crowding the genealogical libraries or having someone in Italy , or Poland , or Germany , or the rest of the United Nations pursue the search . Or buying the books that are pouring off the presses . ... - IT 'S BECAUSE of " Roots , " Alex Haley 's fantastically successful book and television story of his family tree . Kunta Kinte and Chicken George have made us conscious that every person is sitting atop a pyramid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When you Find your roots , it 's like finding yourself . That Alex Haley could succeed despite the difficulties resulting from the relocation of his family from Africa to the United States has encouraged people of all ethnic groups to try . " It 's wild , " Haley said of the soaring interest in genealogy . He told an interviewer that it took six hours to open his mail the other day . WHEN HALEY appeared on Johnny Carson 's show , he traced Carson back seven generations to an indentured servant . " I wanted to give him his Kunta Kinte , " Haley said . He also gave the Institute of Family Research a staggering amount of labor by mentioning that the institute , which is in Salt Lake City and taps the gigantic genealogical resources of the Mormon Library , had dug up Carson 's " slave " ancestor in 48 hours . " We 've had almost 15,000 responses so far , " said Philip , institute president . James J. Walker , genealogical specialist of the National Archives in Washington , said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tripled the number of daily visitors . It has taxed our facilities to the point where we can not accommodate them . A couple of Saturdays ago we had a four-hour waiting line . " Everybody is writing a book either on his family or on how to do it . " THE GENEALOGICAL department of the New York Public Library was filled with intense rooters of all kinds . Genealogist Timothy F. Beard said the new " explosion " of publishing family history began in this decade . " I 'm doing a book for on genealogy all over the world  --  every race , color , and creed , " said Beard . The Chicago Public Library has been receiving dozens of calls daily about genealogy since " Roots , " compared with one or two before the show was aired . Callers are referred to the Newberry Library , 60 W. Walton St. , Chicago , which has one of the best genealogy departments in the nation . Most people already have gathered information from relatives and , according to Peggy Shako , supervisor of Newberry 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data , city direc // Column 1 Help in finding ' roots ' // tories . and other Newberry documents . " Sometimes a person who does n't even know where his father was born will come in here . " she said . " There 's nothing we can do . " GENEALOGY USED to be considered the bailiwick of Anglo-Americans only because of their two tremendous resources . One was produced by the tireless probing of the New England Yankees for every antecedent , high or humble . The other was the collected marriage , birth , and death records of the Quaker meeting houses . Now , experienced black genealogists , including the National Archives ' Walker , are following the intermingled blackand-white blood lines of slavery days with the aid of the records and personal writings of the families that owned the plantations . Jewish genealogy is flourishing . Dr. Neil Rosenstein , a physician of Elizabeth , N.J. , has just published a remarkable 700-page book called " The Unbr oken Chain " giving genealogical charts and biographies of the descendants of Meir , a rabbi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1565 . THE DESCENDANTS of Rabbi Meir have included Dr. Rosenstein as well as Karl Marx , philosopher Martin Huber , Helena Rubinstein , Moses Mendelssohn and his grandson Felix , author David lialberstam , three chief rabbis of the British empire , and many other prominent persons . " Absolutely any genealogical study is possible for people in this country , " said Rosenstein , 32 , who started research when he was 16 . Random House in May will publish a guidebook to Jewish genealogy called " Finding Our Fathers . " The author is Dan Rottenberg , free-lance writer and ex-Chicagoan . Rottenberg said there are problems for Jews in tracing their ancestors in that Jews have been chased from country to country , and records were destroyed in many cases ; also , there is the fact that many did not have last names until relatively recent times . BE SAID THERE are many advantages , too . One asset is spectacular , if you can translate Hebrew . When a candidate was being examined for the rabbinical equivalent of a Ph . D. thesis , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the candidate 's ancestry . " That 's how I traced one branch of my family back to the Middle Ages , " said Rottenberg . " I found there was a rabbi in there . " Rottenberg got interested in genealogy at 16 when he went to his grandmother 's funeral and found himself copying the inscriptions on tombstones . His first research was talking to all the older members of his family . The oral tradition is especially important for American Indians looking into their background , said author N. Scott Momaday . PROF . NIOMADAY , who wrote the prize-winning novel " House Made of Dawn , " has produced a biographical book called " The Nemes " telling the story of a Kiowa Indian from Oklahoma and his realization of himself in his family 's history . Early in the book he deals with ancestors as far back as great-great-grandAlex Haley parents . His mother Is mainly English and French , but she bad a great-grandmother who was a Cherokee . His Kiowa grandfather was a medicine man and his grandmother a Mexican slave . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who remember things , " said Momaday , who teaches English at Stanford University . " You learn of things through family tradition . Generally speaking , the Indian has a very good sense of the oral tradition . " The older folk understand they are the repository of these stories and feel an obligation to pass them on . " Momaday 's Indian name is ' Tsoai-talee , " Rock Tree Boy . " The Rock Tree , he said , is a geological formation in Wyoming sacred to the Kiowas for 210 years . ACCORDING TO Alex Haley , most black people doing their genealogy will find themselves tracing white ancestors as well as black . They should not be concerned about any implication of " illegitimacy . " " It 's a reeking shame that we have put this alleged stigma ? man-made , semantic ? on no end of people , " Haley said . " No child has less than a father and a mother . " One of the really fantastic things to me is that during the course of slavery there were multiple hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of course , there were love affairs , white men left their wives , but there was a great , massive obscuring of relationships of this nature for black mistresses . " On thousands of plantations the white lady sat on the veranda looking replicas of her husband , father , brothers , and sons running around the house in shades of brown . " DOUBLEDAY PUBLIS II E R of " Roots , " is having Haley write another book called " Search , " telling how he solved the mystery of his ancestry . Projected for publication in June , 1078 , it should provide clues for other AfroAmericans . The oral tradition is important when it comes to the socially obscured , and some of these traditions are startling . Thomas Jefferson had black children . According to government genealogist Jim Walker , there is a rumor that George Washington " had issue not by Martha . "                     