@@728373

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 36 Letters to the Editor of The Times Restraint and Inflation To the Editor : The recent upsurge of inflation has caused some responsible business leaders and newspapers to call for direct action to control wages and prices . However , the prospect is surely not so dire as to justify such a step . A formal wageprice freeze or wage and price controls are no more acceptable to most professional economists than to most politicians . Most signs now point to a significant economic slowdown . This is no accident . In order to counter inflationary pressures , the Republican Administration , as the Democratic Administration before it , has chosen to buy price stability at the cost of some slowing of real output and of a modest increase in unemployment . The present dilemma is that while the economy is slowing down prices continue to increase rapidly . This , too , is not unexpected . Costs continue to rise long after demand has slackened . Inevitably as businesses strive to maintain their profit margins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration has treated the problem of inflation principally as a matter of excess demand . Relying on aggregate fiscal and monetary instruments , it has largely rejected wage-price policies . Until now this may have been a sensible position . When inflationary pressures originate from excess demand ? from tight markets for materials and labor  --  wage-price guidelines may well be ineffective . However , at a time when prices are rising despite weakness of demand , the rationale for wage-price policy becomes stronger . If a union or business firm has the market power at such a time to raise prices , it may also be persuaded to refrain from exercising this power . We are now entering a period when a positive wageprice policy has some chance for success . That does not mean that we must now turn to direct controls or a price-wage freeze . Direct controls have a high cost in terms of economic misallocation and administration . Instead , it is important to set a standard for reasonable price and wage patterns for 1970 . It is advisable to seek the cooperation of principal labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be appropriate on occasion to intervene in major national wage negotiations and when nationwide industries are increasing prices . Business and labor alike will recognize our country 's need for restraint in wage and price decisions at this time . Such restraint will bring closer the day when we can again operate our economy at full speed . F. GERARD ADAMS Philadelphia , Feb. 2 , 1970 The writer is a former *member of the senior staff of the Council of Economic Advisers . ? Carswell Opposed To the Editor : It is bitter irony that in a society racked by the consequences of injustices long and callously visited upon black Americans , the present nominee to the Supreme Court should be a man who at one point vehemently espoused the doctrine of white supremacy . Accepting his assurances that he no longer holds this view hardly dispels doubts concerning his generosity of spirit and breadth of vision . Indeed , the recent testimony of lawyers who have appeared before Judge Carswell raises serious questions as to his temperament and fair-mindedness , suggesting at best ' a grudging accommodation ' rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , our examination of his opinions in various areas of the law compels the conclusion that he is an undistinguished member of his profession , lacking claim to intellectual stature . Editorial Feb. 6 . It is one thing to say that Judge Carswell should not be rejected solely on the basis of views expressed as a young man . It is quite another matter , however , to elevate to the Supreme Court of the United States a judge whose principal distinctions appear to be his Southern heritage and his lack of investment in the securities market . Appointment to the high court is an event of national moment and- lasting significance . We submit that Judge Carswell has failed to exhibit those qualifications which the American people are entitled to expect of a justice . PAUL BENDER , HOWARD LESNICK , PAUL J. MISHKIN , LOUIS B. SCHWARTZ , RALPH S. SPRITZER , BERNARD WOLFMAN Philadelphia , Feb. 5 , 1970 Fourteen other professors in the University of Pennsylvania Law School signed this letter . ? Duty of Press To the Editor : While in no position to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panthers or Students for a Democratic Society , I do not agree with your otherwise cogent editorial ( Feb. 4 ) that police officials and grand juries jeopardize the First Amendment when they subpoena the press for investigative purposes . Whatever the guilt or innocence of the so-called Panthers or S.D.S. members , a state of lawlessness on a nationwide scale does exist , further aggravated by a new , unprecedented breed of scofflaws and courtroom disrupters who loudly proclaim rationales for their tactics while stockpiling caches of arms to back up their policehating machinations . The hard-pressed reporter may understandably hesitate to divulge his source or contact . But in times of national stress , is he not a loyal citizen like the least of us ? Apart from the fact that the First Amendment , as history shows , is not as cut and dried as some would have it , nor as vulnerable as your alarming editorial suggests , it is a. free American press that has always come to the aid of our ' free society by , in. fact , " exposing " crime even before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has followed up brilliant exposes with supplementary , data that have helped law enforcement . CHARLES RAI/DOCK New York , Feb. 4 , 1970 ? Morale of Teachers To the Editor : When will the Board of Education become introspective enough to question the reasons behind the startling rise of absenteeism among the city 's teachers ? News story Feb. 3 . Should n't widespread absence alert an employer to severely reduced morale ? Teachers are continually harassed for being ineffective in educating their students . They see their promotional prospects as being limited and the schools ' authority increasingly challenged and reduced . With absence for a variety of social causes presented as being more important than classroom education , with attendance on specified , days declared " optional " by  --  the Board of Education , teachers see a further reduction of the respect accorded to the role of the schools . Rather than simply label this situation " scandalous , " the Board would do well to mount an attack on the reasons ' for lowered morale which have ' caused so many previously dedicated individuals to yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gardens , N. Y. Feb. 4 , 1970                     