@@732979

txt President Idi Amin of Uganda said yesterday that it had never been his intention " to make any Americans hostages " when he announced Friday that that no American citizens could leave the country until he met with them . Early today the Uganda radio announced . that the time of that meeting , originally set for tomorrow , , had been put off to Wednesday at the request of the American community . A longtime American missionary in Uganda , reached by phone earlier this weekend , said that " had we set out Friday with our Bikes and tire-repair kits , we might have made it Monday . " Most such Americans here live hundreds of miles from Kampala , the Uganda capital . A Reception and Dancing According to radio broadcasts from Uganda yesterday , Mr. Amin said that rather than hold them hostage , he simply wanted to meet with the Americans , who number about 200 , to congratulate them on the work they had done for his country . The broadcast said that an Amin spokesman wished to make it " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarm . " The radio  --  before the chang of date was . announced  --  said there would be a reception for the Americans in Kamapala with displays of dancing . It said Field Marshal Amin was considering bestowing special medals on American citizens who had contributed to his country 's development . The same broadcast quoted Mr. Amin as again taking note of the presence Of a United Slates naval task force off the East African coast and said Mr. Amin had declared that Uganda " stood ready " to meet this force . The nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Enterprise , two cruisers and a nuclear submarine left Kenyan waters Wednesday after a good-will visit . The force is now.in the Indian Ocean . The radio broadcast also reported that Mr. Amin had talked by telephone with Paul C. Chepkwurui , the Uganda charg ? d'affaires in Washington . The broadcast said Mr. Amin made it clear to his envoy " that the President is not a person who changes his mind like a slave and that he was not going to repeat his words , which had been made very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to a request for clarification of Mr. Amin 's statements and action Friday that may have been conveyed to the Uganda Government by the United States . It was not possible to obtain confirmation from the United States Embassy here whether such a request had been made . Embassy officials in Nairobi , who monitor relations with Uganda since the United States has no representatives in Kampala , made it clear that all decisions were being made at the highest level in Washington . Similarly , no confirmation was available on reports published in the Kenyan press that said West German diplomats in Kampala , who represent American interests there , had cautioned Americans to stay in their homes , particularly at night . Kenyan newspapers , which have long enraged President Amin by their reporting of events in Uganda , interpreted Friday 's statements from Kampala as bald threats . One Nairobi paper , The Nation , headlined its Saturday issue : " Americans Held Hostage by Amin . " The other daily , The Standard , used the headline , " 200 Americans in Amin 's Trap . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quoting informed sources , said on Saturday that a high-level Cuban military team and up to 1,000 Cuban troops had arrived in Uganda , but The A.P . added that the report was discounted by usually reliable diplomatic sources in Uganda . In an editorial , The Nation , which has been particularly aggressive in its condemnations of Mr. Amin 's alleged policies of repression , said that for the moment Washington 's low-keyed response to Uganda 's actions seemed prudent . But the editorial continued : " If in the meantime there are indications that the lives and properties of these Americans are in danger , the United States President will be put in a position where he will view this holding to ransom of 200 Americans as holding the entire American nation hostage . Any American President ? whether he is pro-African or not ? is duty-bound to take this course of action . " The editorial cited as a possible precedent the Mayaguez case of May 1975 , when the United States sent in marines and jet fighters in an attempt to rescue the crew of the freighter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crewmemhers were released . The Kenyan newspaper declared that unless Mr. . Amin explained his order detaining Amer -- cans , " his actions may reach Mayaguez proportions by Monday . " Mr. Amin 's proclamation barring Americans from leaving the country is not the first time Uganda has interfered with the movements of American citizens . In July 1973 , a plane carrying 112 Peace Corps volunteers to Zaire was forced to remain at Entebbe airport for two days after stopping to refuel . The flight was delayed until President Amin received assurances that the volunteers were not " mercenaries " sent to promote unrest in Central Africa . Four months later Mr. Amin ordered the expulsion of the Marine guard at the American Embassy , and Washington ordered the embassy closed down . Uganda was allowed to keep Its embassy in Washington . While Mr. Amin 's apparent challenge to the United States dominates the news here , reports continue to circulate of systematic assaults and repression da aimed at members of the Acl-oli and Lango tribes . A Kenyan official at Busia , a town on the Uganda border , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frontier in the last few days and had declared themselves to be refugees . Meanwhile , the newspaper The Nation yesterday published a discription of alleged killings at a Kampala prison a week ago . The allegations were made by a Ugandan , Geoffrey Mugabi , who claimed to have escaped from the prison and then fled to Kenya . Mr. Mugabi said he was forced to load battered bodies into a truck and said it appeared to him as if hundreds of people had been killed .                     