@@730509

txt Who will harvest Israel 's oranges ? Citrus fruits account for nearly 20 percent of Israel 's annual exports . But as they ripen toward harvest , now about to begin , they bring this small country face to face with its chronic labor shortage . In turn , this rekindles the simmering controversy as to whether more Arabs should be allowed in from occupied territories to help out . To mobilize Israeli labor for the harvest , the Ministry of Labor this year has resorted to unprecedented methods : It is encouraging industrial workers to use their annual holidays to take jobs as fruit pickers . What is more , it has promised to try to secure an income-tax exemption for the earnings from this mass-moonlighting . But even these inducements are not likely to yield enough Israeli helpers . The head of the Israeli citrus marketing board , Aharon Hildesheimer , is worried about export commitments to Europe . He says that after the fruit is placed in the warehouses , it has to be crated for shipping , requiring 8,000 people . Only 5,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an additional 3,000 to 4,000 should be recruited in the occupied Arab areas where labor is still available . This suggestion has brought him into conflict with the Ministry of Labor policy of freezing the importation of Arab workers in the Jewish areas . At present , 50,000 Arabs have permits to cross every morning the " green line " ? the border between prewar Israel and the occupied territories . Most of these workers come from the heavily populated areas of Nablus , Jenin , Tulkarm , Bethlehem , and also the Gaza Strip , where industrial development has not yet caught up with the birthrate . Only a small minority of the workers stay overnight in Israel ; most of them return home in the evening and have little social contact with the Jews . What attracts them to Israel is equality of pay and social benefits with Jewish workers , manely up to 16 Israeli a day . This is twice as much as they could earn in their home villages . Objections raised The objections that the Minister of Labor , and many other Israelis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are based on the long-term sociological effects this may have . True , they say , the 50,000 Arabs make up at present only 5 percent of the total Israeli labor force . But in some branches , such as construction , 40 percent of the workers are Arabs . In Jersualem , Arabs already form a majority among the unskilled building workers . In agriculture , 30 percent of all workers are Arabs ? one-third of them from occupied territories and two-thirds from Arab-inhabited areas within Israel prior to the 196 ? war . What worries Israeli leaders is the prospect that further increases in the number of workers from the occupied areas may lead to an Arabization of the manual labor market . David Ben-Gurion , the founder of the Jewish state , has consistently inveighed against a trend that might make Jewish Israelis a kind of master race : " We must not abandon the working class to others . We must not become a nation of managers and foremen . " Not all Israeli leaders favor restricting the influx of Arab workers . Defense Minister Moshe Dayan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcomes it . He has gone on record as favoring maximum interdependence between the occupied areas and Israel . " Even if part of these areas eventually goes back to Jordan or other Arab countries , " he is reported to have said , " The intermingling of the two economic structures will have created a basis for coexistence and is likely to make the outbreak of a new war more difficult . " The daily quota of permits for Arab workers from the occupied areas began with 15,000 four years ago and has been gradually raised to 50,000 . Now , Israeli employers are pressing for still more . The question is how much longer the authorities can resist this pressure .                     