@@729527

txt Thomas M. Tully , chief deputy assessor of Cook County , announced late yesterday that the office of Assessor P. J. Cullerton will go ahead with computing new personal property assessments as a result of the Illinois State Supreme Court 's decision in the controversy on this phase of local taxation . Until yesterday 's decision by the state 's high court , the assessor 's office had held up calling in new personal property schedules from taxpayers for computing the 1971 assessments for tax collections next year . Schedules Are Mailed Tully reported that the assessor 's office mailed assessment schedules to corporations and unincorporated businesses several months ago in preparation of a possible court ruling restoring the personal property tax . " We will set a deadline early in the fall  --  possibly as early as Sept. 1 ? for receiving these schedules for computing the 1971 personal property assessments , " said Tully . However , Tully said that no schedules had been sent out to individuals and that no decision had been made by Assessor Cullerten 's office on how the 1971 personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry by Tin . Tniatim indicated that the court decision and the action by the assessor 's office will assure local governments In Chicago and suburban Cook County of more than $100 million dollars In tax collections next year which had been jeopardized by the legal dispute . Main Effect on Corporations Tax experts agree that for the most part the court 's ruling would have the most effect on corporations , which for many years have borne the brunt of personal property taxes . They also pointed nut that the the court decision restored I he personal property tax for individuals , the effect for them apparently would be minimized because of recent law exempting individuals f r o m paying such taxes on household goals and their first automobile . Norman Beatty , executive secretary of the Civic Federa ' tion , major taxpayers ' watchdog organization , said there may well be " months of confusion ahead in the personal property situation . " " This major question undoubtedly will be one of the first orders of business for the state legislature when it reconvenes in October . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the personal property tax is the hardest to administer , the most unpopular and very possibly the most unfair tax in effect . " " We would be most in favor of getting rid of all personal property tax as quickly as possible and under the now state constitution all personal property taxes not previously abolished must be abolished and the loss of revenue made up by other taxes within the next eight years , by Jan. 1 , 1979 . " Beatty pointed out that the new state Constitution specifies that any tax used to make up for an abolition in the next eight years of the personal property tax must be levied against something other than . real estate . Beatty and oilier tax experts still wore uncertain what effect , if any , the court decision would ' have on the State law that had exempted household goods and the first automobile for individual personal property taxes . See Minimal Effect ' Pax exports expressed the opinion that the effect would be minimal on individuals , primarily for two reasons . In the first place , ninny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property tax entirely . Secondly , many Individuals who have been billed for personal property taxes never have bothered to pay . For instance , for the tax year of 1069 collectible in 1970 , a total of $10,444,544 In personal property taxes was billed against individuals fitment Conic County . Of this billing , however , only $1,975,003 , or 10 par cent , actually was paid . On the other hand , for the same tax year , corporations in Cook County were billed a total of $204,104,1141 in personal property taxes . Of this billing , collections amounted to $126,079 , - 240 , or 62 per cent .                     