@@732353

txt Letters to the Editor Health-Care Cutbacks : Silent Sufferers To the Editor : The effect of economic recession en the most severely handicapped institutional patients has escaped notice because the very nature of their plight prevents their expressing it . The public must be made aware that there are human beings paralyzed perhaps from the neck down , afflicted by the most devastating deformities , frequently unable to carry out the sunplest and most elemental of self-care activities , and yet fully alert mentally . These people must be seen as human minds imprisoned in severely limited if not totally incapacitated bodies . For many years this type of patient with limbs distorted by spasticity , devastating arthritis , paralysis , muscular dystrophy or other disease , has been cared for in institutions that considered themselves as fulfilling a righteous function in society by putting food in his mouth and leaving him idle in a bed that was hopefully clean . Although these patients suffer much more severely than , for example , the prisoners of Rikers Island , they are physically incapable of rioting and therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so . Only very recently hospital and Skilled Nursing Facility codes have been written which mandate a level of care that begins to be appropriate for what we consider our level of civilization . Provision is made so that a paTo the Editor : I was deeply shocked by City Housing Administrator Roger Starr 's proposal for the " planned shrinkage " of low-income , minority communities reported in The Times on Feb. 3 . Mr. Starr , a public official responsible for revitalizing neighborhoods such as Harlem and the South Bronx , ironically suggests accelerating their destruction by systematically reducing public services in these communities , thereby inducing mass resettlement of New York 's black and Puerto Rican poor . Mr. Starr 's proposal ignores both humane planning concepts and fundamental individual rights . A program of wholesale neighborhood " depopulation " and forced relocation is merely a throwback to discredited slum-clearance policies first sponsored by the Federal Government in 1949 . Further , the economic and racial discrimination inherent in any plan of affirmative neglect of poor communities is clearly inconsistent with New York City 's minimal responsibilities under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : Whatever the reasons may be for criticizing Mr. Yunich 's performance as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority , in the eyes of this regular bus and subway rider at least , he has brought some bright and pleasant features to the city 's trans. portation system . The Culture Bus ( plus excellent and informative brochures ) , the Shopper 's Ticket , the weekend half-fare , good and clearly readable graphics of subway routes in some trains , freshly painted stations , a first attempt to clear up the confusing maze of subway lines by colors and prominently posted signs on platforms  --  all these are things introduced by Mr. Yunich and meant to make the otherwise dismal experience of using bus and subway easier , pleasanter and a little cheaper , too . That the system is aged and neglected , that its costs are rising and its ridership declining , these are surely problems that antedate Mr. Yunich 's tenure and that ca n't be corrected within two years , or by the M.T.A. alone . That he has tried , against overwhelming odds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he deserves praise , not criticism . SABINA LIETZMANN New York , Feb. 2 , 1976 A Pyrrhic Success To the Editor : In the Jan. 26 news item about the crackdown on fare evaders , the transit police chief is quoted as calling the campaign " a fantastic success . " It would be more to the point to say that the 50-cent fare has been a colossal failure . Since Mr. Gorelick justifies the crackdown  --  and the indignities that accompany it ? on a rising incidence of fare evasion , it would be useful to know how much this practice has increased since the latest fare hike . I would be surprised if there were no strong correlation . In addition , even if the campaign has saved some money in lost fares , some of this is surely offset by the salaries of the 135 policetient bedridden with severely deformed spastic legs might , after months of effort , be enabled to sit in a wheelchair . Another patient dependent entirely on other people for his every bodily function might , with considerable time and skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In almost all instances , patients who are condemned to spend their entire existence staring at a wall or into space could be provided with some activity to occupy their minds . The sad irony of life is that , practically simultaneously with the promulgation of these codes , financial limitations have prevented their being instituted , and even small gains that were made have been lost anew . It is unthinkable that a society which offers lip service to JudeoChristian principles of humanity must exercise economies on the backs of its most unfortunate members . The responsible persons of the healthdelivery establishment are aware of this situation and nonprofit institutions such as ours have been pleading for years for the funds to provide the care they know is required . However , the governmental bureaucracies , while admitting the problems , have continuously failed to provide the wherewithal . Asa P. RUSKIN , M.D. Director , Rehabilitation Medicine Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center Brooklyn , Jan. 23 , 1976 Constitution . Mr. Starr is understandably frustrated by the city 's fiscal crisis and diminished capacity to meet its citizens ' basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frustration would be implementation by the city 's Housing and Development Agency of effective housing rehabilitation programs in low- and moderateincome neighborhoods with Community Development Act funds available for that purpose . Mr. Starr might also consider legal actions , such as that recently brought by the City of Hartford , to compel construction of low- and moderate-income housing in communities which have locked their doors on the inner-city poor . Inevitably , during periods of crisis , there are those who suggest that urban poverty and decay can be remedied simply by eliminating the urban poor . Proposals of this sort reveal the cause but can not lead us to the solution to our cities ' despair . GORDON J. DAVIS Commissioner , New York City Planning Commission New York , Feb. 4 , 1976 men who are spending all their time on it , to say nothing of the over-all loss in ridership since the fare Increase . If bolstering political miscalculation with police crackdowns is anyone 's Idea of " success , " then those who would welcome the completion of New York 's downfall do not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 26 , 1976 To Tax a Prostitute To the Editor : As a partial solution to New York 's financial problems , why does n't the city legalize prostitution and tax it heavily ? This plan would not only benefit the city financially but would also help to clean up the Times Square area : If prostitution were legal , it could be better regulated . Certain areas could be designated for its practice and certain appearance and propositioning requirements instituted ; and of course the medical regulations might help stop the spread of veneral diseases . Many of the men using prostitutes are out-of-towners , so the tax would not be one that primarily hurt New Yorkers , at least not as much as other sales taxes would . This proposed legalization and regulation would also benefit the prostitutes , who are , after all , also citizens of the City of New York and who would under this plan pay income tax . Pimps could be phased out , as bail and lawyers would not be needed so often ; 13- and 14-year-olds could be barred from prostitution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about their trade , could improve safety and decrease robbery and beatings . Since prostitution , when practiced fairly , is a victimless crime , and since it is practiced here anyway , it seems foolish for the city to keep it illegal and to try thereby to pretend it does n't exist and thus miss out on any possible financial gain for New York . It seems legalization would have only beneficial results . MARY ANNE PAGE New York , Jan. 19 , 1976 Intelligence : Toward Leakproof ' Oversight To the Editor : I was pleased to see The New York Times , in its editorial of Jan. 30 " How to Reform C.I.A. , " express what has been a principal concern of mine for the twelve months the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities has been conducting its investigation . I said in a press statement in February 1975 that " we have to rccog tutu/ oF Mtn nize that we have to correct abuses ? to compel our intelligence-gathering organizations to conduct themselves within the purview of the law . At the same time , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are not vigilant against leaks , and vital secrets are disclosed , our investigation will do the nation more harm than good . " Although I believe that the investigation by the Senate Select Committee has been for the most part responsible , the same can not be said for the peregrinations of the House Intelligence Committee . Reforms are clearly needed to prevent a recurrence of past abuses by our intelligence agencies . But what is needed most of all ? as recent events have made clear ? is a responsible , leakproof means of Congressional oversight . JOHN TOWER United States Senator , Texas Washington , Jan. 30 , 1976 What Greeks Think of Us To the Editor : Blaming the messenger who brings the bad news is an old game . Blaming the press for reporting the bad news is not quite as old but just as foolish a game as shown by your Jan. 23 OpEd article " Anti-Americanism in Greece . " The Greek press did not invent the critical judgments about American actions which prevail today in my country . These judgments are widespread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are , these judgments should surprise neither Greeks nor Americans . On July 12 , 1971 , I testified before the House Subcommittee on Europe urging that " strong efforts should be made to dispel the belief of U.S. involvement and support of the Greek Junta in Greece and the rest of Europe , including the use of the Voice of America . Such efforts are essential to forestall violent anti-American backlash in Greece , which otherwise is a virtual certainty . " There was , of course , no free press in Greece in 1971 , the fourth year of the dictatorship . The root of those feelings was the popular Greek judgment that the United States aided that dictatorship by continuing arms aid , by maintaining and ultimately expanding a large U S. military presence in Greece and by publicly displaying " warm " support for the junta government in the words and actions of former Vice President Agnew and former Commerce Secretary Stens visiting Athens officially . Both said they brought that message from President Nixon . By a thousand gestures and by ten thousand U.S. servicemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw their country 's fate tied to the priority given by the U.S. to its military bases in Greece . In Greece , there is anti-Americanism only because there exists this enormous disappointment in a friend who did wrong and who up to this day refuses to rectify . See U.S. policy toward Cyprus . We do not hold America responsible for our own mistakes , which were many , nor do we forget the many things you did right . This is a sad story indeed , but not one invented by the Greek press , a press cruelly oppressed by the U.S. supported junta , which paid a high toll in personal sacrifices and is being slandered today . EMS P. DEMETRACOPOULOS Washington , Jan. 28 , 1976 The writer , a Greek journalist , is a member of the Union of Athens Dailies . On ' Shrinking ' Our Poor Communities Help the Note Holder To the Editor : In its continuing efforts to restore financial confidence in New York City ( and State ) and to help itself regain access to the financial community ( borrow money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the small note holders of New York City short-term notes the option of paying their income taxes by deducting the amount owed from the short-term notes they hold . It is a clear violation of elementary justice to default ( moratorium ) on the notes and then expect the note holders to pay taxes to the very institutions which have deprived them of the use of their money . Tile small note holders must not participate in their own financial . suicide . SIDNEY PALLY Rego Park , N. Y. , Feb. 2 , 1976                     