@@729871

txt President Nixon said tonight , that the United States would continue to wind up its involvement in Vietnam in coming months , but said that 25,000 to 35,000 American troops would remain until the North Vietnamese released all the American prisoners of war . In a televised interview , Mr. Nixon gave what amounted to a long-range view of how he saw the Vietnam war ending . He said that the United States still preferred a negotiated settlement through the Paris peace talks but would continue the process of " Viet namization " if no negotiated progress was achieved . He said that the heavy bombing of North Vietnam last week was a response to enemy attacks on American reconnaissance planes and shelling of Saigon on Dec. 19 . Mr. Nixon said that the raids were " very , very effective " and , as a result , later this month he would make another announcement on troop withdrawals to bring the American troop level below the 139,000 that is now the target.f or Feb. 1 . The withdrawal : is : now , running at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. ' Nixon began cutting , back American forces from the high point of 539,000 in ' 1969 . Mr. Nixon said that , " before the ' first of February , . well before the first of February , I will make another withdrawal annduncement . " " Our withdrawal will continue on schedule , at least the present rate , possibly at somewhat a larger rate , " he said . This would bring the American troop level in South Vietnam " to a very low level well before the November election , " he said . But he Pledged  --  as he . has before  --  not to make a complete withdrawal until North Vietnam agreed to the release of prisoners of war . This was believed , to be the first time Mr. Nixon has given a figure on what the " residual force ' might be . Previous estimates have rouged as high as 50,000 troops . " Can the President of the United ' States , sitting in this office ' with the responsibility for 400 prisoners of war and 1,500 missing in action through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , can ' he withdraw art of our forces as long as the enemy holds one American as a prisoner ? of war ? " he asked rhetorically . " The - answer ' is no , " he said . The President said that in order to have , any bargaining position with the Norb Vietmamese , " We will have to continue to retain a residual force in Vietnam and we will have to continue the possibility of air strikes on the North Vietnamese . " He said that as the North Vietnamese examined the alter'natives , they . might decide that as they saw the American ? nvolvement in Vietnam ending , " It would be well for them not to retain our P.O.W. 's and run the risk that it would , he neces , sary for the United States to stay in Vietnam . " " Why would having 25,000 or 35,000 as a residual force have any effect ? " he said . " And the answer is , does the enemy want the United States to withdraw from Vietnam , or does n't it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question with the Soviet Foreign Minister , Andrei A. Gromyko , when Mr. Gromyko visited the White House in each of the last two years . The President said that Henry A. Kissinger ; his adviser on national security , had raised the issue with Premier Chou En-lai of China in both of. , his trips to ? Peking to makearrangementa for Mr , Nixon 's visit there next month . On other matters , Mr. Nixon made the following points : . , .. Veither Chinese nor United State leaders ' expect formal diploinatic recognition to result from his week-long trip , beginning Feb. 21 , because of continued American support for the Chinese Nationalist regime on Taiwan . But . " we will have normalizetion in terms of setting up some method of cothmunication better than we currently have , " This left open the possibility of II the twosides agreeing ' on either permanent trade or consular missions . SiDespite the start of a dirtloghe with Peking , the United States will maintain its diplo matic relations with the Chinese Nationalists on Taiwan and maintain its defense commitments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union , set for May , Was scheduled after lengthy correspondence with Leonid L Brezhnev , the Communist party leader , and contacts ' with Mr. Gromyko and Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin . Mr. Nixon said that what made his planned summit meeting possible was . last September 's Big Four agreement on Berlin . " That historic agreement , " he said , raised the possibility of further accord in ( areas where " our interests I might run in conflict ? possibly the Mideast , possibly arms limitation , certainly trade and other areas . " Asked about reports that the United States had decided to , give Israel the requested Phantom jet fighter-bombers , Mr. , Nixon indicated that the reports were accurate when he said that the United States would not allow the military balance in the Mididle East to I shift and that the Soviet Union had recently been making " very significant arms shipments " to Egypt .                     