@@728722

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 28 Letters to the Editor of The Times Domino ' Canard ' To the Editor : The President has revived the domino theory in his TV interview by citing as evidence the views of Lee Kuan Yew and Tunku Abdul Rahman . In the past both of those leaders stated very grave reservations about the U.S. intervention in Vietnam and publicly urged far stronger emphasis on peaceful negotiation than we have given . While each statesman is strongly anti-Communist and might dislike having a Communist government in Saigon , that is a far cry from saying that they believe in the domino theory . Quite the contrary , they are both confident enough of the viability of their own states to- believe , that they will continue to thrive regardless of the outcome in Vietnam , unless by some stupidity the U.S. again extends the war " to save more American lives . " What these men probably told Mr. Nixon is that they fear total withdrawal of the U.S. into isolation so that Southeast Asia is forgotten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction to the overcommitment to military solutions . There is a middle road between war and isolation , which I am sure most Malaysians and Singaporeans would prefer . That is an active American commitment to the welfare and peaceful development of Southeast Asia by such policies as expanding textile imports and price stabilization . So let us forget that old domino canard as a justification for the war and get on with the more important business of creating and sustaining a Southeast Asia in which we can all live and develop in peace . JAMES W. GOULD Cotuit , Mass. , July 3 , 1970 The writer is Professor of Asian Studies at the Claremont Colleges . ? National Appraisal To the Editor : Regarding the President 's statement that we should give more attention to what 's right with our country  --  and there 's quite a lot ? I should like to remind him that what 's right can not survive if we fail to give full attention to what 's wrong . JACOB L. LIEBSON Halcott Center , N. Y. June 25 , 1970 ? Import Quotas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for import quotas , now reinforced from the White House , may lead this country into a major policy blunder . Editorial July 5 . To freeze import volume for textiles and other products whose domestic producers may claim to be " endangered " will damage underdeveloped countries , may start a new wave of economic warfare among industrial countries , and can be expected to intensify inflationary pressures within the United States . Quotas will reverse the recent  --  and desirable  --  shift from " aid " toward " trade " as a help to development . This shift can not only reduce the burden on aid-donors among industrial countries , but can also speed the creation of efficient industrial sectors within developing nations . Many underdeveloped countries now aim to generate industrial exports . The most successful ( e.g. , South Korea , Israel , Taiwan ) have become export-competitive over a considerable range of industries . This stress on exports can generate sound industrial expansion in underdeveloped countries which the built-in inefficiency of sheltered industries producing for minuscule domestic markets can never do . But if the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " countries , the most important single market open to underdeveloped countries will be throttled . After World War II , vividly recalling the beggar-my-neighbor policies of the 1930 's , the United States led the move to ban the two chief forms of economic warfare : physical quotas on imports and restrictions on foreign exchange to buy imports . If we now adopt quotas as a major instrument of trade policy , the restraints imposed in these areas by GATT General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the International Monetary Fund may soon collapse . Retaliatory actions are to be expected , not only from Japan but from many other nations . To fight against inflation , the openness of the United States to imports makes two contributions . First , the threat of import competition is sobering to producers who think of raising prices , and thus abates the " push " element in inflation . Second , as our income rises , rising imports harmlessly drain off excess demand . Import quotas must therefore increase the pressure of inflation within the United States . We oppose policies that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and increase the pressure of inflation in this country . HAROLD BARGER ALBERT G. HART PETER B. KENEN KELVIN J. LANCASTER WILLIAM S. VICKREY New York , July 3 , 1970 The writers are members of the Department of Economics , Columbia University . ? Draft Alternatives To the Editor : What Representative Jonathan Bingham suggests ( letter June 29 ) as an " alternative " to the draft begins with an erroneous assumption , namely that an individual must serve in some capacity to support our Government 's or society 's plan , whatever that might be at any particular moment and whether he agrees with it or not . He negates the basic concept of freedom of choice , which carries along with it the only true alternatives  --  to serve or not to serve . A truly free society does not impose obligations . It achieve , ' them through willful consent . There would be no shortage of volunteers if our freedoms were endangered by a foreign power bent on conquest . The only just solution to the draft is a volunteer army consisting of well paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but its very size would act as a deterrent to politicians who have the power to commit our forces . Knowing that there is not an inexhaustible supply of cannon fodder supplied by an inequitable draft , they would have to use force only as a means of self-defense when we are in direct danger . Our politicians must awaken to the fact that when Government tells one that he must serve in any capacity , be it army , social services or the like , it is an erosion of personal freedom . A natural outgrowth of this thinking is that I must serve in a particular job , I may not leave my job , etc . Mr. Bingham does not offer an alternative . He offers choices of subservience . EMANUAL GROSS Brooklyn , June 29 , 1970 ? Encouraged Dissenter To the Editor : The Times of June 24 quoted Vice President Agnew as having said , " We must stand up for things that we believe are right and talk out against those things we consider wrong , even if occasionally we are found to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President for encouraging peaceful dissent with this comment . I can assure him that I shall gladly " stand up " for peace and equality and " talk out " against war and suppression . BRUCE O'LEARY BROWN New York , June 24 , 1970 ? For Museums at Night To the Editor : The City of New York has many wonderful art and science museums and exhibitions that are not fully available to the masses of working people . The main problem is that the majority of these facilities do not remain open even one evening a week . It is understood that there are expenses involved in providing additional visiting hours in the evening , but there must be solutions to these problems if the largest and greatest city in the world is also to be the cultural center of the world . A partial list of the cultural centers that have no visiting hours in the evening includes the American Museum of Natural History , the New York Historical Society Museum , the Museum of Primitive Art , the Frick Collection . It is my sincere hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one night a week . ROBERT T. HAMER South River , N. J. , June 25 , 1970 ? Candidates ' Litter To the Editor : With the advent of more political activity for the forthcoming November elections , I should like to voice my plea to all candidates and their respective staffs to refrain from littering our already inundated city . Pamphlets , stickers and other campaign paraphernalia are indiscriminately and illegally beA FOOTNOTE TO OVID Arbor eris certe ? Ilea ( Metamorphoses , I ) Run slowly now . And I wo n't follow faster . Let me without pursuit catch up with you . Or if my question fails , go on , go on , But slower now . For see , it puzzles you , You put down roots into my patient ground . The tree stirs , seems to be saying yes : Art is appeased . The slim girl running still . JOHN FULLER ing shoved at citizens , pasted upon private automobiles , buildings , lamp posts , and other pub . lie property , and ultimately come to rest in the gutters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that with growing public awareness and concern about pollution , this year 's candidates for public office will begin to prove their concern for the ecological crisis by ceasing their indiscriminate distribution of campaign literature . ALAN W. ANDERSON New York , June 24 , 1970 ? Threat to Cyprus To the Editor : The recent flareup of rioting in Northern Ireland points up clearly the fallacy of partitioning a country and placing artificial and arbitrary barriers between inhabitants of a geographical entity . Influential Government officials in Washington and London are attempting the same in the island of Cyprus : that is to partition it between Turkey and Greece despite the fact that there is no legal , moral , political , or economic basis for such a division , except possibly to satisfy a foreign power which seeks to subject the people of Cyprus once again to colonial status . This is why President Makarios and the people of Cyprus , both Greek and Turkish , are vehemently opposed to having their island partitioned , as the Irish island has been . As is amply demonstrated in Ireland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , the results are distrust , tension and friction and finally open warfare , thus inviting outside interference and intervention . The people of Cyprus will never submit to the partition of their homeland no matter who may desire or - dictate it . The people of Ireland would not be fighting each other today if their homeland were not partitioned in the first place by , the British . Differences in religious beliefs or ethnic origins are no valid justification for dividing any nation or people . ERNEST J. VARDALAS Chairman , Justice for Cyprus Committee Chicago , July 6 , 1970 ? Helping Penn Central To the Editor : Proposals by Representative Ogden Reid and others that the United States Government directly or indirectly lend money or guarantee loans made to the Penn Central Railroad will benefit only the bondholders , creditors and stockholders of the company . If the Penn Central goes through the entire bankruptcy procedure it will be relieved , during this process  --  which may take many years ? of the burden of paying interest or principal on its commercial paper , bank loans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for operations with no charges for an immense overhanging debt , there will be ample funds for improving and assuring service . Federal financial aid will have the opposite effect . Editorial July 8 . MOSES CAMMER Larchmont , N. Y. , July 4 , 1970                     