@@729245

txt Richard Friedman , Republican candidate for mayor , said yesterday . he was " not discouraged " by the mayoral primary results . He said Mayor Daley 's vote , his lowest in 16 years , was indicative of the voters ' rejection of pleas by the Democratic patronage army . " The results were better than I had expected , " Friedman told reporters , r e fa r rin g to the mayor 's tally as well as his own low total of 38,367 . Commenting on Daley 's tally of 365,575 votes , Friedman said , " It was about 100,000 votes shy of his last election campaign and over 400,000 less than when he first ran for Mayor in 1955 . Payrollers Failed " This weak showing came despite the addition of thousands of patronage jobs to the already swollen , public payrolls. ? The precinct captains ' were out in full force  --  and they had their vote quotas . " It 's obvious that the captains failed to turn out as many votes as the mayor wanted , " the G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own poor showing was the result of his decision not to campaign for a large vote because he was unopposed . He said , instead , he concentrated his efforts on campaigns of Republican and independent aldermanic candidates to end Mayor Daley 's hold on the City Council . Told Not to Worry " I had no opposition in this primary , " Friedman said . " I told my supporters not to worry about my candidacy , but to support the many well-qualified independent aldermen . I think the record clearly indicates that there is a rising tide of independence in the City Council . " He cited the election of Mrs. Anna Langford in the 16th Ward saying , " Mrs. Langford 's stunning victory illustrates that black Chicagoans are deserting the machine . " He also hailed the elections of independents Dick Simpson in the 44th Ward , William Singer in the 43d , Leon Despres in the 5th , William Cousins in the 8th and Republicans John Hoellen in the 47th and Jack Sperling in the 50th . A Strong Protest " In addition , the victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Ald. Casimir Staszcuk and Mr. Joseph P ot e mp a demonstrate the strong protest of neighborhoods that have been long ignored . " Friedman said he will man 2,000 precincts with volunteer workers and that the G. 0 . P. organization is expected to cover 1,500 other precincts in his drive to oust Mayor Daley.                     