@@730139

txt Canada announced her long-awaited plans today to tighten controls over take-overs of Canadian businesses by foreign interests . Under proposed legislation , which is expected to pass , the Government would screen takeovers involving Canadian businesses worth $250,000 or more and whose annual revenues exceeded $3-million . A prospective buyer would be judged on the basis of Text of minister 's statement is printed on Page 74 . Cabinet-level findings that his purchase " will result in significant benefit to Canada . " " Our policy , " Revenue Minister Herbert E. Gray told the House of Commons " is designed to insure that this . country continues to develop as rapidly as possible in a way which is consistent with Canadian needs and aspirations and which safeguards our vital interests . " Mr. Gray 's statement summarized the Government 's decision to hold a closer rein on the country 's industrial development . Over the last 40 years industry has fallen ? increasingly , into the hands of foreign , investors and managers , mostly Americans . Attending legislation was immediately criticized by ? the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oversee foreign takeovers was not enough to meet the challenge to Canada 's control of her economy . Jean-Luc Pepin , Industry Minister who would administer the program under the proposed law , said at a news conference that the plan should be considered in the context of existing laws  --  on taxation , investment and Canadian-content . The proposal , he suggest ed , is a step in the continuing process of encouraging Canadian ownership . The study on which Mr. Gray 's report was based showed that United States investment in Canada rose from $4.66-billion in 1930 to $28.03-billion in 1967 . ( It was unofficially estimated to have risen to nearly $35-billion in 1971 . ) The total United States investment ? direct ownership , loans and bond issues ? represents 80 per cent of the foreign holdings in Canada and 30 per cent of all American holdings abroad , the study said . The extent of American ownership and control ranges from more than half of the mining industry to almost all of automobile manufacturing . Americans nown own 700 Canadian companies . Today 's report grows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and retain control of her economy , and , more immediately , answer the increasingly vocal cry of Canadian nationalists . At the same time it recognizes Canada 's dependence on foreign financial aid to sustain economic growth and Canada 's high standard of living . The Government proposals fall short of advocating buying back enterprises owned by foreigners , who have been subjected to very few rules and conditions . However , those owners will be screened when and if they try to expand or take over new businesses . Mr. Gray introduced legislation that provides : A prospective foreign investor must first disclose his intentions to a registrar in the Department of Industry , Trade and Commerce . His application must be supported by details that will help the Government assess the effect of the proposed take-over . The Trade Minister after studying the application , will make his recommendation to the Cabinet . The cabinet will make the " final decision , " and inform the investor . But negotiations need not stop there . Mr. Gray stressed a provision for further representations and for additional information . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration by the Trade Minister and the Cabinet , Mr. Gray said . He said these factors would be considered in deciding whether a foreign investor 's acquisition was " for the significant benefit of Canada : " The effect the acquisition would have " on the level and nature of economic activity in Canada , " including employment . An examination by the Trade Minister on the degree and significance of Canadian participation in the business enterprise . The effect the take-over would have on productivity , industrial efficiency and technological development in Canada . The effect on competition within Canadian industry . The compatibility of the acquisition with national industrial and economic policies . At a news conference with Mr. Gray tonight , Mr. Pepin said , " The important aim is not to stop foreign ownership , but to maximize the benefits to be derived from it for Canada . I think this is what the people of Canada want . " Ownership Defined The report defines foreign ownership for purposes of the accompanying legislation this way : If 5 per cent or more of the voting shares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is presumed to be foreigncontrolled . For private companies the percentage would be 20 per cent . " However , a presumption could he rebuteed by showing that control is effectively in the hands of Canadians , " a background paper said . Trudeau Promised Report The report , which Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau has been promising for many months , is hardly expected to end debate . Members of Parliament from industrial areas heavily dependent for jobs and income on American-owned plants may be expected to deplore any effort to curtail industrial expansion . They may expect the Gray report to " hamper " economic development . Canadian nationalists , however , may feel that Mr. Gray has compromised their principle of " building Canada for Canadians . " In Parliament , vigorous opposition is expected from the left-wing New Democratic party , which generally deplore what it calls the damaging impact of American capital on Canada 's independence . Mr. Gray appeared to foresee such criticism when he told Commons that " foreign investment plays an important role in Canadian development , but it brings with it costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opinions among Canadians about the balance of benefits and costs of foreign direct investment , there is certainly no disagreement that foreign investment should work in the interests of this country , " he said . In immediate responses in Commons tonight Opposition leaders called the Government proposals weak and ineffective . Robert L. Stanfield , leader of the Conservatives accepted the idea of reviewing future foreign take-overs , but said , " This is not enough . " " The proposed policy does not , in fact , do anything to increase Canadian participation or Canadian ownership , " he said . David Lewis , leader of the New Democrats , called Mr. Gray 's statement " one big zero . " " It deals with nothing of consequence in regard to regaining control of the Canadian economy , " said Mr. Lewis who represents a Toronto district . Officials in provinces across Canada , generally , seek American investment to make developing areas viable and prosperous . Provincial premiers from Newfoundland to British Columbia have anxiously watched the central Government 's plans to exercise " restraint " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next few days . A book-length study released this afternoon indicates that Mr. Gray and his aides at one time contemplated a much broader approach to the foreign-ownership policy than they outlined an the policy statement . The use of tariffs and taxes was discussed , The study also suggested a review of all forms of foreign investment , and set down the advantages of close Government surveillance over the operations of all foreignowned companies to make sure they measured up to Canadian goals . An early version of the study , leaked to a Toronto magazine last fall , proposed a screening tribunal or agency to police foreign enterprises . However , all suggestions outside the take-over-clearance plan were rejected by the Cabinet , at least for the present . " This decision , of course , does not rule out entirely the possibility that other approaches might be required at some time in the future , " said ' Mr. Gray . Effect Is Uncertain What effect the Gray proposals , if they become law , would have on halting foreign ownership generally is not certain . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 20 per cent of the total annual growth of foreign-owned manufacturing and service industries in Canada . This would suggest that the proposed plan would affect a relatively small proportion of the growth of foreign ownership . However , one official estimated today that applications for take-overs would require an average of one ministerial decision each working day . The review would be the responsibility of a special section made up of senior professionals and a staff . An aide explained that in deciding to examine the prospective sale of businesses worth more than $250,000 and earning $3-million a year , the report 's drafters wanted to encompass big and modest-sized businesses . They saw , however , no point in covering small enterprises .                     