@@731469

txt The House Judiciary Committee finds itself under new pressures following the momentous Supreme Court decision on the Watergate tapes . At this writing , it seemed that the committee might stick to its previously announced course of voting on impeachment articles within a few days , rather than delaying to try and hear the 64 tapes which to_the President now has been directed to turn over to special prosecutor Leon Jaworski . The rationale for not delaying would be that the committee has already obtained enough Information in its massive volumes of evidence and hearings to make up its mind . One of the issues the committee was already weighing before the Supreme Court ruling was Mr. Nixon 's refusal to turn over additional materials to committee members as well as to Mr. Jaworski . Schedule to continue Chairman Peter W. Rodin ? said mid-Wednesday that he intended to keep to the current schedule . Before the court ruled , support for Mr. Nixon among so-called " swing " Republicans on the committee had begun to erode . Whether the ruling would hasten the process was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruling would have no significant effect , given the extent of public debate that had preceded it . // * House committee vote expected in a few days // Following the public announcement of conservative Republican Lawrence J. Hogan of Maryland that he would vote for impeachment , Rep. Thomas F. Railsback of Illinois told a breakfast group of reporters Wednesday that the House would vote for impeachment . Mr. Railsback , speaking just before the Supreme Court ruling , opened the possibility that he , too , would vote for impeachment . Prospects for impeachment Also thought to be favoring impeachment were Republican committee members William S. Cohen of Maine , Henry P. Smith of New York , Hamilton Fish Jr . of New York , and Harold V. Froehlich of Wisconsin . Some observers also believe that the second-ranking Republican on the committee , Robert McClory of Illinois , would vote for impeachment . If all of these voted against Mr. Nixon , and all 21 Democrats voted against him , the final vote would be 28.10 to impeach . Mr. Railsback also stressed Wednesday that he favored the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than waiting to hear the other 64 tapes . Some Republicans such as Mr. McClory of Illinois have suggested the committee defer its final vote , pending a look at the additional materials . Chairman Rodino is assured of some Republican support against delay as well as his majority Democratic votes . But whether Mr. Rodino will stay firm or yield to Republican calls for delay , as has happened in the past , was unclear as of this writing Wednesday afternoon . Hutchinson comments While not discussing his view yet on whether or not to defer the committee vote , ranking Republican Edward Hutchinson of Michigan told this newspaper , " It is my belief that the President should comply with the court order . " Republican Charles E. Wiggins of California , meanwhile , has told this newspaper that if Mr. Nixon were to make the tapes sought by Mr. Jaworski available to the Judiciary Committee , then it would be " unconscionable " for the committee to forge ahead without the additional evidence . But if the offer is not quickly forthcoming , or would take several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee should now reach a judgment . Mr. Railsback said that the House impeachment vote will come after a full committee vote in which at least " four or five Republicans for sure " will join majority Democrats in recommending impeachment on " one or two articles . " Indication seen Mr. , Railsback insists that testimony before the committee by John W. Dean III ? to be publicly released shortly ? clearly indicates that much of the material in the 64 White House tapes and documents subpoenaed by the committee is relevant , and should be turned over .                     