@@728448

txt A senior Israeli military officer said today that Arab guerrillas were now infiltrating from Lebanon along the entire length of the border and at a record pace . He said that there had been 31 incidents since Jan. 1 , all but a few involving sabotage by infiltrators . Last year there were only a few incidents a month , mostly shooting across the bor- , der . The officer said that 23 of this year 's incursions had taken place in the last two weeks , and described the situation as " very serious . " It is considered very likely here that unless Lebanese authorities move to curb the guerrillas , Israeli military units will ' move against them inside Lebanon . The infiltrators have been operating within a five-mile belt , crossing an unfenced border to plant explosives under houses and around isolated structures in the hilly Galilee area . Israeli Army officials , reporting the latest incursions , said that three Israeli soldiers were wounded and an Arab guerrilla was killed in a clash near Bukata in the Golan Heights . The Arabs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the west . Bukata is one mile from the Syrian cease-fire line . In another incident , an irrigation pipe was sabotaged near Zarit , an Israeli settlement on the Lebanese border about 10 miles from the Mediterranean Sea . The two incidents were 40 miles apart , reflecting the new scope of guerrilla activities . The senior Israeli officer , // speaking to newsmen , said that until this year , Arab guerrillas operating from Lebanon had been confined to an area between the Hasbani River and Mount Hermon . This meant that rocket attacks and occasional infiltration came from a narrow border area only 10 miles wide at the northern end of Israel . Operations Move Westward The officer said the guerrillas had now been allowed to expand their area of operations westward to within a few miles of the Mediterranean , and were infiltrating across the entire 50-mile-long Lebanon-Israel border . He said that a few hundred guerrillas were involved in the almost daily incursions . Others had set up bases in refugee camps and villages in the Lebanese hinterland , he said . The senior officer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Cairo and , more recently , in Beirut , had specified that there be no shooting across the border . The agreements defined the relationship between the Lebanese Government and the guerrillas and are an outgrowth of tensions and fighting between Lebanese troops and the guerrillas . Lebanese authorities , it was assumed here , apparently thought they would be able to escape responsibility for guerrilla activities that were conducted within Israeli territory . The Israelis , however , do not See . it that way . They have held Arab governments responsible for all activities launched from their territory . Israeli officials have refused to negotiate with guerrilla leaders , for example , to obtain the release of Shmuel Rosenwasser , a member of the Metulla settlement , kidnapped two months ago by guerrillas from Lebanon . Israeli forces ? crossed the border and seized Lebanese . soldiers , and Israeli officials are seeking to negotiate an exchange with Beirut through the Red Cross . The Israelis ' firmposition on the accountability of Arab governments , combined with a generally grim national mood , has . prompted observers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international rebukes . The senior officer said Israel . was not looking for any more trouble along its borders and sought only tranquility on the Lebanese sector . He indicated that security arrangements were being completed along the open border . Incidents Along Jordan Activity- along the Jordanian front runs at about 35 incidents a week , he said , reporting that this was about half the average of six months ago . Most of the " incidents consisted of shooting across the Jordan River boundary . The Israelis now have a highly effective security system in ' operation along their " Eastern front , " with the result that armed infiltration has been virtually ended , the officer said . Sabotage and terrorism continue in the occupied Gaza Strip , however , with three deaths today in a grenade at ' tack , bringing the toll to four dead and 43 wounded in the last four days . All but three of the wounded are local Arabs . Three Arab men died this morning when a grenade was thrown into a crowd near an employment office in Gaza town . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of attempts to persuade Gaza residents not to work in Israel . Israelis say the number is rising , however , with 10,000 Gaza Strip Arabs now employed in Israel .                     