@@729193

txt William J. Casey , a prominent New York tax lawyer , was selected by President Nixon today to be the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission . Mr. Casey , a Republican , would replace Hamer H. Budge , who resigned from the commission in late December . Formally , Mr. Nixon merely nominated Mr. Casey to be a member of the commission , but the White House made clear that it was President 's intention.to make him chairman . Senate confirmation is required merely of the appointment as a member , with no special additional procedure for appointment as chairman . Mr. Casey , who will be 58 years old next month , is considered one of the nation 's leading authorities on taxolaws . He has , however , no specific backround in the securities field . He has been a large contributor to Republican causes and ran unsuccessfully for Congress as a Liberal Republican in 1966 in the Nassau County Third Congressional District , now represented by Representative Lester L. Wolff , a Democrat . According to the compilation just released this week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Casey and his wife gave a total of $17,500 in 1968 to six different national and New York State Republican campaign committees . Assuming his confirmation , Mr. Casey will come to the S.E.C. at a time when it is under widespread attack for al-1 legedly lax regulation that permitted the spread of it is generally believed that the roots of these problems in the securities industry go back before Mr. Budge 's term as chairman , he is generally blamed for permitting them to get out of hand . Investigations of the snarl . ' ties industry and of the S.E.C. 's rdgulation of it have been apa proved by both the House and the Senate . In addition . Con gress last year passed legislation requiring the S.E.C. itself . to investigate unsound practices in the industry and to report back to Congress with recommendations for statutory changes within a year . The New York Stock Exchange has also launched an inquiry into basic issues involving its own future membership and regulation  --  the resolution of which issues will ultimately have to be passed upon by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has also revived another acute problem in the securities industry  --  its inability , at present , to handle peak volume levels , without delays and unacceptable levels William J. Casey of error in the paperwork . Mr. Casey 's views on securities regulation are not known . He was reported to have hesitated about taking the job , among other reasons , because there were so many resignations of key staff members of the commission during Mr. Budge 's tenure as chairman that lie feared he would have difficulty in building the commission again to a point where it could effectively discharge its duties . He is a partner in the New York law firm of Hall , Casey . I Dickler and Howley and the Washington firm of Scribner . Hall , Casey . Thornburg and Thompson . The " Hall " in both cases is Leonard Hall , former chairman of the Republican National Committee . In mid-1969. when the Congressional debate on the issue vas gathering momentum , Mr. Casey was a chief sponsor of a full-page advertisement that was carried in The New York Times supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became controversial when it was discovered that some of its signers were executives of companies that had contracs related to the A.B.M . program or were otherwise connected with such companies as lawyers or bankers . Mr. Casey is a graduate of Fordham University and St. John 's School of Law . In addition to his law practice , he has served since 1955 on the board of editors of the Institute for Business Planning , a subsidiary of the Prentice-Hall publishina . organization . During World War II , he was the chief of intelligence operations in the European theater of the Office of Strategic Services . After the war , he participated in the organization of the Marshall Plan in Europe . He is , at present , a member of the General Advisory Committee of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency . He was also a member of the socalled Peterson Commission , formally the Presidential Task Force on International Development , which recommended a reorganization of the United States ' foreign-assistance programs to separate economic , Bache Head Backs Move John E. Leslie , chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment of Mr. Casey " at this time , when the industry is facing ' many problems . "                     