@@731584

txt The Senate yesterday passed legislation that will outlaw credit discrimination based on sex or marital status . The passage followed similar action by the House Wednesday night . The antidiscrimination proviision was one of many amendments to a Federal deposit insurance bill , and applied to all types of consumer credit I both personal and commercial . Provisions of the amendment , which received bipartisan sup'port in both houses , become effective one year after signature by President Ford . It i : considered possible that the President will sign the bill known as the Depository Institutions Amendments Act , 1974 , sometime today . The amendment brought mixed reactions from women 's groups . Some feminists considered it a major victory , others a half-measure . A number of spokesmen for women 's groups , which have been working for credit discrimination bill for more than two years , were particularly critical of the limitation on punitive damages , and the enforcement procedures . The amendment is the second Federal breakthrough women have made in the credit areas in the last few months . In August @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women in mortgage credit . The legislation followed complaints from women who hai been denied credit on the basis of factors other than effective income or credit history . Mar ? ried women had been refused credit cards in their own names regardless of their personal income ; single women had been refused bank loans , or had been granted smaller amounts than a single man with an identical financial background . Under the amendment , the Federal Reserve Board must , within a year , develop regulations for various Federal agencies to enforce ? the Federal Trade Commission , for example , will enforce retail store credit ; the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will have jurisdiction over bank credit , and the Securities and Exchange Commission will deal with stock transactions . 33 States Have Laws The legislation provides for unlimited actual damages but . limits punitive damages to $10,000 per person . Punitive damages in class action suits are confined to $100,000 or 1 per cent of the value of the company , whichever is the lesser amount . The Federal legislation follows credit laws of varying efficacy already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , signed in July by Governor Wilson , is considered one of the strongest antidiscriminatory credit laws in the country . It prohibits witholding credit on the basis of sex , ' marital status , race , creed , color , national origin or age , and discrimination based on child-bearing capacity . The New York law also provides that if credit is refused , the reasons for rejection must be supplied on request . There are several avenues of recourse , including the filing af complaints with the State Division of Human Rights . ( There is also an antidiscriminatory regulation promulgated by the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs . The regulation , which took effect Jan. 31 , is specifically addressed to discrimination on the basis of sex and marital status . ) The Federal provisions were tacked on to the Depository Institutions Amendments Act , 1974 , by Senator William E. Brock 3d , Republican of Tennessee , and are considered less than ideal by a number of feminists who have long protested the barriers that blocked many women from getting their own charge cards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears to have many severe limitations , " said Barbara Shack , the director of the Women 's Rights Project of the New York Civil Liberties Union . She pointed out that the bill failed to include provisions barring race or age discrimination and added that enforcement and access to remedy might be difficult . Mrs. Shack said she also regretted that it lacked a requirement that a person refused credit must be informed as to why . However , she added , " It will make the credit industry self-conscious about its customary practices . " In Washington , Representative Bella Abzug , - Democrat of New York , termed the legislation " very gratifying . ? . and a victory for the women 's movement . " But she said she believed that unlimited class action damages would have been a stronger deterrent to violators of the act . Her sentiments were echoed ' by Margaret Gates , co-director of the Center for Women Policy Studies in Washington . Mrs. Abzug , the first person to introduce Federal legislation on the subject of discrimination in credit , observed that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blatantly discriminatory practices that women encounter all over the country when they try to open a charge account , or get a loan for business or personal reasons . " Representative Leonor Sullivan , Deinocrat of Missouri , chairman of the subcommittee on consumer affairs of the House Banking and Currency Commit ? tee , also voiced reservations . " The discrimination provision is not as strong as we would have gotten if this had been handled as a separate . bill , " Mrs. Sullivan said . " It 's a start , but it 's not as far as it should have gone . " Mrs. Sullivan , a member of the National Commission on Consumer Finance , which conducted hearings on discrimination against women in 1972 , had introduced her own broader-based credit bill earlier this year . The bill , which failed to get out of committee , . would have prohibited discrimination on the basis of race , color , religion , national origin and age , as well as sex and marital status . The amendment , as passed , is similar to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican of Massachusetts . Mrs. 1 Heckler 's bill omitted everything but sex and marital status , on the grounds that race and color were covered by / , other legislation and that " no creditor known makes any credit decisions on the basis of religion or national origin . ' ; A representative of the National , ; Organization for Women , one of the 1 largest feminist groups in the country , described the bill as " well balanced . " ' Responsible Social Change ' " " We hope that our support for this bill will make all industry realize that we are looking for responsible social change , " she said . " We hope they will realize that there is substance behina what we are working for . . . you don have to be a feminist to know that your money should count as much as anyone else 's . " " Women are a most integral part of our economic society today , " Senator . Brock the Tennessee Republican , said . " Many of them are heads of households , working mothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal opportunity to obtain credit . " In tssence , " he continued , " this measure helps to provide that opportunity . If they are ' qualified for credit , they should be able to obtain it . "                     