@@729731

txt At least 40 indictments involving city policemen are expected to be returned , beginning next month , by grand juries acting on information supplied by the Knapp Corn'mission . The commission , headed by Whitman Knapp , a Wall Street lawyer , has been investigating allegations of police corruption in the city and is scheduled to begin hearings Monday . Unlike other panels of its kind , the Knapp Commission , since its inception last year , has sought to supply information to local and Federal prosecutors so that legal action may be taken against those implicated in the hearings , according to sources within and without the commissidn . Departure From Tradition The commission 's approach constitutes an effort to resolve the traditional problem of investigatory bodies ? how to focus public attention on criminal situations by holding public hearings without thereby damaging the legal case against potential defendants . Publication of an inquiry 's charges against a suspect frequently results in the prosecution 's tipping its hand . In cases of conspiracy , those taking part know they are being watched , and are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left to pick up the pieces afterwards , if we can , " said one prosecutor , who asked not be named . He pointed out that the State Commission of Investigation , which held well-publicized hearings recently on narcoticsrelated police corruption , implicated a number of persons , but that no one was ever indicted . According to sources , the commission has obtained an agreement from at least two prosecutors not to issue indictments while the hearings were in progress . The purpose of this is to avoid detracting from the publicity value of the hearings , which are expected to generate considerable attentien . One assistant United States attorney pointed out , too , that there were " valid legal reasons " to avoid issuing indictments while the hearings are in progress . A potential defendant might charge , for example , that unfavorable pretrial publicity was damaging his case . Michael F. Armstrong , chief counsel of the commission , said that the role of the panel was to investigate and expose the patterns and extent of police corruption . The commission was created by Mayor Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department . " To the degree that we uncover , criminal activities , we see to it that the appropriate District Attorneys are notified and have a chance to work on the case , " Mr. Armstrong noted . He declined to comment on other aspects of the investigation and the nature of evidence turned over to prosecutors . Other sources , however , said that a considerable amount of information had been given to the offices of Whitney North Seymour , United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York , and District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of Manhattan . The number of potential defendants in the cases involving Mr. Hogan 's office is said to be about 15 , and to be at least that many in Mr. Seymour 's office . Investigations dealing directly or indirectly with information provided by the Knapp Commission involve at least a dozen policemen in the Bronx and Brooklyn . According to Federal sources , the number of narcotics policemen connected to corruption in Brooklyn may be as high as 50 , but it is not known how many of them became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police Commissioner Patrick V. Murphy said last week that there would be public disclosure in the near future of " dozens of acts of misconduct " and that some indictments would result . But he did not mention the Knapp Commission by name . Acting on information turned up about one month ago , a state grand jury in Manhattan has already heard testimony that may involve up to 15 police defendants . Some of these indictments are expected to be returned next month . The oases are said to involve policemen in the Third and Fourth Divisions and at least one precinct in Harlem  --  all of which are in Manhattan . The office of Mr. Seymour , whose jurisdiction includes Manhattan and the Bronx , has subpoenaed several patrolmen assigned to narcotics field units in Manhattan . Some Federal indictments relating to information provided by the Knapp Commission WI Mr. Seymour are expected next month . In both offices , investigations resulting from information provided by the Knapp Commission are expected to continue until well after the commission issues a final report , which is expected before the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District Attorney Burton B. Roberts and Brooklyn District Attorney Eugene Gold had received information developed by the panel on corruption . However , the office of the Queens District Attorney , Thomas J. Mackell , has not been supplied with information . " You can draw your own conclusions from that , " said a source close to the Knapp Commission . Mr. Mackell was questioned by the State Commission of Investigation about his office 's handling of case involving a detective arrested for conspiracy to sell heroin . The detective was allowed to plead guilty to official misconduct , and given a suspended sentence . On another occasion , Mr. Mackell declined to accept the advice of the state commission that he refuse to hire as an investigator a policeman whom the state had in vestigated . Payoffs by Gamblers Many of the cases generated by Knapp Commission information are said to involve " scores " made by policemen  --  that is , policemen , taking money from gamblers at the time of an arrest in return for freeing the suspects . Other cases involve systematic payments to policemen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cases evolving directly from the Knapp Commission , investigations involving police corruption in . New York are believed under way in two other jurisdications . Denis E. Dillon , who heads the organized crime strike force in the Eastern District of New York , has said he has evidence of payments as high as $25,000 being made to teams of policemen by , narcotics dealers to escape arrests . In New Jersey , the United States Attorney has been investigating payoffs from gamblers in his state to policemen in the Bronx .                     