@@733748

txt The House Judiciary Committee , with considerable impassioned debate , voted today to send the full House a resolution extending the deadline for ratification of the equal rights amendment . The vote , on an extension of three years and three months , was 19 to 15 . The committee also voted down a proposal to let states rescind approval of the amendment . Thirty-five states have ratified the amendment , which would guarantee equal protection of the law regardless of sex . Three-quarters of the states , or 38 , must approve the amendment if it is to become part of the Constitution . Proponents of the measure , with the original seven-year ratification deadline expiring March 22 , 1979 , sought an extension in the hope that , given more time , they could garner the additional support needed for ratification . Compromise on Time The resolution , offered by Representative Elizabeth ' Holtzman , Democrat of Brooklyn , and 20 co-sponsors , originally called for a seven-year extension . The time limit was scaled down to 39 months in a compromise amendment , approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edwards , Democrat of California , and William S. Cohen , Republican of Maine . Representative Hamilton Fish Jr . of upstate Millbrook , N.Y. , was the only other Republican to vote for the extension at that point . Before an audience of supporters and opponents of the amendment , committee members argued most of the day over the fine points of the extension : the time limitation , the necessity for an amendment and the rights of states to withdraw their ratification . Idaho , Kentucky , Nebraska and Tennessee have rescinded their approval , although Kentucky 's rescission was vetoed by the state 's acting governor . Supporters of the resolution believe the House will pass it . " It will be easy once it goes to the floor , " said Representative Edwards . " This is a very conservative committee and getting through here is the tough battle . " Representative Holtzman was less optimistic : " We have n't done a vote count for the House , but we 're hoping . We 've spent so much time concentrating here , that there just has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rules Committee must decide , which may determine the effort 's fate in the House , is the question of whether a simple majority is sufficient to pass the extension , or whether a two-thirds vote is required , as for the original resolution that sent the proposed amendment to the states in 1972 . While supporters believe a majority can probably be obtained , a two-thirds majority would be very difficult to get . Representative Holtzman said that the measure did not come up at the most opportune time . Congress goes into recess next month , and some questions were raised as to whether the House would be able to consider the resolution under the press of finishing up its other business . She said that proponents had discussed with Representative Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. , the House Speaker , the possibilities of the resolution 's coming to a vote . " We have received commitments from the leadership " for a hearing , she said . The extension measure must also be considered by the Senate , where proponents believe it faces rough handling . Representative Edwards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there will be huge pressures there and we 've got the support of some of the younger membens , Bayh and Kennedy and Abourezk . " Committee opponents of the resolution offered various reasons for striking it down . Early in the debate , Representative Robert McClory , Republican of Illinois , the committee 's ranking minority member , said the extension would " do more harm than good , " arguing that he believed the amendment would be ratified before the present deadline . Representative Tom Railsback , another Illinois Republican , offered an amendment to allow states to rescind their approval of the proposed equal rights amendment , noting that an extension " without consideration to change a vote gives rise to impropriety . " His proposal was defeated , 21 to 13 . Though most of the members said that they supported the extension resolution and differed only on how to get it adopted , Representative Charles E. Wiggins , Republican of California , said he found it " a repugnant idea that an issue could run for 14 years . "      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      