@@730665

txt President NiXon said today in a radio address that he would propose i plan to assure the nation adequate supplies of energy " at acceptable economic ' arid environthental costs . " . " We must:face up to a stark fact , ' ! ' he sdid . " We are now consuming more , energy than we produce . " His 12-minute talk , dealing with the environment and Text of President 's address is printed on Page 28. natural resources , was the first of a series that he plans to deliver as parts of his State of the Union , Message . The President 's address was carried on all major radio networks . The President gave no details on his plans for legislation , but his address indicated that his , environmental message to Congress outlining Administration proposals , expected tomorrow , would deal primarily with bills already sought but not yet enacted . While taking an optimistic view of the environmental picture , ' Mr , Nixon charged that the last Congress had failed to , , respond to 19. initiatives on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Business ? " In the coming weeks , I shall once again send those urgently needed proposals to the Congress so that the unfinished environmental business of the 92d Congress can become the first environmental achievements of the 93d , " he said . Mr , Nixon stressed particularly proposals to deal with damage to the environment from uncontrolled use of land , strip-mining controls and bills to revise policies of public-land management and mining and mineral-leasing laws . The President also indicated that his Administration 's proposals for a new farm bill to renew the basic law of farm programs , which expires this year , would point in directions already taken ? in agricultural policy . His aides , in regulatory actions , have moved toward reduced crop controls and lower farm subsidies . " This Administration has responded to the farmer 's desire for less Federal intervention by giving him expanded opportunity in planting his acreage , " Mr. Nixon said . " We want freer markets and expanded individual responsibility . We want to keep the farmer on the land and the Government off . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some farm groups and farm-country Congressmen , who have already expressed fears that a reduced Government role in agriculture , might reduce farm income . Bills on land use , strip mining and public-land management are already under consideration in Congress . The President voiced pride in the Government 's record in dealing with environmental problems and decried a " doomsday mentality . " . He said : " I can report that America is well on the way to winning the war against environmental degradation  --  well on the way to making our peace with nature .. " Day by day , our air is getting cleaner . In virtually every one of our major cities , the level 's of air pollution ; are declining . " Month by month , our water pollution problems ate being conquered , our noise and.pesticide problems are yielding to new initiatives , our parklands and protected wilderness areas are increasing . " He continued , then , with a defense of his action on the sensitive question of waterpollution control funds . He has ordered the Environmental Protection Agency not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction of municipal waste-treatment plants in the fiscal years 1973 and 1974 . Asserting that " Federal spending , for protection of our environment and natural resources has increased four-fold in the last , four years , " , while spending on , water quality alone had agrown fifteen-fold , ' " Mr. " In , fact ' we . are , noW ? buying , new facilities ' marry as fast as the construction industry. ; can build them ' . Spending : more money would ' not , buy us mere pollution control . facilities but only more expensive ones . " ?                     