@@733714

txt President Carter , in one of his most positive evaluations of Soviet-American relations , said today that the underlying relationship was " stable , " that the Soviet leader , Leonid I. Brezhnev , shared his desire for " better friendship " and that current negotiations were proceeding " in good faith . " In a nationally televised news conference that was largely devoted to foreign Text of mews conference , Page Al ? . affairs , Mr. Carter also said that he was very disappointed by Israel 's recent response to American questions on its plans for dealing with the occupied territories and he seemed to criticize the Israelis for rejecting the latest Egyptian plan yesterday before it was even completed . Question 1 , Page Al2 . Nevertheless , Mr. Carter said he remained " dedicated " to pursuing a Middle East peace and said he hoped a meeting of the foreign ministers of Egypt , Israel and the United States could be held to seek ways of ending the current impasse . Tax Proposal Denounced On domestic matters , Mr. Carter made the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce capital gains taxes but stopped short of pledging to veto such a measure if Congress should pass it . Opening statement , Questions 4 and 12. ( : He said that his Administration was working on a plan to create a national health insurance system but conceded that its realization was years away because of inflation and the budget deficit . Question 15. cf:He called on David Gartner to resign his post on the Commodity Futures ' Trading Commission , a request that Mr. Gartner has already refused . Question 7 . Much of the news conference at the Executive Office Building was taken up with attempts by reporters to obtain from Mr. Carter a more precise formulation of his attitudes toward the Soviet Union . In recent months this policy has seemed to fluctuate from one emphasizing the differences to one stressing the cooperative aspects , with Zbigniew Brzezinski , Mr. Carter 's adviser on national security affairs , and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance , seeming to compete for the President 's ear . Mr. Brzezinski advocates a tougher line and Mr. Vance a less inflammatory one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the tone of his presentation today was more in keeping with Mr. Vance 's remarks to a House committee a week ago than with anything said by Mr. Brzezinski or by Mr. Carter himself . Mr. Carter seemed to go out of his way to appear conciliatory to the Soviet Union , even though he repeated that the two countries were " in a state of competition " and that " it 's going to be that way 15 to 20 years in the future . " Question 101 " When the Soviets commit acts with which we disagree I have to make a judgment whether to be quiet about it or to speak out openly and acquaint the American people with the facts so that Americans can understand the interrelationship between us and the Soviet union . " he said . Relationship Called Stable The overall relationship , he said , " is stable . " " It 's not in danger , " he said . " There is no present threat to peace . The negotiations are proceeding in good faith . There 's no cause for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal circumstance . " ' On the negotiations on the limitation of strategic arms and the talks for a comprehensive nuclear test ban , Mr. Carter said , " We 've made gocd progress , " He said that the two Governments were much closer to an agreement than they were two weeks ago . But other officials said they did not know to what Mr. Carter was alluding since they knew of no new breakthrough . Ore official t.necu'ati ed that Mr. Carter may have been referring to the discussions for a new round of talks between Mr. Vance and Foreign M'nister Andrei A. Gromyko . Mr. Carter said that he had extended an invitation to Mr. Brezhnev to come to this country but that this would not take place until an agreement on strategic arms was " quite imminent . " He said that Mr. Brezhnev " wants the same thing I do  --  he wants peace between our country and theirs . " At another point he said that Mr. Brezhnev " wants peace and wants to have better friendship . " Yesterday , in a speech in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shortsighted and dangerous policy " of trying to " play the Chinese card . But Mr. Carter said today , " We are not trying . nor will we ever try to play the Soviets against the People 's Republic of China , nor vice versa . " On the Middle East , Mr. Carter said that when the United States received from the Egyptians their proposal on the West Bank and Gaza Strip " in final form " it would be relayed to the Israelis ? who rejected the outline of it yesterday  --  and it " will be on the table " along with the plan proposed in December by Prime Minister Menachem Begin .                     