@@731527

txt A number of conservative Roman Catholic priests have strongly attacked President Thieu 's government lately for massive corruption among officials and military men . They contend that unless Mr. Thieu reforms his government , he does n't stand a chance against the Communists . Three hundred priests , many of them refugees from the Communist North , have banded together to make sure that their voices are heard . A few months ago , they decided to go public and Issue a manifesto " against corruption , injustice , and social decadence . " The priests claim to have the support of some of South Vietnam 's Roman Catholic bishops , but decline to reveal the names of any high  --  level supporters In the Catholic hierarchy . Catholics make up only about 10 percent of South Vietnam 's population but they wield influence far out of proportion to their numbers . President Thieu Is a Catholic by conversion . In their manifesto , the dissident priests declared that power and leadership in South Vietnam are " for the most part . . . based on corruption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealers , gangsters , gamblers , prostitutes , and smugglers have become a true menace to a society plagued with puree-snatching , fraud , rape , and other unthinkable crimes , " said the manifesto . " Few people feel themselves safe . " Corruption is not the priests ' only theme . They have also been protesting against restrictions on the freedom of speech in South Vietnam . In their manifesto , they point out that under the Thieu government " help* // *Priests blast corruption in Thieu 's regime // less citizens may be accused of assisting or conniving with the Communists , while others who utter any unpleasant truth about the administration may be charged with ' weakening the fighting spirit of the armed forces . ' " None of the accusations is particulary new . Corruption and injustice have been the targets of countless protesters throughout the long Vietnam war . But it is unusual for so many conservative priests to be going on the attack in such a vocal way . Recently two of the leaders among the group of 300 issued a statement in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and traitorous regime . " These were strong words indeed . The two priests urged the Catholic leadership in South Vietnam to disassociate itself from the Thieu government and to stop accepting favors from the government . The chief motivation of the 300 priests seems to be , quite simply , fear of a Communist take-over . Left-leaning Vietnamese priests often say that a coalition government which includes the Communists but excludes President Thieu is the only solution for South Vietnam . But the conservative priests do not advocate that kind of compromise ? not yet anyway . Many remain as hawkish as they ever were . But they fear that corruption will sabotage the chances of any anti-Communist regime surviving in South Vietnam . Regimes compared It was corruption that led to the downfall of the Chiang Kai-shek government in China , " said one of the priests who signed the manifesto . The priest , who happens to be an admirer of the late President Ngo Dinh Diem , declared that corruption now is " 100 times worse " than it was under the Diem regime . The priest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feared retaliation from the Thieu government . But at the same time he said that he doubted Mr. Thieu would take strong action against any of the 300 priests who signed the manifesto . " I do not think that Thieu would dare act like President Park Chung Hee of Korea , " the priest said , referring to the arrests of Christian dissidents in South Korea . " Thieu Is not strong like Park , " he said . Mr. Thieu has given little indication so far of what his attitude is toward the priests who are demanding an cno to corruption . But he is not likely to be happy with their criticism because , as one Vietnamese Catholic put it : " If the left-wing priests talk about corruption , Thieu can always say that their criticism Is exaggerated . But what does he say when the right-wing priests start talking about it ? "                     