@@731860

txt Frederick C , LaRue , once a power in the Nixon White House and the 1972 Nixon campaign and then a key prosecution witness at the Watergate cover-up trial , was sentenced by Judge John J. Sirica today to six months in prison for his admitted role in the coverup . Mr. LaRue , who pleaded guilty in June , 1973 , to a single count of conspiracy to obstruct justice , was the first defendant to plead guilty in the coverup and the last to be sentenced of the eight men who were convicted in the case either through guilty pleas or jury verdicts . His sentencing thus appears to close the first and basic phase of the cover-up prosecution . Only the appelate phase remains  --  the appeals of the four men convicted Jan. 1 at the cover-up trial . Minutes before the judge imposed sentence , Mr. LaRue apologized , for his role in the cover-up , saying , " To the extent my activities contributed to the whole . ' - tragedy. ? , known as WaterthWa-Arn truly ' sorry . " He Said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had contributed to getting out the " truth " about Watergate through his cooperation with the prosecution . His lawyer , Fred ' Vinson , Jr. , argued that Mr. LaRue should not he jailed for a variety of reasons , including his cooperation and the fact that he had been the first . to " step forward " and plead guilty . ? . Judge Sirica replied ' that he remembered Well , ' Me . LaRue 's testimony ' at the cover-up trial and that . he was taking into account such things as the defendant 's cooperation . But , he had to keep in mind constantly , %he ' said , the other sentences ? he had imposed in the case , particularly on the others who had pleaded guilty and cooperated . One of the biggest problems of the judiciary , he went on , ' : is disparity in sentencing . He thereupon sentenced Mr. LaRue to a term of one to three years . He said that after the defendant serves ? six months , the remainder of the term . will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probation . He ordered the former Nixon campaign official to report to the . Federat authorities at 10 A.M. , April I , pi . begin his , term . McCord Loses Plea Later this morning , Judge Sirica denied a motion for a new trial by James W. McCord Jr. , one of the Watergate blirglars . As a result , Mr. McCord must begin on Friday his oneto-five-year prison term , imposed a year age but delayed pending his attempts to overturn it on appeal . One of the ? central elements of the Watergate cover-up , according to the prosecution 's view of the case , was that the various conspirators sought to keep secret the true facts of the Watergate break-in ? particularly the campaign committee 's connection to it -- through such means ? as payments of " hush money " to the various Watergate burglars . Mr. LaRue , by his own account , funneled thousands of dollars in $100 bills to the burglars . Once ' a Wealthy Mississippi oilman , Mr. LaRue was a high official of the 1972 Nixon campaign apparatus , serving at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a key aide to former Attorney General Sohn N. Mitchell . For a time Mr. Mitchell , was the director of the campaign effort . He was one of the four men convicted at the Watergate cover-up trial on New Year 's Day . Mr. LaRue ' became friendly with Mn . Mitchell during the 1968 campaign and worked with him on the so-called " Southern strategy " of winning the conservative vote in the South away from the Demo-crats : During Mr , Nixon 's first term in office , Mr. LaRue was considered a somewhat mysterious figure in . the Nixon power structure . He had a White House pass ' but no title , or salary . ; . First to Be Charged On June 27 , 1973 , after the special Watergate prosecution had taken over the investigation of the Watergate affair from the original Federal prosecutors handling the case , Mr. LaRue became ' the first person to be officially charged in the cover-up of events following the break-in at . Democratic national headquarters in the Watergate complex . ' He ' pleaded guilty before Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he agreed , : to plead guilty to a single count of conspiracy to obstruct justice  --  punishable by a maximum of five years in prison ? and to give " complete cooperation " to the Government , including " full and truthful disclosure of all information in his possession . " In return , the Government agreed that the plea would dispose of all other potential liability relating to the Watergate cover-up and to campaign financing laws . Judge Sirica delayed sentencing at the time pending , disposition of the other indictments that the prosecution indicated were to follow . In subsequent months , 10 other persons were charged with offenses stemming from events following the break-in , ' and seven were convicted . Mir . LaRue contributed his testimony to some ' of the prosecutions . Each of the persons convicted was sentenced to some prison time , and this was apparently considered by Judge ? Sirica in determining the sentence for Mr. LaRue . Those given previous sentences were . Jeb Stuart Magruder , John W. Dean 3d . Herbert L. Porter , H. R. Haldeman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sturgis Freed in Theft Case MIAMI , March 14 ( UPI ) ? A nine-month jail term imposed Associated Press Frederick C. LaRue United Press international James W. McCord Jr . arriving at court . His re'quest for a new trial was denied again . on a convicted Watergate burglar , Frank A. Sturgis , on charges of shipping stolen cars to Mexico was set aside today because of his cooperation with Federal narcotic agents . Instead , a Federal judge ordered Mr. Sturgis placed on probation . ' Mr. Sturgis 's attorney , Ellis Rubin , said after the order by United States District Court Judge Clyde Atkins , " We hope to use this in order to try to convince Judge John Sirica in Washington to set aside the remainder of Sturgis 's jail sentence in the Watergate matter . "                     