@@730223

txt United States-hired commandos are making unannounced raids into North Vietnam , according to U.S. sources in Saigon . The sources said the raids are being made against North Vietnam 's supply and transport system , mainly in the country 's southern panhandle , by " Asian mercenaries . " Most of the commandos are believed to be recruits of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency in Laos . Many of the commandos are being inserted into North Vietnam by unmarked aircraft , the sources said . But according to one report , some have been slipped into North Vietnam on boats . The sources said the raids are being staged ' from a " neighboring country , " undoubtedly meaning Laos . But it was thought that bases in Thailand might also be involved . Targets spotlighted Truck parks and supply depots are among the targets , the sources said . The CIA had organized sabotage and intelligence raids into North Vietnam in the early 1960 's , but these were believed to have met with little success . In early 1964 , the raids were stepped up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Command in Saigon . Some of the details of those raids were disclosed in the " Pentagon papers " published last year . The raids were apparently suspended after the bombing halt in 1968 . The renewed raids are no secret to the North Vietnamese . Hanoi publications such as Quan Doi Nhan Dan ( People 's Army ) have made at least half-a-dozen references over the past few weeks to " puppet ranger groups " making raids in the north . Publication warns The armed forces publication recently warned that the United States is " attempting to conduct surprise attacks by infantry or commandos in vital areas to sever our transportation to the front line . " In another issue , Quan Doi Nhan Dan said that North Vietnam 's local forces are " determined to destroy all U.S. puppet ranger groups . " " At present , along with using aircraft and warships to . . . attack us , the Nixon clique . " These activities are aimed at sabotaging our communications lines and military and economic installations . " They use aircraft , boats , and rubber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borders . Their basic plot is to land secretly , quickly carry out sabotage activities , and then withdraw quickly . " But it added that " sometimes they leave behind a small number of rangers to carry out activities for a long time . " Although the North Vietnamese publication called the raids " desperate , " activities which " can not escape being appropriately punished , " there is no evidence so far that the Communists have had much success in stopping them . Along with the bombing , mining , and commandb raids , the United States has also resumed the dropping of propaganda leaflets over North Vietnam . The Voice of America has increased its broadcasts to North Vietnam from a pre-offensive level of 6 hours a day to a current level of 13 hours a day .                     