@@731425

txt The National Academy of Sciences urged President Nixon and Congress yesterday to reestablish in the White House a panel to advise the President and such agencies as the National Security Council on matters involving science and technology . The academy said that with the demise early last year of previous White House machinExcerpts from the report by scientists , ' Page 40. ery for this purpose , there was no provision at the top level of the Government for sophisticated analyses of such problems as food crises or the choice of ? development programs in the energy field or in transporta ! tion . Nor , according to the proposal , is there a capability of independent assessment of armament and disarmament ( problems tree from departmental loyalties and pressures or from jurisdictional lines of thought . The proposal was drafted by a blue-ribbon committee formed , by the academy last fall under the chairmanship of Dr. James R. Killian Jr. , former president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . In 1957 , Dr. Killian became , under President Eisenhower , the first science adviser to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would differ in a number of ways from the previous advisory apparatus . The latter consisted of a Presidential science adviser who also served as chairman of the President 's Science Advisory Committee and head of the Office of Science and Technology within the Executive Office of the President . The . Science Advisory Committee consisted of 20 parttime specialists . The new council would be formed of only three individuals , its chairman serving as personal adviser to the President . There would be a professional staff of 25 or 30 , plus experts brought in to attack special problems . The old Science Advisory Committee was chiefly concerned with defense matters , and its composition reflected this , particularly in its early years . The new council would deal with both defense and civilian problems , and its proposed annual report to the President and Congress would help to keep Congress abreast of critical problems facing the nation and the world . Those appointed to the council , according to the proposal , should have sufficient stature to win the confidence of the scientific community . Of special importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relationship that nominees may be able to engender with the President and among the President 's direct staff . " This comment is presumably directed at the gradual deterioration in relations between the President and the science advisory apparatus that began under President Johnson and culminated under President Nixon . While a variety of factors was involved , widespread opposition within the scientific community to American policy in Vietnam played an important role . President Nixon , soon after taking office , isolated himself from his science adviser who , as a rule , could reach him only through the President 's closest aides . Presumably with this in mind , the report says that , fic presence in the White House has been ' published in recent issues of Science , journal of the American Association for the Advancement of Science . After Dr. Killian , Dr. Handler , president of the academy , and members of the study committee presented the report yesterday to the House Committee on Science and Astronautics , the committee chairman , Olin E. Teague of Texas , said that the committee 's staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was evident that such a bill would have little effect if the President were hostile to the proposal . While some people high in the Administration have been sympathetic to the idea , the President has other problems on his mind . However , Vice President Ford is said to be receptive to plans for strengthening the science advisory apparatus . ' Untenable Position ' The role of science adviser , as regards civilian matters , was relegated last year to the director of the National Science Foundation , Dr. H. Guyford Stever . While Dr. Stever has done as well id possible in that role , the academy study says , he is in an " untenable position " in that he must not only provide scientific advice to the Office of Management and Budget , but must also plead with it for funds for his own agency . The National Academy of Sciences Committee whose recommendations on science advising were made public yesterday is composed of the following , in addition to Dr. Killian , the chairman : Graham T. Allison Jr. , the Public Policy Program , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Medical Center and former deputy director of the White House Office of . Science and Technology ; Harold Brown , president of the California Institute of Technology , and former director of Defense Research and Engineering in the Pentagon . Also , James B. Fisk , chairman of the board , Bell Telephone Laboratories ; Robert C. Gunness , vice chairman of the board , Standard Oil Company ( Indiana ) ; Edwin H. Land , president of the Polaroid Corporation ; Franklin A. Long ,                     