@@734287

txt Calling standardized admissions tests " imprecise and open to potential misinterpretation and misuse , " Governor Carey announced yesterday that he had signed a bill requiring the services that administer the tests for colleges and graduate schools to open their examinations to public scrutiny for the first time . The law will allow students to see their graded tests and the correct answers and thereby confirm the grading . It will compel the testing services to disclose their research on the validity of the tests and to describe what the tests are supposed to measure and how to interpret the scores . The Governor also signed a bill that will raise the minimum insurance coverage motorists must hold to pay for deaths in automobile accidents due to their negligence . The measure will add from x3.50 to $11 a year to automobile insurance premiums in the state . Page 24 . Bill to Have Nationwide Effect The admission-tests bill was the subject of intense lobbying by testing serv ? ices and college and university administrators , who opposed it , and from student , parent , educator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vigorous debate among members of the Governor 's staff , and Mr. Carey 's decision to sign the bill was not known until shortly before it was announced . Although the law applies only to tests given in New York State , it will have a major effect nationwide by making the validity studies and actual tests and answers ? which have long been closely guarded secrets ? widely available . " To the degree that it 's a public record , if someone gets it in New York , nothing can stop him from passing it around , " said Arthur Malkin , the legislative lobbyist for the New York Public Interest Research Group , which led the lobbying effort for the measure here . Carey Cites Students ' Rights The nation 's largest testing organization , Educational Testing Service of Princeton , N.J. , immediately warned that higher costs were " probable " as a result of what it called the " unfortunate legislation . " It said that , as a result , it might reduce special services to handicapped students and those who , for religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a statement yesterday , the Governor said : " The standardized tests are a very important element in one of the most crucial determinations in a young person 's life . Tests of this type are imprecise and open to potential misinterpretation . It must be a candidate 's right to have access to his results . " The Governor said he was " not persuaded " by the arguments of the opponents , and added that the measure " ought not result in a dramatic escalation in the cost of such tests or in an automatic reduction of the availability of the tests to New Yorkers . " But he said he would ask the State Education Commissioner , Gordon M. Ambach , an opponent // of the Measure , to report to him on any problems caused by the new law . Bill Covers Most Admissions Tests The measure , which takes effect next Jan. 1 , covers virtually all the college-admissions tests given by the College Board , the Educational Testing Service and the American College Testing Program . These include the Scholastic Aptitude Test , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Medical College Admission Test and the Dental Admission Testing Program . It does not cover the achievement tests administered by the Educational Testing Service in specific subjects or tests such as intelligence-quotient tests . The new law requires the testing services to file a copy of their tests and correct answer sheets with the State Department of Education ? thus making them public records ? within 30 days after the results are distributed . It also requires them to give a graded answer sheet to any student who requests it . But it will not require them to disclose questions and answers that are not used in computing a student 's score , such as " control " questions used to compare one group of test-takers with previous testtakers . The lead sponsors of the bill were Senator Kenneth P. LaValle , Republican-Conservative of Port Jefferson , and Assemblyman Albert Vann , Democrat-Liberal of Brooklyn . Ralph Nader , the consumer activist , said he believed the opening of the tests to the public would provide closer monitoring of cultural biases and economic class biases , and would result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test results . " They do not measure judgment , determination , experience , idealism and creativity , which are rather important attributes , " Mr. Nader said , asserting that colleges and graduate schools opposed the measure because the current testing procedures were " the easy way out . " His organization is trying to get similar legislation in other states , as well as at the national level . But Mary Churchill , associate director of the Educational Testing Service , warned that the new law could increase a student 's cost by $4.75 for a test such as the Scholastic Aptitude Test , which now costs $8.75 . And she said the requirement for disclosing the questions and answers for each test could limit the service 's ability to offer special tests to handicapped people or those whose Sabbath is a Saturday and who would prefer not to take the tests then . Carey Signs Other Bills Allan Nairn , who has directed Mr. Nader 's study of E.T.S. since 1979 , dismissed those assertions . " Their own budget records show there is no need for that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor was a measure that would allow members of the New York City Auxiliary Police to carry billy clubs , and another that would allow about 1,500 New York City employees , to join a more lucrative pension program . The 1,500 turned down the opportunity to join the plan between 1968 and 1970 , when it closed , because it would have forced them into mandatory retirement at age 65 . Another bill would require local jails to supply prisoners , including those awaiting arraignment , with food according to their religious dietary rules or medically prescribed diets.                     