@@730955

txt Sen. Charles Percy R. , 111.1 has been seeking an appointment with President Nixon to discuss secretly his political ambitions and Nixon 's threat to thwart them , Republican sources said today . But Nixon , who angrily told his Cabinet that Percy would never become President " as long as I have anything to say about it , " has not yet agreed to see him and may not . Percy asked 10 days ago for the appointment . He suggested that , to avoid any-embarrassment , the White House announce the tete-a-tete as only an opportunity for the Illinois senator to brief the President on his summer tour of India and Pakistan , a G. 0 . P. source said . But Nixon , infuriated earlier in the year by Percy 's Exclusive barrage of criticism over Watergate , has not replied , presumably to the senator 's chagrin . " I am denying it , " Tom Flaherty , Percy 's press secretary , said of the report . But he Said Percy was out of town and he had not discussed the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew of no such approach to the White House ' front Percy 's office . WHILE PERCY HAS DISCOUNTED the President 's threat to oppose him actively in 1976 , he has told reporters he does n't think any candidate could win the nomination against the opposition of the party head . ? Thus , the senator would need to mend fences with the White House , since one of his likely rivals , John Connally , has carefully maintained his links with the Oval Office . Like Connally , Percy is undertaking a national speaking tour as a warmup to one of the earliest Presidential exhibition seasons ever . Percy has clashed with Nixon before  --  ove ? Viet Nam , the anti-ballistic missile system , and the administration 's selection of G. Harrold Carswell for the Supreme Court . BUT HE SKIRTED the Watergate issue during his own reelection campaign last year , bringing it to the fore in what critics said was a late-blooming effort to appear as " Mr. Clean . " It was Percy who introduced a Senate resolution calling for the appointment of a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the administration . Nixon showed his irritation by reportedly telling his cabinet that Percy.was making a cynical drive for the White House in 1976 and predicting he would fail " as long as I have anything to say about it . " Percy responded : " I think it 's absolutely ghoulish that the President would raise a political issue in the midst of a scandal that is shaking the country to its roots . " NIXON AND PERCY HAD what was described as a fence-mending session aboard Air Force One while flying to Pekin , Ill. , for the dedication of the Diemen Library . In Percy 's fall speaking tour , Flaherty has explained , " He will be testing the waters , so to speak , to see how he would fare if he should seek the Republican Presidential nomination in 1976. "                     