@@729715

txt Evidence mounted today that President Nixon 's first choice for nomination to the Supreme Court is Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia , and that if his name is submitted to the Senate for confirmation it will sail through with ease . The good confirmation prospects of the conservative West Virginia Democrat were indicated by the implied endorsement of Mr. Byrd by George of South Dakota , a leading Senate liberal , and by predictions of other Senators . Sources in West Virginia familiar with some of the details of the President 's conversation with Senator Byrd last Friday described the prospect that Mr. Nixon would pick Mr. Byrd , an outspoken ' conservative Democrat , as " excellent , " Representative Harley 0 . Staggers , a West Virginia Democrat at whose invitation the President flew on Friday to the Mountain State Forest Festival at Elkins , W.Va. with Senator Byrd as a passenger in the White House plane  --  was quoted today as saying that the Byrd nomination " looks very good . " Mr. Byrd 's senior colleague in the Senate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be optimistic about Mr. Byrd 's nomination . Senator Byrd was making no comment on the increased pace of speculation on his nomination , and White House officials added nothing to yesterday 's confirmation that Mr. Byrd 's name was one of several before Ithe President . A Republican Gain One factor said to figure in Republican political calculalions about a Byrd nomination was the fallout of partisan serendipity in West Virginia . If Senator Byrd , resigns his seat , it will be filled until the election of 1972 by an appointee of Gov . Arch A. Moore Jr. , a Republican . This would reduce the 55-to-45 Democratic majority in the Senate to 54 to 46 . Furthermore , Governor Moore is known to be eager to run for a Senate seat next year , a course that West Virginia Republicans doubt will be successful unless Senator Byrd or Senator Randolph , both well entrenched , retires . Mr. Nixon was reported to have rejected brusquely a suggestion by at least one of his advisers that the choice of Senator Byrd , a former member of the Ku Klux @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would stir a major Senate fight // against his confirmation . Senator Byrd , like the late Justice Hugo . L. Black , whose Seat he may fill , has repudiated his youthful membership in the According to reports circulating here today , which could not be confirmed , Mr. Nixon also brushed aside , with a display of anger , another White Rouse staff warning . This ' arning was that Mr. Byrd , a lawyer only since 1963 , and vtith no redord Of legal or judicial practice , would be unlikely to win a high rating from the American Bar Association , which screens and grades judicial nominees . The President 's reported expression of disdain for the bar association 's rating of Senator Byrd was said to have come Friday morning at a staff conference on a list of potential Supreme Court nominees . The list was ; reported to indude the names of Senators Howard H. Baker Jr . of Tennessee and Robert P. Griffin of Michigan , both Republicans . There are two vacancies on the Court . Reports Encouraged The A.B.A , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice , but Administration spokesmen have lent encouragement to reports that Mr. Nixon is considering Mr. Byrd 's nomination above others . If one purpose of the official news leaks that Mr. Byrd 's name ranked at the top of the President 's list of Court candidates was to elicit pre-nomination public reaction , it had this effect strikingly today . The most unexpected and significant result was Mr. 's praise of his Senate colleague , who has been the Democratic whip , or assistant majority leader , for the last nine months . Senator Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma , like Mr. an announced candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination next year , ' said that he would vote to deny Mr. Byrd confirmation because he lacked both " the depth of judgment and legal experience that you would associate with a Justice of the nation 's highest court " and " the exemplary record in civil rights and civil liberties that I would like to see . " But Senator 's assessment of Mr. Byrd as " a man of enormous industry and personal pride " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice " overshadowed Senator Harris 's criticism . Clubbiness of Senate It may also have demonstrated . one of Mr. Byrd 's great advantages if he is nominated ? the " clubbiness " of the Senate and the power wielded by the Senate whip . Mr. Harris has said that he is retiring from the Senate next year , and he is thus unlikely to be concerned about reprisals for his opposition . The Senators ' comments came during separate television interviews today . Mr. was on the American Broadcasting Company 's " Issues and Answers " program and Mr. Harris on the " Meet the Press " program of the National Broadcasting Company . On a third program , " Face the Nation , " on the Columbia Broadcasting System , Secretary of State William P. Rogers , who has been mentioned ' in some speculation about the nominations , said that he had " no interest " in a Court seat . Mr. declined , to say today how he would vote if Mr. Byrd 's nomination was submitted to the Senate , but he predicted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all other Senators who have spoken on Mr. Byrd 's chances . No one here has suggested that he would not be confirmed with ease . As Mr. put it today , " the club spirit " of the Senate is " a political fact of life . " An Open Mind Although Mr. was among the Senate liberals who had , announced their opposition to the nomination of Representative Richard H. Poff , a conservative Virginia Republican who withdrew from consideration under a barrage of criticism , he said today that he would " certainly keep an open mind " on Mr. Byrd . ' I think no one ought to make a final decision as to how they 're going to vote on a Supreme Court nominee until the Senate Judiciary Committee has looked into his background and into his qualifications , " Mr. said . Senator Byrd is a member of the committee . " Senator Byrd is a man of enormous industry and personal pride , " Mr. said . " I think if he were given the nomination he would bend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has already named him to the second most powerful post in the United States Senate . I think the probability is that if the President sends his name up , the Senate will confirm him . ' He called Mr. Byrd 's civil rights record " somewhat better " than Mr. Poff 's . " I think in recent months , particularly , Senator Byrd has been moving to a more moderate position , " he said . ' Mr. said at one point that if he were President he would not nominote Mr. Byrd . But he softened that by adding that tills was so because he believed the norninatioM should go to a woman ;                     