@@733171

txt As news of U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus , Vance 's speech on the Asian policy of the Carter administration reached Taiwan , anger flared . With- an uncanny symbolism , Taipei 's windows shook to the awesome rumbling of a summer thunderstorm . The bright afternoon sky became heavily overcast . As the Taiwanese saw it , Mr. Vance not only pledged full diplomatic recognition of the government in Peking but ? more ominously ? he pointedly avoided mentioning U.S. relations with the Nationalist government here . To Taiwan 's 16 million unabashedly pro-American population , this was particularly distressing . " The Secretary of State 's address could be construed as a calculated insult to this country , " said a Taipei newspaper . " Secretary Vance is associating himself with the Machiavellianism of Richard Nixon . He is not standing on the Carter platform of morality and human rights . " The Nationalist Chinese government took Mr. Vance 's June 30 speech to mean that Mr. Carter was poised to accept Peking 's three conditions for the establishment of diplomatic relations : ( 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all U.S. military personnel stationed here ( 1,400 advisers ) ; and ( 3 ) cancellation of the U.S.-Taiwan mutual security treaty // From page 1 Taiwan sees Vance speech as severe blow It was bitterly noted that the text of Mr. Vance 's speech also ignored Taiwan while praising the " economic miracles " of Japan , South Korea , Singapore , Indonesia , and the Philippines . In terms of economic growth , Taiwan rivals South Korea for second place behind Japan in standard of living and development . Omission of these facts by Mr. Vance hurt the Taiwanese deeply . Taiwan 's present trade with the U.S. is greater than that of France with the U.S. , and there is great confidence that when the current six-year plan is concluded in 1982 Taiwan will be formally ranked among the developed nations . " Taiwan is a good example to the people of Asia , " says Marinus Van Gessel , Taipei American Chamber of Commerce , who represents the views of over 200 U.S. companies here . Mr. Van Gessel expressed disappointment with the White House for not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the U.S. would not abandon its commitment to the people of Taiwan . " We do not object to improving relations with the People 's Republic of China as long as it is advantageous to the United States , and not at the expense of the Republic of China , " Mr. Van Gessel said . " But we have to realize that the PRC has more to gain from normalization than does the U.S. , and our negotiators should not hesitate to use this to our advantage . " Washington 's reasons for normalization are well understood here : strategic balance of power considerations and the necessity for consultations with Peking on global issues such as the law of the sea , nuclear nonproliferation , and economic development of the third world . " Americans want to take advantage of the anti-Soviet mood in Peking to buttress U.S. security , " says a high-ranking Chinese Nationalist government official , " but in the long run the U.S. is chasing an illusion . China is ideologically committed to the destruction of the United States as well as of the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having Peking and Taipei work out their differences peacefully , a Foreign Ministry official laughed sarcastically saying , " The Chinese Communists have repeatedly said that their terms are surrender or settlement by force and violence . I do n't think that gives us much room for peaceful discussions . " Firmly stressed by the government here is the fact that Nationalist China is a historic friend and ally of the United States . American residents and Chinese intellectuals equally agree it would be unthinkable to break ties , given the genuine pro-Americanism found throughout Taiwan . " We do n't have many friends like this , " says a U.S. businessman , who added : " President Carter has run into serious difficulties in Congress about his withdrawal plans from South Korea but he has n't seen anything yet if he thinks he can abandon Taiwan easily . " No matter what the outcome of American negotiations with Peking , Premier Chiang Ching-kuo has told his people that his government will remain pro-American and aligned with the free world . This will not lessen the increasing cynicism here about Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as preparing to set adrift the 16 million authoritarian-ruled but relatively free inhabitants of Taiwan in favor of the Marxist mainland .                     