@@734463

txt Any chance for a compromise on the Israeli order for deportation of a Palestinian Mayor evaporated today when Israel 's Ministerial Defense Committee , composed of Prime Minister Menachem Begin and other top Cabinet members , ruled that the expulsion of the Nablus Mayor should go ahead as ordered . The Mayor , Bassam al-Shaka , remained imprisoned pending an appeal to the Israeli Supreme Court . In protest , the mayors of all 25 cities in the occupied territories of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip completed the submission of their resignations , begun yesterday , leaving the entire area devoid of municipal leaders . Several moderate Arabs , who had hoped for a shift in the Government 's position , were among those who resigned . The developments were expected to presage a period of turbulence in the West Bank and Gaza . " This will bring chaos , confrontation and problems in the occupied territories , " said Mayor Elias Freij of Bethlehem , a moderate who had tried unsuccessfully to arrange a compromise . " It will breed hatred and this will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffer . Some Israeli officials expected an upsurge in terrorism . Scattered demonstrations and rock-throwing at Israeli vehicles were reported today . Palestinian sources said that several students were arrested , including two girls under the age of 14 at the refugee camp of Jallazon , north of Jerusalem . A general strike was called for tomorrow in the Hebron area , and even moderate Palestinians were predicting more serious disorders . The co-chairman of an Egyptian delegation that arrived yesterday in Tel Aviv for a new round of talks on creating a selfgoverning authority for Palestinians under occupation , which is a provision of the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty , implied that the events might impede negotiations . " It has always been an item to encourage the Palestinians to join the process , to take the steps that would build up confidence with the Palestinians , " said Ahmed Ezzat Abdel-Latif , ambassador at large . " And certainly any steps to the contrary would cast a shadow on the talks . " A Palestinian in East Jerusalem put it less diplomatically . " I bet they ca n't find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " They 've killed it . " Dissent also came from Israeli ranks . Abba Eban , former Foreign Minister , said that Mayor Shaka 's alleged remarks on terrorism , which were the cause of the deportation order , were not sufficient grounds for expulsion . Others in the Labor Party criticized the Government 's decision as exaggerated and precipitate . The issue first arose last week with publication in the Israeli press of an accusation that the Mayor had told Maj. Gen. Danny Matt , military governor of the West Bank , that he identified and sympathized with the Palestinian guerrillas who hijacked a bus on the coastal road north of Tel Aviv in March 1978 , killing 34 civilians and wounding 72 . According to transcripts later , Mr. Shaka responded to repeated questions about his views by contending that Israeli occupation and violence created a situation in which terrorism was to be expected . He neither condemned nor approved such acts explicitly . His attorney , Felicia Langer , said that Mr. Shaka had told her during a visit today that " he is against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He also announced that he had begun a hunger strike . Yesterday , four mayors met with Defense Minister Ezer Weizman to appeal for Mr. Shaka 's release pending a Supreme Court ruling on the case . Mayor Shaka has obtained a temporary injunction against his deportation . " Since there was a dispute as to what Shaka actually said , " Mr. Freij explained , " our position was that it would be fair to let Shaka appear on Israeli television , ask him the same questions and let him answer them , and let people in Israel and the West Bank see it . " If the military government rejects the resignations , the mayors are bound by law to remain on the job . Refusal could mean further conflict with the authorities , including arrest and deportation . If the resignations are accepted , then Israel has the problem of administering the cities . " This is a very serious situation , " Mayor Freij declared . Early in the dispute , P.L.O . officials urged the mayors not to resign .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      