@@729106

txt President Nixon announced today that he Would nominate former Gay . John . B. Connally Jr . of Texas , a Democrat , to replace David . ' M. Kennedy as Secretary of the Treasury . The President said Mr. Kennedy would retain Cabinet rank as an Ambassador at Large dealing with international fiscal and monetary matters . Both appointments will take place Feb. 1 if approved , as expected , by the Senate . . In announcing the latest Cabinet changes at a White House news briefing , Mr. Nixon emphasized that his selection of Mr. Connally , an ally of former President Lyndon B. Johnson , reflected a desire to approach American problems " in a. bipartisan manner . " . Mr. Nixon:said.Mr . Connally 's experience as Governor gave him special- qualifications to deal with the issue of sharing Federal revenue with states and localities , a - key element of the President 's domestic program . Political Implications Seen to appeared to be . political ? implications in the choice of Mr. Connally to be the first Democrat in command of a department in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connally had lobbied successfully on Capitol Hill , as a member of the Presidential Advisory Council on Executive Organization , for Mr. Nixon 's reorganization plans . They also said that Mr. Nixon was - impressed by Mr. Connally 's views on foreign affairs . Mr. Connally led the opposition to the " peace plank " backed by liberals at the 1966 Democratic National ' Convention . It appeared likely that the President would call upon him to solicit support . t among Congressional Democrats for foreign and domestic legislation . Mr. Connally 's presence - sin the Administration was also regarded as-a major political asset for Mr. Nixon in Texas-a-which has 26 electoral votes , the fourthrhighest number  --  in the 1972 Presidential election . " This assures that president Nixon is going ' to carry Texas in ' 1972 , " said Peter CODonnell , /the Republican National Committee member from Texas . ' " And it means Senator John G. Tower will be reelected . " ' Senator Tower , a Republican who- was reported to have voiced private objections about President Nixon 's increasingly cordial relationship with Mr. Connally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor 's ' appointment as a " wise step . " lie added that he believed Mr. Nixon had chosen " a man who is philosophically : : attuned to his own ideas . " There were no clear signs as to whether or not the changes reflected any , shifts in the Administration 's economic poli-1 cies . Connally- Increased the Texas . budget ' from $1.3-billion to $2.6-billion during ? his three terms as . Governor from .1963 ' to , 1969 . But ? Texas . Demoerats generally regarded him as a fis- ' caLconservative ; noting that the legislatuie-was instrumental In raising budget ' Outlays for such items as higher education . Trade Viewed as Factor Some officials in the Treasury Department , , where Mr. Kennedy 's departure came as a surprise , theorized that his new appointment coincided with the development of sentiment among businessmen for the elevation of . international , trade matters to a high priority . These , officials said ' that Mr. Kennedy might be assigned to seek to avert ' a trade war that some fear could result from import @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been speculation since the Nov. 3 Congressional elections that Secretary Kennedy would be replaced . Treasury . Department : sources Confirmed today that Mr. Kennedy offered his resignation last month as a " scapegoat " for election reverses - attributed to dissatisfaction with the state of the economy . They said the President first rejected the offer , then accepted last week when Mr. Kennedy said that , at age 63 , . he did not wish to remain at his Treasury post . for two more years . It was reliably reported tonight that Charls E. Walker , Under Secretary of the Treasury , would submit his resignation before long . He was said to have been disappointed that he : had not been elevated to the Cabinet position . There is ' little in Mr. ' Cori- " The former President wasj ? nally 's background to suggest expertise in economic policy . He is a lawyer . who has a lazniliarity with Texas oil and gas interests and , since retiring from the governorship in 1969 , has served on the boards of numerous banks and corporations . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , resigning in .1962 to run for Governor . Mr. Connolly's.primary Interest has been in politics , first as a protege ? of Mr. Johnson and eventually as the-leafier of Texas ? Democratic coniervafives . Ronald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , . said lyin Nixon telephoned Mr. Johnson this morning - to inform-hina , of very pleased , " Mr. Ziegler said . Mr. Johnson could not be reached for comment this afternoon . An aide , said he had " gone off on a hunting trip . " Reaction here and in Texas to Mr. Connally 's nomination was generally , although not universally , laudatory . Speaker of the House John W. McCormack called Mr. Connally a " fine man , outstanding and a great American . " Robert . Strauss , a Texan who is- treasurer of the Democratic National Committee and a close friend of  --  Mr. Connally , said Mr. Nixon . " has needed this kind of leadership in the Cabinet , and it 's ' interesting he had to turn to a life-long Democrat to get this : kind f talent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee , expressed surprise at Mr. Connally 's willingness to serve in a . Republican Administration . He said he hoped the appointment would Signal a move toward lower interest rates and a more liberal monetary policy . Senator Ralph W. Yarborough , a Texas liberal who was defeated . in the Democratic primary this year . by Lloyd ' M. Bentsen Jr. , Mr. Connally 's candidate , called it " another ' of this Administration 's appointments which has been given to reward the party faithful . " Mr. Yarborough said President Nixon had demonstrated by dismissing Walter J. Hickel as Secretary of the Interior that " he wants as members of his Cabinet only those who will do his bidding 100 per cent . " " He must feel he will have this obeisance " from Mr. Connally , Senator Yarborough added . One Texan who is knowledgeable on the state 's political situation suggested that President Nixon recognized he would not be able to establish a strong Republican party there so long as Mr. Connally was among the opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican Senate ' candidate , Representative George Bush . Some Texas Democrats expressed private concern that Mr. , Connally 's presence in the Cabinet would ? hinder their chances of capturing Senator Tower 's seat do 1972 : But Lieut . Gov . Ben Barnes , a prospecti4e Senate candidate . the Demo. cratic side , said he was " proud " Mr. Connally had been selected . Ronnie Duggeri publisher of The Texas Observer , a liberal Austin journal , said the appointment appeared politically moti vated . " But if Nixon thinks it is going to rally a substantial lamount of the Democratic party , behind him in ' 72 , hers mistaken , " Dugger said . " The country is tired of Texans , especially Johnson Texans , in high offices in Washington . " Mr. Connally 's nomination had a parallel in the Eisenhower Administration . Robert B. Anderson , a Texas Democrat , served as Secretary of the Treasury .                     