@@732389

txt Richard Nixon leaves Friday for the Communist China , where four years ago he carried out the most spectacular diplomatic mission of his presidency . A Boeing 707 jet airliner bought from the Boeing Co. in 1972 and sent by his Chinese hosts was serviced Thursday in Vancouver , B.C. , where it has been waiting for two days . It was to arrive at Los Angeles International Airport early Friday and leave from an out-of-the-way hangar with Nixon , his wife Pat , and a group of aides and Secret Service escorts . THE FORMER president is scheduled to arrive in Peking on Saturday after a flight by way of Anchorage , Alaska , and Tokyo . His arrival is scheduled exactly four years to the day after he arrived in 1972 to re-open relations that had been shut off for more than two decades between the two countries . In Washington , meanwhile , the White House said President Ford " is considering various options " to deal with the possibility that some businessman will go to court to seize the Chinese plane when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford knows of no such plans but that a claim against the airplane is a possibility . SUCH A LAWSUIT would seek confiscation of the plane as reparations for property in China owned by United States interests and seized by the Communists when they came to power in 1949 . Justice Department spokesman John Russell said the Chinese government might respond by asking the State Department for immunity from U.S. court actions , though the U.S. and China do not have formal diplomatic relations . Since his last visit , Nixon has been driven from office by the Watergate scandal and has retired in seclusion to his seaside villa in San Clemente , formerly the Western White House . Still , he reportedly is much admired in China . Communist leaders , including party Chairman Mao Tse-tung , are believed ready to receive him as an honored guest although no official itinerary was released . COSTS OF THE trip not paid for by the Chinese reportedly will be made up by Nixon out of his private funds . The Secret Service expenses will be paid by the U.S. government , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assigned to Nixon because he is a former President . Ford said last week that Nixon had been given no special briefings and was not representing the U.S. on any foreign policy matters . Chiesse leaders repeatedly invited Nixon to visit again , but until recently his recuperation from phlebitis , a vein disease that struck him in 1974 , prevented him from undertaking long trips . Nixon reportedly will return to the U.S. on Feb. 29 . NIXON , ACCOMPANIED by 87 reporters and technicians on his previous trip , is again expected to be the object of intense media attention . On Friday , members of the U.S. press corps began to arrive in Peking .                     