@@734297

txt The opponents of busing schoolchildren to overcome racial segregation will charge up Capitol Hill again this week . They seek House approval of an amendment that would declare it a constitutional right for pupils to attend the public school nearest their homes . For all the understandable sentiment in favor of neighborhood schooling , we dearly hope the amendment is rejected . As social policy , it flies in the face of evidence , validated by the Supreme Court , that deliberate school segregation persists and that busing is the only suitable remedy . Worse , it is an artlessly drafted and ill-considered attempt to alter the nation 's fundamental charter of governance . School busing is a tenacious political issue . Since civil rights groups and the Justice Department began filing  --  and winning ? desegregation lawsuits , the opponents of involuntary busing have tried every approach to defeating it , with much popular support . On occasion , they have prevailed , as with the limits that Congress has placed on using Federal funds for this purpose . But constitutional amendments to forbid the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , largely because of resistance in the House and Senate Judiciary Committees . This time , the sponsors mustered enough signatures for a discharge petition to wrench the amendment from the House committee 's grasp for a vote on the floor . The case for curbing forced busing by those who nonetheless say they oppose segregation has not changed much over the years . Busing is considered counterproductive because it supposedly chases white families out of the public schools or out of cities altogether , thus intensifying segregation . Busing is said to undermine neighborhood schooling , which white and black parents alike consider an essential feature of public school systems . Why disrupt normal enrollment patterns , the opponents further argue , when the real culprits are discrimination in housing and employment , which lie beyond the control of educators ? Yet the fact is that most parents find busing indispensable . The majority of schoolchildren do not walk to school ; they ride ? most of them by bus . Less than half of all elementary school pupils and only one-fourth of older children attend a school within one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the academic benefits of busing for black children , no one argues that their presence in integrated schools diminishes the education of white children . As for white flight , no one has yet demonstrated to . what extent families are driven out of cities by any factor , and how much they are drawn to features of suburban life . ? In any case , without the power to compel busing , Federal courts would be helpless to counteract proven acts of segregation . Earlier this month , for instance , the Supreme Court ruled that officials in Columbus had maintained racial school divisions by assigning black teachers to black schools , manipulating attendance zones and locating new school buildings with race in mind . To forbid all mandatory busing would leave no remedy for such indisputable wrongs . It would overturn an important meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment and virtually rescind the 1954 Brown decision . There are reasons of state as well as policy to defeat this amendment . The purpose of the Constitution is to prescribe a structure of government and basic rights . To make it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passionate , injures the document in fundamental ways and distorts politics . Taken aback by such objections , the sponsors of the amendment apparently intend to offer changes this week directly on The House floor . The Constitution and the freedoms it decrees deserve more prudent care .                     