@@728562

txt A report tying the Weatherman faction of the Students for a Democratic Society to international communist subversion is to be submitted to the legislature today by the Illinois Crime Investigating commission . The 750-page document , to be filed with the Illinois Senate , culminates a five-month Arsenal is Seized Arsenal of rifles , shotguns , black powder , and more than 12,000 rounds of ammunition is confiscated in raid on headquarters of Nationalist White People 's party . Story . on page 5. commission Investigation into the S. D. S. It was prompted by the " days of rage " disorders in Chicago last Oct. 5 thru 11 . Contending the ' S. D. S. is " extremely dangerous , " the report proposes sweeping legislation to curb radical activities both on and off the campus . Asks Stiffer Laws According to one commission member , who asked not to be named , the proposed legislation includes raising the minimum sentence for mob action from one to five years in jail and requiring all purchasers of explosives to be registered . Present law requires only sellers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " dangerous to the community " would be set at high levels , and cities would be permitted to require substantial bonds from protest groups taking out parade permits , under the proposed laws . All campus organizations would have to register . with college and university administrations . State-supported institutions would be limited in the amount of fees paid to outside speakers such as Abbie Hoffman , Chicago 7 defendant . ' Shows Contributors Conducted by agents led by Charles Siragusa , the commission 's executive director , the investigation disclosed sources of financial support for the S. D. S. both here and abroad . The commission member said the report contains a complete list of all contributors to the S. D. S. , including several Chicagoans . He would not reveal names before release of the report . - It also shows links with communist governments , he said . A raid on a northside apartment rented by the Weathermen produced documents and . correspondence showing fretiuent communication between the S. D. S. and the North Vietnamese government , he said . The commission was directed to undertake the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The report does not disclose ill evidence obtained regarding the disorders or other areas of radical activity , the commission member said . This is in compliance with a - federal court ruling limiting the commission 's authority to make disclosures , he said . Twelve S. D. S. members were charged in the disorders . ' Going Underground ' The commission member said the evidence obtained shows that the S. D. S. is " going underground , " with its more public activities being taken over by the Young Socialist league . In preparing the report , the commission contacted the administrations of universities and colleges thruout the state and received cooperation from all except Mundelein college and the University of Chicago . " This is a very hot item , " another commission member said . " We find that these young people are truly revolutionaries . They have become very dangerous indeed . "                     