@@730291

txt Bitter , preliminaries nearly ended , Sen. George S. tonight seemed to be heading for the Democratic National Convention opening tomorrow with growing delegate strength . Parliamentary rulings on the order of the first challenges favored . There was growing concern among managers of a coalition opposing , the South Dakotan that Sen. Edmund S. Muskie may concede . There also were reports that a dozen or more of the delegates wail by Gov . Wallace of Alabama in the Tennessee primary may bolt and vote with to seat 151 of his delegates in the critical California contest . Switches Endorsement One black leader previously behind the candidacy of Rep. Shirley Chisholm N , Y. switched to endorse the frontrunner . He was Rep. Ronald V Dellums Credentials Committee ? would virtually assure him of a first ballot nomination . and his followers lobbied intensely thruout the day for votes to sustain his California hold over 271 delegates . The candidate himself visited the Michigan , Iowa , and Black Caucus delegates to seek as many votes as possible . for the return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Brown said , referring to ' the loss . No Essential Shifts Shirley Chisholm said some of the black delegates had been " bought off . " She did not mention any names . Altho the debate in that meeting was lengthy , one black leader told The Tribune that there were no essential shifts in vote commitments . Another black caucus was called for tomorrow . There are 958 black delegates and slightly more than 300 alternates accredited to the convention . 's base delegate strength , including a high percentage of  --  the blacks , is now estimated at 1,918 in the unofficial count for the nomination . His aids are claiming more votes , however , on the California issue because of defections expected from Tennessee and other states . also planned to try to get 12 delegate votes pledged to Sen. Henry Jackson Wash. after losing a test case in the Credentials Committee . // Work for Compromise His managers , meanwhile , continued to work for  --  a compromise in the dispute over the Credentials Committee displacment of Mayor Daley and 58 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chicago and others in , the challengers ' group indicated a sharing of the seats now appears virtually impossible . Daley supporters voted against 's California interests in the credentials dispute involving that state . The vote hardened the lines between the candidates and continued to stir verbal storms today . State Rep. Willie Brown of Jackson has been an outspoken critic of . He said to : day a , nomination could cost Democrats control of the Senate and House . Hubert Attacks Again Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey attacked again by claiming it was not " fair " for the South Dakotan to withhold his new welfare plans from the Platform Committee , He . said , " We must not yield to the threat to walk out . " Humphrey called the threat " nothing but political blackmail . " Rep. Wilbur Mills Ark.1 , another candidate with 27 " favorite son " votes from his own state , stayed out of the public eye during the day . He remained a member of the loosely-knit anti-M c Gov er n forces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sanford has 27 votes gained in a contest with Wallace in his home state . Speculation Is Renewed Wallace , who saw delegates in his hotel suite , is another ? participating member of the : coalition . He plans a floor fight on the second day of the convention in an attempt to get an antibusing amendment into the platform . Speculation over Muskie 's possible defection from the coalition was renewed after he appeared on the Meet the Press television program and said the California matter raised the issue of convention credibility . He hedged somewhat by adding there was a case for Humphrey 's bid for delegates proportioned to the percentage of the votes received in the state by all the candidates . " What I decide may have a very decisive effect , " Muskie said . He has 200 to 300 delegates behind his candidacy . Muskie acknowledged that the delegates might not follow his lead . One of his early supporters , Gov . John J. Gilligan of Ohio , was one of those persons urging him to vote with on California . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night , ruled that the key California test will be called on the floor before the Daley case . Seen as a Break Since 120 of the California delegates favoring can vote on the question , the ruling was seen as a break for himr Gov . Patrick J. Lucey of Wisconsin , a floor manager for , said he was pleased with O'Brian 's ruling . Humphrey 's forces tried to upset the O'Brien move with a lengthy debate in the Rules Committee today , but were outvoted by                     