@@731855

txt The Government sought yesterday to keep the morale of ' its army and people from deteriorating further as insurgent forces again shelled the capital and its airport an-d cotitinued their ground attacks elsewhere . Four . clvilianS- were killed in the city and 19 wounded . At the Airport , five miles to the west , two persons were killed and three wounded . Phnom Penh , meanwhile , was ' flooded with reports of a Government shake-up . This morning , Cambodian Government sources said that Lieut . Gen. Sosthene Fernandez had been removed as commander of the ' armed forces and that this Would be announced in a day or so . His removal would be part of the general military and Government shake-up , now believed under way under American direction . What was not clear was whether these changes were merely cosmetic or aimed at creating a new government with new personalities who could negotiate an end to the war. , Such negotiators might require an orderly surrender to the Communist-led insurgents . The insurgents have always listed General Sosthena Fernandez as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nol , with whom they will never negotiate . It was not known whether the general would be replaced or if his job would be shifted ' into other hands . The Government sources said that Lieut Gen. Saksut Sakhan , a Defense Minister under Prince Norodom Sihanouk and also in the early days of the Lon Nol Government was being named the new Defense Minister , and that he might possibly be given direction over the armed forces . Before such reports circulated , foreign news dispatches about the possibility of surrender were being denied by the Government of President Lon Nol . Yesterday a Government statement said : " The sacrifices made by the Khmer people for five years have been enormous , and this struggle is going to continue with as much determination as before . " At the same time General Sosthene Fernandez , appealed for an end to the " insane rumors . " Calling on the Cambodian people to ignore them and unite behind the army , he declared : " We in the army swear to fight to the death , but never will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of General SosIthene Fernandez were broadcast over the Government radio and published by the Government press agency as the ' Cambodian insurgents continued to press their attacks on a Government defense line at Prek Phnou , only eight miles north of the center of Phnom Penh . To the northwest and west , the news was not much better , with Government forces continuing to suffer heavy casual- I ties . With all supply routes cute , by the insurgents , the capital remained dependent for its survival on the big American air , lift , which has not yet been halted despite continued shelling of the airport . Through the day , about 50 shells and rockets rained on the airport . One of the two killed there was a baggage handler who was struck by shrapnel while loading luggage onto a DC-3 that was about to take off for a domestic passenger flight to Kompong Som . The shrapnel set the . plane afire , and it was partly destroyed . No passengers were injured . A Government push to clean insurgent gunners out of their firing area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rockets that continued to fall on Phnom Penh itself were fired from insurgent positions only a few miles east and northeast of the city . Six rockets landed inside the city during the day . The rockets have cast a pall of nervousness and depression over Phnom Penh . Morale has been further sapped by food shortages , which have kept prices soaring and have produced hunger and malnutrition ; many children are now dying . Some of the speculation about a Government shake-up that was sweeping the city stemmed from an article in The New York Times last Friday . It reported that the American Embassy here had come to the conclusion that given the deteriorated conditions , the best that could be hoped for was little more than a negotiated surrender in which basically the only subjects open for discussion would be the details and humaneness and orderliness of the insurgent take-over . High Government officials have since been telephoning the Embassy , asking for clarification and reassurance . The American Embassy is apparently trying to use its influence to help produce a reorganized government here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two field generals were relieved over the weekend .                     