@@732519

txt ANGERED BY THE United States Justice Department 's refusal to place Mayor Daley 's former press aide in a work-release prison program , a federal judge Friday sentenced Earl Bush to two years ' probation instead . And when the smiling defendant seemed about to mutter his thanks in court , Judge Hubert L. Will , in a blast at U.S. Atty . Samuel K. Skinner , snapped : " Do n't thank me , Mr. Bush  --  thank Mr. Skinner . " Adding the names of Norman CarLson , director of the Bureau of Prisons , and Harold Tyler , deputy U.S. attorney general , to the list of persons to whom Bush should be grateful , Will told the defendant : . " YOU ARE THE beneficiary of their improper intrusion into this office . " The two years of probation sets aside a one-year prison sentence ordered earlier for Bush , who was convicted of mail fraud in connection with hiding his interests in an exclusive city contract for display advertising at O'Hare International Airport . Federal District Court Judge Philip W. Tone had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will when Tone was named to tire federal appellate court . SKINNER WAS NOT in court to bear the judge 's tirade , which occupied a good part of the 20 minutes devoted to the hearing Friday . Will opened the hearing by saying he had received a letter from the Bureau of Prisons , a Justice Department agency , reiterating its position that work release was inappropriate for Bush and that he should spend time in a federal prison In Terre Haute , hid . " No judge true to his oath would let the U.S. attorney tell him what the sentence will be , " Will responded . WHEN ASSISTANT U.S. Atty . Jeremy Margolis registered a quiet objection , Will attacked Skinner , who had recommended that the Bureau of Prisons refuse . the suggestion for a work-release program . " I have no objection to recommendalions he Skinner might make before the sentence is Imposed , " Will said . " I have a vigorous objection to his intrusion afterward .. . . I resent the U.S. attorney 's seeking to change the sentence " Will added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolutely right sentence . " IN A STATEMENT given to the press after the hearing Skinner said : " I continue to believe the most effective and meaningful sentence in cases involving breaches of the public trust is a sentence of incarceration . " Such a sentence Is also required to demonstrate to the citizens of this district that public officials who are convicted are to be treated with equal justice . " In my eight years as prosecutor I 've never criticized a judge for any sentence he has imposed . I will not do so now . " Skinner would not comment further . BUSH AFTER THE hearing laughed when a reporter asked if he is sending his thanks to Skinner . He issued a statement which read , in part : " I 've ? gone through a very difficult three years . . . . I spent every penny I ever had to pay legal costs . . . I suffered enough . " My only desire now is to shake off this nightmare and go to work and support my family . " Bush is employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Under work release , he would have spent nights and weekends in jail . Will 's castigation of Skinner over the Bush sentencing has been building since May 4 when the judge first recommended work-release . Al ' THE TIME be charged that Skinner was trying to influence the Bureau of Prisons to make sure Bush spent his sentence behind bars . He accused Skinner of interferring in the sentencing process by phoning the Bureau of Prisons and strongly recommending prison for Bush . The bureau ? not the judge ? has the authority to permit or deny work-release for an individual convict . But Judge Will was empowered to provide probe-Eton if he believed it was called for .                     