@@730368

txt The government toddy announced development of a new kind of influenza vaccine which it said " holds future promise for the eventual control " of the widespread and Rnmetimes deadly disease . ? Scientists vino nevelopea said it might head off the next major , worldwide flu epidemic forecast for the late 1970s . The vaccine is made of bybrid live viruses which can not stand heat and which are made by combining Hong Kong flu virus of the 1968 epidemic with the older strain produced by the Asian flu outbreak of 1965 . It is administered as a nasal spray rather than by injection . In tests on prisoner volunteers , the still-experimental vaccine is reported to have given ' complete protection to men exposed to the virulent Hong Kong-type germs . But , , perhaps more important , the scientists who-developed it say it should be possible to use the same hybridization technique to quickly prepare vaccines capable of checking new strains of flu germs that might appear in the future . The hybrid viruses reportedly can thrive and induce high protection against naturally invading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and throat . But they would be killed if they seeped down into the delicate , warmer tissues of the lungs . Without such temperature sebsitivity , the vaccine viruses could well cause an infection at least as virulent as a natural attack . The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , which announced the new vaccine , described the potential importance of the new technique this way : " For years , influenza has posed special problems in disease prevention . These . problems have arisen as a result of the influenza virus ' uncanny ability to change its structure . " These periodic changes , known as antigenic shifts , render past vaccines useless and leave entire population groups susceptible to influenza . " The institute said the new vaccine must still undergo extensive trials ' and be licensed for manufacture before it can be Made available to the public .                     