@@731618

txt A threatening E. Howard Hunt memo , which the prosecution called " a bombshell document , " has exploded in the Watergate cover-up trial , creating a fallout which has led to demands for a mistrial or a separate trial for one defendant . Assistant special prosecutor James Neal told a stunned courtroom Monday that " we had no knowledge this document existed until last Friday " when members of a law firm of which Mr. Hunt 's former lawyer , William 0 . Rittman , was once a member , came forward with the explosive memo after two years of its apparent concealment by Mr. Bittman . The memo ; written on Nov. 14 , 1972 , just after the last presidential election , is cryptically titled " Review and Statement of Problem . " But there is no mistaking its subject : the bargain which the original Watergate break-in defendants had struck with the Committee for the Re-election of the President ( CRP ) , and the language in which its demands are couched . Mr. Hunt , a convicted Watergate conspirator , had said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 that he had given such a memo to Mr. Bittman to pass on to Kenneth W. Parkinson , then counsel for the CRP and now a defendant in this trial // *Hunt note rocks Watergate cover-up trial // Mr. Hunt had admitted he had perjured himself in previous testimony on this matter , but had said he was telling the truth here . Bittman denial Up until the existence of the memo surfaced last Friday , Mr. Bittman had denied he had delivered or read such a memo to Mr. Parkinson . Mr. Bittman had said he had no information that Mr. Hunt had demanded payment for silence of the Watergate men . He made his denials both to the special prosecutor 's office and to the grand jury under oath . Mr. Bittman is one of 20 unindicted co-conspirators in this case . Mr. Neal has said , " we do n't believe Mr. Batman 's denial of transmittal is a credible one , " noting that before the memo appeared the prosecution had " taken his word . " Serious implications The surfacing of the memo has grave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged with conspiracy to cover up the Watergate break-in and obstruction of justice . His lawyer , Jacob Stein , told U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica , " I think I 'm entitled to . severadce and mistrial " as a result of the bombshell memo . ( Defendant H. R. Haldeman 's lawyer , John J. Wilson , also asked for a mistrial and his motion was denied . ) Mr. Stein noted , " I 'm now stuck with a cross-examination ( of Mr. Hunt ) which is going to harm my client . . . even if Mr. Bittman testified , I have a cover-up within a cove r-up . " Mr. Stein had been arguing that Mr. Hunt 's testimony incriminating Mr. Parkinson with knowledge of such a memo was false , and the appearance of the memo has shattered that argument . Mitchell links Under " Items for Consideration , " the memo threatens that another defendant , former U.S. Attorney General John N. Mitchell , may have perjured himself , notes three pending . congressional investigations , and warns that the media are offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being dangled in front of them , that " the Watergate bugging is only one of a number of highly illegal conspiracies engaged in . . . at the behest of senior White House officials , " In Huntesque language , it warned that " the Nixon administration , having recovered from post-election euphoria , " must meet all financial obligations to the defendants by Nov. 27 , 1972 , at 5 p.m . It concludes , " the foregoing should not be interpreted as a threat . It is among other things a reminder that loyalty has always been a two-way street . " Following the bombshell memo , cross examination of Jeb Stuart Magruder continued while Judge Sirica indicated that Mr. Hunt might soon be recalled as a witness and that he would consider arguments for calling Mr. Bittman as a court witness .                     