@@733290

txt In a major blow to President Carter 's energy program , the Senate Energy Committee tentatively agreed today to put aside a major section of the legislation dealing with utility rate overhaul . The President had called for Federal authority to impose a major restructuring of utility rates across the country , aimed at achieving both conservation and better use of available power supplies . Instead , the Senate committee denied the authority to the Federal Government to order rates based on the cost of de11+-ering power . Such a structure , which is also known as " marginal cost pricing , " would have resulted in lower rates for offpeak use and higher charges as power use increases . Ratemaking authority has traditionally been the province of states ; the informal decision today would leave the responsibility with state public service commissions . As justification for Federal intervention , the White House had cited the slowness of progress by states . Coloradan Sees ' Folly ' " It would be unwise to have the Federal Government pre-empt the rights of the states , " said Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee . ' Although a formal vote on the substitution of a slimmed-down utility section was postponed until at least later this week , the committee almost unanimously opposed the President 's suggestion . " It would be folly . in my view , for the Federal Government to take over ratemaking , " because " what works for New Mexico may not work for Colorado , " said Senator Floyd Haskell , Democrat of Colorado . Instead of the President 's proposal , the committee asked its staff to draft a sub- . stitute that would allow the Federal Government to intervene in state proceedings . However , Washington would be prohibited from becoming a party to court proceedings . In August , the House approved utility rate reform proposals that in nearly all . cases were as strong as the Carter initiatives and in a number of cases even stronger . Conference Committee Study If unchanged by the full Senate , the weakened rate reform provisions would be considered along with the House measure in a conference committee . Which version emerged would depend on concessions made elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might . have to accept a weakening Of . other provisions . Earlier this year , Senator Bennett John : . ston , Democrat of of Louisiana and chair+. man of an energy subcommittee , intimated that the utility rate reform section would not be considered until next year : . Reportedly , he agreed to take up the section earlier this month under intense ' , pressure from the White House . A reflection of the Democratic commitment to approve a utility measure , even if emasculated , was reflected in a party= line vote today on a motion by Senator Peter Domenici , Republican of New Mexico , to table the matter . The utility provisions attracted little ? attention in the House Commerce Committee last spring and were approved smoothly , but they have already become the focus of an intense lobbying campaign in the Senate , led by the National Association of Electric Companies . Another industry group objecting to the proposals has been the Electricity Consumers Resource Council ? known as Elcon  --  which represents major users of power . This group fears that rate restructuring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I 'm pleased so far , " said Jay B. Kennedy , executive director of Elcon after today 's committee session . " They left it to the states and that 's where I thought it should be . " The Senate Energy Committee put off a decision on other controversial utility provisions involving interconnections , pooling arrangements ed transmission of power by utilities for third parties ( better known as " wheeling " ) . The committee scheduled hearings for next Tuesday on these proposals , which are opposed by ' the utilities as unnecessary intrusions by the Federal Government . The guiding principle behind the Carter Irate proposals is " cost of service , " ? recalculating rates to reflect more truly the expense of delivering power . Destined for abolition would be promotional or so-called " declining block rates , " which encourage electricity use by charging lower fees for additional kilowatt hours as consumption glows . In their place might come marginal cost pricing , which would equate rates with the cost to the utility of delivering the last kilowatt hour . Because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise all rates sharply , as a means of discouraging use . Another idea gaining currency is timeof-dax pricing , which would provide lower rates at night when the utilities could presumably deliver power at a lower cost . In large part , the lobbyists ' fears are fears of the unknown . For example , they worry that the effort to eliminate promotional rates may become an effort to eliminate lower charges for bulk power that are founded on lower delivery costs . And they believe that the Carter program is biased towards residential users at the expense of industry . The Carter program , while suggesting that marginal cost pricing be instituted , exempts residential users from these rates based on cost of service . In addition , marginal pricing would involve ' rebates by the utilities of the higher revenues and industry feels that this rebate money would go ' dispro- ! portionately to residential users .                     