@@731512

txt Three escaped convicts who. had terrorized the Texas ranch country were cornered by police last night . One convict was killed and the others were captured . The state police said three officers saw the silhouettes of three men near a farm road and started shooting when the men refused to halt . ? " We had some dogs with'us , " said Jim Elmore of the Mineral Wells Police Department . " The dogs barked . We threw the light at them and we saw the silhouettes . We hollered for them to stop . ' They did not and then started running and we started firing . " The three policemen had joined 200 other local officers , sheriff 's deputies and state troopers in the two-day search in the rugged , mesquite-covered ranchlands near , , Stephenville . The police identified the dead convict as Richard Mangum , 22 years old , and said he was body . A convicted murderer , Jerry Ulmer , 22 , suffered a sprained ankle . The third convict , Dalton Williams , 29 , was not hurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ulmer and Mr. Williams would be charged with the murder of Mrs. Ray Ott . Mr. Glasgow said he expected other charges to bti filed later . The three men escaped from the Colorado State Prison last Thursday and headed south on a mission of revenge against the people who had helped send them to prison . Two Killed , Five Wounded A man and a woman were killed and five persons were wounded . Two young women were abducted and raped . Family dogs were shot , and a roadside cafe was fired upon for no apparent reason . After Saturday 's shooting wave , the hunters became ' the hunted . For the next two days they eluded a massive police manhunt . Yesterday morning , a policeman spotted them through binoculars while they walked along a creek , but authorities were unable to catch up with the fugitives . The sighting caused a massive police response . Some officers brought bloodhounds , others arrived on horseback . Troopers lined Texas Highway 108 to prevent it from being used as an escape ratite . More than 60 missing column @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state troopersjoined the search about nightfall . Officers guarded all roads yesterday and today , inspecting cars and warning motorists against picking up hitchhikers or stopping on the road . Ranchers and farmers ' and their families left the area north of Stephenville Sunday night on the advice of officers . Nearly 200 rural residents spent the night in a store guarded by state troopers in the community of Hannibal . The ranch home of Mrs. C.R. Proctor was entered Sunday night , the beds slept in , telephone lines cut and food , clothing and guns taken . It was not far ? from where the three men were spotted yesterday morning , Officials traced this trail of crime through New Mexico and Texas as the men homed in on witnesses who had testified against them : They kidnapped two women in New Mexico , raped them and forced them to wait outside while they murdered T. L. Baker , 65 , a rancher , at his home near Rotan , Tex . Mr. Baker had testified against Mr. Williams in a burglary case . Death List Denied Mrs. Ott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fied against Mr. Ulmer in a burglary case . Her husband was wounded . The two rape victims , let go near Graham , Tex. , told the officers they had thought they would be killed and felt lucky to be alive . Reports circulated that the trio had left a revenge death list ; either at the Colorado prison or at some point along their path . An agent ' of . the Federal Bureau of Investigation denied there was such a list . The whole area is well known to TMr . Williams and Mr. Ulmen ing their rampage the convicts committed a robbery at Breckenridge , Tex. , and stole a : car . When sheriff 's officers chased them , they shot out the windshield of the pursuers ' automobile . They fired into i truck stop at Cunningham without injuring anyone . Later they fired on a car with four occupants near Stephenville , wounding three persons . They wounded another man by shooting through the door of his home , which he had barricaded to block their entrance . 2 Guards Dismissed CANON CITY , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Colorado State Penitentiary warden , disTommy J. Jennings and Max Van Tatten , the guards , were on duty last Thursday night when the three placed dummies in their cell beds and escaped . The dummies were in the cell beds for 10 hours before being discovered .                     