@@730204

txt After a meeting between President Nixon Mid the Congressional leaders , the White House said today that it expected prompt consideration and eventual approval by Congress of the strategic arms limitation agreements signed in Moscow last week . Ronald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , said that " no misgivings " about the accords were expressed by any of the 30 leaders who attended this morning 's two-hour session at the White House , He said that the 16 Senators and 14 Representatives were " most receptive " to the agreements , the most important of the various accords reached in Moscow by Mr. Nixon with Soviet leaders . Shortly after the briefing , in which Henry A , Kissinger , the President 's adviser on national security , participated , Mr. Nixon left with his family for a long weekend in Key Biscayne , Fla. , to rest after his strenuous 13-day trip , which included stops in Salzburg , Teheran and Warsaw in addition to Moscow , Leningrad and Kiev . Mr. Nixon addressed a j Dint session of Congress last night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said the meetings had ushered in a new ! relationship with the Russians and he urged Congressional approval of , the accords limiting strategic arms . The accords are in two parts : a treaty limiting defensive missiles , which requires Senate approval by a two-thirds vote , and a five-year executive agreement limiting land and submarine-based missiles , which requires approval by a majority in both , the Senate and the House . Mr. Ziegler said that ratification would come after the Congress has had time to discuss the agreements fully . The Administration plans to submit the agreements , together with private understand . ings and interpretations of the language of the accords , to Congress sometime next week , Administration and Congressional sources said . These understandings have been a source of some discussion ever since Senator Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington , said he could not support the accords until all " secret agreements " were made public , Senator Hugh Scott , the Republican leader , who attended the White House briefing , said that what were called secret ' agreements were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In each case , he said , the United States , made a statement of its interpretation and the Russians either agreed or " took note of it . " Explanation by Scott Senator Mike Mansfield , the Democratic leader , who has supported the agreements , said the White House briefing was excellent and further convinced him of the merits of the accords . Senator Robert C. Byrd , the assistant Democratic leader , who voted against the partial nuclear test ban in 1963 , said he would support the new accords . The House Speaker , Carl Albert of Oklahoma , said " the national interest will be well served by the type of agreement on mutual restraining which President Nixon has negotiated with the Soviet Union , " Representative F. Edward Hebert , Democrat , of Louisiana , who is chairman of the Armed Services Committee , said he supported the treaty , since " we will be in an equal position or better . " However , he advocated that defense expenditures be maintained at current levels to " keep our guard up , " Senator John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Armed Services Committee in the Senate , predicted approval . A skeptical view was voiced by Senator Lloyd Bentsen , Democrat of Texas , who said he was concerned about the Russians ' having a numerical edge in missiles under the five-year executive agreement . Senate leaders predicted that the hearings on the agreements would begin about June 19 , with final action sometime in August , permitting the second round of the arms limitation talks to begin in the fall . Mr. Ziegler said that there was discussion of Vietnam and the Middle East at the briefing , but that Mr. Nixon had not gone beyond last night 's speech , in which he aroused interest by suggesting that he might have made some headway with the Russians on Vietnam .                     