@@729503

txt Fiscal negotiations between Connecticut 's Republican Governor and the Democrats who control the legislature broke down today , sharply increasing the possibility that the state will be forced to operate without a budget at the end of this month . After a private meeting today , the Democrats rejected Gov . Thomas J. Meskill 's latest fiscal proposal , which included an increase in the sales tax from 5 to 6.5 per cent , and the Governor in turn rejected the Democratic plan , which included a smaller sales-tax rise and new tax on dividends and capital gains . The difference between the budgets of more than a billion dollars proposed by each side was only $20-million . Nevertheless , the Democrats vowed to push their program through the General Assembly next Wednesday and " let the Governor take whatever action he believes is necessary . " Mr. Meskill , who said the 1Democrats had denied a request from him to appear before a joint session of the legislature next Tuesday , declared that he would " take my message to the people . " Mr. Meskill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program , but instead expressed confidence that somehow his program would prevail . By next Wednesday only eight days will remain before the end of the state 's fiscal year on June 30 , when the current $1.7-billion budget adopted two years ago will expire . Democratic leaders said they had already prepared legislation that would permit spending to continue at present levels if a new budget and tax program had not been enacted . At present , the state is spending more than it is taking in , and a deficit of more than $260-million is growing daily . Both the Democrats and Mr. Meskill insisted that they had gone into the meeting today with their " best efforts , " had made concessions , but had seen " no movement on the other side . " The Democratic plan presented today called for increasing the state sales tax from 5 to 5.5 per cent and applying a 10 per cent levy on dividends and capital gains . The Democrats also sought the elimination of the sales tax exemption on advertising and nonprofessional services such las haircuts , auto repairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered a plan that would maintain the sales tax at its present level without eliminating any exemptions and included interest in the 10 per cent tax category with dividends and capital gains . Today the Democrats proposed a budget of $1.08-billion for the coming year compared to the $1.07-billion budget that had been part of their original package . An initial round of fiscal negotiations , which lasted for 10 days at the beginning of the month , broke off on June 4 after near agreement on adoption of a state income tax and the Democrats pushed their program through General Assembly . As mandatory adjournment of the General Assembly came on June 9 , Mr. Meskill vetoed the Democratic program and , ordered the legislature into a special session . The special session convened on June 11 , but most of the business has been conducted behind closed doors . In his proposal today , Mr. Meskill called for raising the state sales tax to 6.5 per cent instead of the 7 per cent that he had urged in a formal budget message last February . He also urged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sales tax , as he had in the earlier proposal . Mr. Meskill increased his original budget proposal from $1.04-billion to $1.06-billion today . Aides to the Governor said the rise was due to small increases in welfare spending and assistance to the cities and updated projections of over-all needs . The aides charged that the Democrats had based their ' budget reductions on inaccurate projections . Before the talks began today , some of the Democratic leaders said they doubted that the Governor would accept their modified program . But they had hoped it would throw him on the defensive , fearing public disapproval as the fiscal-year deadline approached . Instead , Mr. Meskill seized the initiative Ile has held since taking office six months ago , saying he would try to convince " the people " to get their " elected representatives to do the right thing . "                     