@@729716

txt Jacob K. Javits of New York , a leading Republican spokesman for labor in the Senate , urged organized labor today to cooperate actively in the President 's post-freeze economic program by serving on the proposed tripartite Pay Board . As proposed by President ' Nixon last week , the Pay Board will be composed of five labor , ' five business and five public members . It will develop standards and criteria for controlling wages when the current , 90-day wage-price freeze ends on Nov. 13 . A Price Commission , whose seven members will all be public representatives , will have the same authority over prices . Concern Is Growing To the growing concern of Administration officials , a major controversy has developed over whether the Pay Board will have complete autonomy , ' as demanded by leaders of organized labor , or its rulings land standards will be subject to review and perhaps veto by the all-government Cost of Living Council , headed by Treasury Secretary John B. Connally . Senator Javits today sent telegrams to George Meany , president of the American Federation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . Executive Council ; and the presidents of two large independent unions , Leonard Woodcock of the United Automobile Workers and Frank Fitzsimmons of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters . Mr. Javits urged American labor to " end its reported hesi- ' tation about cooperating actively in the President 's postfreeze economic stabilization program , " Such cooperation , he said , " is critically necessary for the effective operation of the program with fairness to labor and for the autonomy of the Price Commission and the Pay . Board . " " I understand , " he said , " that the Administration has made it clear to American labor that , the determinations of the tripartite board on pay and of the commission on prices will not be vetoed or overruled by the ' Cost of Living Council , and I am clear that this is the intention of the President . Therefore , I see no reason why American labor should not participate fully in the President 's post-freeze economic stabilization program . " Connally 's Statement ? At a news conference last Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board would make final decisions on wage increases with no Government veto in individual cases , but that the Cost of Living Council would step in if actions of the Pay Board or . Price Commission showed a ? pattern that was " not consonant " with the President 's anti-inflation goals . Mr. Meany has called a meeting of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . Executive Council for Tuesday to discuss what he describes as discrepancies between the Administration 's original description of the board 's powers to labor leaders  --  before Mr. Connally 's new conference ? and subsequent interpretations by Administration officials . With the success of its Phase Two economic stabilization program largely dependent upon the cooperation of organized labor , the Administration continued to maintain a wait-andsee attitude . It made no public efforts , and reportedly no private efforts , to allay organized labor 's misgivings about the power of the Pay Board . According to both governmental and labor officials , there have been no contacts with labor leaders since Mr. Meany met Friday with Labor Secretary James D. Hodgson and George P. Shultz , director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Meany reportedly took the position that he would see if Mr. Connally , at his news conference later that day , clarified the respective roles of the Pay Board and the Cost of Living Council , and would then decide whether organized labor would participate on the board . After the Connally news conference Mr. Meany , who at a private briefing on Thursday reportedly had given his support to the President 's proposed program , announced he was calling the special meeting next Tuesday of his Executive Council , Correspondent Explains At George Shultz 's request , Daniel Schorr , a correspondent for the Columbia Broadcasting System , called Leonard Woodcock and a Meany aide yesterday to explain that he had been mistaken when he told labor representatives on Thursday that at a White House briefing Mr. Shultz had said that organized labor had accepted the President 's program . The statement , Mr. Schorr explained , had been made by Herbert Stein , a member of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers . The incident reflected the confusion that Administration officials privately acknowledge has developed since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House briefing in advance of the President 's Thursday night speech . As one long experienced in labor negotiations , Mr. Shultz apparently was fearful that his credibility would be damaged if he were cast in the position of announcing in advance the position of organized labor . Senator George of South Dakota , who as a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination is seeking union support , said today that labor was " justified " in raising questions about the authority and autonomy of the Pay Board , Appearing on the American Broadcasting Company program " Issues and Answers , " Senator said labor ought " to make sure they have the ground rules clarified " before it agrees to serve on the board . Mr. declared that the judgment of the Pay Board " ought to be final . " " You are not going to get anywhere with wage and price restraints , " he said " if you do n't have the willing cooperation of labor and of business and of the American public and if you begin by saying , ' We do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibility but we really do n't trust you , ' " High Administration officials expressed confidence that organized labor would accept the program when it was fully understood that the Cost of Living Council would not veto individual decisions of the Pay Board . To that extent , they felt that the Administration had met the demands of labor for an autonomous board .                     