@@729910

txt Governor Rockefeller proposed today " a new structure and government for New York City " in a State of the State message that also suggested that an old-line political machine could run the city better than Mayor Lindsay . The Governor , In an unusually political message that included frequent words of praise Excerpts from the Rockefeller message are on Page 20. for President Nixon , also appeared to answer Lindsay administration complaints about meager state funding for the City University by proposing that the university be taken over by the State University . Many of the legislators , sitting in joint sessions in the Assembly chamber to hear the message , said the Governor 's half-hour speech was more po ? litical than governmental . Tuition Rise Urged Among the other major pro . pOsals made by the Governor in the message were a suggest . ed , but unspecified , increase in tuition at the State University , where the annual tuition le $550 , and no-fault automobile insurance , He also called for .. crime control through court reform and urged a state take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be used for schools in local districts , The Governor made fewer proposals than he did in last years 's message . And in the . shortened version of the vies- ? sage read to the lawmakers and before the television cameras and radio microphones , the ' Governor omitted some potentially abrasive items , such as the tax increases he proposed , and the Legislature approved two weeks ago , to help balance his $7,9-billion budget . The budgo figure was also omitted frog his speech . In proposing a new structure ' for the city government , Mr. Rockefeller did not indicate specifically how or when suc1. a proposal might be enacted , nor did he say what the strut . ture should be . Officials of both major parties said it was unlikely that any massive restructuring would be effected in the next few years , if ever . Rather , the officials interpreted much of the Governor 's comment on the city as political . A Slip of The Tongue The Governor did mention that the commission to study the city 's operations was working on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new structure and government for the nation 's largest city and its surrounding metropolitan area , In delivering the last sentence , Mr. Rockefeller said " surrendering " instead of " surrounding , " but corrected himself while lawmakers snickered . " The restructured city government must have a part in a larger regional council that will effectively relate to and guide the state 's regional activities , such as transportation , health and community development , " Mr. Rockefeller said . Stating that the " causes of our problems run deeper and are national in scope , " Mr. Rockefeller said that this was attributable to " the fact that our Federal system of shared responsibility at the national , state and local levels of government has been slow in adapting its structure , its fiscal practices and its operating patterns . " This " slow response , ' the Governor said , affects " our ability to respond to fundamental human needs . " But none of the alleged Federal slowness in helping the , states was attributed to the President by the Governor . Mr. Nixon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the assurer of more Federal aid for the state , the man who " recognized the human and fiscal problems resulting from the present defects in our system " end who has " taken a major step " toward welfare reform . Mr. Lindsay , on the other hand , was mentioned only once by name , as the author of a recent letter asserting that the state aid for the City University would have to rise , The city has insisted that it needs $30-million more than the $90-million the Governor has proposed for City University this year if the institution 's open-enrollment program is to continue . In his message , the Governor said that " ' with the city 's fiscal problems , and with the rapid increase in the state 's financial support of higher education , it would make sense to have a true statewide system of public colleges , by making the City University part of the State University system , with the state assuming the financial responsibility on the same basis it does with the State University . " No Time Given Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might take place . He added that " ultimately " the State University should also take control of public community colleges , Warming to his attack on the Lindsay administration , Mr. Rockefeller said , " Serious students of big-city government say the ordinary citizen actually had a better chance of being heard and getting help in the old days of the political machine  --  because there was a direct relationship between the people and the clubhouse , right , down to the block level . " Today , " the Governor said , " New York City has neither an effective , citywide , old-line political organization , with all its faults but eager to respond to the individual 's needs , nor ' doe it have true community or neighborhood elective government with the power to he either responsive to the people or accountable to them in meeting their needs . " " While New York City is still the cultural and financial capital of this country  --  and we 've got to keep it that way , " the Governor said , " for the people who live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be found , streets are unsafe , corruption undermines public trust , traffic is unbearable , garbage is n't picked up often enough and , worst of all , no one can ever seem to get anything changed for the better because , as things now stand , there is not actual control over the functioning of city government despite the almost total centralization of power in City Hall , " In concluding the message , Mr. Rockefeller said the people of the state could meet all challenges " with God 's help . " Mr. Rockefeller 's speech was carried live by some radio stations , and was to be shown on educational television stations across the state .                     