@@734173

txt MAYOR BYRNE angrily brushed aside criticism Tuesday and appointed Dr. Hugo Muriel commissioner of the city 's Department of Health , The appointment of Muriel , which had been anticipated since Mrs. Byrne named him last week as her candidate to succeed Dr. Murray C , Brown , has drawn fire from medical groups who claim that the new commissioner lacks training in public health administration . Some critics also raised questions of cronyism because Muriel , 41 , an end  --  w crinologist on , the staffs of Illinois Masonic and Grant Hospitals , had treated Mrs. Byrne 's father . But the mayor termed objections raised by the Chicago Medical Society and others as " scurrilous , " and suggested that some of the criticism may stem from bias against the Bolivian-born doctor . " I THINK THE charges smacked of the kind of things we were trying to avoid with ' One Chicago , ' " said Mrs , Byrne , referring to her campaign slogan pledging a unified city of equal opportunity . " I said during my campaign that I would bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what I am doing today . " Mrs. Byrne , who had told reporters she would merely recommend Muriel to the Board of Health , said she decided to bypass the board and the City Council after William Quinlan , the city 's corporation counsel , assured her that she had the authority to make the appointment . " Rather than have all these rumors , and what I considered scurrilous // Mayor Byrne rips critics // charges ... I decided that the time to do it was today , " she said . Brown resigned as health commissioner at Mrs. Byrne 's request . The mayor said she would also move to replace Dr. Eric Oldberg as president of the Board of Health as part of a general shakeup of the city 's public health system . MURIEL 'S appointment also apparently means the removal of Edward King , deputy health commissioner , who has been responsible for the day-to-ray operations of the department in recent years . Mrs. Byrne charged Tuesday that King had solicited campaign contributions for former Mayor Michael Bilandic from doctors who do consulting work for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has been , " said the mayor , who said the city had done an inadequate Jab in a variety of public health areas , including mental health and infant mortality . Attempts by The Tribune to reach King for comment were unsuccessful . Another appointment the mayor had hoped to make Tuesday was that of a new executive director for the city 's Economic Development Commission . William Copies resigned from that post Monday . BUT THE APPOINTMENT reportedly was held up when Quinlan told the mayor that the authority to replace Copies rested with the commission .                     