@@728403

txt LAGOS , Nigeria , Feb. 14 ? One month after the defeat of Biafra , there are signs that substantial relief is finally reaching Its hard-pressed people . Although the leisurely pace of the Nigerian-supervised relief program still outrages some Europeans and Americans , they generally concede that it is at least beginning to work . Travelers returning to Lagos this week from the area , in which the secessionists made their last stand against Nigeria early in January , reported relatively little starvation . Some even saw the awakening of local commerce and other elements of daily routine . Officials of the Nigerian Red Cross say that the number of people they are feeding has risen to 2.8 million . The rations , they report , are not necessarily enough to keep the people healthy , but they are enough to keep them alive . " Debite some reports to the contrary , there really just has been no mass starvation there , or at least I have seen no sign of any , " said a knowledgeable foreigner who has been in the East Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other foreigners at work in the relief effort , he insisted on anonymity , an illustration of the sensitivity the Nigerian Government feels on the subject . " The Nigerians have damn well made it clear that they 're running this show , " the man explained , " and if any foreigner starts making pronouncements about it , he 'll get chucked right out . " The Government has stringently discouraged travel by foreign correspondents in the area . The stated reason is that outsiders would interfere with the relief effort , but it is known that officials are still smarting from the grim dispatches that followed a Government-sponsored press tour // of the area in mid-January . There is , however , a steady stream of relief workers , doctors , nurses , nutritionists and technicians moving between Lagos and the east , and some of their descriptions are beginning to have a hopeful tone . Apparently the mass migration of people padding up and down the dusty roads of the region has almost ended . Some have made treks of a hundred miles or more to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burned out by the war , small farmers are again planting their yams and cassava , the plant whose root yields a staple of the Nigerian diet . Money remains a severe problem in the former secessionist area , because most people held only Biafran notes when the war ened . Although the Nigerian Government has hinted that it may eventually assign the rebel notes some small value , the merchants consider them virtually worthless . " But do n't underestimate the resourcefulness of the Ibos , " said a European just back from Owerri , the former Biafran capital . " They 're making flour or palm oil and selling it for the strong currency , and some who were penniless a month ago have already made quite a bit by weaving mats or thatching for roofs . " Civilian policemen are reported taking over front the soldiers , some of whom had terrorized the villages with looting and rape , and trucks with ? relief supplies are penetrating into the bush . Delivery Is Slow In some cases , though , it has taken the imported supplies as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lagos airport to the dense humid forest where the hungry people are . The United States and Britain have each sent in scores of transport vehicles and millions of dollars worth of emergency supplies in the month since the Biafrans surrendered . But once the goods are taken off the planes , control passes to the Nigerian Governments bureaucratic rehabilitation administration , which like much in this relaxed , tropical land , is slow . Since the beginning of a massive airlift on January 23 , the United States has flown 113 jeeps and trucks to Nigeria . A ? few dozen of the vehicles have reached their destinations in the East , but most are still in Lagos , being processed or serviced . " Csf course it 's exasperating , but ties better than not getting anything- in at all , " sighed an American official . " The Nigerians will not be dictated to , by us or by anyone else . They 're very proud at the moment  --  remember they did win the war  --  and arguing with them about this is as pointless as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the question of Uli airstrip , which still arouses the ire of Nigerian officials whenever it is brought up . The airstrip , in the center of what was the secessionist enclave , was its lifeline to the outside world , with more than 200 tons of supplies brought in every night until the end of the war . A Matter of Pride Except for one or two potholes caused by bombing , the airstrip is still in excellent condition , but the Nigerian Government , which considers Uli a symbol of the rebellion , is ignoring it out of national pride . The estimate of the Nigerian Red Cross that it is feeding 2.8 million people indicated a sharp increase . Three weeks ago , the organization 's estimate was less than one million people , and the figure for the week before that was 500,000 . The relief workers said that they were now distributing food , mostly dried milk and grain at a rate of more than 2,000 tons a week . Authoritative estimates put the population of Biafra when the war ended at about three million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cross estimate are both correct , they are not precisely comparable , since the 2.8 million being fed include at least several hundred thousands who left Biafra months before the end of the war . Relief workers fear that there are still many Biafrans hiding deep in the bush who need food but who are not receiving it , and no one is willing to estimate their number .                     