@@729382

txt Now it 's " Salyut . " Ten years after Maj. Yuri A. Gagarin 's historic plunge into outer space , the Russians have launched a probe that could prove to be another significant step in man 's exploration of the planets . They call the Salyut an " orbital scientific station . " At this writing little is known of the mission of Salyut , which was sent aloft Monday . Presumably it is unmanned . There is speculation one or more manned craft will be launched to dock with it . According to a brief official announcement , the station was launched for " perfecting the elements of the design and the onboard system and for conducting scientific research and experiments in space . " The station 's apogee is 222 kilometers and its perigee 200 kilometers . It is re- volving around the earth once every 88.5 minutes . Whatever the Russians have up their space sleeves on this occasion , there is no doubt they are concentrating on the development of permanent space stations , which are expected to be the key to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the prestige and drama that attaches to manned walks on the moon , the Soviet Union looks to beat them in the space-station field . In the long run , say many noted world scientists , this will be the more useful . The United States , too , recognizes the importance of space stations but at this point is trailing in the development of them . The Americans expect to put up a three-man " orbital workshop " some time in 1972 . The Skylab , as it is called , would remain in orbit a year , with astronauts ferried to it in Apollo vehicles and would stay aloft for perhaps 28 days at a time . // * Are Russians assembling a space station ? // The Russians , for their part , in the past two years have carried out a number of flights in their Soyuz series which have all been hailed as steps toward the building of permanent orbital stations . In January , 1969 , two Soviet manned spacecraft  --  Soyuz 4 and Soyuz 5 ? docked in orbit around the earth while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another . The Russians described this linkup as the " world 's first experimental space station . " In the fall of the same year the Russians put three spacecraft  --  Soyuz 6 , 7 , and 8 ? into earth orbit in three days , a feat which American experts say could not have been duplicated at the time by the United States . Practical experiment That mission carried out rendezvous maneuvers in close-formation flight as well as an automatic welding experiment . Afterward Soviet scientists said that " in the not-distant future piloted spacecraft will be regularly orbiting the earth . " Soyuz 9 was the first practical experiment in prolonged space flight . Lasting a marathon 18 days in June , 1970 , it was concerned with the physiological changes that take place during a space flight and the effects of exercise in protecting cosmonauts against weightlessness . Among the problems that apparently are not yet resolved by Soviet scientists is whether artificial gravity will be needed if men are to sustain long flights in space . Many Soviet doctors hope problems of weightlessnes can be solved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space cooperation is precisely in the medical field . The Russians are keen to probe the American experience with respect to man 's adaptability to earth after a long time in space . Despite an extensive program of physical exercise , the two Soviet cosmonauts aboard the Soyuz 9 experienced certain physical difficulties once they were back on earth . Academician comments How far Salyut may advance the Soviet space program one can only wait and see . Academician Mstislav Keldysh , president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences , said about a year ago that the first Soviet space station would be orbiting " in the next few years . " He also suggested orbiting platforms for launching interplanetary flights would not be built until the late 1970 's , More recently , however , noted Soviet space scientist Boris N. Petrov wrote that " the time is not behind the mountains " when long-duration , piloted orbital stations will be built .                     