@@731901

txt While American credibility may have been weakened as a result of setbacks in Southeast Asia , a survey by Monitor correspondents around the world indicates no critical damage as yet to American influence . There are these conclusions : ? Soviet-bloc nations are pleased with the successes of fellow communists in South Vietnam and Cambodia , but are not inclined to gloat at them as American humiliations ? presumably because of the overriding importance of U.S.-Soviet detente . ? Both Arabs and Israelis see U.S. credibility weakened as an ally of Tel Aviv . But , they say , the U.S. remains the crucial peacemaker in the Middle East . ? Europeans see no immediate danger to transatlantic relationships , but they are beginning to question American determination to face up to the dangers confronting the West . ? Africans are touched by the humanitarian aspects of U.S. involvement ? evacuating refugees and orphans ? but see a parallel in Vietnam to the black revolutionary struggles in their own midst . ? U.S. policy in Southeast Asia is seen as bankrupt by Latin Americans , but still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? In Southeast Asia itself , the South Vietnamese feel a sense of betrayal , the Cambodians one of bewilderment , and Thailand a growing need to seek an accommodation with its big neighbor , China . Observers in Moscow report that , rather than generalizing on events in Indo-China as some global failure of American nerve , the Soviets appear to regard Washington 's basic power and resolve as still whole . Western diplomats sense that the Soviets make a distinction between the fundamental U.S. commitment to Europe and its more marginal and controversial commitment to Indo-China . Nor is the United States seen as vulnerable to provocation in hot spots elsewhere in the world . Analysts contend that Moscow would not risk damaging the long-term stability and economic advantages of detente by trying to score short-term triumphs over Washington . Arab commentators have personalized U.S. reverses in Southeast Asia as a setback for Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger , who , they think , already is under heavy attack from pro-Israel forces in the U.S. But an Egyptian foreign-policy maker is quoted as saying : " Only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mideast , because Washington alone can oblige Israel to comply with United Nations resolutions to evacuate occupied Arab territory . " Israelis tend to view the situation in Indo-China in the light of their own reliance on the United States , and some are concluding that the nation should strengthen its resolve to rely only on itself . But one said , " I do hope that Americans will soon realize that little can be gained by Washington 's current search for scapegoats . . . and will now demonstratively stand by Israel and thus recapture some of their lost credibility in the world . // *Survey shows U.S. influence strong despite Vietnam setback // Europeans see the fate of Indo-China in itself as a lesser concern than the effect a Vietnam debacle might have on American public opinion , on Congress , and on U.S. determination to withstand challenges elsewhere . " They are not criticizing the United States yet , " one diplomat said of his European colleagues . " They know this is a difficult and delicate moment . . . . It would be absurd to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam , the American commitment to the Atlantic Alliance is in question . " The focus of West European concerns remains the Middle East , where a new war would present these U.S. allies with numerous difficult choices . Africans applaud U.S. " mercy flights " of Vietnamese orphan children even as they describe the damage they think has been inflicted on the American image . Many of their own children know want and unrest , but are cherished nonetheless . Andwhile they are not pleased by a commAist take-over in Indo-China , they at least expect less corruption under such a future regime . The view is widespread in Latin America that collapse in Cambodia and South Vietnam was inevitable . President Thieu of South Vietnam leads those who see an American betrayal of his country , but U.S. civilians there are not yet the targets of Vietnamese hostility , except where panic is total . In Thailand , however , a leading member of the new Cabinet saw a need for his country to rethink its foreign policy . " The United States is now finished in this part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must do everything we can to reach an accommodation with the Chinese . " Contributing to this survey were Elizabeth Pond in Moscow ; Eric Bourne in Vienna ; John K. Cooley in Beirut , Lebanon ; Francis Ofner in Tel Aviv , Israel ; Takashi Oka in London ; Henry S. Hayward in Nairobi , Kenya ; Daniel Southerland in Saigon ; and James Nelson Goodsell on Latin America .                     