@@729420

txt President Anwar Sadat of WOW said today that leaders kM attempbOd a coup and that several had been arrested . Informed sources said it was possible leading figures in the alleged plot would be brought to trial . A new cabinet was sworn in . The cabinet list broadcast by Cairo Radio contained the names of replacements for six ministers who resigned yesterday . The list did not name a replacement for Vice President Aly Sabry , dismissed May 2 . Top Aides Stay Mahmoud Fawzi remained as premier and Mahmoud Riad as foreign minister . Tho new ministers included War Minister Mohammed Ahmed Sadek and Interior Minister Mamdouh Salem , both appointed yesterday on the resignation of their predecessors . Cairo Radio said the National Assembly met in extraordinary session today at Sadat 's request . He asked that the parliamentary immunity of 17 members be lifted because of i their involvement in the coup attempt . The assembly canceled the membership of all 17 , including former Information Minister Mohammed Fayek , one of the six ministers who resigned yesterday . Under House Arrest In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Mohammed Fawn ' , one of the six ministers who resigned yesterday , was under house arrest . He also said several other ; leaders of the abortive coup were in jail , including some senior police officers . " But the storm is over , " Sadat assured the nation in a 90-minute television and radio address . He declared somberly , " I have told members of our armed forces that I will mince anyone who tries to undermine our Internal front . " Sadat said he had assured Sudanese , Libyan and Syrian leaders who flew in today for ? talks on the crisis that they should not get too worried . " I told them this is only a storm in a teacup , " the president said . Unraveling a tangled tale of intrigue by top members of his administration , Sadat said he had even found his own home and office were bugged . He said he discovered yesterday that measures had also been taken to keep him from entering the television building to make a broadcast last month during critical talks on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stunned , " he said . " I told myself ? ' This is an attempted coup . ' " The president said a plot against him developed after he returned to Cairo from talks in Benghazi , Libya , on the federalion with the Libyan and Syrian presidents . Reports Snbry 's Role The top troublemaker , he said , was Sabry , who was fired as vice president earlier this month . Sabry opposed the union , he said . Sadat said two tape recordings were delivered to him at his villa by a young man on his return from visiting the frontline troops yesterday . He said they revealed how members of the Higher Execntive Committee of the Arab Socialist Union , Egypt 's sole political party , plotted against him and tried to enlist general support within top echelons . Sadat said he would call new elections for the party and would personally supervise them .                     