@@732200

txt Sen. Birch Bayh ID. , Ind.l told a United Auto Workers meeting here Sunday he will seek the Democratic presidential nomination . Bayh has been known for some months to be close to such an announcement . The formal announcement will be made Tuesday in Indianapolis , making him the ninth Democrat to enter the race . An overflow crowd of several hundred UAW members heard Bayh , Gov . Walker , Shriver , and UAW President Leonard Woodcock criticize the Ford administration . Walker , who is in a fierce battle to prevent an roverride of his school-funding vetoes , criticized President Ford for not " coming up with the kind of programs to take care of people all across America . " Asked later whether that meant that he advocates more federal spending , Walker said , yes . WOODCOCK , who was instrumental in getting Ford to run for Congress from Grand Rapids , Mich. , almost 30 years ago , said he now has misgivings about Ford . He attacked the President and the Democratic-controlled Congress for failure to act on a wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Democratic Party sources report that State Treasurer Alan Dixon and Lt. Gov . Neil Hartigan will run as a team in the party primary for governor and lieutenant governor , respectively . Sec. 4 , p. 12. punish Democrats who hold committee chairmanships and other high posts but do n't go along with the majority of the caucus , Woodcock said . His reference was to Democratic chairmen who fail to vote to overturn Ford vetoes of social legislation . A federal tax cut of at least $20 billion is needed , he warned , but Ford 's proposal to cut one dollar of spending for every dollar in taxes would cancel any tax reduction benefit . BATH , A , THREE-term senator , made a traditional liberal pitch , as did Shrivel ' , an announced presidential contender . They attacked the Federal Reserve Board for tight money policies and Ford for catering to big business and the oil industry . Shriver said the nation ' will not get anywhere until Henry Ford recalls Jerry Ford . " Walker was introduced as " one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , UAW regional director . After Walker left , Johnston urged an override of Walker 's school-funding vetoes . Almost every speaker supported a program of federal jobs in one form or another to attack unemployment . IN AN INTERVIEW , Walker said high federal spending is acceptable " to stimulate the economy , " but high state spending is n't legal If it exceeds revenues . Walker called for the next President to be " a two-fisted man who will care about people . " He attacked Ford on several issues . Though some persons saw this as a hint that Walker was ready to make a presidential bid , the governor sidestepped a question about his own national ambitions .                     