@@729325

txt A State Education Department inquiry cleared the Board of Education here yesterday of having violated a state law against overspending in connection with its current $29.2-million budget deficit . But it sharply criticized the board and the school system 's administrators for an " appalling lack " of fiscal controls and proper procedures and said the city government must share the blame for the budget crisis . The department 's report , made by Thomas D. Sheldon , deputy education commissioner , declared : " It is apparent that the fiscal crisis is a result of combined failure of city government , the City Board of Education and the city school ' administration to develop and operate a productive system of budgeting and financial management . " The inquiry was ordered earlier this month by State Education Commissioner Ewald B. Nyquist after the city board announced it would be forced to lay off 6,500 school employes , mainly teachers , to stop hiring thousands of substitute teachers each day , and to cut // State Clears City School . Board of Violating Law Centinued From Page 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yesterday 's report urged the enactment of legislation that would assure greater financial accountability of the central school board and local community school boards that oversee the city 's 31 decentralized districts . It said that the law should require an annual post-audit of all school financial records , under guidelines set by the State Controller , and that the city board should be required to submit financial reports and budget details to the State Education Department . - Murry Bergtraum , president of the city board , who received copies of the state report Thursday evening , said the department 's inquiry " confirms " what his board had said right along ? that it did not violate the law by overspending and that " an appalling lack of budgetary and financial controls was inherited by this Board of Education when it took office " nearly two years ago . Financial Problem Stressed Mr. Bergtraum said the board " agrees with almost every recommendation , " but took issue with one aspect of a proposal that the State Education Department should send technical assistance teams to the city to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the personnel , skills and procedures essential to providing sound fiscal management . " The board president said he objected to the provision that the money to cover the cost of ilthe technical , assistance project he taken from state funds allo.1 cated to the city . This , he said , would mean " al reduction of the already inadequate funds allocated to New York City , particularly in this period of severe financial stringency for the New York City Board of . Education . " Commenting on the report 's call for a clear delineation of the roles of the board and the Chancellor , Mr. Bergtraum said this was already under way . At the same time , he said that if there was now any confusion over the board 's role " it exists in the minds of those who do not understand that this board 's task has differed from that of all other boards which have preceded it and will follow it , since we have been charged with the specific task of creating a policy for an entirely new system of educational responsibility . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board , under state law , was given the specific task of guiding the transition of the city system to decentralized operations . In calling for the study , Commissioner Nyquist had specifically asked Dr. Sheldon to determine whether the city board had violated Section 1704 of ! the State Education Law . That section prohibits a school board front spending funds under its control at a rate that will exhaust the money before the end of the school year . On this point , Dr. Sheldon said in his report : " Ineffectiveness of administrative procedures and lack of control are clear , but there is no evidence that the city Board of Education willfully violated the provisions of Section 1704 . " The planned layoffs and school cutbacks were canceled on March 10 after city Controller Abraham D. Beame said he would pay some end-of-theyear school costs out of next year 's budget appropriation . Mr. Beanie also placed the board 's deficit  --  first estimated at $40-million and later at $36.2-million -- eat $29.2-million . The report 's analysis of how the budget crisis developed and many of its criticisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week by a special State Senate committee , headed by Senator Thomas Laverne , which also investigated the school situation here . Teacher Reserve Scored Dr. Sheldon noted , as did the Senate committee , that the city system created an " absentee teachers reserve "  --  a special force of teachers who were supposed to fill in for absent instructors  --  without having a specific budget authorization or even a " clear understanding " of whether there were sufficient funds for this force , which totaled 1,600 teachers last September . The city board has maintained that much of its budget problem resulted from the fact that it could not fully meet a city requirement that it save $45-million of its budgetary allocations and still maintain full services . " Throughout the current school year , " the State Education Department report said , " the city board has been aware of the necessity to tailor expenditures to meet budgetary requirements . However , despite repeated attempts to reduce staff and effect savings , no complete plan was devised and implemented early enough to avoid the forseen crisis . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absentee teacher reserve at the beginning of this school year , many community districts hired more teachers in this category than were actually allotted to them and the salaries continued to be paid . " The report said that the problem of lack of controls was compounded by a lack of coordination and communication , especially between the system 's personnel , ' business and budget units . In addition , it said , there was " confusion in control and monitoring . " The report attributed this in large part to the many changes in school governance and administration here in the last decade . Over this span , it noted , there have been four distinct Boards of Education and six chief administrators , as well as frequent changes in other top school posts .                     