@@733474

txt The Indonesian Government is cracking down on a wave of student protest aimed at President Suharto . The authorities so far have refused to announce the number of students arrested , but some sources say it is at least 160 . In addition , seven daily newspapers in Jakarta , the capital , have been shut down . ? The crackdown , however , is not likely to lay to rest the No. 1 question asked by Indonesians whenever political turbulence shatters the normally calm facade of their country : Who is behind it ? The reason is that the wave of protest , if backed by elements in the military or other high-ranking factions in. the government , could pose a genuine tnreat to the 10-year-old rule of President Suharto . Many in the oil-rich and strategically important country of 130 million people will long remember that it was an alliance of discontented students and the Army that gradually stripped Mr. Suharto 's predecessor , President Sukarno , of his powers following an abortive 1965 pro-Communist coup . // From pa e 1 Student protests rumble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many observers see no serious threat to President Suharto 's leadership . Behind-scenes support ? But if they are getting behind-the-scenes support . perhaps from some military leaders , high-level skirmishing could be under way over whether the President should be returned to office by a vote of the party appointed , partly elected National People 's Congress in March . There has been much speculation on this question . Indeed , one reason why the newspapers were closed appears to be to discourage speculation that the President 's reelection is anything but a certainty . Some observers doubt the President faces a serious high-level challenge , especially since there appears to be no widely accepted alternative to him . All factions of the National People 's Congress are committed publicly to his reelection , and last month the armed forces leadership unanimously gave its blessing to this decision . Nevertheless , there is the possibility some persons in high places have encouraged the students as part of maneuverings over the composition of a continuing Suharto government . What is clear is that open protest , including criticism of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurrence over the past few weeks . More than once the students took stands opposing reelection of President Suharto for another five-year term , and the newspapers , given wide freedom in recent months , prominently covered these activities . Growing disparities The students attacked the government for failing to solve growing economic and social problems . including food shortages , a growing disparity between rich and poor , and corruption . qwq                     