@@728676

txt France is readying aquanauts for the deepest mission yet in which men have worked for extended periods beneath the sea . The eight-day project  --  Janus 2 ? should be under way in September off Cassis near Marseille . There six aquanauts will work in 250 meters ( 825 feet ) of water carrying out tests and simulated industrial assignments . Off duty , they 'll live on board ship ' in a chamber pressurized to the equivalent of a 200-meter depth . Twice a day teams of aquanauts will descend via diving bell for a four-hour stretch of work at 250 meters , returning to the chamber to rest and eat . In a similar experiment last month , three aquanauts practiced in pressure chambers built by the Compagnie Maritime d'Expertises at Marseille . They proved that men can live and work comfortably for long periods under such pressures . Now the firm is running further safety tests with six divers . Commercial space ? Space planners are toying with the notion of private ownership in outer space . They 're intrigued by possible commercial uses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( offering the fun of games played under reduced gravity ) ; as communications centers for world news . If there 's enough demand for shuttle service to and from space , some experts say this would drive down its cost . So the question already is being asked : Will space stations and shuttles become as sacrosanct as the communication satellites ? restricted to a privileged minority of users ? So far NASA officials will not confirm that any thought is being given to making sure that large manned space stations are not legislated into a COMSAT-type restricted monopoly . Rainmaker , beware ! Everybody talks about the weather  --  and Washington is beginning to think too many people are trying to do something about it . The Commerce Department has quietly sent Congress proposed legislation titled , " The Weather Modification Act of 1970 . " It would require that anyone engaged in cloud-seeding or other weather-influencing efforts report their activity to the federal government . Secret rainmaking would be subject to a fine of up to S10,000 . Purpose of the bill is to keep Washington abreast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific research projects , or release pollutants into the atmosphere . False alarms Britain 's biochemists are concerned about alarms over the possibility of test-tube babies and genetically engineered men . They think public anxiety is being unnecessarily aroused . The synthetic gene made at the University of Wisconsin was only the latest incident . Before that , there was the British experiment to implant a test-tube-fertilized human egg in a woman . Before that it was Harvard University 's isolation of a gene . All hit the headlines in less than a year with dire warnings of artificially produced children or genetically redesigned men . Biologists concede such things might be possible some day . And they recognize that men should think through the moral implications of this long-term possibility . But many decry news reports that imply a fast-approaching threat . One British expert points out that the phrase " have only " is the key . Men " have only " to master interstellar flight to inhabit other planetary systems . Scientists " have only " to take a few more steps to be able to remake physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he notes , " how worlds away in practice ! " Second-guessing smog Computers are being put to yet another use : sorting out the complex photochemical reactions that take place in smog . Mel Weisburd of System Development corporation , Santa Monica , Calif. , explains low the movements of hypothetical cells of pollution are being tracked across the Los kngcles basin by computer simulation . Experts think smog includes more than W intricate chemical reactions , many of which are interdependent . Only by computer ; imulation can all possible combinations be mplored , he says . And these must be understood , he says , ; ince a slight change in auto emissions night bring about surprising results . Cutting down one pollutant , he warns , can Ow rise to increased concentration of a nore dangerous one .                     