@@734129

txt Letters J. BROOKS COLBURNMONROE S. WASCHHOLMES M. GWYNNJAMES R. DUMPSONMICKEY SEGALPR .. Letters Carter 's ' Specious Arguments ' on Oil Profits To the Editor : In his energy address , President Carter placed as much emphasis on his desire for a " windfall profits tax " as on the benefits ultimately to accrue from deregulation of oil prices . He offered two arguments for the tax : ( 1 ) The oil companies ' profits resulting from deregulation will be " huge and undeserved " ? undeserved because " unearned " and thus unfair to the American people . ( 2 ) The tax will be used for the Energy Security Fund , which will devote 80 percent of its revenue to developing non-petroleum energy sources . Neither argument is convincing . ( 1 ) First , by what standard are the anticipated profits excessive ? " The true value " of American oil is , according to the President himself , " its replacement value . " And replacement value is simply market value . So by allowing petroleum prices to reach their market level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to be realized . The illusion of excess is created by the disparity between this true value and the current sub-market prices , which Government restrictions have created . To the Editor : Marvin Mitchelson should return to his movie star friends in Smog City and abandon his proposed suit against our exact-fare system on city buses ( Notes on People , April 2 ) . The inconvenience of carrying two quarters in pocket or purse is infinitely outweighed by relieving bus drivers of the chore of making change while maneuvering through traffic and protecting drivers and passengers from crime . . While pondering Mr. Mitchelson 's con brio chutzpah , it occurs to me to ask whether we can not develop a similar exact-change system for the subways . A cost /benefit study of the conversion of turnstiles to automatic gates , and the sale of tokens in banks and retail stores , might show us ways of cutting costs dramatically and reducing crime throughout the transit system . MONROE S. WASCH New York , April 2 , 1979 Insurance Paradox To the Editor : J. Alexander makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital costs letter April 4 ) . I would interpret this to say that hospitals raise costs because the insurance mechanism permits these increases to go unchecked . If insurance has resulted in greater demand , should n't the unit cost , i.e. , cost per patient , be reduced because of greater efficiencies ? It sounds to me , as if Mr. is grasping at straws . HOLMES M. GwYNN East Greenwich , R.I. , April 4 , 1979 suiting from the removal of those restrictions will not be to a point above market levels  --  which would generate excess profits ? but rather to the point where prices should have been all along . Second , will the future profits be unearned or undeserved , as the President claims ? Only if profits per se are . Since present profits of oil companies are ( despite their admitted largeness in dollar terms ) below what they would be were petroleum products priced at the Carter-determined " true value , " the increased future profits will not be undeserved . They will be what the oil companies should have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices as the standard , oil profits heretofore have not been excessive , but rather deficient . Third , would it be unfair to allow the oil companies to retain all their future profits ? Clearly not , since those profits are the result of returning to the free-market standard , whereas present profits are based on sub-market prices . The fact that the difference between present and future prices could be great is not itself any indication of unfairness . To the Editor : Manhattan Borough President Andrew Stein 's recent statement that one-third of New York State 's 125,000 people in the home-relief category receiving public assistance are employable and should be working news story March 16 is incredible in the light of the black unemployment rate in New York . As Mr. Stein must know , most of the people he describes just miss eligibility for Supplemental Security Income , e.g. , a 60-year-old whose work experience is no longer in demand , a 24-yearold unskilled person with no work experience and someone in failing health who is not sick enough for the handicapped category . Commissioner Barbara @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judith A. Lachman 's April 2 letter on eliminating excess surgery was very cute and enjoyable , but it contained a major fallacy . The problem of excess surgery , she reasoned , is similar to the problem of excess wheat production . So , she argues , it makes as much sense to pay surgeons not to operate as it does to pay farmers not to grow wheat . The situations are not parallel for one important reason : The Agriculture Department does n't care about excess wheat production per se ; it cares about the bottom falling out of the price of wheat and farmers going bankrupt as a result . Since the Government has n't been clever enough to solve this problem in a better way , it pays farmers not to produce wheat . In the case of surgeons , the Government is not worried about the bottom falling out of the surgery market and surgeons going bankrupt . Far from it ; excess costs are the problem here . This is the crucial difference , and the reason that paying idle surgeons would be even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Second opinions before surgery seem like the most reasonable solution . It is not true that " the result is likely to be simply more income for surgeons , more surgeons " and " opinion rendering as a new source of work for ( 2 ) The concept of fairness , so prominent in the President 's attack on oil company profiteering , is entirely absent when he argues for his Energy Security Fund . Consider what he wants to do : The oil companies will , very reluctantly , be given the economic incentive to increase production but will not be allowed to keep all they earn from so doing ; instead a significant portion of their profits , which would not otherwise be confiscated , will be taxed to establish a fund 80 percent of which will be used to subsidize their own competitors ? nuclear and solar energy producers . The oil companies will be forced to contribute to their own demise through a special tax directed only at them . Such a twisted notion of fairness hardly behooves a President who campaigned for the office on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has failed to realize is that fairness must be applied to everyone ? including the rich and powerful . I trust Congress will reject the specious arguments Mr. Carter has offered and will not pass his excess profits tax . J. BROOKS COLBURN Rye , N.Y. , April 6 , 1979 of those identified for home relief are addicted to alcohol and drugs . The home relief program does require improvement , as do many of our programs for the poor . However , improvement certainly does not mean elimination . We would be interested in seeing Mr. Stein 's documentation of cases of employable persons for whom jobs actually exist . Until he provides such documentation we hope he will refrain from recommendations to take away basic subsistence monies from the poor . JAMES R. DUMPSON HORACE W. MORRIS New York , March 28 , 1979 The writers are , respectively , former New York City Human Resources Administrator and New York Urban League executive director . surgeons . " It happens to take far less time to check up on a diagnosis than it does to perform surgery . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions first and cut later . MICKEY SEGAL New York , April 2 , 1979 The writer is a third-year medical student at Columbia University . Thai Noninterference To the Editor : Richard Burt wrote in his March 15 news article , " U.S. Is Formulating New Policy in Asia , " that " China was sending military shipments to Cambodian insurgents through Thai territory . " I wish to state categorically that this allegation is completely groundless . Thailand has never interfered and has no intention to interfere in the present dispute in Cambodia . My Government 's policy in relation to Cambodia has been clearly and repeatedly stated as strictly adhering to the principle of noninterference in the internal dispute of that country . Besides , there exist many ways and means of transporting supplies directly to that country without having to go through foreign territories . PRACHA GUNA-KASEM Ambassador of Thailand to the U.N . New York , March 15 , 1979 Andrew Stein and the Home-Relief Recipients Ask Questions First and Cut Later ' The American Edge in Nuclear Weapons Capability ' To the Editor : During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjected to a steady dose of propaganda designed to suggest that the U.S. is now behind the U.S.S.R. in nuclear capability , or soon will be . To some extent , the press has helped to perpetuate that judgment , and this is most unfortunate . At the risk of playing the familiar numbers game that our alarmists so enjoy , let me attempt a brief clarification of the strategic nuclear balance on the basis of Defense Department and other widely accepted current estimates . Yes , the U.S.S.R. is ahead in missiles by 2,350 to 1,700 , but if manned bombers are included to arrive at a total of strategic delivery vehicles , the gap is a somewhat smaller , 2,500 to 2,058 . Too many of our propagandists stop here , as if the number of delivery vehicles were a valid indicator of relative capability . More relevant is the number of deliverable warheads , and here the U.S. has an advantage of 9,200 to 5,000 . Then there is the notorious " throw weight " figure , which reflects the total tonnage that can be delivered via missiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9,036,000 to 4,326,000 for the U.S. This figure , however . is too crude , and a more valid indicator is that of stockpiled megaton eqivalents , in which the Soviet edge is a more modest 5,900 to 3,600 . But even this is too crude , as it says nothing about the ability to hit targets . Thus , many analysts use a " lethality index , " reflecting total numbers of warheads , their megaton equivalents and ? their accuracy , and on this index the U.S. has an edge of about 44,800 to 33,500 . One could go on and itemize the estimated results of all sorts or nuclear war scenarios , but my point should be clear . The U.S. is not behind the U.S.S.R. in the nuclear strength categories that matter , nor do the current trend lines point toward a reversal of the ratios that would enable the Soviets to launch an effective " disarming first strike . " Moreover , the SALT II agreements , despite their very limited scope , will make it impossible for them to achieve such superiority without obvious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most important , I do not suggest that Americans or Russians or any others are more secure with a superiority in deliverable warheads or in an overall lethality score . Both sides today are dangerously over-armed in strategic weapons ( conventional weapons are another and equally complex matter ) , and if both follow current production and deployment plans within the SALT constraints , they will soon be even more dangerously overarmed . One reason , unfortunately , is that both governments still have people who believe that nuclear wars can be initiated , fought and won , and that having some first-strike components is militarily and politically desirable . In my view , this borders on insanity , and it bodes ill for everyone 's security . Nuclear weapons should be looked upon in purely second-strike and retaliatory terms , and the sooner we cut back to the levels needed for that more prudent role , the sooner we can begin the imperative but delicate task of nuclear disarmament . In sum , it is bad enough that we have all sorts of ill-informed and shortsighted " patriots " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not make it worse by imprecise reporting that helps to legitimize their fast and loose assertions about the strategic balance . J. DAVID SINGER Professor of Political Science University of Michigan Ann Arbor , Mich. , March 28 , 1979                     