@@731552

txt MEMBERS OF the Chicago Teachers Union voted overwhelmingly Thursday to strike the city 's public schools beginning Monday , unless a breathru is achieved in the deadlocked negotiations over teacher s ' salaries for the coming academic year . Robert M. Healey , president of the CTU , said the lopsided vote , which showed 15,748 in favor of going out on strike against 5,345 opposed , indicated " the depths of the teachers ' frustrations . " " The union has negotiated since May 9 , 1974 , and has succeeded in getting tentative agreements on approximately GO items , which will improve the school system " Healey said , " but tentative means only if we accept the board 's salary proposal . We are down to this one major Issue but all depends on it . " HEALEY SAID the CTU is asking for an 11 per cent cost of living raise and the Board of Education is offering 4.5 per cent . " We have been threatened by the Board of Education that there will be cuts in the educational program for every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can not give in to this kind of threat . " Speaking in the office of the CTU at 201 N. Wells St. , Healey called on the board to give Schools Supt. James F. Redmond the authority to make a settlement without a strike . " Anything else would be tragic because it is so unnecessary , " he said . A spokesman for the school board , however , said that despite the strike vote , the situation is not critical . " Dr. Redmond feels that if we really sit down to it , we can get this thing resolved in two hours , " the spokesman said . THE SPOKESMAN SAID that he can not report any significant movement in the negotiations but added that does n't means no progress is being made . " If they really get down to hard-nosed , serious bargaining , they drop the curtain on you , " he said . Healey said that even with the raise the teachers are asking , almost $6 out of every $10 that the board has to spend will go to other than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CTU . " The board can cut from this money , " Healey said . The deadline for reaching a final agreement on salaries is nFon Sunday , Healey said . He added , however , that the union membership has given the union authority to postpone calling a strike for 72 hours if the negotiators feel by noon Sunday that substantial progress is being made in the talks . ASKED W E II E R the teachers were demanding an 11 per cent increase or nothing , Healey said that the teachers were adamant on the 11 per cent cost-of-living increase but then added , " I 'd never say that I would not take a penny less . " The 11 per cent demand , he said , represented a decrease from 11.3 per cent which the CTU had been asking . The board 's latest offer of 4.5 per cent was adjusted upward from 4 per cent , he said . Healey said that the tentative agreement which has been reached between the union and the board concerns items such as class size , playground facilities , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not waited to discuss salaries until last , " We would n't have ironed out agreement on any of the other 6o Items . " HEALY SAID that the entire package of salaries and fringe benefits being asked by the union would cost the school board 545 million , The problem , he said , is that the superintendent is trying to get teachers ' services but does not have enough money . " I blame the school board rather than the superintendent , " Teachers in the hall outside the union offices denounced the board 's salary offer as totally unrealistic . Miss Shell Lulkin , a teacher at the Otis Elementary School , said , " I think the board members should be ashamed of themselves of tering us 4.5 per cent as a cost-of-living increase . I think we 're being very I generous in asking for only 11 per cent , " Healey said that if a strike begins Monday it will take at least two days for it to be dismantled by the union . " If agreement is not reached by noon . Sunday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can anticipate a strike which will last at least until Wednesday . " MEANWHILE , a teachers ' strike at Willowbrook and Addison Trail High Schools in the western suburbs continued for the second day Thursday with no negotiations schedule d . Some 5,900 students , are affected by the walkout . Teachers are asking for a 9.5 per cent salary hike and binding arbitration in greivance procedures . In Palos Hills , Moraine Valley Community College teachers , who have been on strike since Sept. 9 , say they will stay out , " as long as it takes to get an equitable contract . " They are asking for a 13 per cent pay hike . And in suburban Hazel Crest , elementary district teachers have scheduled a strike for Monday if no contract agreement is reached .                     