@@728553

txt Several hundred thousand youths across the country face the prospect of a jobless summer this year as the nation 's economic slowdown causes hundreds of companies to reduce or eliminate summer hiring . For a few youths , lack of summer work will mean only an idle three months . But for many others working their way through school , the economic impact would be considerable and mean possible delays in completing their education . Interviews with dozens of job placement officers , company executives and government officials in recent days produced generally pessimistic estimates of the summer labor situation . " The whole picture looks grim , " said David Cullings , assistant director of Cornell University 's job placement office . ' Mrs. Nanai Corson , director of student placement at the University of California . Berkeley , said , " We 're geared to expect the worst this summer . " Generally , officials said that manufacturing industries were the tightest for summer jobs while some opportunities existed in service fields and limited ' government job programs that will largely maintain last year 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report this week that 3.7 million persons age 16 to 21 will enter the labor force between April and July this year . Some 2.7 million of these youths will seek summer work , officials said , but perhaps more than 700,000 will be idle , an increase of more than 50,000 over last year . The officials added that the preliminary estimate was based on a national unemployment rate of 3.4 per cent , last June 's rate . Last month 4.4 per cent of the nation 's labor force was unemployed , an increase of .2 per cent over February , so the summer rate will almost certainly be higher In the New York Metropolitan area the bureau reported this week a decline of 24,000 jobs in February . Such a drop puts additional pressure on the shrinking summer job market with more people competing for fewer openings . There were indications nationally that white middle-class students were being affected by the tight summer job market because of special attention being paid to hiring poor minority group members . : One junior coed at Berkeley , among others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her : " If you were black or if your parents were poor , we could hire you through a government program . But we just do n't have the money to hire you ourselves . " At Brooklyn College a placeWent officer said some students had been turned down by pro-1 spective employers who acknowledged the youth 's qualifications but said they were looking specifically for minority , group students . In Los Angeles , too , state , Federal and private job recruiters said they were mainly1 seeking minority , youths for summer work . A spokesman for the New York State Employment Service projected that it would place 27,000 youths in summer jobs this year , a drop of 4,000 from last year despite an increase of 13,000 in applications . In New York City , he said , the service placed 11,800 students last summer but expected about 2,000 fewer jobs this year because of a slowdown in manufacturing ' and cost reduction programs in many companies .. Officials of the National Alliance of Businessmen in Washington plan another intensive campaign this year to round up enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with summer jobs , Last year 's goal of 175,00,0 was surpassed by 3,000 , but alliance spokesmen around the country were not optimistic of doing as well . ' ' We 'll have to run faster this year , " said one , " It 's definitely tighter . " 30% Chicago Cut Seen John Coulter , manpower director for the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry , said that about 140,000 persons ? half of them within the city ? had summer jobs in the Chicago metropolitan area last year . " I hope I 'm wrong , " he said , " but it appears these totals will drop about 30 per cent during the coming summer . " The cuts would come primarily in electronics companies and office work , he said . The Zenith Radio Corporation there expects , for instance , a 30 per cent drop in summer salaried personnel as well as fewer jobs in production . The concern plans to hire back 2,100 previously laid-off workers before taking on any summer help . " You do n't fire father to hire his children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced with similar problems . In St. Louis , where unemployment is up to 4.7 per cent , a Missouri Employment Service spokesman doubted that the agency would even be able to match last year 's total of 12 , - 000 youths placed in summer work . In California , where unemployment has risen 11 per cent in a year , students , faced with possible tuition increases , are scrambling for the fewer jobs that are available . Some of the skilled laid-off workers in many communities have filtered down into semiskilled and professional jobs that have previously provided a large number of summer jobs for students . To students , failure to find such work can be either mildly irritating or catastrophic . Some unsuccessful job-hunters will attend summer school or take trips instead . Some , like Carla Rapoport , a University of Michigan freshman ' from Schenectady , N. Y. , " wilt ? just have to rely on my parents ' dole more . " But for others , such as Jim , another Michigan freshman , no job could mean no more education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this summer , " he said , ' ' I 'll have to quit school . " For similar hardship cases , various government agencies have developed summer work programs . In a Feb. 3 memorandum , President Nixon ordered Federal departments to repeat the 1969 goal of hiring one needy youngster for every 40 Federal employes . Some 70,000 youths age 16 to 22 with low family incomes and little or no special skills are expected to be hired . The five-year-old program , which costs about $36-million , pays the youths $1.60 an hour for a wide variety of jobs ranging from groundskeepers and laboratory assistants to typists and post office aides . The . Federal Government hires 60,000 other youths , generally college students , who took a nationwide qualifying examination to work in administrative and semi-professional summer positions .                     