@@731570

txt The Ford administration , f aced with dwindling supplies of corn and wheat , announced Friday night that it has halted a 125-million bushel grain shipment destined for the Soviet Union . President Ford summoned executives of two companies involved in the grain sale to a personal meeting with him in Washington Saturday . He also directed that all major export companies be Informed that , for the time being , he expects that no large contracts for grain will be signed without specific White House approval . THE DEVELOPMENT came against the background of repeated statements by Agriculture Secret ary Earl L. Butz that the administration would avoid export rationing . The announcement was made by Treasury Secretary William E. Simon . Butz was in California at the time . A high agriculture official said Friday night that the halt was not an embargo on U. S. grain exports and that it related only to the 125 million bushels of corn and wheat involved in a transaction between the Soviet Union and two U. S. companies , t h e Continental Grain Co. and Cook Industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act on the part of these two major companies , " said Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey ED. , Minp . . " We need to take whatever steps are required to protect our national interests . " " I demand an investigation by the Commodity Exchange Authority and the appropriate officials of the Department of Agriculture . " The Simon statement said that the contracts , involving 91 million bushels of corn and 34 million bushels of wheat , were reported Friday by the Department of Agriculture . The department recently instituted an export reporting program designed to detect grain exports . A SENIOR Treasury Department official said the disclosure of the new export contracts within the preceding J1 hours triggered an immediate reaction within the Ford administration . The large quantities involved in the contracts were said to ho surprising to the administration and it was decided that this was the time to act . Government calculations of this year 's U. S. grain crop have estimated the corn harvest at U per cent below last year 's record , and soybeans are expected to be down 16 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent but worldwide demand is expected to be increased even more .                     