@@734056

txt Vietnam said yesterday that its army had knocked out 60 Chinese tanks and killed hundreds of Chinese soldiers as it " checked " a Chinese invasion six miles inside Vietnamese territory . But information about the fighting remained extremely sketchy , and intelligence analysts here said it was impossible to tell how far the Chinese had really pushed into Vietnam or what Peking 's objectives were . China itself released no news throughout the day about the attacks that its troops launched early Saturday morning along the rugged 480-mile frontier , supported by tanks , artillery and warplanes . But late last night Hsinhua , the official Chinese press agency , said that the fighting was continuing . The report gave no details . Vietnam Reports Heavy Fighting The Vietnam News Agency said that heavy fighting was going on from Quang Ninh Province on the coast to Lai Chau Province in the west , with the Chinese seizing several small towns and attacking Lao Cai , a provincial capital , where the railroad from China to Hanoi crosses the border . The Chinese have also bombarded a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam said . The Hanoi radio said that the heaviest fighting was in the northwest border areas of Ba Xat , Lao Cai and Muong Khuong , and around the northeast frontier towns of Dong Dang and Huu Nghi . It also reported that Chinese planes had bombed factories , power plants and communications facilities in northern Vietnam , inflicting " terrible damage " and causing many civilian casualties . A Chinese Communist source suggested today , however , that Peking appeared to want to limit the fighting and perhaps intended only a lightning raid to " teach the Vietnamese a lesson . " Repeating a Chinese Government statement made Saturday , the Chinese Communist Party newspaper , Jenmin Jih Pao , said in an editorial yesterday : " After hitting back at the aggressors as far as is necessary , our frontier forces will turn to guard strictly the frontier of our motherland . " " We do n't want a single inch of Vietnamese soil , " the paper said . " What we want is a peaceful and stable frontier . " Peking itself was cairn yesterday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young Chinese taking advantage of a brilliant sunny Sunday to go to the old Summer Palace outside the city to walk or play their guitars , a new pastime in China . A few Chinese women sported lipstick , in keeping with new relaxed controls on dress , and several young men wore Western-style clothes . Vietnam 's radio said that Hanoi was calm and that hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese had held a rally to denounce the invasion . China 's attack on its ' Communist neighbor , which it supported in the long Indochina war against the French and the Americans until 1975 , ' grew out of Peking 's increasing anger at Hanoi over a series of issues . The split first came into the open last year when Vietnam began to send 180,000 ethnic Chinese residents of Vietnam back to China . It intensified when Hanoi and Moscow signed a friendship pact last November and Vietnam invaded Cambodia in December , toppling the regime of Prime Minister Pol Pot , China 's ally . Message Sent to Waldheim The only indication of how far the Chinese forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister , Nguyen Duy Trinh , to Secretary General Kurt Waldheim of the United Nations , that said Chinese troops had moved more than six miles into Vietnam in the area of the railroad . But Vietnam 's army newspaper , Quan Doi Nhan Dan , said yesterday , according to the Vietnam News Agency : " The corpses of enemy troops and wreckage of military vehicles are littering roads , fields and hills in Vietnam 's northern border areas . The armed forces and people in the border provinces in the name of the entire nation are checking the enemy 's advance . " Later in the day , the Hanoi radio areported that 60 Chinese tanks had been destroyed or set afire in fighting on the various fronts . The Chinese offensive appears to have caught Hanoi by surprise . On Saturday much of Vietnam 's top leadership was in Phnom Penh , the Cambodian capital , including Prime Minister Pham Van Dong , the army chief of staff , Gen. Van Tien Dung , Foreign Minister Trinh , who is also a Deputy Prime Minister , and Deputy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Return Today they signed a " treaty of peace , friendship and cooperation " with the new Government of President Heng Samrin , which the Vietnamese installed after their swift takeover of muchof Cambodia last month . The pact , by giving Vietnam the right to station troops in Cambodia , obviates the need to maintain Hanoi 's fiction that all the fighting was done by Cambodian troops opposed to Mr. Poi Pot 's extremist policies . The treaty says that the two countries will " assist each other in all necessary forms in order to stengthen the capacity to defend the independence , sovereignty , unity , territorial integrity and peaceful labor of the people in each other against all schemes and acts of sabotage by the imperialists and international reactionary forces . " International reactionaries is Vietnam 's term for China . In a dispatch released yesterday afternoon , the Vietnam News Agency said the high-level Vietnamese delegation had spent Saturday in talks with the new Cambodian leadership and then inspecting a Cambodian military unit , laying a wreath at the independence monument in Phnom Penh and visiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vietnamese leaders had shown any concern that Chinese forces were crossing their border at the time . Some diplomats said that the Vietnamese may have underestimated Peking , assuming that the Chinese were not prepared to fight because of the advanced age of many of China 's leaders , its army 's outdated armament and its lack of professional training since the Cultural Revolution of the late 1960 's . New Role for Sihanouk Suggested There was also some speculation among diplomats that China 's attack could be connected to an effort by Peking to seek some sort of negotiated settlement in Cambodia . China is no longer insisting on supporting the fallen Pol Pot regime , these sources said , and would be interested in a broad united-front government that was not a puppet of Hanoi , perhaps headed by Prince Norodom Sihanouk . Prince Sihanouk , who was long the Cambodian chief of state , returned last week to Peking , where he was accorded a hero 's welcome after speaking on Cambodia 's behalf at the United Nations . He had been released from three years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnamese troops were about to enter Phnom Penh last month . If the fighting between China and Vietnam continues for any length of time , it will prove costly to both sides . It could seriously damage Peking 's ambitious economic modernization plans , draining off scarce resources and frightening foreign businessmen whom China has been courting . For the Vietnamese , it means a further blow to an already shattered economy , which is suffering from a major food shortage , mismanagement and the effect of the continued war in Cambodia , where 150,000 Vietnamese troops are believed to be engaged . Vietnam has long been dependent on China for its international postal , telegraph and telephone services , as well as for transshipment of major supplies . But now the rail link between the two countries has been cut , and so too apparently has telephone service . A caller in Hong Kong who tried to reach a diplomat in Hanoi today was told by the operator in Peking ? through which the call must be routed ? that the line was out of order .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        