@@730448

txt A special Hudson County grand jury toddy indicted 11 persons , includinf the former county Democratic chairman , on charges of converting more than 100 acres of county parkland into a landfill operation that netted them better than $250,000 between 1967 and 1970 . Named as a co-conspirator in the scheme and a recipient of the proceeds , but not indicted , was the former Democratic political leader , John V. Kenny , who was sentenced earlier this year to the Federal prison hospital in Spring-I field , Mo. , for income-tax eva . sion . The former county chairman indicted today is John J. Kenny , who is no relation to the ' elder Kenny but once was his chief political lieutenant , John J. Kenny , a former Freeholder , was the star witness in the Federal extortion case against former Mayor Thomas J. Whelan and seven other city and county officials . Also indicted today were four . present and former members of the County Park Commission : James M. Keady , senior vice president of the Trust Company of New Jersey ; Peter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program ; William A. Keegan , a trucking company executive , and . Sam Levis , an inspector for the A &; P supermarket chain . The other defendants include Leo N. Knoblauch , an assistant county counsel attached to the now defunct County Mosquito Extermination Commission ; Charles A. Strong , a Butler realty and insurance agent and , a brother of the late Hugh Strong , ' a former New Jersey State Racing Commissioner ; John Marsilio , a South Nyack , N. Y. , contractor ; Anthony LeDonne , a former employe of the Mosquito Extermination Commission ; Joseph R. Ruffo Jr . of Spotswood , an employe of the corporation set up to operate the landfill operation , and his wife , Mrs. Judith Ruffo , Assistant County Prosecutor Martin E. Robins said the in- dictments were a result of a 10-month grand jury investigation into the operation of the Duncan Land Reclamation Corporation . The company converted 103 acres of Lincoln Park  --  bounded by Duncan Avenue , Route 440 , Communipaw Avenue and the Hackensack River  --  into a private landfill . Prosecutor Geoffrey Gaulkin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law-enforcement officials more than two years ago , when the State Health Department moved to close it for violating the State Sanitary Code and airpollution regulations . The department 's attorney , Theodore Schwartz , was unable to gain the cooperation of either the Park or Mosquito Extermination Commissions , since both groups contended that title to the property was being transferred to the County Recreation Commission for inclusion in a proposed golf course , Mr. Schwartz turned over information he had gathered to the Criminal Investigation Division and the Attorney General 's office . Later , the State Commission of Investigation examined the operation of the Mosquito Extermination Commission and both state agencies gave Mr. Gaulkin 's office material on the landfill . Mr. Robins said the defendants had first told investigators the land was being filled in to eliminate mosquito-breeding areas and later said it was being improved for the golf course . Neither purpose was authorized , the Prosecutor charged . Mr. Robins said that Mr. Marsilio and the late John R. Ruffo Sr. , another co-conspirator , had contacts in the salvage and contracting business and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solid wastes , Last year a previous county grand jury handed up an 81-count indictment against C. Harry Callari , chairman of the Mosquito Extermination Commission , for misuse of county funds . He pleaded guilty to taking $150,000 in county funds unlawfully and was sentenced fast June 16 to two to four years in state prison and fined $2,000 . At the time of Callari 's sentencing the Prosecutor 's office recommended leniency because of his cooperation with the jury that handed up the indictments Associated Press John J. Kenny today . Callari was named a coconspirator , as was John F. Lewis , the 86-year-old former acting secretary of the Park Commission . All the defendants were charged with conspiracy and the unlawful obtaining of county property , while some were also accused of neglect of duty , misconduct in office and false swearing . If convicted for unlawful obtaining , each defendant could receive a maximum sentence of seven years in prison and a $2,000 fine . Each of the four other counts carries a maximum three-year sentence and a $1,000 fine . Mr. Gaulkin said the special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work Sept. 28 . In another case involving public corruption today , Robert Smith , a personnel official in a Federally financed Jersey City employment program , pleaded guilty in Hudson County Court to charges of forgery and embezzlement . Smith , who once served as an aide to former Mayor Whelan , admitted he had forged the names of persons who had quit the employment program or who had applied but never worked , to two payroll checks totaling $349 last May . Lawrence Bronson , an assistant Hudson County prosecutor , said the total misappropriated since the program started last November exceeded $30,000.                     