@@734351

txt Vice President Mondale and Deputy Prime Minister Deng Xiaoping called tonight for a steady strengthening of ties between the United States and China to promote international stability in the next decade . At a welcoming banquet for the Vice President in the Great Hall of the People , Mr. Deng , warning that " the danger of war is still growing , " urged that both nations oppose " hegemonism . " Hegemonism is China 's word for an expansionist policy that it ascribes to Moscow . Mr. Mondale declared that the United States also opposed " efforts by any country to dominate another " and that the United States and China could cooperate more , despite differences , to bolster stability . " We believe that the Sino-American relationship can emerge in the 1980 's as one of the major bulwarks of peace and justice in the world , " Mr. Mondale said in his toast . " To achieve that goal , I wish to join you in widening our consultations on world affairs and , where possible , achieve a common purpose through our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter Administration aides traveling with the Vice President said tonight that when substantive talks between the two leaders start tomorrow , Mr. Mondale will give strong assurances to Mr. Deng that the Chinese-American trade agreement concluded in July will be submitted for Congressional approval this fall " without relation to a similar agreement pending with the Soviet Union . " The sources said that Mr. Mondale had personally received assurances from the Senate majority leader , Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia , that the agreement would move forward when Congress reconvened . The accord provides for cuts in tariffs on Chinese exports to the United States and allows Export-Import Bank credits for Chinese purchases . The Administration officials also disclosed that on Tuesday Mr. Mondale and Chinese officials would sign an expanded cultural agreement between the two countries covering exchanges of art shows , film exhibits , books , dance troupes , language experts and sports teams during the next two years . An official described the cultural agreement and other such agreements expected during the Vice President 's weeklong visit as " putting some muscle on the skeleton of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic relations in January . As dignitaries filed into the Great Hall for the banquet , several hundred Chinese gathered at the nearby " democracy wall " at dusk to listen to a speech about political persecution in China . Sunday is a usual time for soapbox speakers at the wall , which is lined with posters telling of grievances . A speaker at the rally called for a release of political prisoners . Moved ' by China 's Potential In his toast , Mr. Mondale said he had explored Peking streets briefly this afternoon and was " moved " by what he saw as an enormous potential for China 's future . The Vice President 's brief exploration of Peking consisted of a 20-minute afternoon walk down Chien Man Street , a shopping area just south of Tian An Men Square and behind the Zheng Yang Gate and the Mao Zedong Mausoleum . Mr. Mondale arrived there shortly after 2 P.M. Hundreds of Chinese , many of whom said they did not know who Mr. Mondale was , gathered around the Vice President to watch American television camera crews filming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of protocol , and J. Stapleton Roy , deputy chief of the United States Embassy , Mr. Mondale entered the Peking Silk and Embroidery Store , looked over bolts of silk cloth and then left without buying anything . Outside , he stopped to shake hands and say hello to Wang Side , an 82-year-old pensioner who wore a hat of straw and sported a wispy gray beard in the style of the late Ho Chi Minh . Asked if he knew who the man was who shook his hand , Mr. Wang said he did not . China to Televise Speech PEKING , Aug. 26 ( UPI ) ? American officials announced today that China has decided to broadcast a speech by Vice President Mondale to students and faculty at Peking University tomorrow on nationwide television . The first minute of the speech will be in English and the remainder dubbed in Chinese .                     