@@730015

txt President Nixon today pledged that the government would help the airlines crush the rash of airport bombings and extortions by " mobilizing all appropriate security forces and resources of the federal government . " In a statement issued by the White House , Nixon said he has directed John Volpe , transportation secretary , to call together the nation 's airlines presidents or high executives here at 10 a. m. tomorrow to learn and discuss the federal measures which will then be put into effect immediately . Regulations Are Listed These regulations , originally not scheduled to be put into effect for 90 days , order the airlines to : O Prevent or deter carriage ) f weapons or explosives aboard their aircraft . 0 Prevent or deter unauthorized access to their aircraft . O Tighten baggage checking procedures . O Improve the security of cargo and baggage loading operations . In releasing the President 's statement , Gen. Benjamin Davis , assistant transporation secretary for safety and consumer affairs , also announced that the Federal Aviation Administration has recommended that Trans World Airlines not pay Threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ransom the extortionists have demanded . Standing Federal Advice It was pointed out that this is standing federal advice and it was indicated T. W. A. has agreed not to give in to the demands . The President in his message asserted that federal assistance to the airline has " rendered the plot a failure ; no lives have been lost ; the brazen ransom demands have been resisted . " Davis called the bombings and extortions " a new threat " unlike the hijackings to Cuba and other places that have plagued the nation 's airlines in recent years . He pointed out that there have been eight attempts at air piracy so far this year but only in two of these has it been demanded that the ; plane be diverted to Cuba . " It 's a brand new threat and we must take new action to combat it , " he added . Davis said he believes the measures will be effective and that the President 's announcement was not made because of pressure from the airlines to do something . ? Three times in the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been averted . A bomb was found aboard a TWA passenger aircraft at New York 's Kennedy airport Tuesday . It was defused 12 minutes before it was due to explode . Early yesterday morning , a bomb shattered another TWA jetliner on the ground at Las Vegas , Nev . Davis said the steps to combat more eyents such as this will combine stiffer observation and checking of all individuals boarding aircraft , including all crew and maintenance personnel . Halt Air Terror , President Orders Baggage screening also is to he stepped up but details of the security measures were not divulged because Davis said public disclosure might compromise the i r effectiveness . But , he said , it does not mean every hag brought on board by passengers will be opened and checked . Davis added that as things now stand , cost of new equipment and personnel needed to implement the measures will fall totally on the airlines .                     