@@732642

txt New York City 's 16 municipal hospitals made preparations yesterday to stay open to offer at least emergency services in expectation of a strike by 18 , - 000 nonmedical workers set for tomorrow morning . Contingency plans already drawn up call for the concentrating on emergency cases by shutting down outpatient clinics and canceling elective surgery if necessary . Jack Koretsky , executive vice president of the city 's Health and Hospitals Corporation , told directors of all municipal hospitals yesterday afternoon to put these plans into effect immediately . Dr. Lowell E. Bellin , the city 's Health Commissioner , signed an order that would automatically put a health emergency situation into effect if the strike took place . Emergency status would allow delivery trucks and garbage-collection trucks to move through any picket lines . Dr. Bellin said he had received assurances from private nonprofit hospitals , which went through their own 11-day strike just last month , that they would // take over as many of the municipal patients as they could . There had been some concern about whether ambulances would be available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drivers are members of the striking union  --  Local 420 of the Hospital Employees Union , which is a part of District Council 37 , American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees . But a spokesman for the union , Edward Handman , said yesterday afternoon that the ambulance drivers would be allowed to work transferring patients at least on the first day of the strike . " We may not have to transfer any of our patients , " Mr. Koretsky said , " because we hope to have cut our patient load to about 50 percent of capacity by the time the strike begins through limiting elective admissions and accelerating discharges . " A statement from Mayor Beanie 's office last night said that " Police Department , municipal hospital managerial personnel and the voluntary hospitals will work closely together , to maintain ambulance service " and " police cars and com . community ambulances will be used to facilitate emergency cases . " 911 for an Ambulance The Mayor 's office advised callers to dial the usual 911 emergency phone number for an ambulance during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be directed to the Mayor 's Emergency Operating Center at 267-9800 , the statement said . Dr. Bellin said that if there had to be a strike this was the easiest time , because hospital occupancy normally is down in the summer . " It 's easier now when you do n't have the winter flu epidemics and upper-respiratory cases crowding the wards , " Dr. Bellin said . Although many private nonprofit ( voluntary ) hospitals were reported operating at near capacity taking care of a backlog of patients from their own recent strike , there were expressions of confidence that bed patients from the municipals could be handled . " I think the voluntaries could pick up a good deal of the slack as far as bed patients are concerned , " said Dr. Martin Cherkasky , the president of the 1,232-bed Montefiore Hospital , one of the largest private nonprofit hospitals in the city . But he said he was concerned about emergency-room services because 90 percent of those services in the city are provided in the municipal hospitals . " I think the real problem will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both Sides Resisting Neither the city nor the union has shown any indication of modifying its position in the dispute . The city insists that layoffs have to be made because of the budget crisis and the union says it will strike if there are any additional dismissals . The strike threat was touched off last Friday when a task force headed by Martin Horwitz recommended that 1,350 more employees be laid off770 fewer than had been planned by municipal hospital officials to meet the fiscal crisis . But the union , which had already accepted an earlier dismissal of 842 employees , said it would accept no additional layoffs . The strike would be illegal under the state 's Taylor Law , which prohibits strikes by public workers , and notices were being sent to the municipal hospital employees warning that they would be subject to penalties including fines of two days ' pay for every day they were on strike . Both sides saw little chance of averting a walkout . " The city 's prepared to take the strike , " a top city official said . Beame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ill-considered threat of an illegal strike " and accept the Horwitz panel recommendations , which he called " reasonable , realistic and as equitable as possible under these difficult circumstances . " Told of the Mayor 's statement , Lillian Roberts , associate director of District Council 37 , said , " They 're just a bunch of baboons playing games with people 's lives . There 's war in our hospitals and we 're not going to be peaceful picketers . " Originally Mrs. Roberts said a strike against only a few hospitals had been planned , but the strike now will be against all the municipal hospitals . " Our members insisted on a general strike , " she said . " There 's no holding them back . "                     