@@734135

txt Federal nuclear safety officials said today that the hazards connected with cooling the crippled Three Mile Island nuclear reactor were abating but that radiation levels in its containment vessel were " very high , " giving the Federal authorities continued concern for public health . Harold R. Denton , operations chief of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , said at a news conference that the size of the gas bubble that has insulated the overheated reactor core from coolant water had all but disappeared in the last 24 hours . " There has been a dramatic decrease in bubble size , " he said at the Middletown Borough Hall , adding that only about 50 cubic feet of gas remained , down from 1,000 cubic feet last week . The bubble was reduced by dissolving the gas in the coolant water . Radiation in Area Falls ' Amid optimism that the problems at the power plant were nearing an end , Civil Defense units and other agencies remained on alert to protect lives and property should there be a sudden turnabout in the delicate operations to cool the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from the plant 's immediate vicinity remained in effect . But the low levels of radiation monitored nearby , except in an area northeast of the plant , continued to fall . In Washington , nuclear commission officials issued a bulletin to the operators of eight nuclear plants in five states built by the Babcock &; Wilcox Company , which constructed the plant here . It told them to monitor safety equipment and be pre . pared to modify it on the basis of experience with the accident here . Many Miss Work And in Harrisburg , 11 miles northwest of here , Gov . Dick Thornburgh said he be . lieved that the hundreds of thousands of people who lived near the reactor could be persuaded to believe , as he did , " that there is no imminent threat . " However , he said that " as long as there is any conceivable risk , " he would hold ready the resources necessary for an evacuation . Civil Defense officials in the area found , in a community-by-community survey , that as many as 100,000 people stayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nursing homes , and schools and some factories were closed . In assessing other developments here , Mr. Denton , President Carter 's chief troubleshooter in the crisis , said the uranium oxide elements in the reactor core were " being adequately cooled . " He indicated that a complete cooldown was still days away , but declined to give a precise estimate . Allied problems , such as the division of water in the containment vessel into oxygen and hydrogen gas , also appeared Disturbing uncertainties remain concerning design of reactor , page CI under control . But other difficulties , such as the failure of monitoring sensors because of radiation bombardment , were cropping up . High Radiation in Vessel The bombardment stemmed from what Mr. Denton termed the " very high " radiation level inside the containment vessel-30,000 rems an hour , 50 times the dose lethal to humans . A level of 10 is considered sufficient to cause biological harm . By contrast , he added , the radiation levels on the outside of the large steeland-concrete containment vessel were on the order of 1 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level inside . Dealing with the massive amount of radioactive debris inside the containment vessel " is going to be a long-term problem " that could require months of effort , he added . The exact amount of radiation received by anyone , aside from the 100 or so persons in the plant at the time of Wednesday 's accident , is not known , but Mr. Denton indicated that the maximum amount was probably about 100 millirems , near the level of a whole-body X-ray . Ventings of radioactive gases such as xenon and krypton , plus steam-borne radioactive solids like iodine 131 , resulted in the wafting of radioactive material by winds to the northeast of the plant . Higher Readings to Northeast One dosimeter five miles to the northeast has registered 1.1 millirems an hour , while readings in other quadrants were markedly less . Even these small levels , however , led Civil Defense and public health officials to continue warning that pregnant women and small children , who would be most at risk from any level of radiation , stay away . Most people in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returning to their homes today , except in the hamlets of Royalton and Goldsboro ? so close to the plant that the view is dominated by the four huge cooling towers . Meanwhile , Mr. Denton 's deputy , Roger Mattson , indicated that new elements of the accident might be uncovered in the continuing Federal investigation . During the news conference , Mr. Mattson raised the possibility of negligence on the part of the plant operators , employees of the Metropolitan Edison Company . In relating the series of events that have been sorted out so far , he indicated ? without specifically stating ? that someone had turned off the emergency core cooling system that automatically injects huge amounts of water into the core in the event of a mishap . Officials of the utility have steadfastly maintained that a series of mechanical failures caused the accident , although they have said they have not totally ruled out human error .                     