@@730011

txt Six top city and county officials who hold stock in banks in which public funds have been deposited may face prosecution for conflict of interest , J. Terrence Brunner , executive director of the Better Government Association . said yesterday . He identified them as George W. ) unne , County Board president ; Floyd T. ulle and Charles Bonk , Cook County Commissioners ; and Aldermen Thomas Ceane 31st1 , Edwin Fifielski 45th and Jack I. Sperling 50th . The City Council and the County 3oard have the duty of designating panics in which city and county funds may be deposited . Sees Possible Violations Brunner said that in making Riess designations the officials may be in violation of the state 's conflict of interest statute , Chapter 102 , Paragraphs 1-3 of the Illinois Revised Statutes . The conflict of interest statute reads in part : " No person holding any office , either by election or appointment . . . may he in any manner interested , either directly or indirectly , in his own name or in the name of any other person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . in the making or letting of which such officer may be called upon to act or vote . " Both William J. Scott , Illinois attorney general , and his predecessor , Wil liam G. Clark , have issued opinions that the statute forbids public officials who have interest in banks from designating those banks as depositories fol. public funds . Conduct Probe Acting on information supplied by the B. G. A. and by the Illinois attorney general 's office , officials in the office of State 's Atty . Edward V. Hanrahan are conducting their own investigation and considering prosecution of the six . " If the information and evidence we develop warrants it , we will take legal action to void any such contracts , " Hanrahan said in a statement released yesterday . By contracts he referred to the contractual arrangement between the banks and the City Council or the County Board . Hanrahan also made public yesterday a copy of the letter he sent Friday to Matthew Danaher , clerk of Circuit Court ; Bernard J. Korzen , county treasurer ; and Sidney R. Olsen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some officials have been lax in placing public money in bank accounts that do not pay interest . Funds Lack Interest It had been revealed by the 13 . G. A. early last week that $17.3 million of funds from Danaher 's office are deposited in 21 banks in accounts drawing no interest . The B. G. A. also charged that $13 million from Korzer 's office was deposited in 11 banks in accounts not drawing interest . According to Brunner , interest totaling nearly $1 million could be earned for taxpayers if all these funds were // Mrs. Dita Beard Conflict of Interest Hinted in 6 Officials ' Bank Ties Kontinued from first page ) invested in interest-bearing accounts at the prevailing rates . In his letter , flanrahan asked the officials for a detailed accounting of how the funds under their control are invested . Charge Stock Ownership It was also charged yesterday by the B. G. A. that former City Treasurer Marshall Korshak held stock in at least one bank which received city funds during his term in office . Brunner charged that Korshak held stock in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when he served as city treasurer from 1967 to 1971 . Korshak is now city collector . The association also spelled out the following associations of the six city and county officials named by Brunner : Bank Holds Funds Dunne is a shareholder of Oak Trust and Savings Bank , Amalgamated Trust and Savings Bank , and Metropolitan Bank and Trust Company , and a director of Amalgamated . All three banks have public funds . Fulle is a shareholder and director of the Parkway Trust and Savings Bank . It has interest-free county funds . Bonk is a shareholder and director of Metropolitan . Metropolitan has interestfree Circuit Court deposits and city funds . Fifielski is chairman and a shareholder of Jefferson State Bank , which has interest-free county funds and city deposits . Keane is also a shareholder in Jefferson State Bank . Sperling is a shareholder in Devon Bank , which has city deposits and interest-free county deposits .                     