@@730960

txt The United Auto Workers struck the Chrysler Corp . late , tonight after failing to reach agreement on a new contract for 127,500 auto workers in the United States and Canada . tsotn tee company and the union said their top negotiators would resume bargaining at 11 a. m. tomorrow Detroit time in an effort to reach a quick settlement . " We literally ran out of time , " UAW President Leonard Woodcock said , after a final , all-day bargaining session . The strike was announced by Woodcock less than one hour before the expiration of the present three-year contract at 11:59 p. m . Detroit time . It capped three months of bargaining between the nation 's second-largest union and thirdlargest auto company , and shattered two years of U. S. labor peace . WOODCOCK said there were " significant matters of difference on health and safety issues , voluntary overtime and a broad range of other issues . " Voluntary overtime , reportedly a key stumbling block in negotiations , involves a worker 's right to refuse overtime work . The UAW president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job because , among other things , " they have to get out the payroll . " The salaried workers are represented by the union . While Woodcock said he could - not estimate how long the crippling : auto strike could continue , he said bargainers would return to the negotiating suite at Chrysler world headquarters Saturday " to drive as hard as we can to reach agreement . " EVEN BEFORE the strike was announced , Chrysler workers at several Detroit area plans began leaving their jobs as " strike fever " spread along the assembly lines . The optimism that had surrounded the talks for days lessened in the final hours as negotiations continued under a complete news blackout . At ' the announcement of the strike , the union 's negotiating team marched from the bargaining suite to the company newsroom behind Woodcock and UAW Vice President Douglas A. Fraser , the head of the union 's Chrysler department . The negotiators sang loudly , " Solidarity Forever , " the UAW theme song . THE STRIKE against Chrysler marked the third time in the last three auto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against one of the " Big 3 " automakers . ' In 1967 , Ford was closed for ' 66 days and General - Motors was shut for 67 days in 1970 . The* last time Chrysler was closed by a national UAW strike was in 1950 . It lasted 104 days . SINCE CHRYSLER was the strike target of the UAW , General Motors and Ford will be allowed to build new cars . They wo n't be asked to settle a new contract with the union until the Chrysler strike is settled . The key issue that Woodcock said stood in the way of settlement was the union 's demand for voluntary overtime . The UAW has insisted that workers be given the right to say whether they will or will not work more than 4D hours per week , but the automakers say they would not be able to plan production adequately if they could not schedule overtime as they wished . EVEN BEFORE contract talks began with the automakers July 16 , both sides agreed the overtime issue could put ' them on a " collision course " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford , much larger than Chrysler , were calling the shots on that issue , but Woodcock said , " We have no reason M believe there 's been any intervention by Gent eral Motors or Ford . " " Simply , we just ran out of time , " Woodcock said . " It suddenly was Sept. 14 and we were a long way from home . "                     