@@733873

txt Letters ARTHUR C. HOLDENHELOISE RATHBONENORBERT V. WOODSANN GORMAN CHICOSYLVIA SIEGEI ... pg . A22 Letters Of Inflation , Interest and Our Mortgage Debt To the Editor : During the long period when The Times went unpublished , it seemed that the character of public opinion suffered a decline . Perhaps we have not adequately recognized how this whole nation depends upon the . intellectual stimulus that is furnished by New York 's leading newspaper . The weakness of the thinking that has been bandied about while The Times was muzzled is typified by the growing confusion and apparent helplessness respecting inflation . We have n't been able to understand inflation because it is a very complicated matter . We have made the mistake of trying to apply slogans like " belt tightening " before understanding the complications that have caused the chaos from which we are suffering . Back in 1953 the New York Clearing House performed a very valuable service by publishing a remarkable pamphlet called " The Federal Reserve Re-examined . " Something as comprehensive should be done today . At that time our monetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selective credit controls . It was pointed out that simple overall rules were dangerous and that intelligence and discretion were prime essentials in the profession of banking . Differing productive processes are affected very differently by changes in the interest rate as well as bythe rate of amortization . The mechanisms upon which the Federal Reserve appears to have relied are a uniform raising of the interest rate and the use of overall open market operations to maintain what is regarded as a desirable and uniform growth curve . The current policy ignores the varying characteristics of industries as different as agriculture , the production of automobiles and our many varied types of manufacture and construction , to say nothing of the various rates and degrees of consumption in each . The public has been misled to believe that mere austerity or the tendency not to use or spend money can help to correct the imbalances that have been driving up all prices . By over-saving we merely move the use of money into other fields . A uniform high rate of interest drives money into fields that bring the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ productive exchange . There is a particular danger in high interest rates for mortgages , upon which the great construction industries are dependent . Real estate ca n't earn , by the shelter it furnishes , enough to pay both high interest and taxes and still pay amortization . As a result our mortgage debt has been growing beyond all reason . It now stands at one trillion dollars , far greater than the debt of our Federal Government and over three times the debt of our states and cities , about which the public has become alarmed . The demands of high interest rates and high taxes has been forcing up the prices of real estate beyond its existing earning power . This is forcing a continuous rise in the prices not only for real estate but for all prices . An outdated income tax policy that exempts interest alone as an expense deductible before taxes tends to delay amortization . So the public is forced to resort to refinancing at still higher interest rates but with " paper " profits created by additional borrowing , and , as this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being misled into oversaving just to enjoy high interest earnings . Should the total annual cost of interest paid for the use of money be allowed to swell to a point where it exceeds the annual growth increment of the gross national product , it should be self-evident that we may be in for real trouble and may experience dislocations far greater than those experienced in the present inflationary spiral . This spiral is temporarily . beyond our control because too many of us still fancy that to save and enjoy high interest rates is a better " way to get on " than to produce and exchange services on an equitable basis . ARTHUR C. HOLDEN Washington , Conn. , Nov. 7,1978 The writer is a consulting architect . Olympic Village Prison : ' This Terrible Waste ' // D. E. Abraham Koch and the Bottles To the Editor : Your long article on New York City 's difficulties with garbage and litter discusses only one side of the problem : what to do with it after it is produced . When will Mayor Koch start dealing with the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Council voted for returnable bottles and Mayor Koch vetoed it saying that it was uneconomic . Yet other communities find that a returnable bottle bill brings an increase in the total number of jobs and a decrease in garbage costs . And how can we put a value on the increase in civic pride that would come with a cleaner city ? When all polls show that a majority of people favor returnable bottles , how can Mayor Koch justify his veto ? H FI ( MCP RATHRONF Brooklyn , Nov. 7,1978 Clean City To the Editor : With the enactment of our " pooperscooper " law , New York has become a better city to live in . Imagine a proud Mayor Koch boasting to the Mayor of Paris on his recent visit about the city with no dog feces on its streets . The police have for the most part been effective in enforcing the law . However , they must be encouraged to prevent a relaxation of the rules . Pet owners can be very resourceful , and many will no dolibt break the rules if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spared the experience of stepping into dog turd . It still is a peril , especially if you expect the streets to be free of this dangerous nuisance . It 's up to all New Yorkers to make the city safer and cleaner . SVI VIA Crrr:pr Brooklyn , Nov. 9,1978 To the Editor : It has been rumored that New York City is a free-thinking town . Whatever the quirks of nature , personality defects or simple hangups , they are accepted ? unless one is homosexual . For whatever reasons , city lawmakers have decided that a large segment of our population should be denied what the rest of us have as a matter of right  --  the protection of the law . The City Council failed to notice that these people are generally well-educated , gainfully employed and becoming more and more of a presence both numerically and financially . Many homosexual men and women are artists and designers . They command respectable salaries and occupy positions of influence . In a city where prostitution , peep shows , pornographic movies and massage parlors are common , why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same gender enjoy their sexual preferences in private ? The so-called lack of " normal " sex relations riles straight men and women so much that homosexuals may be denied jobs and apartments . I 'm sure the arguments against ' equating the rights of homosexuals with the righs of straights would sound like something from a Sunday sermon : homosexuality is sinful and goes against the grain of the church . Whatever happened to separation of church and state ? Most sexual prohibitions stem from church dogma . Since when does government have the right and financial , is overwhelming ? and . it will go on and on . It is expedient to make the Olympic Village into a prison but completely foolhardy and something that our country may never be able to justify or overcome . It is against all experience and knowledge gained over hundreds of years . It is the absolutely wrong way to deal with those who are caught up in our criminal justice system . How much better it would be to make the Olympic Village into a Federal college to study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than burden them with a degrading , costly failure , and we know it will be that . We should all protest this terrible waste to our representatives inWash , ington . NORBERT V. WOODS Schenectady , N.Y. , Nov. 7,1978 to dictate sexual behavior ? The whole concept of this coupling of church and state is unconstitutional and should be abandoned immediately . ANN GORMAN CHICO New York , Nov. 9,1978 Strike Lesson To the Editor : If there is one lesson to be learned from the 88-day newspaper strike , it is that the public 's right to know is subordinate to the press 's right to profits , as The Times " unashamedly " admits in its first editorial upon resumption of publication ( Nov. 6 ) . The Times may indeed have been " tormented by the inability to report and comment on the news .... " But those of us who rely on The Times for news not readily obtainable elsewhere suffered an even greater loss : the free flow of information , on which democracy is based . The press often depicts itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But like any other business , when the self-interest of the publishing industry so requires , then the public be damned . To protect the public interest against further prolonged shutdowns , perhaps legislation is required to keep the presses rolling while issues in dispute are submitted to binding arbitration STEVEN R. NELSON Boston , Nov. 7 , 1978 To the Editor : It is unbelievable but true that the Federal Government is building another mammoth prison , in the Adirondacks about 300 miles north of our state 's metropolitan area , where many of its future prisoners are living . I know of no criminologists who favor this plan , which will be a monumental burden on taxpayers forever . The so-called " olympic prison " will cost well over $50 million to open and many millions more over the years in operational costs . Prisoners will have to be escorted under armed guard hundreds of miles , and families , friends and prospective employers of the prisoners will find it next to impossible to visit . The new " Siberia of the north " may furnish a few jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of human suffering , mental , emotional Sexual Preferences and the Law If Homes in New York City Were Assessed at Full Value To the Editor : I have just learned that Mayor Koch has issued a directive that all property in the City of New York be assessed at full value . Owing to the . newspaper strike , this important piece of news was not given wide circulation . If this directive is carried out , the owners of one-and two-family homes will be in serious straits . This directive follows the New York State Court of Appeals decision in 1975 requiring reassessment of all property at full value . In 1977 the Governor signed a bill to cushion the effect of the court decision on Nassau and Suffolk Counties until 1981 . I have heard of no such bill or decision that will help the homeowners of the City of New York . In the Nov. 7 New York Times there was brief mention of a proposed Massachusetts law that homeowners be assessed on a different basis than commercial properties . I have not seen a copy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 , 1977 , quoting figures of the New York State Board of Equalization and Assessment , said that the average home in Nassau County is assessed at 17 percent of full value . 1 do not have the recent figures on New York City , but I know they are very low . Substantial increases in assessment valuations would be a tremendous hardship to homeowners of our city . I would like to suggest that constitutional changes be made , starting with a special session of the Legislature , to follow the Massachusetts plan , or that a plan I submitted to some legislators in 1977 , and which received favorable comment but no action , be put into effect . That plan is as follows : Assessed valuations of one-and twofamily owner-occupied homes would be stabilized as of this year and assessed valuations changed only when there is a change of ownership . The increase would be a percentage ( I suggest 25 percent ) of the rate of inflation since the last change of assessed value . **25;941;TOOLONG owners have the opportunity to and do increase the incomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income into consideration . The homeowner has no income from his or her property ; therefore the assessment valuation should remain constant . The homeowner will then know what the taxes on his or her home are as long as the home is so occupied . This would be in line with other payments which remain constant , such as mortgage payments . J ENK IN R. HOCK ERT Jamaica , N.Y. , Nov. 7,1978                     