@@732352

txt Letters to the Editor MICHAEL R. LONG CHARLES MONAGHANWRIGHT PATMANDAVID L. BECKERHOMER A. JACKROY Letters to the Editor Election Funds : Our ' More Equal ' Parties To the Editor : The Founding Fathers never mentioned political parties in the C , . ? nstitution . But in the recent decision upholding the public financing of major party  --  but not third-party or independent  --  candidates in Presidential elections , the Supreme Court virtually made the Democratic and Republican Parties established organs of the Government . This was a grave disservice to the people . The Court justified part of its decision on the basis that politics is free speech . True enough . But the point of free speech is that it 's for every citizen , not just members of Government-sanctioned privileged castes Federal financing of election races establishes a situation like that parodied in George Orwell 's " Animal Farm " ? everyone is equal , but some are more equal than others . " Third parties , " the Court says In its opinion , " have been completely incapable of matching the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Not only does this crass assertion ignore the fact that third parties and independents are grossly discnminated against in many state laws , but the Court does not seem to realize that it is acting prejudicially against large numbers of citizens . The most notable recent third-party candidacy  --  that of George Wallace in 1968 ? received 9,897,141 votes . In half of the Presidential elections since 1912 , thirdparty candidacies or independent electors have received more than a million votes . The Court 's decision also tends to deepen a serious problem in our nation Some 40 percent of our eligible citizens do not bother to vote at all . Part of the reason for this is surely that the Democratic and Republican Parties have failed to raise or What Should Banks Tell To the Editor : Your Jan. 27 editorial " Banking Secrecy " is a welcome and significant addition to the growing call for more disclosure by banks and bank regulators . As an amendment to a 1974 banking law , we did succeed in requiring the banking agencies to revise their securities regulations to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission This includes registration statements , annual and other reports , solicitation of proxies , tender offers , insider reporting and disclosure forms . Regulations to implement this law were promulgated in final form only this past fall . We are hopeful that this conformance with S.E.C. requirements will give the investing public significant additional information . However , much more Is needed on disclosure as it relates to the financial community . Not only does the investor need better information but also the consumer , the Congress and the bank Moynihan : Manner To the Editor : In its Feb. 3 editorial concerning the resignation of Daniel P. Moynihan from his post as Ambassador to the United Nations , The Times asserted that Mr. Moynihan 's " style and manner " of presenting his views were calculated to outrage , rather than to persuade . Is there a manner of revealing the oppressiveness of a feudalistic Arab state which will please its delegates ' ) Is there a manner of condemning the hypocrisy of a state that , while mercilessly persecuting its own minorities , condemn : Zionism as racist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their government to stop the persecution and end the hypocrisy ? I think not . The Times made the error of attributing Mr Moynihan 's unpopularity to his manner of presentation It was not the niaaac. cull aged , boy - ever , but the content . Mr Moynihan outraged just as anyone will outrage who points out the truth to those who wish to conceal and ignore it . His lack of popularity in the United Nations was solely a consequence of a deep-rooted sense of morality , and a need to condemn repression and hypocrisy . There are few men of Mr. Moynihan 's caliber , and one may guess that , The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we ate unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters MarkPotwM publicize issues that matter to these citizens . The Court 's decision will only tend to worsen this sad situation . It is some small comfort to note that one Justice , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history and meaning of the Republic . Congress in the public financing law , Justice Rehnquist wrote , " has enshrined the Republican and Democratic Parties in a permanently preferred position and has established requirements for funding minor party and independent candidates to which the two major parties are not subject ... I find it impossible to subscribe to the Court 's reasoning that because no third party had posed a credible threat to the two major parties in the Presidential elections . since 1860 , Congress may by law attempt to assure that this pattern will endure forever . " MICHAEL R. LONG CHARLES MONAGHAN Brooklyn , Feb. 4 , 1976 The writers are , respectively , chairman of the Conservative Party and a Democratic former district leader in Kings County . regulatory agencies . Any new disclosure efforts should keep in mind the needs of all of these interests . In addition to revealing meaningful data on their condition , the banks should be required to provide the consumer with competitive information on interest rates on both the loan and the savings side . At a minimum , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data on interest rates being charged and paid by all financial institutions in his market area The Congress is desperately in need of information on the performance of bank regulatory agencies . It needs the kind of independent ongoing evaluations available through full audits by the General Accounting Office . Without these audits , the Congress will be legislating in the dark and it will continue to be surprised by revelations of " problems " in the banking industry . WRIGHT PATMAN Chairman , House Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy Washington , Jan. 27 , 1976 To the Editor , The point shout Daniel P Moynihan is not his undiplomatic behavior at the U.N . He is not more outrageous than the Russians , the Chinese or Mr Baroody . Indeed , Mr Moynihan 's speeches at the U N have been generally admirable . We must praise him for calling the Lionism/rausm resolution the " big lie " that it was . We must commend him for beginning to eradicate the selective condemnation by the U N of the violations of human rights ( although he himself has not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends as South Korea , the Philippines , Indonesia , Iran or Brazil ) . The menace of Moynihan has been the damage he has done to the image of the U N. in the eyes of Americans . He has , as much by gestures as by actual words , played upon the fears and frustrations of the American people in the post-Vietnam era . He has taught them to ridicule the General Assembly There is much wrong with the world orgarnzation , but an American ambassador must have love for the U N. as well as for the American people . The new U.S. ambassador must begin to build up , in the American consciousness , the U N. which Moynihan tore down as much as any thirdworld nation . HOMER A JACK Secretary-General , World Conference on Religion and Peace New York , Feb. 4 , 1976 In Lieu of Lulus To the Editor : You state in a Jan. 8 editorial that the New York State Legislature has set aside some $800,000 for legislative allowances in lieu of expenses  --  lulus . This description is too kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account , a very useful and common financial arrangement . But the lulu is a very special sophisticated expense account that does not have its counterpart nortn , south , east or west of Albany . The lulu is a gimmick that attempts to get around the constitutional provision that prevents legislators from raising their own salaries during , the term for which they are elected , The lulu , unlike the ordinary expense account , is built into the pension base of the legislator , in some cases doubling pensions . in a sense , a lulu is an expense account for life I am green with envy . Having said that , I also argue that there is an excellent caso for halving the size of our Legislature but doubling the salaries The work of the Legislature is becoming more demanding and time-consuming ; the sessions in Albany , a city not internationally famous for its lot de vivre , stretch out interminably , and it is time that made our Senators and Assemblymer .. full-time representatives on full-time salaries . - Doubling the salary of other public employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remove the only justification for lulus : unrealistic compensation . It should also make it possible to insist that legislators sever all ' second-income connections , usually in occupations that seem to thrive with the Albany connection  --  law , real estate and insurance . Best of all , the position of a ' fulltime representative might attract Individuals who could not considet pinttime employment . It might bring , Mt ? Albany a new mix of faces , occupations , perspectives and outlookS , " a challenge to the dominance of the legal profession . ROY PEAROON Staten island , N. Y , Jan. 30 , ' 1976 Kunstler on Violence To the Editor : The accusation of " condoning , murder " in your recent editorial because of remarks made by me in Dallas is totally false . I do not advocate murder of any sort and have , never condoned those of John and Robert Kennedy . I was as shocked and grieved by their deaths as most Americans I reject political assassination , ' except , as I said in Dallas , in the ? extreme case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essence of my Impromptu answers to questions in Dallas was the following : One of the chief causoy of violence in our society is the violence of our own Government It has Plo  --  ted political assassinations of foreign leaders , engaged in foreign invasions , brought death and destruction to hundreds of thousands of innocent people in Southeast Asia  --  and in that process taught a generation . , of Americans to murder . Domestically , governmental violence has been used against disfavored individuals , eed groups : Attica , Kent State , Chicago , and the civil rights struggle . . . Almost fifty years ago , Mr. Jqstice Brandeis warned against governmental misconduct , saying . .. Our government is the potent , the omnipresent teacher . For good , or for ill , it teaches the whole people by its example . Crime is contagious , , If the government becomes a lawbreaker , it breeds contempt for law ; it invites every man to become a law unto himself ; it invites anarchy . " Official corruption and violence is equally contagious . America has . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those means against others Recent investigations have revealed that the Kennedys were among the proponents of those tactics . - I have spent most of my professional life developing legal measures as alternatives to more extreme methods of change I defend political dissidents because I believe a craectv in which they can survive is a society which can change without violence . The New York Times , which has just successfully upset a court-imposed gag rule , should be the first to acknowledge the value of unfettered freedom  --  including the freedom to point out the terrible lessons of violence taught us by some of our leaders  --  however revered they may have been . WILLIAM M. KUNSTLER New York , Feb. 6 , 1976 Mr. Kunstler 's remarks in Dallas , as quoted by The Associated Press , follow . " Although I could n't pull the trigger myself , / do n't disagree with murder sometimes , especially political assassinations , which have been a part of political life since the beginning of recorded history . . . I 'm not entirely upset by the Kennedy assassinations . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country were eliminated . " ? Editor , The Times and Message as unfortunate testament to his ability and moral responsibility , Ins resignation has met with little lamentation in the United Nations . DAVID L. BECICER New Haven , Feb. 3 , 1976 ' The British Are Coming ! ' To the Editor : Two hundred years after ' Paul Revere cried that the British are coming Americans still hear the cryor should I say the roar ' ? that the British are coming Only this time they are joined by the French , and the ' issue is not American political freedom but American freedom from environmental pollution . The Concorde has replaced the Red Coat as the latest British threat to the American right to ' life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . Who will be the George Washington to save us this time ? STEPHEN SCHOEMAN New Rochelle , N.Y. , Feb. 6 , ' 1976                     