@@730477

txt The House today approved creation of a 26,172-acre national recreation area at the entrance to New York harbor ' after killing a provision for a massive housing project that the Rockefeller administration wanted to build on part of Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn . The vote was 330 to 4 for creation of the park . Without dissent , the House also voted to name the so-called Gateway Recreation Area , which in effect would be the first national park in a heavily congested urban area , for the late Representative William F. Ryan . Mr. , Ryan , a Manhattan Democrat who died Sept. 17 , was the original supporter of the recreation area , which with Mrs. Ryan a Candidate Representative William F. Ryan 's widow has decided to seek the nomination for his seat , according to close associates . Representative Bella S. Abzug is expected to be her chief rival . Page 31. the House action today would ' be called the William Fitts Ryan Gateway National Urban Recreation Area . With the . House approval today , the , prospects appeared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would ' become law before Congress adjourned probably some time next month . Senate Version Differs The Senate passed a differing version of a Aateviay bill last year that would take in less territory than the House version or send the two measures to a Senate-House conference committee . As approved by the House , , the Gateway project would take in Jamaica Bay and most of Breezy Point in Queens ; Floyd Bennett Field ; Great Kills Park , Miller Field and Fort Wadsworth on Staten Island , along with the beach front running between Great Kills and Fort Wadsworth ; Hoffman and Swinburne Islands , off Staten Island , and Sandy Hook , N. J. Most of the land and beach property is owned by New York City , New York State or the Federal Government . The properties would be put under the control of the Department of tile Interior to be developed as a national seashore or national park , to be used by an estimated total of 20 million people who live within two hours ' travel time from the Gateway sites . The major fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor centered on a section of the Gateway bill written by the House Interior Committee that would have allowed the Interior Department to sell 350 acres of Floyd Bennett Field , a former Naval air station , to New York State to build 17,500 units of moderateincome housing for 60,000 people . By a vote of 76 to 13 , the House approved an amendment by Representative Frank J. Brasco , Democrat of Brooklyn , to delete the housing project from the bill and to use the 350 acres for recreational purposes . The vote was a defeat for Charles J. Urstadl. the New York State Commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal . who had wanted to build a $1.2-billion " new-town intown " adjacent to the recreation area over the objection of most Brooklyn officials and Mayor Lindsay . Mr. Brasco , whose district includes Floyd Bennett Field . argued that other areas of Brooklyn had already been cleared for housing and were awaiting only the approval of housing funds , which he said could be siphoned off to the Floyd Bennett project . He also contended that such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Kennedy International Airport nearby , thus increasing the problem of jet noise in other areas of Queens and Long Island . One of his more effective points with his House colleagues was Mr. Brasco 's contention that the state was seeking to use the legislation to bypass the wishes of the district . " If it happens today in little old Brooklyn , it will happen in your district tomorrow , " Mr. Brasco told the House . Representative John H. Terry , Republican of Syracuse , who had won the inclusion of the housing project in the Interior Committee , argued that New York City was badly in need of more housing and that the vacant Floyd Bennett site was " an opportunity that can not be missed . " The House bill authorized $11,450,000 in land acquisition costs for Gateway , mainly to buy about 90 acres of privately owned prime beach land in front of the Breezy Point Cooperative , an enclave of small homes on the Rockaway peninsula . The total cost to develop all the sites as a recreation area was put at $92.8-million . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat of Staten Island , to name the Gateway project for Mr. Ryan and to set aside 26 acres of Miller Field for a public high school . Also approved was an amendment by Representative Samuel S. Stratton , Democrat of Amsterdam , specifying that the Army would not have to yield its existing bases at Fort Tilden , Queens ; Fort Wadsworth , Staten Island ; and Fort Hancock , N. J. , to the Interior Department until the Army concurred in their inclusion in the recreation area .                     