@@733376

txt City , slate and private voluntary hos ? . pitals in Brooklyn have agreed to replace , a fragmented and admittedly chaotic system of mental-health care with one that will make each hospital directly responsible for mental patients in its resnective area . Instead of shunting patients to the Kings County Psychiatric Ilospital , an overcrowded and disaccredited municipal . institution , or to the state 's huge and largely obsolete Kingsboro Psychiatric Center , individual hospitals throughout , the borough will be required to assume much the same responsibility for mental patients as they do now for patients with ' physical illnesses . A new policy of redirecting mentalhealth care to local hospitals and corn . ' MUtlity mental health centers is expected to be announced jointly later this month . by Dr. Alvin M. Mesnikoff , the New York City regional director of the State Department of Mental Hygiene , and Dr. June J. Christmas , the commissioner of the city 's Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services . Similar policies seeking partnership agreements from local voluntary and municipal hospitals are being sought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The hreakthrough came in Brooklyn first , state officials said , because the major acute-rare psychiatric hospital there  --  Kings County Psychiatric Hospital ? was recently disaccredited , leaving a huge gap in the mental-health system in the borough . The agreement in Brooklyn , which will he phased in gradually , will attempt to end a revolving-door system that consigns most of the 7,000 mental patients admitted each year in that borough to a maze of confusing , isolated and underfinanced programs that often ignore patients after they are discharged , leaving many of them to roam city streets until they end up again in a psychiatric ward . Dr. Mesnikoff says the agreement is ' the first state of a citywide effort to restructure psychiatric care so that mental hospitals no longer end up as the " psychiatric dumping ground " for the city 's mentally ill . " Dr. Mesnikoff said that " no mental patient would he discharged from any institution in Brooklyn without an appropriate plan of follow-up care and rehabilitation involving local community health agencies and local hospitals . " " We 're not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocate to the new concept , and we do not promise that everyone will get equal care , " he said . " What we are promising is making the best use of what we have . " Dr. George L. Jurow , the First Deputy Mental Health Commissioner for the city , described the new approach as a " dramatic breakthrough . " Joseph T. Lynaugh , the Acting President of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation , said the agreement represented a " balancing of an incredibly lopsided psychiatric delivery system in Brooklyn . " While Mr. Lynaugh said the agreement had his " complete support . " he questioned I whether the voluntary hospitals in Brooklyn would deliver the care they had promised given their " historic lack of cooperation . " I Both Dr. Mesnikoff and Dr. Christmas say they view the new plan in Brooklyn as the first phase of a far-reaching reform of the entire mental-health system in the city , one In which the state , the city and the private voluntary hospitals and agencies assume a shared responsibility for caring for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychiatric hospitals which both regard as unmanageable and inhumane . Many voluntary hospitals in Brooklyn , like voluntary Institutions in other parts of the city , have traditionally shied away from providing psychiatric care that did not promise a quick recovery . This is because they feared that they would be burdened with the cost of long-term care once Medicaid and Blue Cross reimbursement funds for short-term acute care ran out . According to officials such as Dr. Mesnikoff , the reluctance of local hospitals to treat mental illness has meant that they have diverted mental patients in Brooklyn to the Kings County municipal psychiatric facility , which acts as the central psychiatric receiving hospital for the entire borough and its population of 1.5 million persons . After spending anywhere from one to two weeks there , a patient is either discharged or sent to the state 's Kingsboro facility , which may keep a patient on the average of from another three to live weeks , before discharging him without any real hope of providing adequate follow-up care in a community-based mental health center or hospital . As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Kingsboro , often becoming a danger to themselves and to the community . At the same time , state officials regard Kings County and Kingsboro as almost hopelessly obsolete and believe that psychiatric services must be delivered at the community level . For the state , this would mean contracting its historic role as the " hospital of last resort " for the chronically mentally ill and redirecting the $122-million it now spends in its five big mental hospitals and their 5,200 patients in the city to local treatment centers and rehabilitation programs . Actually , the recent disaccreditation of the Kings County psychiatric hospital on the ground that It was overcrowded and that it had failed to provide adequate care generated the pressure that the state said was needed to achieve agreement on its new plan . Under its terms , Brooklyn will be divided into Ahree major service areas : East . West and Central . The State University Hospital of Downstate Medical Center , which provides the medical care at Kings County hospital under an affiliation contract , will have responsibility , for central Brooklyn , In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , the Brookdale Community Mental Health Center , the Bedford-Stuyvesant Community Mental Health Center , St. John 's Episcopal Hospital Psychiatric Clinic , and Interboro Hospital will he linked to the new system with responsibility for patients within their medical catchment areas . In West Brooklyn , the state 's South Beach Psychiatric Center on Staten Island ' will clinically supervise a psychiatric inpatient unit at Kings County hospital with links to psychiatric services in the district and Staten Island . Other psychiatric providers in the district are The Maimonides Community Mental Health Center , Luth , eras Medical Center , and Methodist , ! Coney island and Cumberland hospitals . Thus , Downstate at Kings County , Kingsboro and South Beach each will be responsible for . serving a population of about 500,000 . In hospitals , such as Interboro , which has 31 psychiatric beds , the state says it will provide additional funds to help improve care there . In other hospitals that do not have.any psychiatric services , patients will ? be diverted initially to Kings County . In each case , however , the hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managing his therapeutic plan , even if he is a patient at Kings County or Kingsboro.                     