@@733410

txt Nobel message : World can learn from North Ireland ' Mairead Corrigan OSLO IAP I ? Betty Williams and Mairead Corrigan made an emotional appeal for world peace in Oslo , where they will receive the Nobel Peace Prize Saturday for their crusade to end sectarian warfare in Northern Ireland . The women , who have defied death threats and beatings from terrorists since they launched the Peace People movement last year , held a press conference Friday night and called on people everywhere " to stand up and say there will be no more wars . " Mrs. Williams , a 35-year-old Belfast housewife , said : " People must learn to respect each other and live together . We 're racing to destroy our world . " THE TWO women said that Northern Ireland 's eight years of bloodshed involving Protestants , Roman Catholics , and British troops is far from over and is not unique . " The world can learn from Northern Ireland , said Miss Corrigan , 33 . " We in Northern Ireland burled our heads in the sand before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society were not there . But they were . If other countries , even the most peaceful , do n't tackle their problems they can end up like Northern Ireland . " In the last eight years we 've lost more than 1,700 lives In Northern Ireland . For what ? . . . Ws time we tried to find another way to resolve our differences . " THE WOMEN , both members of the Catholic minority in the British province , will receive a delayed 1976 Peace Prize at the Nobel ceremony . They were nominated for the award last year , but the application came too late and no Pence Prize was awarded . This year 's prize , also to be presented Saturday , goes to Amnesty International , a London-based human rights organization , for its worldwide campaign in behalf of political prisoners . Amnesty 's Swedish chairman , Thomas Hammarberg , arrived Friday night to accept the 1977 prize at Saturday 's double-award ceremony , which will be attended by Norway 's King Olav and Crown Prince Harald . MRS . WILLIAMS and Alias Corrigan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1976 after three young children of a Catholic family were killed in a Belfast street by a runaway terrorist car . The driver , an Irish Republican Army guerrilla , was dead at the wheel , shot by British soldiers . Miss Corrigan was the dead children 's aunt . The peace campaign swiftly won support from Protestants and Catholics alike in the war-torn province and became its most successful peace crusade . In recent months , the movement has been plagued by political dissension and personal Jealousy , much of it focused on the two women , who have become known worldwide . MRS . WILLIAMS spoke Friday of an eventual international crusade for peace , but declined to say whether the Peace People consider themselves the embryo of a global movement . " We 're working on ? a 100-year program in Northern Ireland , " she said . " That 's how long it may take to end the hatred . It will take a future generation to bring peace in Northern Ireland . " Miss Corrigan , clutching a bouquet , added : " We believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proving this in Northern Ireland . We believe the peace movement will spread . " It 's time we got back to the simple message of ' Thou shalt not kill . ' There are too many people dying of starvation while we 're spending billions on arms . " Betty Williams                     