@@729321

txt U S railroads are generally pleased . But passenger complaints are loud  --  and rising . Meanwhile railroad unions . assured of job protection even though rail passenger service is being cut , wait to see precisely whor ? their salai ies will be coming from These are early reactions to the sweeping changes in American passenger railroad service announced earlier this week by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation ( Railpax ) The new routes . slicing daily service almost in half , were announced before Rail-pax had signed contracts with the 22 passenger railroads which will provide track and crews for the new corporation as of May 1 For now , the 22 railroads being approached to provide the minimum network of passenger service , covering 114 major cities , are staying noncommittal about then plans Contract details awaited Until the contract terms ai e negotiated . some railroads say they have net decided whether they will join But no knowledgeable observer anticipates a railroad 's refusing to become part of the new passenger service . Seven of the nation 's existing 29 railroads will give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to concentrate on more profitable freight sei - vice . One example : the Chicago and North Western line . The National Association of Railroad Passengers says it is pleased with aspects of the overall plan , but complains , in particular , that the Cleveland area is 1 ? ft out completely from new passenger services and that major cities in Michigan art similarly ignored . Local communities in Ohio and Michigan are expected to protest at their exclusion . the state of Arkansas may also lodge it complaint . Railroads which join Railpax can drop their own passenger service on May 1 in exchange for payments based on then current passenger losses Net to link 114 cities Railpax , having made its own choice of passenger routes , plans to use the 22 lines with which it is negotiating to connect 114 major cities with more than 100,000 population . The basic network would provide 1S3 passenger trains a day in nationwide service , roughly half of the present 365 trains Railpax wants to pool the best 1,500 passenger cars out of existing supply of 3,300 Even with such curtailments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - ing its first year of operation ? compared with current railroad losses estimated at twice that . A private study illustrates in greater detail the expected cutbacks in passengei service . Leaving aside the highly traveled trains in the northeast corridor , the number of trains elsewhere across the nation will actually be cut 68 percent , from 275 to 88 And the number of train-miles , excepting the northeast , will drop 65 percent from 147,453 per day to 50,811 . In response , Joseph Vranich - - executive director of the National Association of Railroad Passengers  --  concedes ? " We will gladly bargain off a number of trains for a 200 percent improvement in service " The fact is , however , the routes designated by Railpax  --  with some fanfare and earlier ? than anticipated  --  can not be confirmed until contracts for providing the service have been signed by Railpax and the individual railroads.                     