@@731484

txt A distraught Richard Nixon presided over a tear-stained farewell ceremony today , then left the White House for the last time as President . Precisely two hours before Nixon 's resignation became effective , his green and white helicopter lifted off the south lawn of the White House and disappeared into the morning mist over the Jefferson Memorial . Left behind were hundreds of persons who had come to Washington to work for him , waving their final farewells to the first man ever to resign from the Presidency . David Eisenhower stared blankly at the ground , Julie , the President 's youngest daughter , embraced her father in consolation . The Nixons ' other daughter and her husband , Tricia and Edward Cox , flew to San Clemente with her parents . GERALD R. FORD , who w , s to become President two hours later , made no effort to hide the tears brimming in his eyes . - As he watched the helicopter lift off , he moved over to comfort Julie and pat her fondly on the back A few minutes earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United State ; Nixon thanked his staff for their work and urged them not to be discouraged . With his voice often cracking with emotion and tears streaming down his cheeks , he told the staff that even the worst defeats are always a beginning . " Greatness comes not when things go always good for you , but the greatness comes when you are really tested , when you take some knocks , some disappointments , when sadness comes , because only if you have been in the deepest valley can you ever know how magnificent it is to be on the highest mountain , " he said . THERE WERE some feeble efforts at humor , such as when he said he was not a wealthy man and was , in fact , trying to find some way to pay his taxes . But the occasion was not one to conjure up much laughter . Those gathered in the historic East Room , of the White House had all devoted a part of their lives to a man who was now leaving the White House in disgrace . Altho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a feeling of being betrayed by others , all of that was washed away this morning in the tide of emotion as they watched Nixon search for some graceful way to exit . Conceding that " we have done some things wrong in this administration , ' ! Nixon boasted that not one man or woman who worked for him had left government " with more of this world 's  --  goods than when he came in . " " No man or woman ever profited at the public expense or the public till , " he said . " Mistakes , yes . But for personal gain , never . " HE REMINISCED about his parents , recalling his mother as " a saint " and his father as a man for whom work was its own reward . He said his father could be called a " common man , " but that he would have bridled under that description . He ended with a promise that all of the persons before him would remain in his prayers . Then he hurriedly left the room , anxious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual leaving of the White House . To show the nation and the world that it was to be a smooth transition , the Nixon and the Ford families walked together down the red carpet that had been rolled from the White House diplomatic entrance to the helicopter . TILE TWO wives put their arms around one another 's waists . Nixon forced a smile as he passed television cameras , but Ford looked close to tears as he walked beside his longtime friend . The Nixon daughters and their husbands followed . After hurried goodbys , Mrs. Nixon , who had appeared almost in a trance during the ordeal of farewells , got aboard the-helicopter . Nixon followed , bounding up the three steps ' and waving goodby with an exaggerated sweep of his arm . Before letting the door be closed , he made his familiar victory signal , both arms outstretched with fingers forming " Vs . " He repeated the gesture 15 minutes later as he boarded Air Force One at Andrew Air Force Base for the five-hour flight to San ' Clemente . The plane arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. m. , Chicago time . NIXON FACES an uncertain legal future as ex-President . Altho there has been discussion about granting him immunity from criminal prosecution for any of the Watergate-related incidents , it has not been done . There is a question whether such legislation would be constitutional . But these problems were far from his mind this morning as he left the White House . Perhaps one of the phrases from his brief East Room remarks will be resurrected by historians as an unintentional illumination of the downfall of the Nixon administration : " Never he petty , " he lectured his former staff members . " Always remember others may hate you , but those who hate j you do n't win unless you hate them , and then you destroy 1 yourself . "                     