@@729488

txt The United States and the Soviet Union exchanged , samples of lunar soil in a brief ceremony today marking an expansion of cooperation in space research and exploration . Lee R. Scherer , an official of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , presented Aleksandr V. Vinogradov , a vice president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences , with six grams ( about two-tenths of an ounce ) of samples of material gathered by the crews of the Apollo 11 and 12 spacecraft . In return , Mr. Vinogradov , a 75-year-old geochemicst , handed over three grams of lunar soil scooped up last September by the Soviet automatic craft Luna 16 and brought back to the earth . In brief remarks , the representatives expressed the hope ) that the exchange , envisaged in an agreement signed here last Jan. 21 , would mean greater collaboration between the two countries . Meanwhile , in the current Soviet space project , three astronauts aboard the orbital station Salyut spent their fourth day conducting scientific studies and experiments , which concentrated today on problems of adaptation to weightlessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth , put on special medical belts for analysis of the cardiovascular system and used a device for determining the calcium content of bone tissue . Tass , the Soviet press agency , disclosed that the Salyut also carried containers of Drosophila fruit flies , which are used in breeding experiments , as well as chlorella , microscopic algae that have a rapid rate of growth when exposed to the sun . The crew was also reported to have transmitted its first observations of atmospheric conditions to the ground . Reports on cloud cover and other weather elements are to be a regular part of their daily routine . The expectation that their mission would be a long one seemed reinforced today by an offhand remark by Lieut . Col. Georgi T. Dobrovolsky , crew commander , that the men had spent most of their time so far with housekeeping chores and would start the full program of scientific observations next week , Colonel Dobrovolsky made the comment during one of the television sessions between the Salyut and ground control that was relayed to home screens . In the 10-minute exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon , Mr. Vinogradov entered the meeting room carrying a plain leather brief case from which he extracted a plastic container with the Soviet moon samples . Mr. Scherer followed with his precious cargo in an aluminum case . Mr. Vinogradov , whose Institute of Geochemistry has been analyzing the Soviet moan sam- ' ples , said that today 's exchange had strengthened what he described as an " old tradition of collaboration between scientists " of the United States and the Soviet Union . Then he unscrewed the top of the plastic container , removed one of three glass vials , opened it and showed it to Mr. Scherer as if to indicate that he was getting the proper goods . The American nodded approvingly . The Soviet scientist returned the vial to the plastic box and then handed it to Mr. Scherer , who is director of NASA 's Apollo Lunar Exploration Office . Mr. Scherer passed the container to Dr. Paul W. Gast , director of the Lunar and Earth Sciences Laboratory at the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston . Dr. Gast , in turn , gave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who is vice chairman of NASA 's lunar sample analysis planning team . All three men had traveled to Moscow especially for the exchange ceremony . Mr. Scherer , in his formal remarks , said scientists of both countries would benefit from study of lunar material from areas to which they would otherwise not have access . He said the exchange was evidence of willingness of the United States and the Soviet Union to enlarge their space cooperation . " Although the quantity of material is small , " he added informally , " its significance is very great . " Mr. Scherer did not offer to open his samples for inspection by Mr. Vinogradov , apparently because they were securely packed . The Americans presented the Russians not only with twice the total , amount of material , but also with a larger number of samples selected from various sites on the moon . After the ceremony , both Soviet and American representatives disappeared to wash down the lunar dust with champagne . The NASA group left Moscow by air later in the day .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       