@@729957

txt The National Trust for Historic Preservation said yesterday that it will fight any attempts to tear down the Main Chicago Public Library building . " We 're going to protest and send a letter of appeal to Mayor Daley , " said Mrs. Helen Bullock , historian of the nonprofit group in Washington , D. C. It is chartered by Congress to organize powerful community , leadership in preserving historic sites and structures . Russell Keune , director of field services of the trust , said it feels " very strongly " that the main library building reflects a period of Chicago 's architectural history . Determination of the fate of the building constructed in 1897 at Michigan Avenue and Randolph Street has been assigned to a committee of six from the Chicago Public Library Board and the Chicago Plan Commission . Reject Renovation The plan commission last week rejected a plan to expand and renovate the 75-year-old library building , raising once again the possibility that the building might be torn down to make way for a skyscraper . A wide range of landmark preservation groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cry against destruction of the building , establishing that the old library building has historic and architectural value worthy of preservation . One of the arguments for tearing down the building has been that it has no architectural merit . Richard Miller , president of the Landmarks Preservation Council , Inc .. 30 W. Washington St. , said the library meets at least five of the 10 criteria named in a Chicago ordinance , any one of which would justify saving the building as a landmark . Urges Preservation " We think considerably more thought ought to be given to alternatives other than tearing it down and putting another high rise there , " said Miller . " We think the building is a very important part of Michigan Avenue . " Dale Hench , of the longrange planning division of the Illinois Department of Conservation , said the library building was listed in the Illinois historic sites survey taken in 1970 . " The state has identified the building as architecturally and historically significant , " said Hench . Could Be Protected Illinois officials intend to nominate the building for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historic American buildings . This would qualify the building for federal preservation funds and some protection under national historic site legislation : " The building has been recorded by the National Park Service Historic American Buildings Survey taken in 1963 , as a work of outstanding architectural excellence , " said James Massey , chief of the Historic American Buildings Survey , who visited the library building . Federal officials are waiting for the nomination by , Illinois officials to place the library building on the role of historic American building . One of the most outspoken groups advocating saving the structure is the Chicago Heritage Committee , 1030 E. 50th St. Called Irreplaceable " It is a landmark in that it is ceItainly one of the most well-recognized and best-loved public buildings in Chicago , " said Charles Stapes , secretary of the organization . " This is the kind of building Americans travel abroad to see . " Heritage committee officials stress that the building is unique and contains features that are irreplaceable . They consider its Tiffany mosaics and domes a national treasure , representing countless millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heritage committee , pointed out that a Tiffany lampshade sold for $4,000 at a recent public auction . One of the Tiffany domes in the library is 35 feet in diameter . Stauffer also noted that the federal government recently set aside $400,000 to guard and preserve a Tiffany mural in the old Philadelphia mint . Thel Tiffany works in the library building are larger and finer than those in Philadelphia , said Stauffer . , Stauffer said he sees the structure as " a living building . It should be used for some public purpose adapted to its monumental quality . " One of the voices not beard in the clamor to save the library , building is that of the Commission on Chicago Historical and Architectural Landmarks , empowered by city ordinance to recommend to the city council setting aside sites as landmarks . " At this moment , the commission has not taken any stand on it , " said William , director of the commission . The consensus among some groups is that the commission has been beaten down so many times by political and financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it has become timid .                     