@@730280

txt Small South Vietnamese troop units moved almost unopposed into strategic positions in Quang Tri city and its suburbs yesterday . However , American advisers said they still expected " a hell of a fight " from 48,080 communist troops nelieved to be in the area . Allied officers also were worried about a possible Communist attack against Hue , 32 miles south of Quang Tri city . The former imperial capital has long been expected to be the target of a major Communist drive . It has been shelled for three consecutive days . 20,000 in Offensive A 1,000-man South Vietnamese paratroop unit moved yesterday into Mai Linh , a suburb only a half mile from downtown Quang Tri . A 30-man reconnaissance patrol was flown into the walled 19th century citadel in the center of the city and a nearby marketp I a c e . Another government unit seized without opposition the Quapg Tri combat base two miles northwest of the city . More than 20,000 of Hue 's 30,000 defenders were thrown into the week-old South Vietnamese drive into Quang Tri province , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months . President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Viet Nam promised last month to drive the Communists out of Quang Tri and back into North Viet Nam . No Organized Resistance The current Communist offensive began March 30 when Nor t h Vietnamese troops moved across the demilitarized zone into Quang Tri province . The Communists routed government forces in Quang Tri city on May 1 and took control of the province  --  the first ever captured from the South Vietnamese . Despite Communist artillery attacks on the government columns moving up Highway 1 to Quang Tri city , there was no organized resistance reported around the city itself . Allied officers were puzzled by the lack of opposition and said they did not know what happened to the 48,000 North Vietnamese troops that captured the province . South Vietnamese troops advanced cautiously , letting allied warplanes soften suspected Communist troop positions with bombs , rockets , and machinegun fire . Bomb S. Viets by Error United States aircraft accidentally bombed South Vietnamese marines during the advance and first reports said 11 marines were killed a n d 30 were wounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Command . A correspondent said one patrol operating out of Mai Linh found the bodies of 20 north Vietnamese killed by air strikes . A government spokesman in Saigon said 1,100 Communists had been killed in the drive while government losses had been held to 50 dead and 235 wounded . Allied spokesmen in Hue said 17 persons had been killed and 65 wounded by the Communist shelling attacks . In the three-day period , 116 artillery , rocket , and mortar rounds have been fired into the city . Allied officers feared North Vietnamese troops would move out of the Communist-controlled A Shau valley to the west of Hue and attack the city , 400 miles north of Saigon . Refugees Move South Highway 1 was c 1 o g ged above Hue with South , Vietnamese men and equipment moving north and refugees heading south . A correspondent said dozens of South Vietnamese tanks and armored personnel carriers carried hundreds of troops into Quang Tr ! province . The tanks were new American-made M48s with bright " U. S. Army " insignia still painted on their sides . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southward .                     