@@732571

txt Names . of 16 optometrists and opticians who allegedly bilked the state out of hundreds of thousands of dollars through faked bills will be given to the federal government for possible krosettution , it was announced Monday . The move was announced as hearings opened into charges of widespread fraud in the eye care industry in dis pensing Medicaid services . The hearings were scheduled by the Illinois Legislative Advisory Committee on Public Aid . Joel Edelman , executive director of the committee , said the names include those of nine optometrists and seven opticians . FIFTEEN OF THE 18 Individuals were the subjects of a probe of billings for nonexistent services to state welfare clients by committee investigators and Chicago Tribune reporters . The results of the investigation were detailed in Sunday and Monday editions of The Tribune . Edelm an , said the 16 received $1,327,353 in Medicaid payments in 1975 ? about 10 per cent of the total spent by the state for optical care for welfare patients . In the first four months ' of this year , he said , the lit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wore frequently fictional : EDELMAN SAID the estimated total optometric billings to the state . for 1976 could be as high as $18 million , and he added , " Assuming irregplaritles of only 40 per cent  --  a conservative estimate  --  fraud abuses in the optometric program could exceed $7 million in 1976 . " In a report submitted to the commit . tee , Edelman said seven kinds of abuses were found during the investigation : ? Billing the state for eye examinations that were never given . ? Billing for eyeglasses never provided . ? Billing for eye exams and/or glasses for entire families when only one or two family members were examined by the optometrists . ? Providing " dime store " eyeglass frames while billing the state for quality frames . ? Rebilling the state every three or four months for services previously given and paid for . ? Listing multiple services to persons requiring only limited care . ? A pattern of payments by the Illinois Department of Public Aid for " questionable " services to a select group of eye care vendors when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . EDELMAN DISCLOSED at the hear . ing Monday that the investigation documented 894 Instances in records of the 16 doctors " where billings submitted for services have not been performed by the practitioner . " There is a black market operallon in public aid billing forms , " he added . The dishonest provider either purchased public aid case names and numhers from a black market operator , or for a little more money could purchase billings completely filled out . " Edelman recommended that the committee , in cooperation with the Illinois Department of Public Aid , investigate to see why a " select group " of optometrists and opticians and optical supply houses can get payments easily when others have difficulty getting their payments . Edelman suggested that Medicaid recipients be informed whenever the state pays medical practitioners for services rendered them . If the services are fictitious , the recipient can complain to'officials . He also urged that names of medical vendors suspended from the public aid program be published to " act as a deterrent to improper care. - ALSO TESTIFYING at the hearing was Michael @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " One of the most horrifying findings of our investigation is that the doctors we have identified are billing the state lin 19761 at ' a rate 38 per cent over what they had billed in 1975 . " Before the hearing got under way Monday , Rep. Robert Mann ID. , Chicago objected that the accused were not present to defend themselves . The committee agreed to meet again next Monday to give them a chance to respond to the accusations .                     