@@728667

txt More American women than ever before are filing charges that they 're being discriminated against in employment . Since late last year , 28 percent more complaints have been received by the Labor Department , which enforces the Equal Pay Act of 1964 , This law requires employers to pay men and women on the same basis . Courts have held that this applies not only to identical jobs but also to similar work . And employers who argue that it costs more to hire women or that they are physically unable to do as much as men are finding the courts generally unresponsive . Some Labor Department investigators suggest that the sharp increases in demands for pay equality and access to higher-level jobs , guaranteed women by the equal opportunities provisions of the 1964 Civil Rights Act , are a result of the Women 's Liberation . Movement . Part-time preference Changing business patterns are stimulating increased part-time employment . More suburban retail stores , more evening and Sunday openings , more teen-age workers ? all have shot up the number of part-time workers . Last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or about 15 percent of all persons employed , worked less than 35 hours a week . Most were doing so because they wanted to . An analysis of national figures by the New York State Department of Labor indicates that only 1 million part-timers said they 'd rather work full time . Slightly more than half the 10 million who were working part time through preference were women . Half the men working short weeks were either young and likely to be in college , or 65 and older , and apparently semiretired . Nearly 3 million were teenagers . Also on the increase is the number of agencies specializing in temporary help , which assist employers to fill peak needs without keeping unnecessary people on payrolls between the peaks . Same pay . less work Part-time workers are not the only ones who like a short workweek . And unions in the United States have no monopoly on demands for a 35-hour week without loss of pay . Britain 's Amalgamated Union of Engineering and Foundry Workers has received a mandate from its members to seek the shorter week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by new equipment and techniques that have reduced the need for labor . Under the proposal , " systematic overtime " would be barred so that the cut in hours would mean work for those idled now . Employers , however , will fight the plan . At present weekly pay , the shortened workweek would cost . them ? 500 million ( $1.2 billion ) a year . ( 1 ) Table the pesticides The United Farm Workers ' Organizing Committee , headed by Cesar Chavez , has a new target for union action : pesticides in vineyards . According to Mr. Chavez , their use is " a very dangerous problem , not only for consumers but also for workers in the vineyards . " In its fight for union recognition and contracts , his union has conducted a nationwide boycott of California table grapes for the past three years . Mr. Chavez says the boycott now is about 65 percent effective and recently has resulted in a number of bargaining breakthroughs : agreements with producers of about 10 percent of this country 's grapes . Early-bird bargaining Major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to try to negotiate new contracts early . Their aim would be to prevent another round of costly and disruptive stockpiling of steel and of orders placed abroad to hedge against a U.S. strike . Steel contracts run out in August , 1971 . Ordinarily , steel customers presume that contract negotiations will go down to the wire and might result in an industrywide strike . And because orders must he placed months in advance , the buildup could begin this fall . Both sides want to avoid that . But with steel unionists talking militantly about a need for hefty gains in 1971 to offset their " eroded " raises negotiated in 1968 , getting together for early bargaining will be difficult . It could be easier , though , if talk about possible wage-price controls widens in the next few months . Then USW members might want a signed and sealed pact for wage and other gains in 1971 and beyond  --  just in case .                     