@@729012

txt The Republicans should not be a happy party this morning . The wreckage is piled high . There is one bright spot for them ? a small gain in the United States Senate . But the net gain of two seats , and maybe three with a recount likely in Indiana to determine the winner , was not equal to the opportunity presented with the Democrats holding 25 of the 35 seats up for election . All else is gloomy . Democrats have made a dramatic comeback in the governorships to take over a majority of the statehouses . The vaunted G. 0 . P. southern strategy did not work . The Democrats have captured the momentum for the 1972 Presidential race . President Nixon and the Republicans have overridden some history , but little else , in keeping House losses below tradition and gaining slightly in the Senate . Better Show by Kennedy The G. 0 . P. showing in Congress falls short of John F. Kennedy 's performance in 1962 , a comparable midterm election . Eight years ago , Kennedy and the Democrats gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smallest setback for the White House this century . The Republican loss this year of eight seats in the House is worse than the Democrats ' in 1962 . G. 0 . P. setbacks in the governorships were far beyond expectations . The Democrats , like the Republicans in the case of the Senate , had the percentages going for them with the G. 0 . P. holding 24 of the 35 statehouses up for election . Democrats went wild with a net gain of 11 . The importance of the Democratic gains in the governorships is several fold . The Democrats will control 29 statehouses , instead of their preelection 18 , during the vital realignment of congressional districts because of the 1970 census . States Democrats captured could prove to be vital building blocks for the 1972 Presidential campaign . Among them are Pennsylvania , Ohio , Wisconsin , Minnesota and Florida , all big electoral vote states . Losses in West Painful The G. 0 . P. has dropped from 32 governorships to 21 . One of the body blows to the G. 0 . P. has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governorships and their failure to make gains in the Senate in the West where they tried so hard . Only two years ago Nixon won all but five states west of the Mississippi . The Midwest and the West had been considered fertile conservative Republican territory . If there was any conservative trend in the election yesterday it was in the East , where the only G. 0 . P. victories , other than those in Tennessee , occurred . With Florida , Arkansas Martha Mitchell 's home state , South Carolina and Texas going Democratic , the lone gain in Tennessee does not add up to a going southern strategy for the Republicans . Added to this in the way of Republican woes is George Wallace 's easy victory in winning the Alabama governorship . Wallace expects to use this as the basis for another Presidential try in 1972 . The Republicans spent minions of dollars in pursuing their illusive goal of capturing control of the Senate . Lawrence O'Brien , the Democratic national chairman , said the Democrats were outspent 10 to 1 . " They certainly did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans , and most politicians would agree . Nixon 's ideological gain in the Senate could be of some value to him in foreign policy . But this gain is small , probably two men , when the liberal and conservative shifts in both parties are measured . Countering this will be increased Democratic unity caused by the scent of a possible White House victory in 1972.                     