@@731168

txt Having stood off a determined Communist assault from the Northwest , the defenders of Phnom Penh , capital of Cambodia , are confidently preparing to withstand an even greater attack from the southwest , according to information reaching analysts here . The defenders , under the leadership of a military commander who has shown increasing effectiveness , and a new Prime Minister , believe that during the long hard fighting expected during the just begun dry season , they will be able to make their point to the insurgents : The insurgents can never hope to impose themselves militarily , and the time has come for compromise . The government has been on record since last April with a six-point proposal for coming to terms with the insurgents . It is fully supported by the Prime Minister , Long Boret , and the commander in chief , Gen. Softhene Fernandez . While President Lon Nol remains more or less in the background , these two have taken a practical hold of ti country 's problems including a bold devaluation of its currency , efforts to start resettlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively successful drive to enforce military conscription . American weapons According to an October military census , the Army has 235,000 men compared with about 60,000 in the Khmer Rouge , the Communist insurgent organization . The government is said to be adequately though lightly armed with American weapons , most of which come up the Mekong River from Saigon The antiquated Navy of small launches and gunboats and Air Force are said to have done remarkably effective work in keeping this line of communication open , in cooperation with the South Vietnamese who have kept open their portion of the river . The Air Force includes T-28 trainers , together with helicopters used as gunships and old C-47 transports . The shock of the ending of American bombing last August has been thoroughly absorbed , the reports to Washington say . On balance it is believed that the Cambodians have benefited from the need to be self-reliant . Refugees continue to flow into the government 's areas from Communist-held regions , proving that it was not only the bombing but the continuing severity of the Communist regime that set the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist side , inferiority of numbers ( something between 12,000 and 20,000 around Phnom Penh at present ) makes it seem unlikely that they will be more successful in the siege of the capital than they were in the siege of Kampong Chom , where they were closer to sources of supply in Communist-controlled parts of South Vietnam . The Communist tactics appear to be to keep on probing , subjecting the dense civilian population to born ? bardment in anticipation of a break in morale ? the defection of a large segment of the government forces , for instance . /-The Communists are making heavy use of a Soviet-made 122-mm. rocket , which causes extensive damage among lightly constructed Cambodian structures . With Prince Sihanouk continuing to play an enigmatic and equivocal role in the background , and continuing reports of friction between Khmer Rouge and North Vietnamese , the government believes it may now havea psychological advantage over the enemy . Foreign intervention Whereas in the past the Communists could exploit Cambodian distrust of foreigners by pointing to the military assistance the government received from the U.S. in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are most blatantly involved with foreign elements ? the North Vietnamese . American analysts estimate that there are 3,000 to 7,000 North Vietnamese Communists actively engaged as advisers of technicians with the Khmer Rouge . In some cases it is believed they may act as rocket teams . Cambodian sensibilities have been aroused by the fact that the whole northeastern corner of their country is controlled by other North Vietnamese and Viet Cong estimated to number 18,000 to 20,000 , who maintain the line of communication from Laos into South Vietnam and form a reserve force .                     