@@734442

txt Staff experts of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , which began emergency meetings yesterday with nuclear fuel experts on an apparent new problem with nuclear reactor cooling systems , said today that there was no cause for concern . They said that new information provided by uranium fuel suppliers in the last 29 hours indicated that the cooling systems would operate the way it was thought before the apparent problem arose . " The regulatory problem you were so concerned about yesterday has peaked and receded and is now something of a nonproblem , " Joseph M. Hendrie , chairman of the commission , said at a briefing on the matter . Earlier this week the commission summoned 50 nuclear fuel experts to an emergency meeting here because of a staff study indicating that , in an accident involving a loss of coolant , the thousands of fuel rods in each nuclear reactor might swell more than had been anticipated . If such unexpected swelling occurred , it could reduce the flow of water from the emergency core cooling system and thus increase the danger of the uranium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could lead to the release of vast amounts of radiation . The tests that caused the alarm were based on experiments on fuel rods rather than on specific reactors . But yesterday the suppliers of reactor fuel provided information showing that under actual reactor conditions , the behavior of the fuel rods was no cause for concern . Darrell G. Eisenhut , acting director of the commission 's division of operating reactors , was asked by reporters after the briefing whether the sudden switch from an apparent emergency to what Mr. Hendrie called a " nonproblem " might not hurt the agency 's credibility . " If we had sat on the information and done nothing we would have been subject to even more criticism , " he replied . The appearance of what experts in the nuclear agency thought of at first as possibly a a serious problem began during a series of experiments at the Oak Ridge Nuclear Test Facility in Tennessee on the behavior of fuel rods when exposed to certain pressure and temperature conditions . On the basis of these findings , the agency 's staff in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zirconium alloy rods under a wide range of conditions . The study suggested that , at certain pressures and temperatures , the swelling of the rods would be more than predicted . Nuclear Critics Seek Hearing WASHINGTON , Nov. 2 ( AP ) ? Richard Pollock of the antinuclear Critical Mass organization , which is associated with Ralph Nader , the consumer advocate , said today that he would request a meeting next week with officials of the nuclear commission for a detailed explanation of its turnabout . When the commission made its initial findings known yesterday , Mr. Nader called for a shutdown of any plants found to have the cooling problem . Mr. Pollock said his organization would not withdraw its petition to the commission asking for a suspension or modification of nuclear plant licenses until the group was satisified that no problem existed . Mr. Pollock added that he and Mr. Nader believed the discrepancies found between the experiments and earlier computer predictions pointed up a gel ! . eral problem with the commission 's use of computer models to calculate essential safety limits . Earth Fault Found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ? Federal geologists have confirmed that an earthquake fault runs near two nuclear weapons laboratories in the Livermore Valley about 40 miles east of San Francisco . Spokesmen for the nuclear facilities said the fault posed no public hazard . The United States Geological Survey said the Las Positas Fault was discovered Wednesday to pun east-west along a grounds of the Sandia Livermore Laboratory , which is across the street from the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory . The fault line was confirmed by trenches dug in the region . The Lawrence Livermore Laboratory , which is run by University of California and is licensed to store up to 496 pounds of radioactive plutonium , reported that all operations at the nuclear weapons design center had already been reviewed for seismic safety . A Sandia official said a quake would pose no danger there .                     