@@728579

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Harvard 's Closing To the Editor : The vote of the Harvard faculty on May 6 meant , for some of Harvard 's students , the culmination of a process of disillusionment with the university which has been going on for some time . The vote which allows students to choose not to complete their academic year to receive credit for their courses , marks a complete abandonment of academic standards by a university faculty previously considered among the world 's greatest . As bad as what the faculty did was the way in which they did it . The faculty meeting was hastily called , the motions poorly drafted , the debate unworthy of being called rational . Despite the pretense of discussion , the reality of the situation was a collapse under student pressure which was hardly even disguised . There is a lot of talk about conscience and concern , about " these times of crisis . " The carnival atmosphere here mocks such phrases . However one may feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to abandon the enterprise of teaching and learning . Editorial May 13 . We came to Harvard with a deep respect for the academic standards and leadership of its faculty . If our Harvard education has taught us anything , it is how wrong we were . ARTHUR WALDRON , ' 71 DANIEL PIPES , ' 71 ALICE GALENSON , ' 70 LOUISE MARTIN , ' 71 DAVID GALENSON , ' 72 Cambridge , Mass. , May 6 , 1970 Natives ' Claims Backed To the Editor : The natives of Alaska ? 60,000 Eskimos , Indians and Aleuts  --  are threatened with the loss of their ancestral lands . As a result of the discovery of oil on Alaska 's north slope , the rush for mineral riches threatens the natives ' lands with expropriation and their way of life with extinction . Alaska 's native people are asking Congress to protect their rights and to fulfill a promise made to them in 1884 that they would receive legal title to the lands they have used and occupied for centuries . They ask for title to only 40 million acres-10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 2 per cent mineral royalties , and just com pensation for waiving their claims to more than 300 million acres of land . ' Legislation is currently pending before the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs to provide a comprehensive and just settlement of the natives ' legal rights to their land . Let us not repeat the injustices and cruelties that were meted out to the Indians all over our country a hundred years ago . In the interests of justice and decency , Senate bill S. 3041 should be supported . MARION P. HYMAN Buffalo , May 9 , 1970 ? For Preparedness To the Editor : Regarding your May 1 editorial on President Nixon 's decision to win the war by uprooting enemy sanctuaries in Cambodia , if you do not believe in our country 's military capability by terming it a " military hallucination " . . . then you might as well start weaving the welcome mat for foreign invaders . The only way to insure peace is to be prepared for war . I never realized that The Times is out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1970 ? Pressures for Peace To the Editor : Three Wall Street lawyers , Messrs . Nixon , Mitchell and Rogers , hold the fate of the world in their hands . It is for them to decide whether to end or continue a war which we can not win , but which is exhausting our resources and moving steadily toward a world catastrophe . As a result of the war , the stock market has collapsed and the United States is faced with some of the most serious economic dislocations in its history . Will Wall Street institutions of influence have the courage to speak up at this crucial hour and demand an end to this conflict in which we have nothing to gain and everything to lose ? CYRUS EATON Cleveland , April 27 , 1970 ? Hard-Hats ' Scored To the Editor : The unionized construction workers who went on a wellplanned rampage through the Wall Street area may think that long-haired students , who protest the war , are spoiled brats . Many of them probably are . But what of the workers themselves ? They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is it possible , however , that trade unionism 's just and single-minded pursuit of a living wage created among its members a pig-headed insularity that borders on fascism ? JAY BORLAND New York , May 9 , 1970 ? Complaint Table To the Editor : Once again in its April 25 editorial on George Washington High School The Times agrees that the students are deprived of their rightful educational opportunities . But The Times 's criticism is as misinformed and misleading as the statement by Joseph Monserrat for the Board of Education . The so - called compromise statement by Mr. Monserrat no longer even resembles the " table " agreement signed by Deputy Superintendent Seelig Lester . Under United Federation of Teachers pressure , his agreement was abrogated  --  we parents are not to function in the lobby of the school where we would be most accessible to the students of greatest need . Instead we are to become part of the school establishment , placed in an office which these students no longer trust to enter . Under the pretense of the " right to confidentiality , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are to have no right to follow up on the requests and complaints of the students , and thus can not evaluate the work of the " parent table . " As you state , all students have a right to " an uninterrupted education . " This is precisely the right that has been so long ignored  --  not by parents , but by this and previous school administrations . More than onehalf of George Washington High School students drop out , their needs unmet , and only about one-third graduate with academic diplomas . Of these fewer still go on to college . Is this the uninterrupted education which you wish to restore ? A school in which students see guidance counselors when they are ready to " graduate " only to be told they lack the necessary courses and have been wrongly programed does not deserve to be called an academic high school . It is a diploma mill for " general diplomas " and certificates of attendance . We agree with The Times that this fight is about power  --  the power of the teachers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education for the public schools . One recalls that The Times spoke honorably and eloquently for a police complaint review board manned by civilians . One would have hoped for some understanding of the need for a student complaint table manned by students and parents ? the civilians of the police state our high schools have become . JACQUELINE MCCORD New York , April 27 , 1970 ?                     