@@734058

txt What may become the longest running television show in history will begin at noon tomorrow as a somewhat skittish House of Representatives goes on camera . Gavel-to-gavel televised coverage of House proceedings , one of the most dramatic innovations in Congressional history , will begin on a limited basis , with broadcasts transmitted only to television sets in offices of House members . But within weeks , perhaps as early as March 1 , the House-operated system will begin feeding coverage , free of charge , to commercial , public and cable television outlets for live programs or to be taped for later showing . Offered by Nonprofit Network The commercial and public television stations are expected to use only short segments of most House proceedings , focusing only on the more dramatic or newsworthy events . But for millions of Americans in certain areas who subscribe to cable television , a flick of the dial will bring gavel-togavel coverage of the House into their bomes . ? This complete coverage of House proceedings will be offered nationally by a nonprofit network called C-SPAN , or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least 200 of the country 's 4,000 cable systems as its initial subscribers so as to reach perhaps as many as five million homes . C-SPAN will pick up the signal from a control room in the Rayburn House Office Building and send it to a cable system in nearby Arlington , Va . From there , the signal will be transmitted to the RCA Satcom I satellite , which is in stationary orbit 23,000 miles above the equator . Subscribing cable systems will then pick up the televised broadcast from the satellite and beam it to homes , schools , offices , clubs and other customers . Each cable system subscribing to the service will be charged a penny a month for each cable customer . Brian Lamb , who organized C-S PAN , is aware that the House show will be no rival for many of the more popular offerings on commercial television . ' A Real Public Service " I ca n't imagine there will be huge numbers of people who will want to sit all day and watch the House in action , " Mr. Lamb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who tune in , at least periodically , to make this worthwhile . I think we 'll be offering a real public service . " Ushering the House into this new era has not been easy . The idea of televising House proceedings was first offered nearly 35 years ago , but not taken seriously . Then , just a few years ago , the idea surfaced again , only to run into a bitter debate on whether the House should operate its own system or whether to allow national television networks to bring their own cameras into the chamber . Network executives and some members of the House argued that a House-operated system would leave viewers with a feeling that " what you 're seeing is what the House wants you to see " and that this would be Government censorship . But Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. , Democrat of Massachusetts , and a majority of House members were reluctant to allow networks to man their own cameras in the chamber , arguing that network cameramen might focus too much on shots of empty seats , members dozing or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Year A 90-day  --  test run was made last year , with cameras operated by employees of the Capitol architect 's office . Because of poor lighting in the huge chamber , the pictures were fuzzy and , in some cases , unflattering . After that , the House voted to allow Speaker O'Neill to control the broadcast system , and he promptly named a small committee to devise a more workable plan . To head the committee , he named one of his favorite proteges , Representative Charles G. Rose 3d , Democrat of North Carolina . The Rose committee studied the broadcasting system used by Canada 's House of Commons and systems used by some state legislatures . The group also hired professional consultants . The committee decided on a House-operated system , just like the one used in Canada , but a far more sophisticated system than the one used in the Washington trial run . $1.2 Million for Equipment Lighting in the chamber has been magnified , although not so much that it will be blinding to members or viewers in the gallery . The panel spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound equipment and tape machines . The six cameras , installed in the galleries , will be operated by remote control by cameramen and other technicians in a former storeroom in the Capitol basement . The cameras will focus primarily on the Speaker 's dais , the microphones in the well of the House and the micro- ! phones at the tables of the majority and minority leaders . The 12 television employees , on the payroll of the Clerk of the House , will draw salaries totaling $278,000 a year . Tests of the equipment in recent weeks showed a startlingly clear picture . " This is going to be a new day , " Representative Rose said recently , as he inspected the test runs . " This is going to take some of the mystery out of this place . " But even as it prepares to go on the air , the House is engaged in still another controversy on whether members should be allowed to purchase televised tapes of their floor speeches to send to stations in their districts . Representative John B. Anderson , Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few Democrats , has argued that ' such a practice would give incumbent members of the House an advantage over prospective political opponents . Furthermore , Mr. Anderson has said . it could distort House proceedings by encouraging more members to grandstand for home consumption . Mr. Rose discounts such arguments . The cost of such tapes , probably about $100 for a three-minute segment , will discourage abuse , he said . Furthermore , tapes will not be available to members or the general public until a day or two after floor debate and thus , according to Mr. Rose , will not be newsworthy . There is a House rule , too , barring political or commercial use of televised floor proceedings by members of Congress . Mother rule is being drafted to extend this ban to nonmembers , including those seeking to unseat an incumbent . With its move into the age of television , the House finds itself a step ahead of the Senate in public exposure , just as it was in the very early days of the Congress . In 1780 , despite some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doors to the press and the public . But the Senate , fearing that newspaper coverage would be slanted and inaccurate , refused to follow suit . As Mirabeau Viewed Congress The French statesman , Mirabeau , commented in the early 1790 's : " The peers of America disdain to be seen by vulgar eyes . The music of their voices is harmony only for themselves , and must not vibrate in the ravished ears of an ungraceful and uncourtly multitude . " The Senate finally , in 1795 , threw open its doors to the press and the public . While the Senate has not installed cameras for floor coverage , it did allow radio broadcasting of the Panama Canal debate last year . And most Senate committee hearings , as well as some in the House , are open to radio and television coverage .                     