@@731145

txt Ten years ago today , the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service issued a momentous report citing cigarette smoking as a major hazard to life and health . Yet , on the anniversary of that historic , 387-page document , cigarette sales are at a record high , per capita consumption is increasing and 3,000 teenagers are becoming new smokers each day . Despite repeated scientific confirmation of the Surgeon General 's warnings , an everexpanding list of ? smokingrelated risks , an intense educational effort , restrictions on cigarette advertising and a growing force of nottsmokers seeking to limit smoking in public places , about 40 per cent of men and 30 per cent of women are current cigarette smokers . An estimated 10 million Americans , mostly men , , have quit cigarettes since the report was issued , but the population growth and a steady influx of new smokers have increased the ranks of current smokers from 50 million in 1964 to 52 million today , However , public health officials estimate that the report and the studies , warnings and educational efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have meant ? 75 million smokers today . At the same time , concern over health has led to an increasing use of cigarette filters and tobacco substitutes that , in turn , has resulted in an 18 per cent drop in per capita consumption of cigarette tobacco and a 32 per cent decline in tar and nicotine content . Thus , smokers of today are puffing on less potent and , presumably , somewhat less harmful cigarettes than a decade ago , although there is not yet proof that their risk is reduced . The tobacco industry , while continuing to maintain that cigarettes are not the health hazard they are made The New York Times/Jan. 11 197i out to be , has nonetheless catered to the public demand for less tar and nicotine . Dr. Luther L. Terry , the former Surgeon General , who issued the 1964 report , said , " In general , I 'm encouraged ' by the progress of the last decade and optimistic about the future . But I also have some important reservations . " " I 'm most discouraged by our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There has n't been a significant drop in smoking among young people . In fact , they 're starting at earlier ages and there 's been a dramatic increase in the percentage of girls who smoke . " New ' Bill of Rights ' As a consultant on tobacco and health for the American , Cancer Society and a mem- - ber-at-large of the National Interagency Council on Smoking and Health , Dr. Terry has dedicated much of the last decade to combating smoking and supporting nonsmokers in their efforts to breathe air free of tobacco smoke , Today , in Philadelphia 's Congress Hall , the former Surgeon General is participating in the adoption of the " Nonsmoker 's Bill of Rights , " sponsored by the interagency council . The bill proclaims the right of nonsmokers to breathe clean air ( which " supersedes the right to smoke when the two conflict " ) , the right to speak out about their discomfort in the presence of tobacco ? smoke , and the right to act in legiti , mate ways to restrict smoking in public places. ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and already it has made substantial gains , " Dr. Terry remarked . Increased Awareness Airlines are now subject to $1,000 fines for failing to provide a smoke-free seat for any passenger who wants one ; the Interstate Commerce Commission has just made " no smoking " the rule , rather than the exception , on all passenger trains ; the military has begun to segregate smokers and has stopped distributing cigarettes in C-rations ; a growing number of restaurants now offer segregated areas for nonsmokers ; Arizona has banned smoking in a wide variety of public places , and similar legislation has been passed or is being considered in many cities and states as well as in Congress . All these efforts have enhanced public awareness of cigarettes and made the smoker increasingly self-conscious and , at times , uncomfortable about his habit . Indeed , some experts believe that in the future a decline in the social acceptability of smoking will do more to swell the ranks of former smokers and nonsmokers than the continuing barrage of eversterner health warnings . Few doubt , however , that health risks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million Americans who have already become former smokers . The 1964 report cited cigarette smoking as the major cause of lung cancer and chronic bronchitis , as an important cause of cancer of the larynx and as associated with an increased risk of cancer of the bladder and esophagus , heart disease , peptic ulcer , cirrhosis of the liver and the smallness of babies at birth . In the decade since , these risks have been repeatedly demonstrated  --  in studies in Japan and Great Britain as well as in the United States . And the list of smoking-associated hazards has grown to include cancer of the mouth , pharynx , pancreas and kidney ; atherosclerosis and several vascular diseases , and periodontal ( gum ) disease , Cigarettes are now established as a major cause of emphysema and as an important contributing cause of death from heart disease . In Britain , as in the United States , cigarette smoking is now the largest single avoidable cause of death and , disability . Sir George Godber , Britain 's chief medical officer , has reported that cigarettes are responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four chronic bronchitis deaths and one in four deaths from heart disease . The data available in 1964 were based on studies of men , with only a suggestion that women might face similar risks . In the intervening years , it has been shown that women smokers also face a greatly increased risk of lung cancer , heart disease , cirrhosis of the liver , emphysema and cancer of the mouth , pharynx , esophagus , pancreas and bladder . Effects Upon Mothers And mothers who smoke during pregnancy have been shown to be more likely to experience miscarriage , stillbirth and death of the newborn child . Smokers ' babies tend to weigh less at birth and , according to British findings , tend to perform less well academically and socially at the age of 7 years . All told , the Public Health Service conservatively estimates that 300,000 Americans die prematurely each year because they smoked cigarettes . In addition , a National Health Survey ' found that there were 12 million more chronic illnesses among adult Americans than there would be if everyone had the illness rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more days of work ( a total of more than 77 million working days ) , make more visits to the doctor , spend more days in the hospital and undergo more surgery than do nonsmokers . In addition , the children of smoking parents have twice the incidence of respiratory illness found in nonsmoking families . Role of Carbon Monoxide Scientists have also begun to delineate the specific effects of tobacco smoke and to identify the ' factors that may cause harm . Among other things , tobacco smoke has been found to interfere with the natural cleansing mechanisms of the respiratory tract . A number of cancer-causing components of cigarette " tar " have been isolated . Nicotine , in addition to stimulating the heart rate and raising blood pressure , has been shown to affect the cells involved in blood clotting and to interfere with immunity mechanisms that help prevent infection . Recently , carbon monoxide , a combustion product in cigarette smoke , has been singled out as a previously unappreciated cause of damage , particularly to the heart and blood vessels . Carbon monoxide combines with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of oxygen available to the heart and other body tissues . It has also been shown to increase the rate of artery-clogging atherosclerosis and cause swelling and degeneration of certain heart tissues . A pack-a-day smoker has two to three times the level of carbon monoxide in his blood as the nonsmoker , and a recent nationwide study found that smoking was a far more Important source of carbon monoxide in the blood than was air pollution . The Industry Viewpoint While most of the scientific and medical community believes , on the basis of current evidence , that cigarettes are an important cause of death and disability , some scientists and the tobacco industry , which has spent more than $30-million on smoking and health research in the last decade , maintain other . wise . Horace R. Kornegay , president of the Tobacco Institute , the industry 's trade association , said in a statement yesterday that the Surgeon General 's report raised more questions than it answered and that final answers were still not in . He said that future research into such influences on health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , geography and genetics will be much more significant than what has already been done . " But while the industry keeps the smoking-health controversy smoldering , 75 per cent of current smokers acknowledge and accept the health risks of cigarettes . ? And more than half the current smokers have attempted to quit . ' It appears , however , that most of the smokers who would find it relatively easy to quit have already done so . The ranks of former smokers consist largely of those who were light smokers to begin with or who had already developed a smokingrelated illness that forced their hand . For many , cigarette smoking is a deeply ingrained habit that is extremely difficult to break ; for others , it is a source of pleasure they are reluctant to give up . " In spite of everything ? the Surgeon General 's report , the educational programs of the National Clearinghouse on Smoking and Health and other health organizations ? we still have more than 50 million smokers , " said Dr. Gio B. Gori , who heads the Tobacco Working Group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that this habit will continue for the next few decades , at least . " Less-Hazardous Cigarette ? Therefore , the institute , in addition to supporting antismoking educational efforts , has decided to focus its research attention on ways of reducing the risk to those who continue to smoke . As Dr. Gori outlined them . the institute 's main lines of research include trying to identify those individuals who are at high risk of developing smoking related illnesses and finding ways to help them give up cigarettes ; developing drugs . , that will counteract the unwanted ef : fects of substances in tobacco smoke or mimic their pleasure-giving properties without doing damage , and trying to reduce the risk of smoking by making a less hazardous cigarette . " This last one is the approach we think will be most successful in the long run , " Dr. Gori said . " The trick is to remove the harmful substances and leave in those that give the smoker pleasure . " In one experiment , Agriculture Department scientists are trying to identify the precursors of harmful tar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other scientists are studying new ways of curing tobacco and improving the combustion of cigarettes to reduce the amount of cancer - inducing hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide in the smoke . Filters that can selectively remove harmful substances , yet leave in pleasure-giving ones , are also under investigation , All these studies , however , are difficult and time-consuming . Whatever the scientists come up with must be ' tested in laboratory animals for a minimum of two years . Some animal studies are already under way , but it will be some time before the results reach the ' consumer . And some scientists oppose this whole approach , ' saying that cigarettes can never be made harmless and that this effort will ultimately put government health officials in the position of advocating a harmful , although somewhat less harmful , product .                     