@@733029

txt Letters pg . 26 Letters Congress on SALT : ' A Tonkin-Like Ring ' To the Editor : It is hard to avoid a sense of dein vts when reading ( Times April 1 ) of the chorus of Congressional approval of President Carter 's intention to " hang tough " and be ready to boost arms production after the SALT setback in Moscow . Congressional assertions that the President 's will is being tested and that Congress and the people must rally around him have a Tonkin-like ring . It may be that the Soviets are mainly S. Harmon to blame for what went wrong in Moscow ; their international realpofitik can be as ruthless as their domestic repression of dissidents . Yet the almost unquestioning support of the Administration 's position being displayed in Congress is worrisome . For our SALT proposals included Soviet concessions of a sort that no major power 's leadership , democratic or despotic , can easily make , e.g. , the U.S.S.R. to narrow its lead in large ICBM 's by cutting its number from 308 to about 150 : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the U.S.S.R. has not yet started to develop , while a curb on missile modernization would serve to freeze a U.S. lead of several years in most areas of missile technology . Regardless of whether there had or had not been any official U.S. criticism of the U.S.S.R. 's repression of human rights , no Soviet leaders could easily have accepted such proposals . The prolonged opposition of our own hardliners to Paul Warnke 's SALT appointment for fear that he might make some possible future concessions should suggest how politically dangerous it would be for Brezhnev to make the real concessions so abruptly asked of him . It is disturbing that the Carter Administration seems either blind or indifferent to this reality . It is even more disturbing that Congress seems , once again , incapable of criticizing a Commander in Chief " hanging tough " against Communism . STUART E. COLIE Professor of Political Science Central Connecticut State College New Britain , Conn. , April 4 , 1977 ? Test of Soviet Intentions To the Editor : The Kremlin appears to understand , although some critics of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet bluff on the Helsinki agreement has given him the initiative in the arms control talks . Of all the agreements being negotiated between the Soviet Union and the United States , only two could threaten the continued existence of the present Soviet regime . Expanded arms control might leave it more vulnerable to attack by another superpower . Honoring the Helsinki agreement might undermine its authoritarian control over its own population . The integrity with which it honors one of these risky agreements is a reliable measure of its integrity in negotiating the other . President Carter 's challenge to the Soviet leadership regarding human rights was thus in part a test of Soviet intentions in the disarmament negotiations . It stands in sharp contras to the position of previous Administra tions , when our connivance at Sovie hypocrisy on the Helsinki agreemen signaled our willingness to accep hypocrisy on disarmament as well . President Carter 's rejection of the : hypocrisy on human rights has pan icked the Soviet leaders into bluster ing and breaking off the arms contro talks , not knowing how to approacl negotiations for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters is lost by this impasse , and world opinion will force a resumption . Then , for perhaps the first time , the Soviets ' only option may be serious negotiations toward arms control . ALAN LEVENSON Albany , April 4 , 1977 ? The Kremlin 's Mainstay To the Editor : Perhaps the breakdown of arms limitation talks should come as no surprise . The Soviet Union has enshrined an ideology so flawed it does not permit the Russian people elementary human rights or material well-being . The regime thus finds itself unidimensional , legitimized only by brute force and the willingness to use it . However vulgar this single claim on our respect , the Kremlin , aware that raw power is the essence of its existence , is not as likely to give it up as we might be . As compelling as the cause of arms reduction assuredly is , it may be the height of naivet ? to expect a sensible agreement as long as the Soviets are wed to what Solzhenitsyn describes as a " deadening , killing ideology , " an ideology so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies  --  the Soviet Union looks to be little more than a monstrous war machine . TOM SHUFORD Roslyn Heights , L. I. , April 5 , 1977 About Car Makers , Buyers and Reluctant Insurers Of ' Illiterate Gibberish ' And a College Education To the Editor : I would like to congratulate Dean Shaughnessey on her ' ' trained eye " news story April 4 . It . indeed takes a very special talent to be able to recognize an underlying coherence to that illiterate gibberish she professes to understand . If my kindergarten-age son had given me that letter , I would have applauded his effort and patiently corrected his spelling . To receive this nonsense from a college student is an insult not only to my intellect but also to that of hundreds of thousands of once-proud City College graduates . Bernard Baruch said , " All that I am today and all that . I ever hope to be I owe to the City College of New York . " I think he is indeed fortunate not to be alive today to bear witness to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this garbage are to be condemned . Not everyone is college material , and , indeed , college is not one 's birthright . It is a privilege to he earned , and it is high time that all of our educators realize it . Remedial reading and writing are the lawful domain of our primary and secondary schools and not our coleges . Those of us who have struggled so hard for our education are incensed Ind will not tolerate this prostitution ) ( our educational processes . . IDLES LEONARD SCHWARTZ City College , Class of 1959 Bronx , April 5 , 1977 Co the Editor : As the former Administrator of the 7ederal Urban Mass Transportation kdministration ( U.M.T.A. ) , and as the ipparent villain of Tom Wicker 's March 15 column on transit bus lesign , I regret that Mr. Wicker did n't : heck his facts with me or U.M.T.A. n advance . Wicker states that U.M.T.A. ignored he Congressional mandate to make irban transit fully available to the Iderly and handicapped . That is dead vrong . U.M.T.A. issued tough regulaions in 1976 specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ target group , inluding wheelchair users , on penalty , f losing all Federal grant funds . In addition , these regulations reuired that all new transit buses had 3 have ( 1 ) front step risers that did of exceed eight inches in height , ( 2 ) loors that did not exceed 24 inches in eight when a " kneeling " device was sed and ( 3 ) wheelchair lifts or ramps nd wide access doors which could be rdered as options . I decided against two further steps . irst , I decided not to mandate the uroduction of the so-called Transbus , n experimental vehicle with a 22-Ich floor . Such a mandate would have elaved the introduction of new buses tr three to five years because of the tck of proven components ( new axles , res and differentials ) , while advancedesign buses with 24-inch floors ( with neelers ) were available within a year , moreover , going from 24-inch to 22-ich floors would increase costs from to 25 percent over the advancedesign model and would lessen fuel ' ficiency and seating capacity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of ransbus , using research funds , but Auld not mandate it now . Second , we did not mandate that To the Editor : One of the most serious problems facing motorists today is that of obtaining automobile insurance  --  not only at unconscionably high premiums but at any premiums at all . The result is that more and more drivers are taking a calculated risk by operating vehicles that are underinsured or not insured at all . Hardest hit are two classes of drivers in particular : the elderly , despite spotless driving records , and those purchasing their first cars or obtaining their first insurance on such cars  --  or attempting to do so , Yet , each year  --  and now is the time of greatest activity  --  the automobile companies spew forth their millions of cars . Not one manufacturer , in advertising or otherwise , has undertaken to advance any ideas on how purchasers can obtain insurance on their millions of cars . This , in essence , they declare , is not their concern . They only sell cars , Insurance is another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for responsible government officials to step in and tie the two together ? If they do n't , the illegally driven cars will soon add up to a catastrophe . It seems to me that if liability insurance companies refuse to insure certain classes of prospective drivers , these refusals should he on record , and unless a person , can produce a valid insurance certificate at the time he wants to purchase a car , new or used , he can not be sold a car . This , every new bus had to have ramps or lifts to accommodate the 400,000 wheelchair users who live in our urban areas ( the number is not 13.3 million , as Wicker suggests ) . In many communities , door-to-door service using vans or taxis will provide better and cheaper service than fixed route buses , and would n't require the wheelchair user to get to and from a bus stop . Taxpayers pay Federal officials to make balanced decisions , not to write blank checks on the Treasury for everything that a special interest group wants . Common sense  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Brock Adams will be under intense pressure from some in the Congress and from certain groups representing the handicapped to reverse my decision . He needs to have the benefit of more balanced press treatment than the Wicker piece as he makes his determination . ROBERT E. PATRICELLI , Va. , April 1 , 1977 I am sure , will wake the manufacturers up a bit , and with their vaunted clout they will be able to resolve the problem  --  or go out of business . At least the rest of us will feel safer . DAVID TAYLOR MARKE Fort Lee , N. J. , April 2 , 1977 Time and the Legislator To the Editor : In the frequent articles on the outside earnings of our Congressmen , I rarely see what seems to me the most important issue involved here . To earn money means an investment of time . Thus , it is a question of how much time should be expected of a Congressman in his primary occupation as an elected representative of his people in Congress and how much time he has to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own profession , medicine , where , if physicians salaried by an institution supplement their income , better qualified people can be attracted to serve in institutions that may not be able to pay the salaries such persons would require . But , when abused , this privilege of private practice absorbs too much time , and those cared for in the salaried position suffer . For many of us , time Is our most valuable asset , and the ethics of its use are of prime importance . BEATRICE S. BRAUN , M.D. Larchmont , N.Y. , April 6 , 1977 A Job for the Mayor To the Editor : Mayor Beanie should ride shotgun on the subway instead of raiding porno shops . He then would be doing the public a service . And if he would take the limousineriding Board of Estimate as deputies , we might get rid of the rapists , muggers and holdup men who have made the trains unsafe . EPHRAIM LEEMAN Bronx , April 5 , 1977 Miscalculation on Water To the Editor : In my letter of April 8 , I inadvertently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all persons . The needed expenditure is actually about .530 billion per year : $9 billion for water and sanitation , the balance for agriculture . THOMAS HOFFMANN Washington , April 8 , 1977 Kneeling Buses : The ' Common Sense ' Decision                     