@@728496

txt St. Paul , March 20 Friday un ? The walkout of letter carriers spread to Minnesota early today when the 700 workers here went on strike . Pickets marched outside the 15-story postoffice in downtown St. Paul as snow pelted them . BY JOSEPH ZULLO ( Picture on back page ) Chicano Tribune Press Service New York , March 19 ? The illegal revolt of letter carriers for higher pay which started here yesterday , tonight was joined by postal workers in Newark , the commercial and financial center of New Jersey . The walkout spread to other cities . In Buffalo , deliverymen voted overwhelmingly to walk off their jobs . The letter car . riers union members voted 673 AN INTOLERABLE STRIKE See the editorial on page 18 to 186 to set up picket lines immediately around post offices in the Buffalo area . The effect of the walkout in defiance of federal court orders had already reached cataclysmic proportions here when the Newark workers roared approval of a strike . 73 Postoffices Affected Workers in other cities in New Jersey lad already struck . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strike had begun at a. rn . Cities in Connecticut also were hit by walkouts . ' More than 73 postoffices in three states were affected by the strike . The Newark shutdown was calculated to add to the troubles of the huge New York business community . Newark is just 10 miles west of Manhattan , and many New York firms had been trucking their mail there to avoid the New York tie-up . Vote Strike in Brooklyn The major securities markets said they were watching the situation carefully . The New York Stock exchange said that it intended to keep its normal hours of trading but left the door open to shut down if the strike continued thru the week-end . The American Stock exchange usually follows the big board 's lead . The 3,090-member Brooklyn Postal union , representing business and Wall street transclerks , drivers , mail handlers , actions as among the hardest and maintenance men , voted hit areas . to join the letter carriers in the strike . A similar step is expected to be taken by the Manhattan and Bronx Postal union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic vitality of this center of world finance and trade , as well as local business , was put under greater stress . The impact was being felt in brokerage houses , banks , law offices , department stores , and thousands of other businesses . A backlog of 18 million pieces of mail piled up in Manhattan offices alone . About 65,000 postal workers were idled in the city . " Causes Serious Disruption " Ralph Gross , president of the Commerce and Industry association , repeated today that the strike was causing " serious disruption " to business , and cited the cumulative effect . " It 's a geometric progression , " he told reporters . " There 's going to be a very serious backlog problem , " The association represents 3,500 concerns in New York City , including all of the major corporations and many smaller ones . " The insurance companies and the banks who depend so heavily on mail are the hardest hit , " Gross said . " But there 's no company so small that it 's not affected . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ messengers and air freight were being used for high priority items . The New York Telephone company did not experience any appreciable increase in phone calls , a spokesman said .                     