@@729907

txt ? After a brief experiment in liberalization , the Army has decided to tighten up again on its eight-week basic training course , that once-hidebound device used to transform soft , sloppy civilians into hardened , disciplined warriors . The barracks beer machine that so pleasantly quenched the thirst of dusty recruits and so thoroughly irked crusty drill sergeants will he removed . The barracks themselves will no longer he divided into pri- ' vate cubicles , complete with colorful curtains , but instead will . revert to big , open olive drab dormitories familiar to millions of old soldiers everywhere . Finally , in a change that future recruits will long remember , the basic . physical training program will be made tougher , with a return to such punishing habits as jogging from one drill area to the next and with reinstitution of the " dadly dozen , " those highly stylized exercises done every morning , en masse , by the numbers and with much grunting and groaning . " We 've taken a long look at things , experimented around , and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best for recruits , " says Brig , Gen , Ira Hunt , the man in charge of the Army 's training command , with headquarters here on the shores of Hampton Roads . The experimentation began about a year ago when the Army started to think seriously about how to become an allvolunteer force . One of the conclusions was that young men might be more inclined to join up on their own if Army life were made more appealing . Though the changes indicate that the Pentagon has concluded that some of the experimentation went too far , certain innovations will become permanent since recruiters report that young Americans seem impressed by the " new Army . " For example , there are no plans to reinstitute the reveille formation for recruits . They need arise only in time to show up for their first class or work detail . Furthermore , recruits will continue to receive weekend passes during the final month of their training , though drill sergeants may withhold the passes of men who do not train I properly during the week . The tightening up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into full effect on Feb. 14 , when the Army also intends to lengthen the program by three days , add new courses in weaponry , communications , escape and evasion and character guidance and lessen the amount of classroom lecturing in favor of more hands-on , performance-oriented training . General Hunt says the extra training days are needed not only because of the new subjects but also because of the new emphasis on physical training . Ile estimates that recruits who enter the Army after Feb. 14 will receive . 30 to 40 per cent more exercise than the men currently in training . The revision of the physical exercise program is being made , somewhat surprisingly , partly at the request of recruits themselves . In response to an official survey at Fort Leonard Wood , Mo. , one of a half-dozen basic training centers , two of every three recruits said that their training had not been as physically demanding as they had expected and one of every five asked for , more exercise . The new courses in weaponry will give recruits knowledge not only of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the M-79 grenade launcher and the M-60 machine gun . Previously , only men going into the infantry were taught how to operate such weapons . " One of the things we learned from the Vietnam experience , " says General Hunt , " is that everybody  --  cooks , clerks , drivers  --  should know how these weapons work . We also now feel that everyone should know how to operate a radio and how to escape if taken prisoner . " The character guidance course will be taught in seminar form and will include a chaplain 's talk on marriage and ' the responsibility it entails . General Hunt believes the talk will help make today 's recruit a " whole man " and will make his stand in the Army an " enriching experience . " The hands-on training concept was developed at Fort Ord , Calif. , the basic training center where many recruit experiments have been conducted . It has been enthusiastically received by instructors and students since it involves going through the motions of , say , firing a gun or tying a tourniquet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is also taking a long look at its " advanced individual training " programs , courses taught during the second eight weeks in the Army . No firm conclusions have been reached thus far , but indications are that new emphasis will be placed on such things as air and tank defense , subjects that were passed over lightly when men were being trained by the thousands to go to Vietnam .                     