@@728946

txt The Communists have recently finished disbanding two of their crack regiments which normally operate north and northeast of Saigon . According to captured prisoners and documents , the Quyet Thang and Dong Nai regiments , consisting of about 1,200 men each , have broken down into independent battalions numbering less than 200 men each . The move marks a further step in developing the strategy of lower-scale , protracted war advocated earlier this year by North Vietnam 's Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap . The two regiments were famous for the part they played in the heavy fighting of the 1968 Tet offensive . In their new role , the independent battalions are expected to avoid the big battles of the past , concentrating instead on disrupting the government 's hold on the countryside in Military Region III  --  the 11-province area which surrounds Saigon . Firepower restrained The U.S. command in South Vietnam is quietly beginning to curb the heavy use of American firepower in the Vietnam war . except against known enemy targets . Informed sources say the command , headed by Gen. Creighton W. Abrams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harassment and interdiction fire against suspected targets now that , in the command 's view , much of the Vietnamese countryside has been brought under government control . Word has gone out to artillery and air units not to unleash shells and bombs unless intelligence on a given target is absolutely sure . Sources say the move is intended both to cut costs , and prevent mishaps . Only last week , an American unit shelled another , killing at least two men and wounding several others . In a related development , Gen. Lucius D. Clay Jr .. commander of the Seventh Air Force , has ordered an extensive evaluation of the effectiveness of air power in Vietnam with an eye toward cutting back on air strikes wherever possible . Thai Army buildup Expansion of the Vietnamese war into Cambodia has created new pressures on Thailand to increase the strength of its armed forces . Concerned about a possible North Vietnamese threat to their border with Cambodia , the Thais recently shifted some 2,000 troops from critical areas of the country 's northeast , where they were fighting Thai insurgents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some experts see it , the move will give Communist-supported rebels in the northeast a chance to step up their attacks in the coming dry season . In the meantime . however , the Thais intend to bring home their 12,000 troops now deployed in South Vietnam . Thai leaders also are talking of increasing the size of the Army 25 percent above its present strength of 100,000 men . This would put further strains on the budget of a country which has prided itself on often giving economic development priority over military development . Yet it is becoming increasingly clear that Thailand 's Army is spread very thin . The long Thai borders with Laos and Cambodia , the simmering insurgencies in the northeast and south , the Communist-backed rebellion of Meo tribesmen in the north , which has been gaining momentum during the past year  --  all these pose potential threats to the Thais . War and tourism Even in the midst of war , the Government in Vientiane , administrative capital of Laos , is planning ways to attract tourists off the beaten track to the fabled " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans for possible construction of a tourist center in the city , the government hopes to induce some of the many travelers visiting neighboring Thailand to come up to Laos . Most visitors find the Lao a gentle , engaging people . And the royal capital of Luang Prabang is a lovely , quiet town studded with temples . But the government is expected to run into difficulty raising money for the projected tourist center . Moreover , though part of the country has been virtually untouched by the conflict , war headlines from northern Laos probably will continue to frighten tourists away .                     