@@733462

txt President Anwar el-Sadat 's abrupt recall of the Egyptian delegation was sharply criticized by the Israeli Cabinet late tonight as an " extreme " move that proved " that the Egyptian Government deceived itself that Israel will submit to demands it has never considered feasible . " The tough Israeli statement came after a long emergency meeting of the Cabinet , presided over by Prime Minister mena-. hem Begin , that took place in a feverish atmosphere as members of the Egyptian delegation packed their bags and headed for Ben-Gurion International Airport , where they boarded an Egyptian plane and returned to Cairo . It was not clear tonight whether the return of Foreign Minister Mohammed Ibrahim Kamel signified an actual breakdown in the negotiations or was just a tactical move by the Egyptians to extract additional concessions from the Israelis or to induce the United States to bring more weight to bear on the Israelis to make compromises . Break in Tants Denied Mr. Kamel , as he was leaving the Jerusalem Hilton Hotel tonight , was asked if his return to Cairo meant that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said anything about the talks being broken . " " I mean this has not been mentioned , " he said . " It is a very natural thing that I should go back , that my President should hear from me about what happened here . And the President will see what the next stage will be . " Late tonight , an Egyptian spokesman , Dr. Moursi Saad el-Din , told reporters that the recall was " not a result of today , " a reference to the committee 's deliberations . " Things accumulated , " he said . " The last straw was Begin 's toast . " Mr. Begin , at a dinner Tuesday evening , upset the Egyptians by toughly reiterating Israel 's positions . Mr. Vance met late tonight with Mr. Begin and told reporters afterward that he would try to persuade Mr. Sadat to resume the talks . Mr. Vance said he would confer by telephone with President ? Carter and that he planned , as scheduled , to go to Egypt on Friday . The Secretary of State said he would confer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Page Al2 . The news of Mr. Sadat 's recall decision spread like wildfire through this intensely news-conscious country tonight , causing many Israelis to wonder in dismay if an // unprecedented chance for peace with the Arabs had eluded them . The long Cabinet statement , which seemed to bear Mr. Begin 's ' hand , was steely reiteration of Israel 's position , but it also contained a harsh assessment of Mr. Sadat 's move . " The Egyptian delegation submitted to Israel the demands for a withdrawal from Sinai , the Golan , Judea and Samaria and the Gaza Strip , " the statement said , geferring to the territories Israel captured during the 1967 war . Egypt 's Foreign Minister , Mr. Kamel , the Cabinet said , " did not hesitate to demand that Israel give up . o foreigners the Old City of Jerusalem and we were also expected to agree to set up a Palestinian state in the territory of the land of Israel in Judea , Samaria and Gaza . " This latter reference was a strong re-affirmation of Mr. Begin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza are rightfully Israel 's because of their biblical association with the ancient Jews . Such a demand , the Cabinet said , " would have removed every prospect of peace and endangered the very existence of the Jewish state . " The statement referred to a peace proposal made a few weeks ago by Mr. Begin and said , " Only the Egyptian Government in its astonishing rigidity sees in our plan stalling and deceit . " Israel , the statement said , would continue to seek peace with Egypt if Mr. Sadat decid ? ed to renew negotiations . There were reports here that Israeli journalists who had gone to Cairo to cover resumption of the Military Committee meetings had been ' told by Egyptian authorities to remain in their hotel . It was not clear whether the reporters were being kept at the hotel in order to return them to Israel . While some Israelis wondered whether another Middle East conflict was not imminent , others tended to view Mr. Sadat 's decision as a strategem aimed at putting pressure on Israel to make greater concessions on key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the occupied territories and the question of the- future of the 1.1 million Palestinian Arabs living in them . Still others , wondered whether Mr. Sadat made the move out of pique because of Mr. Begin 's remarks at the dinner last night for Mr. Kamel and Mr. Vance . Mr. Begin 's remarks cast a chill over the event and his tough delineation . of Israel 's stand , along with a critique of earlier comments made by Mr. Kernel , upset and angered members of the Egyptian delegation . The Cabinet session was interrupted when Mr. Kamel came to Prime Minister Begin 's office for a meeting . Just before it , as Egyptian members of the delegation packed their bags at the Hilton , Mr. Kamel met with Mr. Vance . Theories , rationales , opinions and surmises abounded as to why the Egyptians were recalled and the theories seemed to multiply in direct proportion to the absence of a precise explanation for Mr. Sadat 's move  --  particularly as reporters early this evening were being fed lulling reports about " progress " in the talks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Upon emerging tonight from an hourlong meeting with Mr. Begin , Mr. Kamel told reporters that " the atmosphere which surrounded the meeting of the political committee  --  and public statements and things like that  --  had something to do - with my recall now to report to the President . " During the dinner , Mr. Begin  --  who has long enjoyed a reputation in Israel for his autocratic . manner and tendency towards pedagogy , combined a ruminative history lesson with a criticism of Mr. Camel 's " negative " delineation of- what circumstances were geeded to establish peace . Mr. Begin 's remarks were also criticized by some here  --  including members of a visiting American Congressional delegation ? as patronizing when he said , " The Egyptian Foreign Minister is a young man , and our generation remembers that wonderful concept of self-determination was misused in the 1930 's . " In recent days , Mr. Sadat was voicing his disenchantment over the Israeli response to his bold visit to Jerusalem and his recognition of Israel 's existence . This was registered in the English-Ian4uage newspaper . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its diplomatic correspondent , David Landau , the first such interview the Egyptian leader has given an Israeli ' newsp a per . In a reflective article , written after the interview , Mr. Landau said : " I left with the anguished feeling that there is a total absence of communication between Sadat and Begin . Certainly there is no chemisz try of warmth  --  though there is a certain respect on Sadat 's part for the Israeli Premier . But more than that  --  much more serious and ominous  --  there is no meeting of minds . There is an intercourse in two separate idioms : there is no dialogue . " The report appeared three days ago ,                     