@@732969

txt POOR CARE in a Waukegan nursing home was to blame for most of the 13 patient deaths that occurred in a 13-month period , the Illinois Legislative Investigating Commission charged Thursday . " We concluded that the majority of these deaths can be attributed to substandard nursing care and neglect , " the commission said after investigating conditions at All Seasons Nursing Center , 919 Washington Park , Waukegan . In addition , the commission charged that other All Seasons patients were grossly mistreated . Two had been raped by staff members while others were beaten and thrust under scalding showers for " punishment , " the commission said . One scalding victim was so badly injured he required skin grafts . THE COMMISSION assailed the Illinois Departments of Public Aid , Mental Health , and Public Health for allowing conditions to exist in nursing homes that " shock the human conscience . " It stated that the nursing home industry in Illinois is highly regulated by law , but is " essentially unmonitored " in practice . As the commission accusations became public , the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners . The charges against All Seasons are contained in a 300-page report on 30 nursing homes in Lake County , Ill . ALTHOUGH THE commission reported that conditions were especially bad in All Seasons , it said it found evidence of patient neglect in other nursing homes . Patients in most of the homes are either mentally retarded , physically handicapped , elderly , senile , or a combination of all four . Many of the patients , including the 15 who died at All Seasons were placed there by state agencies . TILE CONDITIONS in Lake County nursing homes discovered by the commission resembled those in Chicago-area nursing homes that were disclosed by The Tribune in a series in 1971 . In investigating the death of Is patients at All Seasons between Sept. 20 , 1973 , and Nov. 7 , 1974 , the commission found that malnutrition and dehydration were contributing factors in nine deaths . The commission noted that 13 of the 15 victims were between 19 and 32 years old . The other two were 79 and 81 . Of the two women patients , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the AJ1 Seasons staff attempted to coverup both of the rapes and the pregnancy . THE COMMISSION charged that many other male and female patients were subjected to sexual abuse . The report states that one male orderly was a transvestite who " would report to work in female attire , " then change into men 's clothing . The commission reported frequent instances of beatings and scaldings . In at least one instance , the scalding victim spent a month in St. Therese Hospital , Waukegan , where skin grafting was required , the commission said . The commission began looking into the Lake County nursing home situation on orders of the state legislature in January , 1975 , after tho 15 deaths were disclosed . As the commission was issuing its re // Nursing home cited // port Thursday , the Illinois Department of Registration and Education announced that it had revoked the licenses of three owners of All Seasons . THE THREE , WHO own four other Chicago-area nursing homes in addition to All Seasons , consented to the revocations when they pleaded guilty to federal charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pharmacies to supply the nursing homes with drugs . They are Norman Ruttenberg , 691 Wake Robin ltd. , Highland Park ; Don Litman. 270 Skokie Hwy .. Northbrook ; and Samuel Weintraub , 6240 N. St. Louis Av . The nursing homes with which they are connected , in addition to All Seasons , are Evergreen Garden , 9127 S. Crawford Av. , Evergreen Park ; Northbrook , 270 Skokie Hwy. , Northbrook , Eden View , 222 Frontage Rd. , Northbrook ; and Bryn Mawr , 6141 N. Pulaski Rd . " THE STATE OF Illinois has encouraged , aided , abetted , or acquiesed in the plethora of abuses and problems in the long-term care field , " the commission charged . It stated that the Department of Public Aid , which is responsible for paying for the care of state patients in nursing homes , was " lax M Its responsibility to the point where it appeared that it was an unwitting partner in a facility 's operations . " The commission was especially critical of the department 's " point-count system " of paying nursing homes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a system " rewards poor care . " IT URGED A " cost-plus " system that would repay a nursing home for its costs in caring for state patients and assure a reasonable profit . The commission found that the state Department of Public Health , responsible for licensing and regulating nursing homes , rarely conducted surprise inspections and never made use of a state law allowing it to impose financial penalties for wrongdoing . The commission further charged that the Department of Mental Health , which places patients in nursing homes after they are discharged from state mental institutions , was more interested in discharging patients from its own facilities than in assuring that they get good care in nursing homes . It urged a re-evaluation of the community-placement care program , under which the 15 patients who died were placed in All Seasons , and recommended that the state enter into legal contracts with nursing homes to spell out the homes ' responsibilities to patients .                     