@@729069

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 46 Letters to the Editor Who Benefits From Tax Cuts ? To the Editor : The Dec. 3 mews report - by Eileen Shanahan that " Liberalized Depreciation Is Studied by Administration as Economic Spur " must cause dismay to those- anxious to achieve prosperity and economic growth without inequitable distortions of the tax structure . The ' article points out that increasing business investment in new plants and equipment is a way to expand the whole economy and adds that " the theory that liberalized depreciation ' allowances stimulates such investment is essentially ? undisputed . " That liberalized depreciation allowances will add to business investment is undisputed . But that this is an economical and desirable way to accomplish that end , is very much open to dispute among economists . Treasury studies along with reports of independent economists have made clear that revenue losses from liberalized depreciation will run to many billions of dollars a year . Indeed your article pointed out that these losses to the Treasury , representing tax savings for business , and generally the largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion to $8 billion a year by 1973 for several of the current proposals for " liberalization . " Substantial independent studies as well as analyses within the Treasury Department staff have also suggested that the amount of increased investment resulting from such tax losses would be modest indeed . For it should also be undisputed among knowledgeable and objective analysts that if it is to be Government policy to intervene in the eoonomy to raise the rate of business investment  --  and there may well be better places to act , such as in helpingthe individual consumer or investing in education or the *conservation of our environment ? liberalized depreciation is far from the best way . For the main effect of liberalized depreciation is to reduce taxes for large corporations regardless of whether this will stimulate their investment or not . And , that , in the last analysis , merely means more taxes for the rest of us . ROBERT EISNER Evanston , Ill. , Dec. 4 , 1970 The writer , Professor of Economics at Northwestern University , has testified before Congressional committees an the subject of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. To the Editor : The arguments against proceeding with the supersonic transport seem overwhelming , but the drive to produce ? it continues . One argument seems to be that our aeronautical industry will somehow fall behind the foreign scientists and industrialists who are producing their own version of the SST , and that American companies will have to buy their SSTs abroad . But we do n't want SST 's at all ; we do n't want their noise or the pollution they produce . The problem is not just whether we produce our own SST , since even if they fly only over the water the pollution produced will spread through the upper atmosphere around the world . And the noise produced at the coastal airports will be intolerable . So let us pass laws forbidding SST 's of any origin to land anywhere in the United States . Such laws might . also reduce enthusiasm for SST 's abroad . Then we can tackle the problem of noise and pollution made by present aircraft . HERBERT S. BAILEY Jr . Princeton , N. J. , Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? Money for 42d St. Library . To the Editor : Perhaps this is the proper time to suggest several methods by which the New York Public Library might alleviate its financial deficit , which is now larger than ever . ( Editorial Nov. 30 . ) Three possibilities come to mind . First , the library could charge an entrance fee , say 50 cents , to every person using the central reference collections , which are a privately supported research facility . This would reduce the deficit substantially . But it would be an unpopular tax upon many people , especially students , who are poorly qualified to pay . Second , the library could institute regular users ' fees for long-term researchers , much like those which private libraries such as Harvard and Yale now charge . Such fees , which are substantial , fall upon those whose livelihood derives from ? their research there , and who could better afford to pay it . Presumably many would have their fees paid by their academic or business employers . Finally , and most important of all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges and universities in the metropolitan area , public and private , have always stinted on their library expenditures because they know that the 42d Street Library is available to their scholars and students . If all the city 's institutions of higher learning made an annual appropriation to the 42c1 Street . Library equal to 5 per cent of their present library budgets , the 42d Street Library 's problems would be solved in the fairest way . For , since ? the Public Library 's immense research collections have in effect been ' subsidizing college libraries ' budgets for decades , it would be fitting for the schools now to repay years of devoted service to their faculty and students in this small way . PAUL J. KORSHIN Philadelphia , Dec. 3 , 1970 ? Old Activists at Lincoln To the Editor : In reply to the Reverend Timothy Kelly 's Nov. 26 letter concerning Lincoln Hospital , I should like to state that my experiences at Lincoln Hospital go back to my medical school days of 1939 , thus antedating his by several years . At that time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish . Like Father Kelly , I too noticed some discrepancies in the mortality and morbidity rates of ethnic groups . The Irish were particularly prone to tuberculosis and the children to rheumatic fever , with its frequent sequel of an early cardiac death . Significant it is that in the passage of subsequent years the clinical advances which have mitigated the ravages of these two diseases have come largely from the labors and work of Jews ( Waksman , Libman , Chain , et al . ) . The building , even in those days , was old . But there are a dozen hospitals in the city with older structures . The interns earned $15 monthly ( down from $18 by order of Mayor LaTo the Editor : The mere mention of Stalin 's name In print customarily stirs controversy . So it was in your Nov. 28 Op-Ed article by Vladimir Dedijer , " The Real Stalin . " I must take issue with him . Mr. Dedijer claims that the plan for the invasion of Yugoslavia was worked out by " some of his lieutenants " rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1951 , and that it was vetoed by Stalin . None of ? those assumptions is correct . The plan was elaborated during 1949 and 1950 ; 1951 only saw its abandonment . It was not the work of some of Stalin 's lieutenants but rather formed an integral part of Soviet policy , fundamental decisions that could be made by Stalin alone . All the people 's democracies of Europe had been gradually mobilized , so that by 1951 they were all technically readied to take part in a Soviet-led assault on Yugoslavia . At that time I was Commander of the Infantry of Hungary , a position equivalent to Commander in Chief of Hungary 's land forces . By virtue of my position I was well aware of the details of the plan . All through 1949 and 1950 , while the plan was being refined by the general staffs ' planning commissions , the Soviet Union was pouring men and materiel into HunTHE SEAL SHOOTER Around the point , I hear the crack Of a gun saddening the punctured air And the woods behind , which stutter it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bullet Into the languid calm of an afternoon : It must be that in that other world A summer cottager'has taken aim With unseeing eye at the brown Beer-bottle head I 've watched playing Since early August in these coves . Strange : this hush , that restless rustle , Like held breath the sunlit yellow Woods . pregnant with mute helplessness . PETER N. TAYLOR Guardia ) . An indefatigable pediatrician by the name of Harry Altman ( may his tribe increase ) covered the children 's Ward daily ? in addition to maintaining a neighborhood practice and instructing students from Columbia . For this he was paid $0 per annum  --  not . $47 , - , 000 . Somehow we muddled along . Father Kelly should consult someone informed in biostatistics . The facts of death are even more complicated than the facts of life . Simply demanding a new building or importing specialists from San Juan and Dublin , or where have you , will not solve- the complicated problems of urban survival . REDMOND B. WALSH , M.D. Bronx , Dec. 7 , ? 1970 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have just had an experience , which , on making inquiries , I find is by no means unique , but . I have not .. seen it mentioned in the press . For over ten years I have held a burglary insurance policy . I have always paid ? the premiums promptly , and have never , I am thankful to say , ever had to make a claim . A few days ago I received a letter from the insurance company , informing me that my policy will not be renewed owing to " underwriter ' reasons , " a somewhat obscure ? phrase , which I can only interpret as meaning that they consider me too great a risk . Why ? I live on St. Mark 's Place which , since it is well lit and always crowded with people , is probably safer than most streets in the city , and my apartment building has a self-locking front door . As we all know , burglaries ' are on the increase and , had the company written to say that , under these circumstances , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Naturally , I do n't expect insurance companies to be in the business for their health , but , surely , it is also their function to provide a public service . Are householders in New York City to be left without any protection whatever against possible losses ? The dueston seems to me to merit public discussion . W. H. Ajmer New York , Dec. 1 , 1970 ? ? ? Calm of Taxi-Free City To . the Editor : The strike of taxis has proved a point : New York City is quieter without their horns . Other motorists finding the streets clear of the yellow menace no longer use their horns in frustration . Perhaps ' the city is better off without these monsters . EUGENE E. TAYLOR New York , Dec. 7 ; 1970 gary and the other people 's democracies . Professors and specialists flooded into our military academies from the top Soviet military institutions ; strategic planners arrived from the Soviet general staff , logistics experts from the Soviet Ministry of Defense , and commissars from the Red Army 's main political directorate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment were delivered in quantities sufficient for a major offensive . In accordance with the needs of grand strategy , not only were the people 's democracies ' military machines put in motion but also their transportation , communications , industrial and agricultural systems were " mobilized . " And , of course , the-mills of psychological warfare had been grinding ever since Tito 's expulsion from the Corninform in 1948 . The scope of these preparations were so immense that , Dedijer 's beliefs to the contrary , they could not have been the handiwork solely of some of Stalin 's lieutenants . I also question another of Mr.-Dedijer 's assertions . He called the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 the " first open war between Socialist states . " His valiant record in Tito 's struggle against Hitler attests to the fact that he certainly knows what is war and what is not . If he defines the crushing intervention in Czechoslovakia as war , then war it was . But it is remarkable , then , that he should not count the war between the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Socialist states . " His omission is indicative of the effect of Moscow 's creeping Ives-. section of Stalinism . Moscow has always denied that Imre Nagy 's regime and the country it governed were Socialist , which . they truly were . One sees the simile of Stalin when confronted with such attempts to make nonpersons of real men and nonevents of real happenings . Was n't that practice of Stalin 's one of those " battles he lost " ? BELA K. KIRALY Associate Professor of History Brooklyn College Brooklyn , Nov. 30 , 1970 The New York Mimeo Stalin 's Plan to Invade Yugoslavia                     