@@728552

txt The American Bar Association committee that evaluates the qualifications of Supreme Court nominees has decided to undertake a more extensive investigation of Judge Harry A. Blackmun than it has ever made of a Supreme Court nominee . The committee will consider for the first time whether a nominee for the Supreme Court has high professional qualifications for the position . Previously , the committee employed a two-category evaluation system , which gave the committee 's opinion only on whether a nominee was qualified or not . It was announced today that Judge Blackmun would be given one of three classifications : " Not qualified ; " " Not opposed , " lor " Meeting high standards of professional competence , tem ' perament and integrity . " The group will try to report by April 29 , wherrthe Senate Judiciary Committee begins its hearings on Judge Blackmun . But if its extensive check is not completed by then , the committee will withhold its report until it is finished . The decision to make the broad investigation came after the committee , under criticism for having allegedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing on the qualifications of Judge Blackmun at all . Lawrence E. Walsh , chairman of the bar association 's Committee on the Federal Judiciary , gave no specific reason for the broader investigation of Judge Blackmun . However , there was no implication that the more extensive investigation had anything to do with the nominee personally , but rather , that it resulted from the criticism of recent investigations . Mr. Walsh emerged from a meeting of the committee here this afternoon and said that , after a close debate , the group decided that " the association owes the Senate an answer " on Judge Blackmun. - Mr . Walsh added that , in anticipation of the decision to make the evaluation , his group has already talked to all members of Judge Blackmun 's court , the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Cir. = cuitThey have also talked to Many District Court judges and many lawyers in the Eighth Judicial Circuit , which has its headquarters in St. Louis . This investigation will be broader than prior ones , he said , in that it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other areas of the country who might have formed opinions of the nominee 's competence . As usual , the committee 's evaluation will be limited to the nominee 's judicial temperament , integrity and professional competence . Mr. Walsh said that he did not know if the association 's evaluation of Judge Blackmun would be ready when the Senate Judiciary Committee begins its hearings on the nomination on April 29 . Later , the committee is expected to decide whether to follow new procedures in this investigation . Mr. Walsh said the group would decide whether to go beyond its usual two categories for high court nominees ? " qualified " and " unqualified " ? to indicate if it feels that the nominee is an especially good choice . One criticism has been that the committee has never found a man to be unqualified , and thus appears to be a rubber stamp for the President . Mr. Walsh said that the group has turned down about one-fourth of all nominees referred to it for lower court positions . He said that Presidents usually follow higher standards in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less likelihood that one would not be qualified . Today 's decision by the committee to give an opinion on Judge Blackmun does not necessarily mean that the committee will continue to evaluate Supreme Court nominees in the future , Mr. Walsh said . He also said that , if new procedures were followed in Judge Blackmun 's case , they might not be the same procedures that are eventually chosen by the committee to be used with regard to other Supreme Court nominees . Judge Walsh said that the bar committee would meet again after the Senate Judiciary Committee had completed its hearings , so that the bar committee could re-evaluate its findings in light of any new information that may have been disclosed . It also did this after Senate hearings had turned up damaging information about Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr . and Judge G. Harrold Carswell , who were previously nominated by President Nixon to the same seat and rejected by the Senate . In Judge Haynsworth 's case , four of the committee 's 12 members later withdrew their support of the committee 's prior approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carswell 's " qualified " rating after his hearings , but three members did not attend the second meeting , when the committee adhered to its position .                     