@@732147

txt Rival gangs battled with automatic weapons , mortars and rockets in several parts of Beirut last night as the Government remained divided over whether to use troops to restore order . Heavy firing broke out early yesterday and continued through much of the day , with the most action concentrated in the Christian quarter of Ain et-Rummaneh and the largely Moslem section of Chiyah . A cease-fire was worked out , to start at 4 P.M. , but it broke down an hour later . At nightfall , explosions were heard in the eastern half of the city . Movie House Aflame In the heart of the downtown area , one of the city 's most popular movie theaters , the Rivoli , was in flames . The building housing it belongs to a Moslem philanthropic association . President Suleiman Franjieh met with Cabinet members and leaders of the army during the day , but Premier Rashid Karami was pointedly absent . The President , who is a Marcnice Christian , favors ordering // the army to stem the increasing warfare between leftist and rightist gunmen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that use of troops would make matters worse , since leftists regard the army as a force sympathetic to conservative Christian elements . The Premier has reportedly been trying to buy time by cajoling leftist and rightist leaders into talks , but neither side has seemed interested . As in previous eruptions of factional fighting in Lebanon , it was unclear what had led to the latest expansion of violence in Beirut . Ammunition Stocked One explanation , given by some Lebanese and foreign sources , is that the Phalangist party , one of the country 's principal Christian political groups , had summoned numbers of its armed supporters into Beirut from the mountains east of the capital in the last few days . The reinforcements prompted Moslem leftists to mobilize , these informants said , and soon both sides were erecting barricades and bombarding each other with ammunition they had been stocking since the last round of fighting here late in June . As a result of the latest fighting , police sources reported , at least 30 people have been killed and scores of others wounded in the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburbs , which have a population of about a million , ceased . Uncollected garbage began to gather and householders rushed to the few stores that remained open to hoard food . The Government-run radio warned people that all roads in the city were unsafe . Streets Deserted The streets . of Beirut were deserted yesterday under the hard glare of the September sun . On occasion , a car would dart through what appeared to be a relatively safe neighborhood . The silence was reportedly broken by the firing of automatic weapons . Thousands of people huddled around their radios listening to Sherif Akhawi , a broadcaster who conveyed vital information and appeals . " Look , you must let the ambulances through , " he said at one point , appealing to gunmen manning barricades . " One of these wounded people might be your own brother , your mother , your sister . " Mr. Akhawi , who at one point burst into tears , repeatedly appealed to citizens to donate blood . In the afternoon he announced that women of the dense Christian neighborhood of Ashrafiyah were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a predominantly Moslem quarter . " The Makassad Hospital needs oxygen , the Makassad Hospital needs oxygen , " he pleaded at another point . Later , he announced that companies had responded to the appeal . International flights continued during the day at the city 's airport by the sea . The tourist police said that they would care for incoming passengers this evening , though they did not guarantee that they would actually transport them into Beirut . This month , at least five people have been killed on the road to the airport , usually at dusk or at night . In the highly volatile situation , one hopeful sign appeared to be that Palestinian neighborhoods and the teaming , heavily armed refugee camps on the edges of the city had not been drawn into the fighting . Arafat Plays Role Yasir Arafat , the Palestinian guerrilla leader , has been playing an important role of mediator between Premier Karami and the Lebanese left , which considers the Palestinian movement a crucial ally . The main Palestinian guarrilIa organization , Al Fatah , and the Syrian backed As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Arafat and other Palestinian leaders made it clear that they did not want to become embroiled in a confrontation with the army or right-wing militia . It was not certain how long Mr. Kararrti could resist demands from the right  --  and particularly from Pierre Gemayel , the Phalangist leader ? to use the army as long as the situation continued to deterioriate . When fighting erupted in northern Lebanon earlier this month , Mr. Karnmi waited until the warring factions had almost exhausted themselves and their ammunition before he agreed to put troops in a buffer zone between them . Tripoli Reported Quiet The battered northern city of Tripoli was reported to be quiet and , according to some accounts , the Government had permitted 200 Palestinian guerrillas from the as Saiqa group to cross into Lebanon from Syria to help keep the peace . The outbreak of heavy firing before dawn yesterday followed the announcement of a decision made Wednesday night to form a " national reconciliation committee " under Premier Karam i . Two large buildings in down . town Beirut ? the Opera movie theater and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchanges , and 12 people reportedly died in the hotel . During the night , stores and shops were blown up in several parts of town . Two furniture stores were dynamited before dawn . Witnesses reported that when fire engines and the stores ' owners appeared , a jeepload of armed men drove up and dispersed them .                     