@@732419

txt Chime Trtlime Preis stmt . WALTHAM , Mau : ft was R. Sargent Shriver 's first stop of the day and he was hustling votes . The great strength in this nation rests in the fact that some people have the guts to go out there and try something , " he told an audience of small businessmen , who tend to think of themselves as Just that kind of person . He sympathized with them about " al ) the multitudinous forms " they have to fill out , and pledged that " a four-year Shriver presidency could eliminate the federal deficit . " When be was through , his campaign aides sprinted for their can outside the Holiday Inn . Engines roared and the motorcade formed . But the candidate did not appear . BACK INSIDE , Sargent Shrine was not hustling votes . He was standing near a doorway talking to Alice Warner , a middle-aged businesswoman who was upset because her grown children were n't sure whether it was worthwhile for them to vote . That bothered Shriver . So instead of rushing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talking to Mrs. Warner about young people and the problems of democracy . Sometimes it is hard tell Just which one is the real R. Sargent Shriver . Is it the enthusiastic , almost maniacal candidate pandering to one interest group or another , or the concerned citizen listening to a woman talk about her children ? Is it the finely miffed , fashionably dressed dandy who can cut a trim figure in society , or the glad-handing old pal who can wade into a crowd of workingmen and pledge to soak the rich ? IS IT TILE slick salesman and super bureaucrat who once faced down Lyndon Johnson and John Connally in a single afternoon , or is it the devout Catholic who quietly slips away to mass and who reads contemporary Catholic philosophers for pleasure ? Sargent Shriver is not an easy fellow to figure out . Perhaps the most contradictory factor about Shriver is the connection that seems to be his greatest political asset and his biggest drawback at the same time  --  his relationship with the Kennedy family . Skiver is married to the former Eunice Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his enthusiasm for both work and play , Shriver rivals and may even exceed his famous in-laws . But relations between Shriver and the Kennedy clan have not always been smooth . IN 1968 WHEN Robert F. Kennedy challenged Johnson for the Democratic nomination , Shriver did not leave Johnson 's employ as ambassador to France . Ile and Robert Kennedy did not particularly hit it off . Four years earlier , when Johnson told some intimates he was considering Shriver for Vice President , word came back from the Kennedy family . The word was no . Though his marriage may have put Sargent Shriver within striking distance of the presidency , it also may keep him right there  --  in striking distance , but no closer . Even now , one of Shriver 's main problems with the voters is a feeling that " he 's just Teddy Kennedy 's brother-in-law . " The Shrivers are old Maryland aristocracy . Way back , the far .. ily knew Thomas Jefferson , and one of Shriver 's ancestors signed the Declaration of Independence . By the time Robert Sargent Striver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was well enough off to send him to the Canterbury School in Milford , Conn . Like many moderately wealthy families , though , the Shrivers lost most of what they had in the 1929 stock market crash . The family moved to a small apartment In New York , and Shriven had to get a scholarship to gc to Yale . IT IS THIS BRUSH with hard times , if not real poverty , that some acquaintances credit for Shriver 's political liberalism and for the Harry Truman , down-to-earth quality . of some of his campaigning . Shriven went from college to law school , the Navy in World War II , a brief stint with a Wall Street law firm , and a job as assistant editor at Newsweek . While at Newsweek be met Eunice Kennedy and her family . He ended up married to her and working for her father as head of the Merchandise Mart in Chicago . But the Merchandise Mart could not contain his enthusiasm . He became president of the Catholic Interracial Council , then president of the Chicago School Board for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was closest was elected . Presided . Shriver worked In the campaign , helped recruit top executives after the election , and was given the job of running the Peace Corps . Both the agency and its director were an immediate hit . President Kennedy called Shriver " the most effective lobbyist on the Washington scene , " a tribute to Shriver 's tireless wooing of congressmen. cAmpAd76 Not only was the Peace Corps a success , It was economical . As Shriver never tires of telling audiences , " each year we returned money to Congress . " Shriver 's next job was a lot tougher . As chief of Johnson 's War on Poverty , be beaded a tumultuous agency that en . raged not only conservative Republicans but also traditional Democrats such as Mayor Daley . IN 1997 , WHEN Congress threatened to cut antipoverty funds sharply , Shriver threatened to quit " I never liked to quit on any job , " he said , " but it would be a delusion of the poor . I do n't think it would be advisable to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Johnson and Connally , then governor of Texas , in the President 's bedroom . They had a three-hour argument over who would control antipoverty funds in Texas . When It was over , Shriver had won . " Damn it , " Johnson said , " Shriver would n't give up . " Perhaps the greatest tribute to Shriner is the intense loyalty be has inspired wherever he has been . His campaign committee is studded with former associates from Chicago , the Paece Corps , the War on Poverty , and his Washington law firm . SINCE HE HAS NEVER held elective office , Shriver 's policy views are not well known . On most issues , he is a traditional lthefal Democrat . But he does have one twist all his own , perhaps reflecting his personal religious feelings . He wants to revive close family and neighborhood ties . So be campaigns against " antineighbethood practices such u redlining and block-busting , " and calls for finding " ways to realign , our housing , tax , and other policies to allow families to live together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , BURNER rushed in whore others feared to tread and a:cepted the tarnished vice presidential nomination that George had taken from Thomas Eagleton . It was hopeless from the start , but Shriver threw all his energies into it . There Is one story from that campaign that may not be true , but it tells a lot about Sargent Shriver anyway . The story is that Shriver burst into a workingman 's bar and ordered drinks for everyone . The regulars were drinking boilermakers . After the barkeep had served everyone , he asked Shriver what his pleasure was . " Courvolder , " Shriver said  --  without a hint of embarrassment .                     