@@730607

txt Police today identified the sniper slain Sunday on the roof of the Howard Johnson 's Hotel in a gun battle which left seven persons dead and 12 wounded . Police Supt. Clarence Giarrusso , in a press conference at police headquarters , said the man was Mark Essex , 23 , of Emporia , Kas . Asked whether Essex was the only sniper involved , Glarrusso replied : " Right now I will not say yes nor will I say no . I have to have a chance to sleep on it and I just do n't know if there was another sniper besides Essex . There are just too many loose ends . " ONE OF TILE persons wounded by the sniper fire said that the man slain by police was " not the same man who shot me . " " The man who shot me had on a light tan jacket and brown slacks , " said Robert Bemish , 43 , vice-president of engineering for Starr Broadcasting Corp . Police said the slain sniper was wearing a black shirt and green Army fatigues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have changed clothes . Furthermore , Bemish said doctors at Charity Hospital where he was treated told him that he had been shot in the abdomen with a .30-06 caliber rifle . Police found only a .44 magnum caliber rifle near Essex 's body . TILE POLICE chief said there was some evidence of " a conspiracy . " Pressed to elaborate , he said ho did n't know who or what organization may have been behind it . Giarrusso identified tileweaoon found next to Essex 's body as a .44 magnum semiautomatic rifle , Ile sold ballistics tests have shown that it was the weapon used In the killing of two policemen and two hotel guests . Giarrusso said the tests had also proved that the weapon found beside Essex 's body was the same one used to kill a police cadet and wound another policeman on New Year 's Eve . HE SAID there was not enough laboratory evidence to determine if the weapon , bought by Essex last April 11 at a Montgomery Ward store , also was used to kill the four other hotel sniper victims . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of his tour of duty with the Navy . He said Essex had lived in New Orleans for the last six months while working on a federal project . He refused to give further details . Asked how he could have thought a second sniper was on the - roof , Giarrusso said : " I had many judgment decisions to make under pressure ? some of the conclusions led me to believe there was more than one man up there . " THE POLICE official said one of the things which led him to believe that there was more than one sniper was a report from the Marine Corps helicopter pilot that he had been fired upon after Essex was killed . The Marine helicopter was called in by the New Orleans police after police had forced the sniper or snipers to the roof of the hotel on Sunday . Authorities were held at bay by the gunman or gunmen . The police then called for the hellcopter . At about 4 a. in. yesterday the copter was making a series of passes over the roof of the hotel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on top of the hotel and fired at the copter . Police inside the craft returned the fire and killed Essex . In an exclusive interview with a United Press International reporter , the helicopter pilot , Marine Lieut . Col. Charles H. Pitman , 37 , said , " We received three hits Monday morning about 5 a. m. from the south cubicle atop the hotel . " The gunfire burst came eight hours after Essex was slain by four policemen aboard Pitman 's copter on the fourth sortie over the roof .. 1 Giarrusso said Essex stole a car several miles from the downtown area about 10:30 a. m . Sunday from outside the home of Marvin Alberts . The auto was a 1968 Chevelle . ALBERTS HAD left the car engine running , he told police , and when he looked out the window of his home he saw a black man with a rifle climb into it and drive away . Giarrusso said that about two blocks from Alberts ' home Essex sideswiped a parked car and a police squad began chasing him at that point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Essex about a mile from the hotel . The police official said Essex drove the car into the hotel garage up to the fourth floor and the sniping began a short time later . ALEX VEGA , a New Orleans policeman , told reporters following the press conference that he bad " pumped five rounds " into Essex from the top of the Saratoga Building , which adjoins the hotel . During the battle police continually had said it was difficult to see the rooftop because of numerous shadows cast from adjoining buildings . Other police told reporters that they could n't be sure that the shots they beard were not coming from other police . The question of the presence of another sniper has led many persons to refer to him as " the Phantom Sniper . " Giarrusso said that the police cordon around the hotel had sealed off every known exit .                     