@@733218

txt President Carter asked Congress today to abolish all Federal criminal penalties for the possession of small amounts of marijuana . The President 's recommendation came as no surprise , since he had pledged in his campaign last year to ask for such legislation . Characteristically , he blended his request , which is certain to touch off controversy , with a series of proposals designed , he said , " to discourage all drug abuse in America , " including the excessive use of alcohol and tobacco . He called for a concentrated Government crackdown on the international narcotics traffic , a study on the use of barbiturates and other widely consumed sedatives , and improved programs for drug research and drug treatment . Substituting a Civil Fine In his ' appeal for the " decriminalization " of marijuana , Mr. Carter urged that a civil penalty  --  specifically , a fine  --  replace the present Federal law that provides for a $5,000 fine and up to a year in prison for those found to possess any quantity of the substance . His request would apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividing point between trafficking and personal use , " his drug-abuse adviser , Dr. Peter G. Bourne , said . " Penalties against possession of a drug should not be more damaging to an individual than the use of the drug itself , " Mr .. Carter said , but he told Congress in a seven-page message that the sale of marijuana should remain " a serious , Federal criminal offense . " He spoke of " long-standing fragmentation " in Government approaches to the problems caused by drugs and said he had ordered his White House staff to assume the responsibility for coordinating Federal action and formulating a national drug-abuse policy . International Cooperation One part of that policy , he said , will be increased cooperation with other na-I in an effort to stem the international flow of narcotics . Another will be an intensification of investigations by the Justice Department of alleged links be-tween organized crime and the drug traffic . The President said he had asked the Departments of State , Treasury and Justice to " study arrangements with other countries , consistent with constitutional principles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to freeze assets accumulated in the illegal drug traffic . " Moreover , he said , he had " considered ' requesting changes " in the Tax Reform Act of 1976 , legislation designed primari- ' ly to protect the privacy of Americans . He said the statute " may also impede unnecessarily the investigation of narcotics trafficking cases . " If the provisions in the act " can be amended to improve law enforcement without infringing upon legitimate privacy interests , I will submit legislation to the Congress , " he said . In the area of drug treatment , Mr. Carter recommended an expansion of such programs under the Department of Health , Education and Welfare , and a " sustained effort " to identify the motivational basis for the use of drugs , including alcohol and cigarettes . " We should seek more effective ways to make people aware of the health problems associated with such substances ( particularly cigarettes and alcohol ) , " he said , " and to respond in more constructive ways to the human and psychological needs they satisfy . " He also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Despite the broad scope of the drugabuse message , Mr. Carter 's recommendations on marijuana seemed certain to attract the most attention . Like many other American parents , the President has had some family experience with marijuana . HIs oldest son , Jack , a lawyer in Georgia , was dismissed from the Navy after being caught smoking it , and his other sons , Chip and Jeff , have both said they also had experimented with it . Mr. Carter said he did not approve but suggested that it was something that most young people in the country had probably tried at one time or another . " But , " he said today , " we can and should continue to discourage the use of marijuana " without " defining the smoker as a criminal . " His recommendation for a new Federal statute resembles the new marijuana law in New York State , which treats the possession of up to 25 grams much like a traffic offense , punishable by a fine of up to $100 . Mr. Carter cited the experience of other states such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant increase in the use of the substance . " This decriminalization is not legalization , " he said . " It means only that the Federal penalty for possession would be reduced and a person would receive a fine rather than a criminal penalty . " Federal laws on trafficking in marijuana " would remain in force , " he said , " and the states would remain free to adopt whatever laws they wish concerning the marijuana smoker . ' The President announced his - legislative proposals and Government recommendations in a brief appearance in the White House press room . . Dr. Bourne , a PresP dential assistant , followed him to the.lectern and told reporters that the Administration 's drug-abuse philosophy was realistic . " I do n't think we ought to be overly optimistic , " he cautioned . " I do n't think we 're going to eradicate opium cultivation . " But , using a chart , he asserted that the purity of heroin sold on the streets of America was at an all-time low , the result , he said , of increased international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the conclusion of his message to Con : gress . " Drugs can not be forced out of existence , " he said . " They will be with us for as long as people find in them the relief or satisfaction they desire . " He said he could not speak of absolutes , such as the complete cessation of drug abuse or the end of the flow of illegal drugs in the country . " Because , if we are honest with ourselves , " he added , " we know that is beyond our power . "                     