@@733749

txt President Carter and his top economic negotiators returned here today persuaded that they had achieved their basic goals at the Bonn summit conference and , equally importantly , had escaped being tagged as the scapegoat for the world 's economic ills by the other leading industrialized democracies . Aboard Air Force One last night , Mr. Carter was pressed by reporters as to whether he had felt on the defensive during the discussions as a result of his lack of an energy program and the nation 's huge trade deficit . " No , I never felt on the defensive at all , " he replied , standing tieless and in stockinged feet in the aisle of the plane . He said it had been a " successful summit , better than we anticipated . " Japan and Common Market Cited Robert S. Strauss , the special trade representative , said separately that , despite a " top-level political commitment " at the Bonn summit to the outlines of a new trade agreement set earlier in Geneva , a major gap exists on farming issues . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what we will settle for , " he added , citing Japan and the Common Market in particular . Page D14 . Others among the President 's top aides echoed his view about the results , but they conceded that the tone of the discussions at this conference had been different from earlier sessions . West Germany and Japan , especially , had been more confident and more aggressive in their demands for trade concessions and reductions in the United States energy consumption level , the aides said . War Is Finally Over ' One official observed that the self-confidence and economic security of the two nations demonstrated that , " after 30-odd years , the war is finally over ; the losers have become the winners economically , and they are no longer reluctant to throw their weight around . " President Carter confirmed to the reporters on the plane that he had told the other leaders flatly that the United States would not accept any ultimatums on either trade concessions or curbing energy consumption . Instead , he outlined the basic elements of the energy program that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . gress and said that the other leaders left it to him to implement the policy . Mr. Carter readily conceded that the private discussions among the leaders had been occasionally combative . " We do n't pull any punches in our private meetings , " he said . " We are very forceful , we are very evocative , very argumentative at times . But the sum total of it is that we understand each other very well . " He added that " quite often the heads of state will be more frank and free in their discussions when only the four of us or the seven of us are in the discussion than they will be even in the presence of foreign or finance ministers . " Mr. Carter also agreed with a questioner that one of the basic problems the leaders faced in such meetings was the conflict between the demands of macroeconomic policy and their own domestic political interests . West Germany , for example , could help speed world recovery by stimulating its own economy , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflation rate ? a sensitive issue to West Germans who recall the runaway inflation of the 1920 's and 1930 's that shattered the value of the mark , and left many impoverished , in a mood to vote in the National Socialists . " I think every political leader there was pushing his own political options to the limit , " Mr. Carter said , " and I think the leaders of the world on economic affairs always have to recognize the political restraints in one 's own country . " ' Special Problems ' Understood The other six leaders at the conference , he said , " understand clearly what we are trying to do in the energy field and they understand our special problems . " " You did n't come to blows on anything ? " Mr. Carter was asked . " No , not quite , " he replied with a smile , " because we had an adequate amount of time for heads of state just to be alone to discuss matters more privately . " Turning to the practical results of the conference , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the future could answer that question completely . But , in contrast to the earlier summit meetings in which much was pledged and little achieved , Mr. Carter said , " Everyone in this conference was cautious not to make commitments Ulu we did n't have an excellent chance to carry out . " The President added that the Bonn summit conference was " a much better prepared conference , I think more substantive , more specific , more cautious and more coordinated . " Reflecting on the summit today , one White House official observed that Mr. Carter , too , had learned to be more careful in the pledges he makes at international Conferences . " The President refused to be pushed beyond what he honestly believes he can deliver " on energy , the aide said . " He feels we did better than the others in meeting the goals set last year in London and he wants the same record to apply for Bonn . "                     