@@729659

txt Groups of angry prisoners holding 33 guards as hostages at the Attica State Correctional Facility continued negotiations into this morning with State Correction Commissioner Russell G. Oswald . Several times yesterday Commissioner Oswald met with inmates , armed with bats , billy clubs and lengths of pipe inside Cellbloek D , which they have held since they started rioting Thursday . He was joined late in the day by a party of New York City and state officials , but efforts to obtain the release of the guards and other concessions from the inmates have thus far been in vain . It appeared yesterday that virtually all of the more than 1,000 prisoners who rioted Thursday were continuing their protest . At an early negotiating session , the inmates repeated demands that they had presented to Commissioner Oswald in the prison yard on Thursday . The demands have included " complete amnesty " and freedom from " physical , mental and legal reprisals , " " speedy and safe transportation out of confinement to a nonimperialistic country , " a Federal takeover of the prison , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reading materials , // the right to communicate with anyone at their own expense , the " reconstruction " of the prison " by inmates or under inmate supervision , " more recreation and less cell-time , " competent " doctors , coverage by state minimum wage laws and freedom to be active politically . Yesterday , they received from Commissioner Oswald written pledges that no administrative reprisals would be taken against them and that none of them would he punished with solitary confinement . They forced the Commissioner to order state troopers armed with high-powered rifles and sniperscopes off the roofs of buildings around the prison yards . Yesterday they obtained an injunction signed by a Federal judge insuring that no administrative reprisals would he taken against them , although they later rejected the injunction as " meaningless . " Tanks of water were trucked to Attica prison yesterday , as was a van load of fresh fruit from Auburn prison , 150 miles to the east , in response to their demands for more food and water and in direct response to a written demand for fruit . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observers  --  to view prisoners they contend have been mistreated . They obtained newsmen of their choice as witnesses to negotiations , and the attendance of notables in their captured cellblocks . Some Notable ' Observers ' These included Representative Herman Badillo , Democrat of the Bronx , Manhattan and Queens ; State Senator Robert Garcia , Democrat of the Bronx ; the Rev. Wyatt Tee Walker , pastor of the Canaan Baptist Church in Harlem and special assistant for urban affairs to Governor Rockefeller ; Clarence Jones , publisher of The Amsterdam News , Tom Wicker , a columnist of The New York Times ; Assemblymen Arthur Eve , Democrat of Buffalo , and James Emery , Republican of Genesee County and State Senators John Dunne , Republican of Nassau County , and Thomas , Republican of Erie , County . This evening , as darkness settled over the hills and the prison wall was floodlighted , the group of requested visitors met first with Commissioner Oswald , then were taken by Mr. Eve to Cellblock D , held by the prisoners to , in Mr. Eve 's words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come here . " They then toured Cellblock C , where prisoners still are behind bars in their cells but from where many complaints of lack of water , contamination and disruption of toilet facilities have come . Shortly after midnight , a a three-man delegation from the Fortune Society  --  led by its president , ' . ! , sJel Rivers  --  arrived and joined the negotiations . The mood of the inmates tonight was good , an observer said . The inmates were " happy " over the arrival of the visitors , happy additionally that the visitors had greeted them without Commissioner Oswald and happy , finally , that the group would function as " overseers " in the negotiations . Shortly after their brief tour of the cellblocks , another visitor who had been requested , William M. Kunstler , the lawyer who defended the Chicago 7 , arrived at the prison gate . Before going in , he said : " I have been asked here . I want to talk with the prisoners . I 'll play it by ear and see what they want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The only other person requested by the prisoners who had not arrived was Huey P. Newton , defense minister of the Black Panther party . There is an unconfirmed report that he was enroute . He is free on bail pending trial in California on charges of voluntary manslaughter . Twelve guards are known to have been injured in the rioting . The most serious injury was suffered by William Quinn , 28 years old of Attica , who was admitted to Rochester General Hospital with severe head injuries . Another guard , Kenneth Klas of Attica , suffered a heart attack on Thursday and was released by the inmates . Others suffered minor bruises and injuries . At least one inmate also suffered a heart attack and was removed from the prison late Thursday . The prison 's Roman Catholic chaplain , the Rev. Eugene Marcinkiewicz , visited with the hostages and said they were being " treated well . " The tenuous negotiations continued in many forms and at different locations within and without the prison throughout the day . As the negotiations were going on in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sounds of tear gas canisters going off could be heard . A spokesman for Commissioner Oswald confirmed that an attempt had been made by state troopers to take back the corridors of Cellblock A , which the convicts also controlled . It was unsuccessful because , it was reported , convicts had succeeded in welding together the steel bars separating certain segments of the cellbock gates . The prisoners , in addition to holding all of Cellblock D , in the southeastern corner of the prison , were reported to be in control of much of Cellblock B , in the northeastern corner . ' And they reputedly controlled all of the catwalks connecting the blocks and the main guard tower , which sits atop the intersection of the catwalks directly in the center of the four separate prison yards that make up the open compound of the 55-acre prison . The intersection is called " Times Square . " Shortly after the skirmish in Cell Block A , A CH-34 hellcopter  --  a so-called " riot control chopper " ? flown by a National Guard pilot , set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CS tear gas , a high density gas that can he sprayed from heights of up to 2,500 feet and which lingers and is difficult to dissipate . Attending the negotiating session yesterday as observers were pool newsmen and two Rochester ministers , the Rev. Raymond Scott and the Rev. Marvin Chandler , both representing an antipoverty group called FIGHT . The first meeting lasted for more than an hour , and newsmen were briefed shortly after 1 P.M. They said that there appeared to be more hostility toward Commissioner Oswald than there had been Thursday . The observers said that a leadership cadre of about four men seemed to have evolved out of the rioting group . They sit about a gray painted bench in the middle of Cellblock D. dictating lists of demands to typists alongside them . The demands have not changed . The demands for improved facilities , for political freedom and for amnesty made on Thursday were repeated yesterday . The number or hostages decreased by one late Thursday , but was increased by two yesterday . One of the 32 guards was released late Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guards who had succeeded in hiding themselves from the convicts in Cellblock D were found . Thus there are now 33 hostages , plus four civilian workers who , according to prison authorities , may either be hostages or have sealed themselves off from the inmates of Cellblock D. Early yesterday , Herman Schwartz , professor of law at the University of Buffalo , one of the negotiators along with Commissioner Oswald and Assemblyman Arthur Eve of Buffalo , returned to the prison following an all-night trip to and from Manchester , Vt . He had gone at the demand of the inmates to have Federal Judge John T. Curtin of Buffalo sign an injunction specifying that no administrative reprisals would be taken against the rioters . Judge Curtin was attending a judicial conference . Mr. Schwartz left the allnight negotiations here shortly after 2 AM. , flew to Albany and was driven to Manchester , He drove back to the capital and flew to Batavia , 12 miles north of the prison . He arrived hack at the prison at 6:15 o'clock yesterday only to be met by Toni Soto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Facistn and the Prisoners Solidarity Committee of New York . He stopped Professor Schwartz- , in front of the prison 's main gate and told him that his organizations believed that the injunction was meaningless . ' There Are Lives at Stake ' Mr. Schwartz bridled , " you may be blowing this thing , " he said , " there are lives at stake in there . " Mr. Soto said that the question of reprisals had no meaning , that there was a larger issue . All the men within the prison ought to be released , he said , because " the only crimes they had committed were crimes of survival . " Mr. Schwartz 's apprehensions proved valid when at the first briefing of reporters yesterday afternoon it was reported that the prisoners had " rejected " the injunction out of hand as " meaningless . " Six of the prison 's 22 buildings have been badly burned , including the chapel , the school and a metalworking shop . Smoke could be seen rising from the chapel throughout the day , but the rampaging destruction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 8:30 when a group of prisoners refused after breakfast to form up for a work detail . The rebellion spread , and soon more than half of the prison 's 2,254 inmates were surging through corridors and court yards , burning bedding and buildings and breaking furniture and windows . The 40-year-old prison , with its 30-foot-high , 6-foot-thick concrete walls , looked placid and undamaged from the outside , with the quiet disturbed only by the comings and goings of hundreds of state troopers and sheriffs deputies from Wyoming County and 14 surrounding counties . All of the .396 correction officers except those who have . been injured and those held as hostages have been on continuous duty since the outbreak . The carnival atmosphere that pervaded the grounds around the prison Thursday had abated somewhat today . There were fewer on-lookers and fewer entrepreneurs . The police road guards along Route 238 have kept spectators to a minimum . But portable lavatory facilities have been moved in , The Salvation Army has set up a canteen and doctors have opened mini-clinics . Protests from Attica inmates are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that accompanied the outbreaks here yesterday and today . The superintendent of the facility since Sept. 23 , 1965 , has been Vincent R. Mancusi , a 57-year-old , up-from-the-ranks member of the state 's correctional system . He had been administrator of the Woodburn Correctional Institute before his appointment to Attica . The fe-mer warden was Walter L. Wilkins , who retired in 1965.                     