@@730602

txt The first major congressional effort is being mounted to end those . U.S. television ads little cigars . Sen. Frank E. Moss ( D ) of Utah , a leader of antismoking forces in Congress , announced Thursday that he will soon Introduce a bill to ban all ads for little cigars from television and radio . And Moss aides think there is a surprisingly good chance the bill could pass . They say it probably will not face a concerted attack from the tobacco lobby , inasmuch as most major cigarette makers are not producing these little cigars and do not wish to unless required by competitive factors . // Little cigars Will they stay on the air ? ' Little cigar ' ad ban asked // Announcement of the Moss bill comes two years almost to the day after cigarette ads were banned by Congress from television and radio . Rationale for the ban was that cigarette smoking is harmful to health according to health authorities , and that the one-sided cigarette ads endanger the health of many youthful Americans by seducing them into taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers ' most effective advertising medium . Yet within a year , one major cigarette-manufacturing company was marketing a small cigar , Winchester , which looked very much like a cigarette . Furthermore , it was being marketed like a cigarette . And it was and is being advertised on television the way cigarettes were . For instance : One night this past week an 11-year-old was watching television in a Washington suburb . Suddenly a once-familiar kind of advertisement came on : A young couple walking dreamily through romanticized fields , while an announcer extolled the " benefits " of smoking a certain product . A child 's surprise " I thought those cigarette ads were n't allowed anymore , Dad , " the surprised child exclaimed . Her father explained it was n't a cigarette ad , although it seemed precisely like one . Rather it was an ad for a small cigar . What has concerned Senator Moss and others ' is the possibility that other cigarette manufacturers might follow the lead of the Winchester maker , R. .1 . Reynolds , and each , bring out a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cigarette makers have not really wanted to take that step on grounds that it would merely cut into established cigarette sales but that they might feel , for competitive reasons , they would have to . That is why Senator Moss and others are concerned about the present little cigars gaining significant inroads into the smoking market . Manufacturing shift Heretofore , most little cigars have been made by manufacturers of regular-sized cigars . Only one major cigarette maker has made a little cigar . Now , says Moss aides , manufacture of little cigars " Is really starting to proliferate . " They say that a second major cigarette maker is about to begin manufacturing its own brand of little cigars , which it will advertise and market as cigarettes have been . This would bring another round of " little cigar " blandishments on television . And it also could persuade some now-reluctant cigarette companies that for competitive reasons they , too , ought to market their own little cigars . It is a further proliferation which Senator Moss and others would like to prevent . Possible health hazard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the prospect that these cigars might be a health hazard , as cigarettes have been judged . Moss aides say that some of the newer little cigars are made lower than their predecessors in tar and nicotine , thus are easy to smoke like cigarettes , by Inhaling . Health authorities have concluded much of the harm from cigarette smoking comes through inhaling ; thus this change in content of little cigars strengthens the Moss argument that their advertisements ought to be banned from TV on grounds the cigars themselves present a health hazard ,                     