@@730046

txt Chicago Federal Judge Richard today stoutly defended his and the Nixon administration 's handling of the government 's antitrust case against the International Telephone and Telegraph Corm The I. T. T. cases , settled last year when was antitrust chief for the Justice Department , were described today by him as a " very good .. . tough settlement . " denied " absolutely 100 per cent " that he knew anything about an alleged link between settlement of three suits against I. T. T. and the giant conglomerate 's purported offer of $400,000 to help pay for the Republican National Convention this year in San Diego . Hits Memo Destruction But was critical of I. T. T. 's decision to destroy office memorandums that might be relevant to the case when it broke into print Feb. 29 . He also reproved I. T. T. executives for not coming directly to him during litigation of the case and for arranging meetings with his Justice Department superiors , John Mitchell and Richard Kleindienst . " My door was always open , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , considered the man in the middle between the government and I. T. T. in the controversial case , insisted no one in the Nixon administration ever mentioned that these meetings even took place to him . " I think that 's quite a compliment to this administration that those people did not put pressure on me , " he said . said he had received a " firm understanding " from Mitchell when he took the Justice Department job that " we were going to decide antitrust matters on their merits ? and there were n't going to be any political considerations in our decisions . " He asserted that Mitchell and Kleindienst both lived up to this understanding . " Destroys Ability " said he ' was upset by media attacks on the government stemming from the I. T. T. case . " It 's going to destroy the ability of any good administration to get good professional people to come down here to Washington and take these technical jobs if they 're going to be pilloried in the press . " noted that four members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience " worked out the I. T. T. settlement . " We got a remedy that probably was one of the best accomplishments of the antitrust division in the last 10 years , " he said . Says Firm Gave In I. T. T. " caved in , in effect , " asserted in response to charges that the Justice Department abruptly halted prosecution of the company . He said the alternative to the settlement reached in mid-1971 would have been to take the matter to the Supreme Court . The two to four years - this would have involved , he said , " could n't be iustified. "                     