@@730841

txt FOR MANY Americans priyate doctor is becoming a vanishing species . More than 32,000 p e o ple called the Chicago Medical Society last year in search of physicians to look after their health and minister to their illnesses . The society expects 16,000 calls this year . Thousands more never - called because they have no hope of getting their own private doctors . One who called was Lynn Taylor , a Tribune reporter who recently moved into the predominantly white Beverly community on the city 's far Southwest Side . The society 's referral service gave her the names of three doctors in her area . When she started calling them she discovered that two of the physicians no longer practiced , there and the third had a sixHealth Where all the doctors have gone in the last 20 years is told in the second article of a series on the growing health-care crisis . week waiting period before seeing new patients . Trying on her own , Miss Taylor called the Evergreen Park Medical Center and was told that the doctor only took new patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Being new to the neighborhood , she found this a dead end . A SECOND call to the medical society got her another list of names . Finally she found a doctor in Evergreen Park who would see her . She got to his office at the appointed time and waited two hours in a crowded waiting room before she saw the doctor for five minutes . Her bill : $30 . The reason why more and more Chicagoans ca n't find private doctors is because the city is losing physicians at a record rate , according to a new study on the physician exodus by Dr. Donald Dewey , a DePaul University sociologist . They are fleeing to the wealthier suburbs , leaving behind medical wastelands in communities suffering from dangerously low numbers of physicians . This exodus is one of the main reasons for the medical-care crisis . Experts call it a maldistribution of physicians . " The trend in physician-office relocation has been toward a greater maldistribution of doctors ' offices ? toward increased concentration of doctors in a few areas and increased scarcity of them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1970 , Chicago lost 2,000 private doctors . In 1940 , there were 1.7 doctors per 1,000 residents , but the figure was 1.1 per 1,000 in 1970 . " CHICAGO , which was once the nation 's medical mecca , is the only large American metropolitan area to have fewer private physicians today than 20 years ago , " Dewey said . " Incredibly , the metropolitan Chicago 's physician-population ratio in 1970 was onefifth below that of the average for the nation 's large metropolitan areas . " The physician is the gatekeeper of the health-delivery system , and the maldistribulion of doctors means that more and more people are being frozen out , said Pierre de Vise , assistant director of the Illinois Regional Medical Program . " A patient can not get private hospital care , ambulatory care , nursing care , or even prescribed drugs without the sponsorship of a physician , " he said . Thus a majority of America 's blacks and a growing number of low- and middleincome people are locked out of the private health system . " In his report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ratio of physicians to population is the lowest in the city 's history , and it is expected bo get worse over the next 20 years . THE AIAIN reasons doctors are leaving the city are  --  in order of importance  --  the socio-economic decline of communities ; their change from white to black ; and doctors ' desire to work closer to where they live . All sections of Chicago experienced declines , except for some parts of the North Side . Lake , Kane , and Will Counties also suffered heavy losses . South Cook County , which had one of the highest physicianpopulation ratios in 1950 1.34 per 1,000 population , suffered the greatest loss , down to .17 doctors per 1,000 people . " One finds a situation where more physicians live in Evanston than in all of south Cook County : more live in Wilmette than in all of southwest Cook County ; more live in Winnetka than in all of Will County ; more live in Skokie than in all of Kane County ; and more live in Lincolnwood than in all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of some Chicago communities can be seen in West Garfield Park on the city 's West Side : In 1950 , when the community was all white , it had 161 physicians . By 1970 it had changed to 96.8 per cent black , and only 13 doctors remained to serve 60,000 people . THE PHYSICIAN-population ration in West Garfield Park plummeted from one doctor for every 300 people in 1950 to one for every 3,700 20 years later . Oak Park , on the other hand , only two miles west of West Garfield Park , had an influx of doctors . Oak Park , whose racial structure hardly changed over the 20-year period , increased its doctor-population ratio from one per 870 people to one per 225 . One of the chief reasons physicians give for leaving changing neighborhoods is personal safety . " It is like working in a battle zone , " a departing doctor said . Dr. Joseph O'Donnell closed his office at 75th and Halsted Streets in 1948 to move west to Glen Ellyn . " Before we left , we were held up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " When I went to make a house call in an apartment , I was held up in a dark passageway . They took my bag , wallet , and watch . " O'DONNELL said he originally intended to practice an the city 's South Side , but because of the rapidly-changing neighborhood he began to worry about his and his familys safety . He also wanted a better life for his family . Robert Lindley , executive administrator of the Chicago Medical Society , said many such doctors also found it hard to get help , including nurses and other doctors to take over during days off and vacations . PHYSICIANS like to work close to their homes , and the large new suburban shopping centers with their professional office buildings offer attractive places to work , Dewey said . While the total number of doctors in the metropolitan area increased from 9,270 to ' 11,840 between 1950 and 1970 , most of the increase was accounted for by nonSracticing physicians , he said . The number of private-practice doctors dropped from 80 per cent to 60 per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialists , making it even more difficult to get primary care , Dewey said . In 1950 , 10 per cent of the doctors were specialists , compared with 50 per cent today . SINCE many new hospitals are following the doctors out to the suburbs , Dewey recommended that all federal HillBurton hospital-construction funds to these hospitals be stopped if they facilitate the flight of hospitals and doctors out of inner city and rural areas . Instead , these federal funds should be diverted to innercity hospitals to equip and operate outpatient departments that would provide primary ambulatory care in communties lacking private physicians he said .                     