@@733712

txt AFTER STIRRING UP worldwide Interest and loathing , a neo-Nazi rally originally scheduled for heavily Jewish Skokie was held instead in the Loop on Saturday . The rally started an hour and a halt late , at 6 p.m. , and sputtered to an unspectacular end after 10 minutes , with about a dozen counterdemonstrators arrested and no serious injuries reported . Patrolman Joseph Obrochta , 36 , received a minor wound over his right eye during a scuffle with counterdemonstrators , He was treated at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and released . Some 900 blue-helmeted police In full riot gear massed three-deep between about 20 Nazis and thousands of counter . demonstrators who howled with rage as they surged back and forth across the plaza of the Kluczynski federal office building at 230 S. Dearborn St. " Death to the Nazi pigs ! " they shrieked . " Death , death , death to the Nazisl Smash the Nazis ! " Screaming and crying with frustration at their inability . to break through palice lines  --  or even , In most cases , to see past them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eggs , rocks , bottles , clubs , beer cans , and other debris . 910ST OF THE MISSILES missed their mark , although the small band of Nazis in full regalia held up plywood shields . Policemen , along with reporters and photographers behind their lines , were spattered with eggs . Mayor Bilandic and his police bodyguard viewed the scene from a secondfloor window in the Dirksen Federal Building to the east of the Kluczynski Building plaza . The thunderous din echoed across the plaza , virtually drowning Out the remarks by Nazi leader Frank Collin , who spoke through a poorly functioning bullhorn to his band of 20 followers as they stood at attention , About a dozen youthful demonstrators in red hockey helmets broke through the first police line momentarily , but were immediately repulsed by the second line . The police used sawhorses as battering rams and jabbed at the demonstrators , moVing them back quickly . At 6:10 p.m. , Collin concluded : " I hope they all bring their friends to Marquette Park ! It 's in Marquette Park , where we make our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " THEN THE " STORM TROOPERS " clicked the , heels of their black boots , snapped up their arms in the fascist salute , shouted , " Sieg Heil ! " and filed back into the Kluczynski building , from which they had emerged only 10 minutes earlier , It took about two minutes more for // Tribune Peak . by William Vales A police officer escorts Nazi leader Frank Collin and his helmeted troopers into Kluczynski federal building plaza for the rally Saturday . Nazis ' rally fizzles out in 10 minutes // the ' counterdemonstretors  --  many of whom ' had come from other cities  --  to realize that it was all over . Then their frustration quickly deepened . " They 're gone , they 're gone ! " moaned a beefy young man from the militant Jewish Defense League ( JDL . " The dirty chicken bastards are gone ! " By 6:20 p.m , the crowd was streaming away , striding across the long shadows cast by the huge Calder stabile that dominates the plaza , By 7 o'clock , after a few minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the counterdemonstrators vowed they would attend the Nazi rally July 9 in Marquette Park on the Southwest Side , which won a federal court goahead last week to replace the original rally scheduled Sunday in Skokie . Another chant went up : " The Nazis ran from Skokie , " The Nazis ran from here , " We got ta keep their asses " Out of Marquette Park . " AT A LOCATION south of the Loop , police intercepted the rented truck carrying the Nazis to their demonstration . Police Supt. James O'Grady informed Collin that the police could not guarantee the group 's safety from counterdemonstrators who were believed to be planning an attempt to crash through ( police lines . Collin and the group agreed to delay their appearance and to be ferried in a police van out of the crowd 's view to the Dirksen federal building . The group proceeded through an underground corridor ' to the Kluczynski building and were surrounded by hundreds of policemen out'side in the plaza before the crowd knew they were near . For most of the afternoon , O'Grady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plaza , taking direct control of their forces . TILE COUNTERDEMONSTRATORS apparently had no overall organization . Besides the Jewish Defense League and a few communists , there were several leftist groups with a couple of dozen supporters each . Scores of people , some Jewish and some not , wore yellow Star of David patches . By late afternoon thousands of their pamphlets and placards ' littered the area , A man who identified himself as a top assistant of Rabbi Meir Kahane , militant head of the JDL and a subsequent coalition called the Conference of Jewish Activities , said Kahane did not attend because he is an Orthodox Jew and was too far from the plaza to overcome the rule against traveling by car on the Sabbath .                     