@@729993

txt An ordinance banning strike breaking in Chicago was enacted yesterday by the City Council by a vote of 44 to 1 . The measure , proposed earlier by Mayor Daley at urging of labor leaders , was opposed only by Ald. John J. Hoellen 47th , a Republican . Hoellen contended the ordinance would tend to drive businesses out of Chicago . It should include provisions , he contended , for compulsory arbitration of disputes which lead to long strikes and also ban " stranger picketing , " or picketing by persons not directly involved in the dispute . Sent to Committee A motion by Hoellen to refer the measure back to committee was defeated , 41 to 3 . Referred to the finance committee was his proposed substitute ordinance including the compulsory arbitration provision . He said t h e substitute measure " still makes strike breaking illegal , but it wo n't drive business out of Chicago . " T h e ordinance defines a strike breaker as anyone with legal residence outside the Chicago metropolitan area who comes into the city specifically Ald. John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or lockout , or who habitually offers himself for such employment . The measure would forbid any employer " knowingly " to employ a strike breaker , to import strike breakers from another state or country , or to contract with anyone to import strike breakers . Fine is Provided A fine of $500 is provided for each violation . An ordinance similar to that enacted yesterday was proposed directly by labor leaders in 1969 , nut me council failed to act on it . This came after a strike against Illinois Bell Telephone Co. , during which workers were brought in from other states . The Illinois State Chamber of Commerce has opposed the law , saying the restrictions would discourage companies from relocating or expanding in Chicago . The council also : Referred to the Forestry and Recreation Committee Daley 's appointment of Edmund L. Kelly , assistant superintendent of the Park District and 47th ward Democratic committeeman , to succeed the late Joseph L. Gill as a member of the park board . Committee Gets Appointment Sent to the Planning and Housing Committee Daley 's appointment of Frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 23d ward , to the Chicago Plan Commission . Unanimously approved an ordinance limiting to .06 of I per cent the lead content of paint used indoors , or outside within reach of small children , effective Jan. 1 . It provides that by July 1 lead content of paint must be shown on the label .                     