@@730691

txt STANLEY T. RUSPER was sworn in yesterday as Cook County clerk while City Hall sources were saying that Thomas G. Lyons is to replace Kusper as chairman of the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners . Kusper 's selection by the County Board came yesterday even tho Republicans on the board charged he was handpicked by Mayor Daley , that this method of selection was making a mockery of the board , and that suburban Cook County residents were being disfranchised by this selection of the man who will administer voting in much of the county . The board voted 8 to 4 to declare vacant the office that has been held by Edward J. Barrett , convicted Wednesday in Federal District Court of bribery , income-tax evasion , and mail fraud in connection with county purchases of voting machines . Then by the same vote the board named Kusper the " interim clerk , " to serve out the remainder of Barrett 's term , which is to end in December , 1974 . Kusper immediately was sworn in . DISSENTING WERE Commissioners Floyd T. Fulle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph I. W'iods , all Republicans . The fifth lepublican among the 15 board members was absent . Formal nomination of Lyons to replace Kusper as election board chairman may come next week , sources said . Tho the decision actually will be made by Daley , technically the judges of the Circuit Court will name Lyons to the board , and the three board members then will pick the chairman . The position pays $28,800 annually , compared with the 130,000 salary of the county clerk . Lyons , formerly a state senator , was badly beaten as the Democratic nominee for attorney general by Republican William J. Scott . He is one of the few top-ranking Democratic politicians without a public job . Lyons is 45th ward Democratic committeeman and a protege of Assessor P. J. Cullerton . His father was a police captain who once served as chief of the uniformed force . TILE CHICAGO election board administers elections in Chicago and three suburbs ? Berwyn , Stickney , and Lyons . The county clerk administers the voting in the remainder of the county . The selection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thaddeus Adesko of Circuit Court , all done in the County Board rooms , was accompanied by the usual Democratic party fanfare . Two hundred Persons attend . ing the board meeting , mostly public employes , booed the Republicans as they criticized the procedures of Kusper ' s selection . FULLE PROTESTED that it should not be " a political decision belonging to Mayor Daley . " He said many persons are qualified for the job , and the board should be interviewing those people before acting . He asked for a delay in declaring the office vacant until Monday . " To declare a vacancy now would be a mockery of this legislative body , " Fulle said . " I hope the Cook County clerk 's office does n't acquire the same bad reputation as the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners did under Kusper 's administration . " This was a reference to repeated disclosures of vote frauds in Chicago . The board president , George W. DThine , said the law made clear that Barrett had to be replaced and a successor named immediately . Mayor Daley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swearing-in , said in part : " I DO N'T know anyone in government who has done a better job than Stanley Kusper . . . . He is a great example of a young man who has dedicated his life to public service . " Kusper said he will conduct himself " in the best interests of all the people of Cook County , " and that " I 'll always remember my friends . "                     