@@733030

txt Letters JOEL MARKOWITZEDWARD G. CALHOUNR . SHEILA HUNTMANAUGUSTUS F. KINZEL , M.D.FRANC ... pg . E16 Letters Defense : The Blind Spot of Democracies To the Editor : Linda Charlton 's and David Binder 's April 4 reports on The Committee on the Present Danger may make us more complacent rather than alert us in indicating that some people are concerned about the burgeoning Soviet military threat . But in fact , groups often ignore the debates of individuals and decide to act  --  or not to act ? according to irrational reasons fundamental to the group minds . Democracies , unfortunately , tend not to act until it is dangerously late . Democracies fight wars effectively and even prepare for wars with surprising efficiency . But they find it remarkably difficult to decide to begin to prepare for war . And the weapons gap which invariably develops because of this delay always increases the likelihood of war . This blind spot derives primarily from the nature of democratic group evolution . Anglo-American development began when King John 's military power was " neutralized " at Runnymede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of military power within the group . Cromwell 's dictatorship strengthened our fear of tyranny established by military means . How did we decide , then , when it was essential to arm ? Our device has been to delay until further delay would be clearly suicidal . Thus , in times of peace democracies have zealously restricted their military power and have discredited officers who demonstrated initiative and foresight while elevating passive officers into positions of great responsibility . This is one reason for the terrible Allied casualties early in World Wars I and II , the remarkable tragedy of Pearl Harbor , etc . We have evidently ( unconsciously ) accepted such costs as the price of preventing tyranny . ( Nor are precautions against abuse of power unnecessary , as Watergate has illustrated ; but when our attitudes are not evaluated more sensitively , they must endanger us . ) We have been fortunate during this century in having avoided defeat in two world wars , despite extreme delays in preparing for them , but we must not assume that we will be as fortunate in the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stimulate the ambitions of the Russian military  --  which has never accepted the concept of mutually assured destruction in the event of a nuclear war . Thus , the mistake we made twice during this century may be recurring . Again a totalitarian nation is mobilizing enormous military power . Again some individuals warn us of the danger and ask questions similar to those which history has twice proven were relevant . Again they are opposed by voices counseling passivity . And again , while the debate continues , the democratic groups behave complacently , and the arms gap widens . JOEL MARKOWITZ New York , April 4 , 1977 The writer is a psychiatrist and psychohistorian . How Not to Finance Sakharov and the Minimum Living Space Congressional Races To the Editor : I must respectfully disagree with your editorial position which advocates Federal funding of Congressional elections ( March 22 ) . Although the funding of last year 's Presidential campaign was a success , public financing of Congressional elections would prove cumbersome and would injure our democratic process . It is a fact that the Federal Elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year who qualified for Federal dollars . Would it be feasible to plow through the mounds of red tape that are sure to amass to provide funds for over 1,000 Congressional candidates ? The Times states that public financing of the elections looks like an idea whose time has come . American taxpayers the past two years have been asked on income-tax form 1040 whether or not they wanted one dollar of their tax payment to help pay for Presidential elections . In both instances the American public roundly voted no . Federal funding would prove fatal to third-party candidacies , which are vital to local Congressional elections . The need to appear extra ethical has become fashionable in the post-Watergate era . Yet carried to an extreme , ethics can become quite a burdensome load . EDWARD G. CALHOUN Bronx , March 27 , 1977 When ' Man ' Is n't ' Male ' To the Editor : To those persons , sex-word obsessed , who keep pestering us with the awkward-sounding " person " rather than " man " : The syllable " man " does not mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our Anglo-Saxon language , and , as it is still used in the German language , it means " one " as we use it in " one who " or even " it . " So , by all means end our male-bent unfair prejudices , but leave the language to those more able . R. SHEILA HUNTMAN New York , April 4 , 1977 To the Editor : Dr. Sakharov states ( Op-Ed March 29 ) he is permitted living space of nine square meters per person and denies a Tass correspondent 's report that the Sakharov family had living space of 30 square meters per person . This is a major difference . It has been estimated that minimum living space is 15 square meters per person for personal use and 35 square meters for family ( or communal ) living . For a family of five with two little children ( like the Sakharovs ) the minimum living space would be 15 square meters times five ( adults ) plus 15 square meters times one ( two children counted as 1 adult ) plus 35 square @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meters , the equivalent of a 20-by-20-foot room for the whole funny . Based on Dr. Sakharov 's figure , he is permitted one-half the minimum living space . Based on the Tass figure , French ' Blackmail ' To the Editor : Other lovers of France surely share my indignation at Giscard d'Estaing 's naked blackmail over the Issue of the Concorde , and his improper approaches to American leaders while this case is still before our courts . Along with many others , I regard the construction of the Concorde as a gross error of judgment on the part of the French and British Governments , which now attempt to impose the plane on helpless populations for whom it creates nothing but hardship . The President of France thus aligns himself with the recent , and . disastrous , tendency of powerful governments to compound their military and technological errors by extending them , in defiance of rational objection and with contempt for the public 's right to choose . I hope other Americans will join me in protesting this latest show of official insolence , which inevitably damages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FRANCIS STEEGMULLEII New York , April 3 , 1977 he is permitted one and a half times the minimum living space . Assuming the figures of a physicist to be more accurate than those of a correspondent , the evidence suggests definite overcrowding . If overcrowding is continuous , It will tend to cause primitive , territorial and explosive tendencies in the personality , which those so situated have to ward off with continuous conscious effort and suppression . If deprivation of spatial needs and rights is prevalent in urban Russia , it is likely to be one of the major contributors to civil unrest . It should be relatively easily remedied once it is identified as a public health problem ( viz : the " Tombs " prison case  --  Rhem v. Malcolm , 371 F. Supp. 594 S.D.N.Y. 1974 ) . AUGUSTUS F. KINZEL , M.D. Associate in Clinical Psychiatry Columbia University New York , March 29 , 1977 Coffee : The ** Cup To the Editor : We are delighted to pay more for coffee and will continue to use this product . The recent shortage of coffee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations a chance to sell their product . We wonder if sophisticated foreign aid schemes directed toward poor people in these nations over the last decades have benefited them as much economically . A pound of coffee yields 50 cups . At the present price of approximately $3.50 per pound , one cup costs 7 cents . The inconsequential addition in the price of coffee to the budgets of most American consumers may change for the better the lives of poor farmers and their families in the areas of nutrition , health and education . We are not in favor of the recent outcry against the high price of coffee and the movement to boycott it . Wealthy entrepreneurs may be benefiting from higher prices , but so are some people at the opposite end of the spectrum . MICHELE and TOM KAHN New York , March 31 , 1977 Of the Rosenbergs , Judge Kaufman and the Media 's Responsibility To the Editor : Implicit in your March 20 editorial is the view that the F.B.I . material known as " The Kaufman Papers " reveals nothing improper about Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ethel and Julius Rosenberg , and Morton Sobell . We think you should give the public detailed information about the charges developed from the documents so the public can determine if it is indeed " time to end the vendetta " against the judge . A judge must be an impartial arbiter , interpreting the law without favor to either side . However , if the F.B.I . documents are correct ( and none of Judge Kaufman 's defenders have challenged their accuracy ) , the judge violated his oath of office and the canons of judicial ethics and probably was guilty of obstruction of justice . The documents show him agreeing to give the death sentence before the verdict was in , secretly consulting with prosecution officials about the sentence and falsely announcing that he had " refrained from asking the government for a recommendation . " They show he communicated with the F.B.I . and prosecution to expedite the appeals process before there could be a full review by the Supreme Court . Even though he had by then enlisted with the prosecution team , he continued to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . hearings filed by our parents and Morton Sobell . After our parents ' deaths , he met secretly with prosecutors and promised to deny a motion by Sobell for a chance to present evidence that his conviction had been illegally obtained . In 1962 , when another Sobell motion was before the Court of Appeals , the documents state that Kaufman " raised hell " with Judge ( now Justice ) Thurgood Marshall because he had made a comment favorable to the appeal . We could go on , but the point we want to make is that the media have not delved into this issue . We do not believe this is from inadvertence . Judge Kaufman has powerful friends . Nevertheless , perhaps professional pride will overcome political considerations . The media have a responsibility to investigate whether the charges in " The Kaufman Papers " are correct , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the activities of Judge Kaufman and , finally , to air fully the controversy between Judge Kaufman 's defenders and his critics in the A.C.L.U. , the National Lawyers Guild and the National Committee to Reopen the Rosenberg Case . Before closing , we wish to protest your cavalier statement that our parents ' case was extensively reviewed . In fact , only one review occurred . The Supreme Court , in the words of Justice Hugo L. Black , " never reviewed this record and has never affirmed the fairness of the trial .... " If just one of the facts in " The Kaufman Papers " had been known in 1953 , our parents ' convictions would have been Invalidated , and they would be alive today . MICHAEL MEEROPOL , ROBERT MEEROPOL New York , March 24 , 1977 The writers , sons of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg , are members of the National Committee to Reopen the Rosenberg Case .                     