@@734110

txt Aluminum makers are scrambling to adjust to the government 's recently revised , more restrictive price gwdelines . But while the industry 's big producers are pondering how to best take advantage of the tightened rules , many smaller producers and some buyers of the metal complain they must cope with an unexpectedly disrupted aluminum market . Aluminum Co. of America . Reynolds Metals Co. , Kaiser Aluminum &; Chemical Corp . and Alcan Aluminum Corp .  --  the Big Four North American aluminum producers ? all say they are " reviewing " the guidelines announced last Thursday . But it 's clear the more restrictive price rules have scotched plans to take , through a one-time boost next month , most of the approximately 4.8% average price increase the industry is allowed . That 's because the guideline changes prohibit companies from immediately taking all the increases they 're allowed in the second half of the government 's program , which begins April 1 . Companies must defer as much as half of the increases allowed in this period until the final quarter of the program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For instance , Alcoa , which had earlier announced April price rises averaging about 4.5% if spread across its entire product line , faces the prospect of somehow temporarily reducing those increases . While the No. 1 aluminum maker could reduce the average price some by simply halting the sale of some products , analysts indicate that a rollback of some announced prices is practically certain . Also , Alcan Aluminum , the U.S. subsidiary of Canadian-based Alcan Aluminium Ltd. , deferred announcing a widely expected round of price increases last Friday . Alcan boosted the price of aluminum-can-body sheet by about 5.5% , effective immediately , on new orders , but said it was reviewing other price increases it was considering before the new guidelines were announced . The can-body sheet increase will use only a small portion of Alcan 's total allowed Increase . Other , smaller producers are also changing their plans . Revere Brass &; Copper Inc. , for instance , noted that when it announced increases in its aluminum ingot price , effective this month , it warned buyers that prices for fabricated products would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revere spokesman says , with the prospect that these prices will be held down , " everything is up in the air . " Buyers are also feeling the confusion caused by the revised guidelines . As each producer decides to raise prices on different products , buyers are tempted to abandon longtime suppliers in search of lower prices . But because markets for some products are extremely tight , producers ca n't assure new customers that all orders will be filled . System Limits Speculation " This multitiered pricing system is going to be bad for all buyers , " said one aluminum customer . Compounding the problem is the fact that the buyers ca n't be sure any longer which prices are rising or by how much . " Different producers will raise prices on different products to fit the guidelines , " complains a major East Coast buyer . " No one 's even speculating on who 's going to raise what price . " The uncertainty about prices the big producers will choose also poses problems for smaller producers . - The small aluminum makers often produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry little market clout . they ca n't raise the prices of those items unless the big producers do . With the big producers choosing to raise prices only on selected products , smaller aluminum makers whose products are n't included in the price boosts are finding themselves stuck with shrinking profit margins . " It 's hard to increase our prices on those products and find anybody to pay for them , " said John Eason , executive vice president of Revere 's aluminum operations .                     