@@733837

txt Which workers will get jobs and which workers will lose them ? This highly charged issue confronts  --  and to some extent divides ? officials from more than 130 nations , gathered here for the annual meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) . Everyone agrees that developing countries must increase their exports over the next decade to generate enough income to help pay their oil-import and other bills . But third-world exports , like shoes , textiles , and other light manufactures , compete with products churned out by factories in industrial lands , including the United States . Racks of women 's raincoats are displayed in a boutique chain with stores dotted around Washington . A customer chooses two . One bears the label " madein Taiwan " ; the other comes from South Korea . Why did she take them over American coats ? " Just as well made , " she said , " and $20 cheaper . " " In the past seven years , " said an American trade expert , " wholesale prices generally have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices have gone up only 26 percent . " Why ? Partly because the American market , like those in European cities , is // From-page-1 Who gets jobs rich or poor lands ? flooded with modish , well-tailored garments from developing countries produced at prices that American and European manufacturers can not match . This is known as " comparative advantage . " Nations , under this theory , should sell what they produce most efficiently and buy from elsewhere what other nations do better . But thousands of workers and dozens of firms , like U.S. shoe and textile manufacturers , get caught in the squeeze . They demand protection from imports and often get it . IMF and World Bank officials here stress the dangers of protectionism . Choke off imports from poor countries and they will buy less from the United States and other industrial lands , they say . Is this important ? " We sell more manufactures to the LDCs less developed countries , " says a State Department report , " than to Western Europe , Japan , and the Communist countries combined . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electrical machinery go to LDCs , which also buy two-thirds of all U.S. motor vehicle exports ( excluding sales to Canada ) , 50 percent of American wheat exports , 60 percent of cotton , and 70 percent of U.S. rice exports . So far , in efforts to save jobs for American workers , the Carter administration has limited imports of shoes from Taiwan and South Korea , television sets from Japan , and foreign steel . European powers have their own lists of protected items . Textiles are an extremely sensitive subject , U.S. trade officials say , at multilateral trade talks in Geneva , with industrial powers intent on limiting textile imports from LDCs . Yet all major industrial nations , not only the United States , benefit from robust economies in LDCs , according to World Bank experts . Industrial powers ship 30 percent of all their manufactured items they import from third world nations . Only if developing countries , which traditionally export raw materials and commodities , are able to diversify and expand their exports , the argument runs , will they be able not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying more from industrial lands . White House officials insist that the number of American jobs lost to foreign competition is far smaller than the number of U.S. workers whose jobs depend on American exports . With unemployment high , however ? and with a number of older American industries unable to compete with new plants and lower-cost labor overseas ? pressure to limit selected imports grows , at it does in Europe .                     