@@731492

txt A gunman carrying a Japanese passport tried to assassinate South Korean President Park Chung-Hee at the National Theater before a nationwide television audience today . The shots missed Park but hit his wife in the head . Her condition was not known . Mrs. Park , 49 , who was on the speaker 's platform , fell . She was taken to the Seoul National University Hospital , where she underwent surgery . Police said an unidentified high school girl in a choir was.shot to death by a stray bullet , either from the would-be assassin or from police who returned his fire . THE ASSAILANT was hit by the return fire and slumped just in front of the orchestra pit . He was pounced on by a half dozen security men . He was also taken to a hospital . The shots came about 10 minutes after Park began his speech marking the nation 's liberation from Japan after World War II . Many persons in the crowd at the National Theater started screaming . The television screen blurred , then went blank . Police were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gunmen opened fire , Park and the speaker of the National Assembly , Chung Il Kwon , both former ' generals , threw themselves quickly on the stage . They said the president returned to the microphone and declared : " I will resume my statement . " He spoke for another five minutes . It was the first known direct attempt on Park 's life since he came to power in South Korea in a bloodless coup in May , 1961 . HOWEVER , opposition has been growing to Park 's increasingly authoritarian regime . There has been a series of trials recently in which 171 persons have been convicted of plotting to overthrow the government . A. number of the defendants were sentenced to death or to long prison terms under the terms of a succession of harsh presidential decrees announced earlier this year . Major developments in the latest trials included : ? A secret court martial announced that 36 more pen ! sons had been sentenced to prison with terms ranging from five years to life . Sentences for 23 others are expected to be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiring to overthrow the government . ? The Foreign Ministry closed the case of Kim Dae Jung , President Park 's 1971 election opponent who was kidnaped from Tokyo by South Koreans last August . The ministry said there was no evidence to prove that South Kor e a n government officials were involved  --  despite what Japanese police consider to be strong evidence that they were . ? It was learned that 10 Protestant leaders have sent a letter to Park proposing that he lift his repressive decrees and grant amnesty to the political prisoners on Liberation Day tomorrow . ? The government here was hit with expressions of concern over political repression from President Ford , the U. S. State Department , the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , and the Vatican , in addition to earlier protests from the French , Belgian , and other European governments . Authoritative South Korean sources have said that Park plans to begin removing the restrictions on political activity within a few months , once he is certain that outbursts against him will not recur . BUT THE government Sapparently is not prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarks to that effect that ran in the early editions of some newspapers here removed from later editions . In the Kim Dae Jung case , the South Korean Foreign MinMrs . Park Chung Hee Park Chung Hee ister , Kim Dong Jo , said that Kim , who is being tried for alleged violations of the election law in 1967 and 1971 , would not be permitted to leave South Korea until that trial is over . Japanese diplomats here indicated they felt that South Korea had violated the spirit , if not the letter , of an agreement reached in November under which Kim 's kidnapers would be tried and Kim would be allowed to return to Japan .                     