@@732772

txt Continuing its comment on Congressional elections , The Times limits itself today , apart from the two Senatorial races , to those House contests in New Jersey and Connecticut that fall within the metropolitan region ? that is , the northern half of New Jersey and Fairfield County in Connecticut . New Jersey Senator Harrison A. Williams , Democrat , appears to be in little danger of losing the seat he has held since 1959 , which is as it should be . While Mr. Williams has been too unquestioningly compliant with the demands of the trade unions , he has grown considerably in his long tenure . In particular , he has made himself an important force for reform in such areas as pension law and the marketing of securities and has rightly come to be regarded as a champion of health and safety legislation for industrial workers and of various social protections for the aging . His little known Republican opponent , David F. Norcross , has conducted a moderate and sensible campaign , but there is no valid reason to remove Senator Williams . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the results promise to be close , but in both cases the seats of superior incumbents are at stake . Both Democrats , they are Representatives Andrew Maguire of the Seventh District ( western Bergen County ) and Helen S. Meyner in the Thirteenth , in the northwestern part of the state . Mr.- Maguire , one of the most thoughtful of the 1974 crop of freshmen , is especially well versed in foreign affairs , having served as an adviser at the United Nations . In his first term he devoted himself as well to the intricacies of the energy problem . His consistently liberal record has emphasized the distance between himself and his opponent , James J. Sheehan , Republican , a commodity broker who opposes revenue sharing and the state 's income tax . Mrs. Meyner is opposed by an experienced state legislator with a reputation for Republicanism of the moderate-to-liberal brand . But , with a full term 's seasoning and a record that matches Mr. Maguire 's for positive action , she deserves to be returned to the House . While there are no other tight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to New York , we are glad to renew our support for several incumbents whom we have endorsed in the past : Representatives James J. Howard in the Third District , Frank Thompson Jr . in the Fourth , Peter Rodino in the Tenth and Joseph G. Minish in the Eleventh , all Democrats , and Millicent Fenwick , Republican , in the Fifth . Connecticut This year 's campaigns for Congressional representation from Connecticut are remarkably free of suspense . Secretary of State Gloria Schaffer , Democrat , is an appealing and competent candidate for Senator , with a good record in state office and proven ability as a vote-getter . But Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr. , the Republican incumbent , is considered the overwhelmingly probable winner  --  and no wonder . In his one term as Senator . Mr. Weicker made himself a nationally-known figure by his determined independence , by his intensive grilling of witnesses at the Senate Watergate Committee 's hearings and by his unflagging opposition to the corruption of the Nixon Administration . Senator Weicker 's independence , far from having harmed him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support among the voters without costing him the support of orthodox Republicans  --  especially those who are running for office on his coattails . In spite of an overworked flair for publicity , we believe he has earned re-election . In the one Connecticut district where there is anything like a close contest , it is difficult to work up more than minimal excitement . Representative Stewart B. has compiled a mildly progressive record in hid six years of representing Fairfield County . His opponent , Geoffrey G. Peterson . is a young lawyer who served for a time as Senator Abraham Ribicoff 's administrative assistant . He offers the full array of social programs ; but in view of Mr. 's experience and record there is no overwhelming reason to oust this moderate Republican incumbent .                     