@@728364

txt President Nixon 's first State of the Union Message raises the question whether he is a reformer stuck with his party 's tradition of financial caution or a financial conservative obliged by the times to raise an occasional banner of reform . Certainly the language was sprinkled with the phrases of the crusader ? " break with tradition , " " new decade , " " new beginnings , " " great age of reform . " At the same time he blamed the unbalanced budgets of the sixties for the current inflation and the personal indebtedness of millions of Americans , pledging that he would present a balanced budget for 1971 as the " highest priority objective of responsible government . " On the domestic scene , which took up by far the greater part of the address , Mr. Nixon acknowledged one immediate exception to his plans for fiscal retrenchment . He hopes to spend more , not less , for the war on crime . On that subject he dwelt at some length ; but to the " total reform " of the welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of money , he gave no more than a few dozen words . Crime , it need hardly be stressed , would be less of a problem if poverty were undercut by that welfare system which he recommended to Congress last year but which his forces on the Hill have promoted with something less than vigor . As the President proceeded from the immediate future to the more remote , his reformist spirit grew more intense . Invoking a " new federalism , " he proposed to reverse the direction of power which for 190 years has been flowing from local and state governments to Washington . A consequence of this reversal would be increased opportunity for all Americans ? specifically , the President said , the expansion of equal voting rights . He did not attempt to square this declaration with his recent opposition to extending the highly effective Voting Rights Act of 1965 in favor of a revision that would allow certain Southern states to revert to the old pattern of twisting the law in order to disenfranchise black citizens . Where the President was at his best was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most comprehensive in the nation 's history but the most costly as well . On the program itself Mr. Nixon was specific , though neither detailed nor exhaustive . As one item in a long-range plan to " make peace with nature , " he will propose that Congress appropriate ten billion dollars over a five-year period , starting at once , to put modern municipal waste treatment plants everywhere they are needed in order to restore the cleanliness of the nation 's waters . The proposal is thoroughly commendable as far as it goes , but unless it is combined with effective legislation to curb private industrial polluters as well , it is bound to fall considerably short of the objective . It is refreshing to hear Mr. Nixon talk , for the first time , of the need for preserving open spaces , of buying up park lands now while the opportunity is still open . It is equally good to have him state clearly the Government 's intention to set increasingly strict standards for the automobile as " our worst polluter of the air . " And best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daring for conventional Americans  --  that there is no virtue in growth for growth 's sake , that we must redirect growth toward improvement in the quality of life . Notably , the President asked for a " national growth policy " ? Federal assistance in the building of new cities , rebuilding old ones , and creating a new rural environment . The construction of highways and the location of airports would be decided only with this balanced growth in mind . If this kind of planning has become the hallmark of the Nixon Administration , the development should at least encourage the skeptics as they await more evidence .                     