@@728493

txt A smog alert is being flashed throughout the West . For a decade antipollutionists have pinpointed almost exclusively the pall of smoke that hangs low over Los Angeles . But now they are spreading their interest to Denver , Salt Lake City , Albuquerque , Phoenix , and the Pacific Northwest . Officials in the " mile high " city of Den , ver lament that although on a clear day they can still see forever , on a smoggy day visibility is often limited to a few blocks . The 20-mile distant Rockies become obscured . Salt Lake City , for the first time in history , has been forced to close its airport due to smog . And in 1969 visibility was so poor that a ban on open burning was imposed for almost half the days . Pollution in Albuquerque ? mainly from car exhausts and road dust  --  has prodded legislators to back up smog laws with heavy fines for violators . Phoenix complains that ? during winter months and the peak tourist season ? a ground-level inversion layer is clamping a lid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oregon conservation and air pollution have emerged as the big political issues of 1970 . Antismoggers Two Oregon politicians have joined the antismog race . Gov . Tom McCall and State Treasurer Robert W. Straub , the most likely Democratic gubernatorial nominee in November , are trying to convince voters of their determination to fight air pollution . Mr. Straub claimed pole position in the race . He converted his personal station wagon from leaded gasoline to propane fuel . Adaptation of the engine and installation of a liquefied-petroleum-gas ( lpg ) tank cost him about $300 . Then , almost immediately , Governor McCall rolled in with an announcement of a similar conversion job on his limousine . , Both officials cite California tests indicating that 1pg ? used as a motor fuel  --  produces 80 percent less air pollution than standard gasoline . No opposition  --  yet Some business interests are trying to rope Wyoming into gaming circles . A bill to legalize gambling  --  fashioned after the Nevada statute ? is due to be filed with the secretary of state early in April . Backers are aiming for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wyoming lawmakers refuse to lift the ban on legalized gambling , supporters say they will take the initiative route and chase voters ' signatures . About 18,000 would be needed  --  a " cinch , " insiders say  --  to get the issue on the November , 1972 , ballot at the earliest . Up to now mainly those who favor changing the state gambling law  --  ostensibly to stimulate a sagging economy  --  have been vocal on the subject . Opposition has not yet crystallized . COMMand post Riverside , nearby neighbor of Los Angeles , is to serve as a command post for research on the overall benefits of educational ethnic balance . The Center for the Study of Ethnic Accommodation ( CSEA )  --  the first of its kind in the nation ? is being set up by the University of California . CSEA purposes are to determine the impact of school desegregation on children , teachers , and parents ; to collect and disseminate information to educators on the development of pluralistic schools ; and to structure a teacher-education program to prepare instructors to work in multiethnic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western states . And they will be concerned with integration of Mexican-American ? as well as black and white children . Watch out , Chet Montana conservationists have altered a famous television tag line to : " Good grief , Chet . " They are worried about the contamination of a large resort area south of Bozeman being developed by NBC newsman Chet Huntley , among others . The $15 million project is attracting public protests despite assurances by backers that no pollution would result . Montana lawmakers are being asked by conservationists to pais zoning laws to bar a multitude of hamburger stands , bars , and other commercial enterprises from springing up around this 11,000-acre area .                     