@@732577

txt President Ford , saying that bribes paid by United States corporations to foreign officials threatened " to harm our foreign relations , " called today for legislation that would require the disclosure of all such " questionable payments . " In a statement he read at the morning White House briefing , the President said that " the questionable payments problem must be taken seriously " and added that " it is totally inconsistent with American values . " . However , the President 's proposal would impose no penalty or ' sanction of any kind on companies that paid bribes Ito foreign officials provided the companies reported the payments to a Government agency . Senator William Proxmire , ' Democrat of Wisconsin , who is : chairman of the Senate Banking , Housing and Urban Affairs Committee , issued a statement today calling the President 's : proposal for dealing with corporate bribery abroad a " copout . " ; Senator Proxmire has sponsored legislation that would make ' such bribery a criminal offense . ( The President also endorsed today legislation prepared by ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cases not now covered by Federal law to falsify company records or accounts or to make false or misleading statements in connection with an examination of financial records . In addition , Mr. Ford called for " accelerated progress toward an international agreement " that would block bribery by companies involved in international dealings . The President said that he had decided that legislation to deter such corporate bribes was necessary on the basis of an interim report of the task force on questionable corporate payments abroad , which he had formed March 31 . He said that " the number of : United States firms implicated has been relatively small , but the pattern of improper behavior can not be tolerated . " Tha task force has been instructed to draft specific legislation as quickly as possible , the President added . In his written statement , the President referred only to " questionable payments , " but in the briefing room he used the word " bribery , " saying his proposals were intended to be " a deterrent to bribery by United States corporations . " Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force , said after the President made his statement , that the " questionable payments " involved actions other than bribery , including extortion by foreign officials . The S.E.C. recently completed a study indicating that more than 100 corporations had ither reported improper foreign payments or were being investigated for such payments . All the payments were made within a two-year period . Some of the payments have touched off serious political re ? percussions abroad , particularly in Japan , where the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation reportedly paid money for political influence to help sell its aircraft . Mr. Richardson said in reply to questions that President Ford had rejected one opinion ; considered by the task force that would have made it a crime for United States corporate officials to bribe foreign officials . The President believed that such a law would not be enforceable , according to the Commerce Secretary . The disclosure provisions would be a significant deterrent , he added . " I do not mean to imply any condemnation of American business in general , " the President said in his statement . " To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American businessmen have conducted themselves as good citizens both at home and abroad . " I have decided upon the additional actions announced today as an important way to curb spreading cynicism and to help restore confidence in basic American institutions and principles . " However , Senator Proxmire , after calling the proposal a " bureaucratic copout , " asserted that " foreign bribes are wrong . They should be made illegal under United States law . "                     