@@729626

txt When the foreign exchange markets reopen in Europe today the world will be launched upon an experiment that once was considered only the wild dream of economists ? a floating international Monetary system . Almost incredibly for a conservative Republican President , Mr. Nixon has suspended convertibility between the dollar and gold and is permitting supply and demand in world markets to determine the value of the dollar . And if the dollar is floating , the world monetary system is floating . To be sure , Washington does not mean this to be a permanent state of affairs . Its aim is to bring about a realignment of exchange rates between the dollar and foreign currencies . An overvalued dollar has undermined the competitiveness of American goods . A test of national wills is to be waged in the days ahead over whether other nations will upvalue their currencies in relation to the dollar or try to force the United States to devalue . A third option for other nations is to keep their currencies yoked to the dollar at present rates rather than permit any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these choices  --  and so are enormous economic interests . The United States has great leverage through , the size of its economy ; if it so chooses , it can restrict access to the vast American market to other nations . In effect , this is what it has threatened to do by imposing , at least temporarily , a 10 per cent surcharge On imports . Other countries , though angered by Washington 's aggressiveness , have for the time being decided not to retaliate . They know that in a trade war they stand to lose more than the U.S. The international monetary system can not be rebuilt in a highly emotional , chauvinistic atmosphere , to which , unfortunately , Mr. Nixon has contributed . The most urgent task now is to effect necessary changes in rates between the dollar and other currencies  --  most importantly , the yen . Japan has as much to gain as the United States from the adjustment ? in terms of improving the purchasing power of its currency abroad and gaining greater use of domestic and foreign resources . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major nations to let the market work ? as West Germany and Canada are doing . However , a number of other countries , most conspicuously France , are unwilling to trust the setting of new rates to the market . To the extent that such nations try to hold their present rates against the dollar , they will expose their currencies to speculative attack . They are likely to discover , as Japan has already done , that fixity means instability . And beyond the immediate crisis , the world must recognize that the Bretton Woods monetary system has broken down and must be replaced . It failed basically because of its rigidity . The monetary reserve issue might be disposed of if the world were to move to a permanent floating exchange rate system ; but too many nations are still against that alternative to make it an immediate possibility . However , the flexibility of the international monetary system can be greatly improved without moving all the way to freefloating rates . The bands around parities can be widened and parity changes made more frequently . But as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates , the problem of creating additional monetary reserves to cover national deficits will remain . Today those monetary reserves include gold , United States dollars and Special Drawing Rights ? so-called " paper gold . " The long-term movement will probably be away from a system in which the world bases its monetary reserves on gotti or on dollars or on the currency of any single nation , and toward an international medium , such as S.D.R. 's . The problem of how to move to a more stable monetary reserve medium without inflicting unfair treatment on nations that are today holding dollars and gold will require difficult negotiations . But building a more flexible international monetary system is no longer an academic exercise ; it has become a necessity .                     