@@729903

txt Effective today , 120,000 household workers in New York State come under a new minimum-wage law and must be paid at or above the state 's hourly minimum of $1.85-$14.80 for an eight-hour day or $74 for a 40-hour week . Assemblyman Seymour Posner , Democrat-Liberal of the Bronx , a sponsor of the bill signed by Governor Rockefeller last July 1 , said United States Labor Department surveys showed that more than half the state 's domestics earn less than the minimum and should be getting a raise beginning today . United States Pay Board rules provide that the increase to the minimum must be paid , and no approval is required . Louis L. Levine , State Industrial Commissioner , said domestic workers were now covered by the Minimum Wa Order for Miscellaneous Industries and Occupations . This means they are entitled to time-anda-half overtime pay for more than 40 hours ' work a week , except for sleep-in domestics , who are entitled to overtime after 44 hours . Mr. Posner reminded household workers who do not receive the minimum beginning today that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 80 Centre // Street , New York , N. Y. 10013 . The telephone number is ( 212 ) 488-7700 , For sleep-in domestics , allowances for meals , lodging and utilities are provided for in the order . A copy can be obtained by writing the Department of Labor , State Office Building Campus , Albany , N. Y. 12226 . The order requires employers of domestics to keep records . Ile Labor Standards Division has instructed its investigators that check stubs and receipt books are acceptable as records if they specify the hours worked for the payment made . The preferred forms are notebooks showing the name of the , employe , the day , the starting time and the quitting time on-a daily basis for a straight shift and on a shift basis for a split shift . Requirements for Tax A spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service said that household employers , whether of full-or part-time domestics , who pay them $50 or more per person every three calendar months , including carfare but not lunch money , are required to pay Social Security taxes.1 Where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employer must pay the tax . The employers must withhold 5.2 per cent from the pay and add an equal amount at the employers ' expense to make the total of the tax-10.4 ' per 1cent , The employer must make the Social Security tax payments , which are due on April 1 , July 1 , Oct. 1 and Jan. 1 on Form 942 , " Employers Quarterly Tax Return for Household Em-ployes , " The first copy of the form can be obtained from any I.R.S. district office or by writing I.R.S. Forms Department , 120 Church Street , New York , N.Y . 10007 . The form has a list of addresses to which the return must be made . After the first form has been filed , the IRS. will send a copy of the form automatically before the required date as a reminder . For the time being , the I.R.S. Social Security Tax Return will be accepted as a record by the state if the employer writes on the Federal form the name of the employe it covers and the number of ' hours for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay the Federal unemployment tax or any tax other than the Social Security tax , the I.R.S. said . They are not required to withhold wages to pre-pay Federal , state or city income taxes , spokesmen for the tax departments said . Coverage by the new law is comprehensive for part-time as well as full-time workers . Mr , Levine said maids , cooks , mother 's helpers , cleaning women , window washers , private gardeners and helpers , snow shovelers , handymen and practical nurses were included . Some Categories Exempt Exempt are registered nurses , as professionals , and painters , plumbers , carpenters and other craftsmen who are independent contractors . Part-time baby sitters are exempt , including those referred by an employment agency . Parttime baby sitters working for a temporary-help agency are included , but it is the agency , not the householder , who is the employer and who is responsible for the record-keeping and tax payments . Enforcement of the minimumwage order is by the State Division of Labor Standards and its investigators . The division said it investigates every com-plaint , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are underpaid . Deliberate violators are prosecuted and subject to fines varying according to the circumstances . Enforcement of the Social Security tax collection is by the I.R.S. and its investigators . The employer is held liable for the tax payment , is subject to penalties for late payment and may be prosecuted and fined or ' imprisoned for deliberate violation , as in any tax case . Some domestics , seeking to avoid the 5.2 per cent deduction for the Social Security tax , refuse to work unless it is ignored . If the employer complies , the employer becomes liable for nonpayment , regardless of the attitude of the employe , Some employers give their domestics a proportion of the 10.4 per cent to ignore the Social Security tax , telling them that they may not be in this country to collect or may not work long enougn to collect , This deprives the employe of benefits , paid anywhere in the world , which are payable regardless of eligibility for retirement benefits , such as the lump-sum payment on death . Employes who can not get their employers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eligible can complain at any I.R.S. district office , Tax payments must be made to set up a record of eligibility . Jobless Pay Available Although no unemployment tax is paid , domestic workers are entitled to unemployment compensation based on earnings when they become totally unemployed . If an employe hired by five employers is laid off by several , he or she may be eligible for wage supplements under the welfare program until the State Employment Office offers other employment . Since the demand for domestic workers is greater than the supply , they can not usually establish eligibility for either form of assistance . Domestics over 62 , however , are eligible for public assistance when health dictates part-time employment but only rarely will they accept it , Government and social agency policy seeks to overcome this attitude to a benefit to which they are entitled .                     