@@733545

txt The United States has asked the Soviet Union to begin negotiations next month on banning hunter-killer satellites in space despite strong reservations in the Defense Department over starting such talks now . The Pentagon is unhappy about the White House decision because at present , only the Soviet Union can reach orbiting Satellites and destroy them . Government officials said that the proposal was only recently relayed to Moscow and that no formal reply had been received . But ' Moscow is expected to agree and the American officials said it was likely that talks would begin in April with Paul C. Warnke , the director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency , heading an American delegation . The Administration 's proposal cdmes as other Soviet-American efforts at arms control , such as the talks on strategic arms limitation , are snowing rew signs of progress and the Carter Administration is expressing concern over the expansion of Moscow 's military power . However , officials hope a joint understanding can be reached on space before it becomes an arena for all-out military competition . Preventing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Carter Administration because of growing American reliance on satellites for civilian and military tasks , such as monitoring compliance with arms-control agreements and providing early warning in the event of missile attack . Officials fear that the Soviet development of a hunterkiller satellite system threatens the use of satellites in these roles . The Soviet weapon , known in the Pentagon as an Asat , for antisatellite , has been under development for almost a decade . Last year , Secretary of Defense Harold Brown announced that it was ready for use . Pentagon Position After it is launched into orbit , the weapon can be maneuvered close to a target satellite and destroy it by exploding . Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance first discussed banning such weapons when he was in Moscow a year ago . Following the disintegration of a Soviet spy satellite , parts of which fell on Canada in January , President Carter reiterated the need for superpower talks on the issue . In recent months , the Pentagon has opposed opening talks before the United States develops a comparable weapon of its own . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceded to arguments of the State Department and arms-control agency that the talks should begin without delay . One important factor in the decision , officials said , is new intellgence suggesting that Moscow is developing another generation of antisatellite weapons . Of particular concern is the possibility that in the 1980 's , the Soviet Union could use ground-based lasers to shoot satellites out of the sky . So far . the Soviet Union has tested hunter-killer satellites only at relatively low altitudes , below 900 miles , which means that Moscow could threaten American spy satellites but not communications and early warning systems in much higher orbits . But officials believe that in the next decade , the Soviet Union will develop the ability to destroy highaltitude satellites . To counter this threat . the United States is trying to reduce the vulnerabiliity of satellites with such measures as " hardening " them against explosions and stationing them far out in space . The Pentagon has also begun to develop two kinds of hunter-killer satellites . The first , said to be similar to the existing Soviet system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was meant to destroy . The second and more advanced system would be far more maneuverable and would use an infrared sensor to seek out satellites over great distances . Debate on What to Ban Officials hope that the threat posed by these two projects will induce Moscow to agree to ban such weapons . At the same time , the Administration has not decided exactly what such an agreement should prohibit . Officials acknowledge that a simple ban on the deployment of hunter-killer satellites would be very difficult to verify and that any space agreement should also curb development of such systems . But the Pentagon opposes a ban on develop . ment , contending that this would interfere with its two antisatellite projects , thus reducing American bargaining leverage in negotiations . Accordingly , although no firm decision has been made , officials are leaning toward asking Moscow to stop testing antisatellite systems while the talks get under way . A White House official said the prospect of Moscow agreeing to stop tests were slim , but he argued that in the long run , the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in space . " 1 do n't think the Soviets want to force us into the antisatellite business , " he said . " Because with the programs we have under way , we could clean up the sky in 24 hours . "                     