@@732601

txt In a daring move of deception and trickery , Israeli commandos aboard three jets made a 4,800-mile round-trip stab into the heart of Africa early Sunday and rescued more than 100 hostages held in Uganda by pro-Palestinian air hijackers . Israeli officials said 102 hostages , including 61 Israelis , came back to a joyous and triumphant welcome here . One-hundred four were rescued altogether , but two wounded hostages had to be left in Africa for treatment . They said three hostages , one Israeli commando , seven terrorists , and some Ugandan soldiers were killed in an hourlong battle at Entebbe Airport outside the Ugandan capital of Kampala . The dead Israeli commando , Col. Yehonatan Netanyahu , 30 , immigrated with his family from the United States in 1948 , the military command said . Ugandan President Idi Amin said 20 Ugandan troops were killed and 32 injured . Lt. Gen. Mordechai Gur , Israeli chief of staff , said the Israelis had to fight both hijackers and Ugandan troops to get the hostages out . Defense Minister Shimon Peres accused Amin of cooperating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said he had ordered his troops not to fire on the rescue planes and accused Israel of " ingratitude . " Page 2 . AT LEAST II hostages were hospitalized in Tel Aviv . One injured woman hostage  --  taken to a Kampala hospital before the assault began  --  remained in Uganda . A hostage hospitalized in Nairobi , Kenya , died later . The raid clearly caught Amin and his highly vaunted army  --  as well as the hijackers  --  completely off guard . The Israeli government , in what appeared to be a total turnaround in policy , earlier had indicated readiness to negotiate for release of the hostages . The Israeli commander of the mission , paratroop Brig . Dan Shomron , said his men killed seven terrorists , " and that is almost all the terrorists we think there were . " The terrorists included Palestinians and a German man and woman . Shomron said 6 to 10 Soviet-supplied Ugandan MIG jet fighters were destroyed on the ground . A Ugandan source said 11 jets were destroyed . THERE WERE indications that the Israelis fooled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 Palestinian prisoners . Some sources said that , to reinforce the ruse , the Israeli commandos wore civilian clothes . Reports from Nairobi said the Israelis used two commercial 707 jetliners from El Al 's fleet , along with a C-130 Hercules military transport plane . " We used some tricks " to confuse the Ugandan guards , said Gur , but he did not describe them . Reports from Nairobi said a diversionary explosion , possibly the bombing of an oil tank , was set off far from the terminal . Brig . Shomron told newsmen that " the operation on the ground was fairly easy , not so difficult . The decision to make the raid was more daring . " ISRAELI PREMIER Yitzhak Rabin said Israel 's agreement to negotiate a prisoner release was genuine , and the raid was ordered only when " the sand ran out of the hour glass . " Israeli officials said the jets stopped in Kenya only on the way back from Uganda . However , unofficial sources in Mauritius said at least one had stopped on the way to Uganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were indications the Kenyans knew of the raid in advance . Addressing a specially convened session of the Israeli parliament , Rabin later declared , This operation will become a legend . It is Israel 's contribution to the fight against terrorism , a fight that has not yet ended . " The predawn airborne raid on Entebbe , more than five hours ' flying time from Tel Aviv , came a week after the hijackers seized the Air France jet over Athens and only 10 hours before the deadline set by the terrorists to kill their hostages . THEY HAD THREATENED to blow up the captives at 7 a.m . Chicago time ) Sunday if 53 Arab and other prisoners held in Israel and Europe were not freed . The Israeli planes brought back two dead hostages . They were identified as Ida Borkhovitch and Jacques Alimouni , Israeli television said the rescued hostages included 61 Israelis , 21 French , 10 Jews with dual nationalities carrying Israeli passports , and the Air France crew of 12 . Exactly how the hostages were killed or wounded was not immediately clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before he was killed , and Israeli commandos said some of the victims may have been hit in the crossfire between the Israelis and the Ugandans and Palestinians . THE RAID ended as ordeal for the hostages that began when their jetliner , on a flight from Tel Aviv to Paris , was hijacked after a stopover in Athens . The terrorists first forced the jet to fly to Libya and later Kampala . Hostages said the hijackers were joined in Uganda by more terrorists . Several sources said there were four hijackers aboard the plane , plus three gunmen waiting in Kampala .                     