@@728480

txt The Federal Bureau of Investigation today confirmed that the explosion which blew two friends of militant H. Rap Brown and their car to pieces Monday was caused by the accidental detonation of a heavy charge they were carrying . FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover , in a telegram to Maryland Gov . Marvin Mandel , said his agents ' ' reconstruction of the deaths of Ralph Featherstone , 30 , and William H. Che Payne , 26 , near Bel Air , Md. , showed the blast occurred " inside the automobile in the front seat on the passenger or right side . " The explosion area " did not include glove compartment , dashboard , or parts of an automobile where the explosives charge could have been concealed from view of persons occupying front seat , " Hoover said . Call for Probe Mandel 's office has been under pressure to respond to a cell from 20 prominent black ' officials around the nation for a " full-scale , impartial investigation " of the explosion . Among the signers were Mayor Richard Hatcher of Gary ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fayette , Miss . As the missing Brown 's trial on 1967 riot charges neared Monday in Bel Air , the militant black community was rife with rumors that the explosives had been planted in the Featherstone car by hostile whites , a theory which the FBI report tended to counter . Mar yland authorities reGov . Marvin Mandel ported that the remains of Payne consisted only of his torso , neck , and the back of his skull . The fact that his legs and arms were missing led to the conclusion among sources close to the investigation that Payne was leaning over toward the floorboards when the charge went off . Washington Services Held Featherstone 's right arm was blown off and the right side of his face caved in . Services were held for him this afternoon at o funeral home in a Negro section of northeast Washington . T h e tense crowd of some 600 mourners , disciplined to silence by millt.ant associates of Featherstone and Brown , packed the funeral home and an overflow crowd listened to loudspeakers outside . William L. Kwistler , Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services that his client has " vanished from the face of the earth . " Kunstler termed " untrue " reports that Brown had gone to a Harlem apartment to hide idler the Monday explosion .                     