@@734494

txt TEHRAN  --  Heavy fighting broke out Sunday night in Azerbaijan between supporters and critics of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , but the army stepped in after two hours to separate the two groups and restore calm . Reports from Tabriz , capital of the Turkish-speaking province , said Khomeini supporters , and forces loyal to Ayatollah Kazem Shariat-Madari , the spiritual leader of the Azerbaijanis , battled for control of the provincial radio and television station until the army intervened . The army took over the station , but It was not clear if it had taken sides in the battle . Sources close to the Shariat-Madari camp said 3 people were killed and 60 wounded in the fighting  --  the worst outbreak of violence since bloody clashes between troops and Iran 's Kurdish minority several months ago . Although shooting was still heard about midnight , the sources reported most of the city . was calm . " Tomorrow will be the decisive day , " one of them said , predicting a further outbreak of fighting . THE SHARIAT-MADART forces occupied the radio-TV station several days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10,000 pro-Khomeini demonstrators marched on the station Sunday , disarmed about 50 persons on guard duty , and took over . Fighting broke out after sundown , // Iran army halts fighting in Azerbaijan province // with Shariat-Madari supporters claiming Khomeini supporters started shooting at them . During the battle , the pro-Khomeini broadcast repeated appeals to members of the Revolutionary Guards to join them in defending the station . But some guards fought with the attacking forces . For two hours , one witness said , the avenue leading to the radio-TV station was filled with people shouting " God is great " and " Down with Khomeini . " Shariat-Madari , in a statement Saturday , threatened armed rebellion in the . province if any attempt were made to dislodge his followers . The government , already facing the threat of renewed fighting in rebellious Kurdistan , had made peace moves toward Shariat-Madari only the day be . fore . It promised then that no decisions affecting Azerbaijan would be taken until he had been consulted . But Sunday , that agreement appeared to have been a delaying tactic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . IN A STATEMENT broadcast by Tehran radio , Khomeini said the dispension in Azerbaijan was " the work of plotters , who take orders from the United States or other places . " This theme also was heavily emphasized in the pro-government press . Khomeini called the Shariat-Madari supporters who occupied the Tabriz radio-TV station " puppets " and " traitors to this country . " Tehran . radio later said aides to Khomeini had asked Shariat-Madari to disband his political party , the Moslem People 's Republican Party , " to prevent any further split in the Islamic ranks . " Islamic students holding 50 hostages at the American embassy joined the verbal warfare , calling the party -a tool of the American imperialists . " Meanwhile , the revolutionary prosecutor general 's office in Tehran issued a warrant for the arrest of an Azerbaijan political party leader closely associated with Shariat-Madari . THE WARRANT for the arrest of Moghaddam Maraghei , leader of the Radical Movement , was issued after students holding the American embassy released embassy documents which they said showed that he had had talks with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on American television , Iranian Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh announced Sunday that within 10 days , Iran will convene an international grand jury to investigate and " judge before the world " American wrongdoing in his country over the last 25 years . Speaking from Tehran on NBC 's Meet the Press , Ghotbzadeh said those American hostages who are not guilty of spying " obviously can not be held forever " and will be released , although " the date I can not fix . "                     