@@731374

txt A scientist at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center here has admitted faking basic research results , a peer review committee said today . " It is an Indisputable fact that misrepresentation took place , " said Dr. Lewis Thomas , president of the center , at a two-hour news conference . The scientist Is Dr. William T. Summerlin , 35 , a physician and immunology researcher who admitted that early on the morning of March 26 he used a pen to darken patches on the skin of two white mice , the committee said . By doing this , Summerlin made it appear that lie had been able to successfully transplant skin bet ween animals that were genetically incompatible by first storing the skin in a common laboratory culture solution , the committee indicated . SUCII RESULTS would have great potential in research into cancer and immunology . Scientists said the approach does seem to affect skin , but requires further inquiry . Summerlin had told a seminar of the American Cancer Society on March 30 , 1973 , that the technique of storing tissue in culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without using dangerous immunitysuppressing drugs . The review committee recommended , and the institute 's board of trustees agreed , that Summerlin 's association with the institute " be terminated . " THOMAS SAID Summerlin is suffering from a serious emotional disturbance , is under the care of a psychiatrist and has been given a one-year medical leave of absence , a terminal leave , at f ull salary , about $40,000 . Summertin could not be reached for comment . The scandal has caused widespread concern among scientists , as reflected in a comment on the case in the journal Science , published by the American Association for the Advancement of Science . " There is no sin in science More grievous than falsifying data . There is no accusation that can be made against a man more serious that that he is guilty of such a sin . The very thought of fakery threatens the powerful mystique of the purity of science . " TIlE CASE also involves Dr. Robert A. Good , a famous immunologist at Sloan-Kettering . Summerlin was an associate of Good when they were at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shares some of the responsibility . " Dr. Good was slow to respond to a suggestion of dishonesty against Dr. Summerlin at a time when several investigators were experiencing great difficulty in repeating Dr. Summerlin 's experiments , " it said . Good said he accepted responsibility for " promulgating " Summerlin 's work , making it more prominent than it might have been at the time . He . described himself as a " somewhat wiser if sadder person " and said he is considering possible ways of " moderating " his activities .                     