@@728672

txt Dr. James E. Allen Jr . of New York , who openly broke with the Nixon Administration over the Cambodian invasion , was ousted today as the Government 's top education official . Robert H. Finch , who is leaving his post as Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare for a staff job in the White House , said in a statement that he had " asked for and received the resignation " of Dr. Allen as Commissioner of Education and Assistant Secretary of H.E.W . The statement said that " the resignation is effective immediately , " and that the choice of a successor would be left to Elliot L. Richardson , the new Secretary of the department , after he was confirmed by the Senate . Shortly after this afternoon 's announcement , both of New York 's Republican Senators condemned Dr. Allen 's ouster . Senator Jacob K. Javits said , " I am dismayed because I believe that it was very much in the Administration 's interest to have so distinguished a leader in education as Commissioner Allen at a time so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goodell said , " Any Administration that demands the resignation of a man of the caliber of Jim Allen ought to be ashamed . " Attempts tonight to determine why Mr. Finch dismissed Dr. Allen were unavailing . Neither was available for comment , but a spokesman for Dr. Allen said that he would not comment on his dismissal until a news conference at noon tomorrow . " When we asked for elaboration , we were told to go with what we had , " a department spokesman said after the threeparagraph statement was made public . Dr. Allen , who in March was accused by leaders of the educational establishment of tacitly supporting the Administration 's school desegreContinued gation policies , openly opposed the Nixon Administration 's Cambodian policy in a statement before Office of Education staff members three weeks ago . " I find it very difficult to understand the rationale of go- ' ing into Cambodia and continuing wai- in Vietnam , " he told 400 applauding department employes at that time . A month earlier , in April , Dr. Allen , a life-long Democrat , took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially beyond that of President Nixon and Mr. Finch . At that time , Dr. Allen said that he wanted to end defacto segregation . Administration leaders said that they would not order this done . Dr. Allen has also publicly complained of political interference by Republican recruiters in his attempts to fill a score of vacancies in the Office of Education . " I find it difficult to get appointees cleared by Republican recruiters , " he said last month , adding , " I came here thinking I could get the best people I could find . ' Sources at the health , department suggested that neither the Cambodian affair , nor school desegregation nor partisan politics might have been the only reasons for asking for Dr. Allen 's resignation however embarrassing those factors might have been to the Administration . Officials at the White House and the health department have in recent months been extremely critical of Dr. Allen because of - what they contended to be his inability to manage effectively the huge Federal education bureaucracy . They also expressed annoyance because he tended , they believed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Years Before coming to Washingotn at the start of the Nixon Administration , Dr. Allen for 13 years was Commissioner of Education for New York State . He was appointed to that post by the State Board of Regents and was answerable only to the board . During his years in Albany , he did not have to report either to Governor Rockefeller or for-1 mer Governor Harriman . In Washington , the position of Commissioner . of Education is in the bureaucratic chain of . command . In addition , when in Albany Dr. Allen lobbied in the State Legislature on his own for more aid to education . In Washington . others lobbied for him . Last January , he said that Federal aid to education was suffering , although the Administration was supervising more than $5-billion in Federal education programs . The disaffection with Dr. Allen by high Administration officials is known to have started months ago , and it was privately understood that a new Commissioner of Education would be sought before summer was out . The sources in the health department said that the ouster of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yolles , who was dismissed as head of the National Institute of Mental Health last week . Critics of Dr. Yolles , who is also a Democrat from New York , insisted that lack of management talent , rather than political views , was the paramount reason for the ousters . When a report circulated last month that Dr. Allen 's resignation had been sought by Mr. Nixon , the President 's press secretary , Ronald L. Ziegler , firmly denied it . Last Saturday . after Mr. Nixon announced that Mr. Finch would be transferred to the White House , the Secretary invited a score of his chief aides , including Dr. Allen , for a three-hour cruise down the Potomac aboard the Sequoia , the Presidential yacht . Mr. Finch is known to respect Dr. Allen as one of the nation 's authorities on the relationships between government and education . But aides said that Mr. Finch was less than pleased with Dr. Allen 's performance , even allowing for the lack of staff and the restrictions that the Indochina war has placed on added funds . Health Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suddenly before the Secretary moved to the White House as a domestic affairs counselor to the President . The Senate is scheduled to start hearings on the confirmation of Mr. Richardson tomorrow .                     