@@729740

txt Evidence is building that there will in fact be a black third-party candidate for president next year . Black leaders are increasingly speaking of this as a probability , even those who prefer that black power be exerted within the Democratic Party . Now one of the top politicians involved in plotting a black-power course at next year 's Democratic convention says flatly that  --  although he would prefer otherwise  --  there " definitely " will be a black third ( or fourth ) candidate next year . Georgia State Rep. Julian Bond , winner of some support for president at the convention in 1968 , admits that the planned black effort to gain concessions from the white Democratic candidate for president would be diluted by the third-party candidacy he and other leaders envision . The prime beneficiary of a third-party black candidacy would obviously be President Nixon . Such a candidacy would cut into the black vote that , in recent presidential elections , has gone overwhelmingly to the Democratic candidate . Deal ' for a pledge Mr. Bond , talking to a small group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be a black third- or fourth-party effort " even if our deal " with the Democratic presidential candidate goes through . The " deal , " planned in three secret meetings in recent months by key black Democratic politicians , including Mr. Bond , would be to say , in effect , to one white Democratic hopeful at the party 's national convention next year : " We will give you our united black delegate support here , enough to give you the nomination , in return for a large number of top-level appointments by your administration , when you are elected . " Agree in advance ? or else ' The real black " threat " involved in these negotiations , Mr. Bond points out , would be felt by a white Democratic presidential candidate who got the nomination and who did not comply with the request by the blacks for jobs . The black delegates will be saying , in their Miarili Beach bargaining sessions , " if the white candidate does not agree in advance to our request , he will lose the black vote . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this vote will go elsewhere no matter what the black delegates say . Thus , a third-party candidacy would , to an important extent , erode the black delegates ' threat , hence their bargaining position .                     