@@728711

txt Sen. Mike Mansfield Mont . ) , Senate Democratic leader , charged today that the country is in an economic recession and he challenged President Nix9 to : use the " pel.suasive power ? ' , of Text on p. 2 , Sec. 1A his office to halt excessive price and wage increases . Mansfield's. criticism of the President 's economic policies was made in a nationally televised rebuttal on behalf of his party . to Nixon 's speech a week ago on the state of the ? economy . ? They " Spell Recession " ? Mansfield acknowledged that the Democrats must accept their share . of the responsibility for the present inflation , but he // Sen. Mike ' Mansfield prepares rebuttal to President 's address on economy . said that right ' now ' three words ? inflation , unemployment , and war  --  say a lot about the nation 's economy and that " whether the term is used or not , these words spell recession . " " To be sure , much of what transpires now began in an earlier time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we can not undo it . To be sure , the basic strength of the American economy promises a great deal . But that is for the future . What of today ? What of now ? " Mansfield prodded the President to intervene more actively as a personal force in the inflation fight . He said Congress has given the President some powers he so far refuses to use . Credit Curb Not Used Acting on its ' own , Mansfield said , Congress passed a selective credit control law last December that could reduce the cost of home mortgages but the White House has not used it . The Senate Democratic leader said he can not figure out why . Mansfield said several times that he could not understand what he pictured as Nixon 's lack of activism . " We can support the President if he wishes to use the persuasion of the Presidency , for example , as a means of discouraging excessive price and wage increases , " Mansfield said . " That persuasive power has yet to be tried . It is not clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Price Hikes Mansfield said that the effectiveness of Presidential intervention and persuasion was demonstrated by President Kennedy in 1962 when prices were rolled back in the steel industry , " by the determined efforts of the President at that time . " As a result , other industries held the price line and the economy avoided inflation and experienced a sound and dynamic growth , Mansfield said . This year , without Presidential intervention , prices in the steel industry have already been raised four times , he said . " Congress can not very well call to the attention of particular business and labor leaders the consequences of excessive price and wage increases , " Mansfield said . " But Congress can and , I am confident , will support the President should he decide to do so . Congress can not itself draw up and administer a set of guidelines for reasonable wage and price behavior on the part of industry and labor . But Congress can and , I am confident , will support the President if he chooses to do so . " Charges Neglect at Home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties lies in what he termed the distorted use of the nation 's resources . He cited the war in southeast Asia and said that , for- too long , the nation 's security has been pursued all over the globe and neglected at home . What of the livability of American cities and suburbs , pollution , crime , transportation , r ail roads , drug addiction , power shortages , racial tensions , and education , Mansfield asked . Mansfield took credit for a 6.4-billion-dollar cut in government spending for the Democratic Congress , saying most of it was in defense spending . The Democratic leader insisted that Congress is moving on worthwhile Nixon proposals that would aid the economy and domestic problems . He denied Republican charges of foot dragging .                     