@@730444

txt Stanley Kusper at a press conference to answer charges of vote fraud made by The Tribune . In background are from left William Mullen , William Currie , and George Bliss , three of the four Tribune Task Force reporters who made the investigation . Other photos on Back Page . Stanley T. Kusper Jr. , chairman of the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners , ' charged yesterday that a Tribune reporter violated state election laws by working under cover as a $20-a-day clerk for the board . Lashing out at Tribune disclosures of widespread vote fraud and election day irregularities , Kusper cited the law the reporter allegedly broke , but under sharp questioning admitted he himself has worked as an attorney on private legal matters while he has been board chairman . During his first press conference since Task Force reports on election law violations began Sunday , Kusper claimed the accounts were motivated by " partisan politics " and contained " selective " reporting . Does Not Challenge Truth However he did not challenge the veracity of any of the disclosures on multiple voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats as Republican election judges during the . March primary . " I am not saying that everything in these stories is false . There are some things that are apparently ' rue which occurred at the precinct level , " he said . Kusper claimed on the one hand that his office was not legally responsible for policing irregularities which occur id polling places on election day , but said on the other hand that the board can and does take action when these violations are brought to its attention . Can not Hold Other Job " If someone points something out to us , then we 'll investigate it . " he said . " I think vote fraud is reprehensible and should be crushed . " In challenging reporter William Mullen 's duiil employment as a clerk and reporter , Kusper held up the Illinois election law and selected a phrase that employes of the board can not hold other jobs while working for the board . However , a close examination of the statute shows that it also specifically states that the election commission chairman " shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office . " Seated at Kusper 's side was William R. Ming , special counsel to the board , who was aided by Kusper in writing a petition to the United States Supreme Court requesting a review of Ming 's 1970 conviction for failing to file income tax returns for four years on income totaling $98,923 . The appeal of Ming 's 16-month sentence is pending . Works Nights , Weekends Kusper claimed that the state election law does not apply to him and added that he works nights and weekends on his private legal cases , the same hours Mullen worked at The Tribune while employed in Kusper 's office . In defending his work in the Ming case , Kusper said , " I 'll go to hell on a one-way ticket for a friend . " Kusper hinted that Mullen had not performed his assigned tasks as a board clerk , but he used statistics Mullen had gathered for the office on Republican election judge vacancies as part of his presentation to the press yesterday . This was the sole task assigned to Mullen during his three months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in the board 's files were not the board 's responsibility , b u t under the law rest squarely on the shoulders of the election judges in the precincts involved . " The judges are in full authority in the polling place , " he said . " Where in the election code does it say that the board is responsible for checking every precinct to determine if there is- fraud ? Show me where it says that . No one can sit here and reasonably say that we should be responsible for something the statute does n't make us responsible for . " However , he added : " When the Tribune said we have done nothing about vote fraud or election judges , they were not telling the truth . " He Claimed the office had helped develop information used by the state 's attorney 's office in several recent vote fraud indictments . Kusper deperibed the board 's responsibility for the conduct of elections under the election code this way : " It prepares it , packages it , puts it together and then it hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . ' " Refuses to Comment Kusper refused to comment on cases in which The Tribune said his staff had appointed Republican judges for the March primary in violation of its own rule that the judges could not have voted as Democrats in 1971 . He said he could not comment because the records were in the hands of the United States attorney 's office and unavailable . He charged that The Tribune wrongly accused his office of not taking action to remove election judges who voted for the opposite party from the one they claimed as their sponsor during the March primary . He observed that the board had disqualified for this reason 234 of the 17,000 judges who served . The Tribune had reported this action by the board , and then detailed scores of other cases in which judges were not removed for voting in the opposite party . Some Judges Resigned Kusper said that 300 to 900 election judges had resigned since the March primary and that there now are 1,144 vacancies for Republican judges . Kusper claimed his eight investigators did not have time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those found by Mullen . Mullen saw board employes sifting thru all the ballot applications only days before he began his own search . These other employes had passe d over blank ballot applications and forgeries which Mullen said were obvious . This sifting by the board staff was only to see how the election judges had voted to determine if they should be disqualified , Kusper said . They are not handwriting experts and do not have time to investigate forgeries if they suspect them as they go along , he asserted . He added , " If we were actually condoning vote fraud we would have lost them the ballot applications or destroyed them . "                     