@@729340

txt Moonbeams silvered a shopping center 's nearly deserted parking lot . It was 3 a.m. , yet three " night owls " flocked around a mechanical post office , changing bills to coins , weighing letters , and buying stamps from vending machines . The scene was Wheaton , Md . But these 24-hour mechanical post offices are one of the features of the postal services ' future . If they have n't come to your community ? they may soon . Postmaster General Winton M. Blount says in the last two years the Post Office Department has installed 330 such self- service units , and plans to add another 1,050 by June 30 , 1975 . Right now a lot of other things are going on with the nation 's mail service though most changes are n't so visible . For some 200 years it 's been a government agency  --  the United States Post Office . ' But July 1 it becomes a semipublic organization called the United States Postal Service , culminating a major postal reorganization begun last summer . More efficiency sought Prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics out of the post office , and to put more efficiency into it . And , ultimately , to do a better job handling the nation 's mail  --  now 82 billion pieces a year . Over the next months several things will be going up  --  stamp costs , new post offices , and , officials hope , employee productivity . Recurrent rumors here reveal public concern that in the new zeal for efficiency some postal services may be ended . Postal officials insist there will be no cutbacks in services which businesses and average citizens want and need . However , unneeded services may be trimmed in the interests of efficiency . The first change will come in mid-June , when people will pay more , at least temporarily , to mail letters and parcels . The new postal service has petitioned its equally new postal rate commission for major increases in rates of all classes of mail . This aims to reduce the present high rate of deficit . Some expected increases Price of a first-class stamp would jump 2 cents ? from 6 cents to 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 cents . Mailing costs for newspapers , magazines . direct-mail advertising pieces would go up . So would special delivery ? from from 45 cents to 60 cents a letter . Postmaster General Blount estimates that these increases would add $1.45 billion during fiscal year 1972 ? toward a total postal-service budget of $10 billion for the year . The rate commission plans to begin hearings on the increase requests on April 29 . They will take months , and the increases temporarily will go into effect in mid-June pending a final commission decision . It is expected that it will permit at least a good percentage of the increases . Little leeway planned Assistant Postmaster General Ronald Lee says if these increases finally are approved " it 's unlikely , in my opinion , that we would have another omnibus rate increase for a long time . " He says the present rate requests are not planned , however , to leave room for major wage increases by postal employees . The postal service and its unions are about to begin hard bargaining over the amount of pay employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as postal employees received two wage hikes last year , they are not likely to ge another major one now . Even if they should , he adds , rates would n't necessarily have to be raised again ? provided mail volume continues to pick up , and the pay hikes are tied to increased productivity by employees . Negotiators from both union and management can be expected to zero in on this last issue , with unions fighting for higher wages and management for higher productivity Some sideline observers believe they will wind up with a contract that calls for more of each . One way that Postmaster General Blount ? who also will head the new postal service ? expects to get more productivity is through more efficient management , and more mechanization . The results of these two efforts should soon be visible to many Americans . Automation emphasized They came together in his announcement March 11 that the postal service would undertake a massive program to modernize old post offices , and build 30 new postal buildings with public money ( financed by postal bonds ) during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built will be highly automated , and will only process bulk mail ? advertising circulars and the like . At the same time Mr. Blount announced that he was embarking on a program of constructing a network of separate postal buildings just for second- and third-class mail , and parcel post . Scheduled to be finished by the end of 1975 , this bulk-mail system will consist of 21 bulk-mail centers , and 12 other service facilities . He told the House Post Office and Civil Service Committee March 11 that if bulk mail is handled separately from preferential mail -- first-class , airmail , and special delivery  --  both will be delivered more efficiently and eventually savings would reach $300 million a year .                     