@@730141

txt With the city of Quangtri last , two South Vietnamese lire bases on the approaches to the former imperial capital of Hue were reported under enemy attack yesterday . Hue itself , 32 miles southeast of the fallen capital of Quangtri Province , was bracing for a North Vietnamese onslaught . Serious attacks could be expected in the next few days , newsmen in Hue were told last night by Brig . Gen .. Thomas W. Bowen , senior adviser to the regional commander . United States intelligence sources estimated that it would take the enemy forces six to eight days to prepare for the assault . Artillery Batters Base United States military sources said last night that Fire Base ' Nancy , the northernmost position held by the South Vietnamese and their last one in Quangtri Province , was battered by enemy artillery . Unite ed Press International , quoting officers in the field , said enemy , soldiers attacking with the sitpport of tanks had seized part of the outpost . The base , which is 20 miles northwest of Hue , lies a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north-south high-. way , and on the boundary be- : tween Quangtri and ThuathieS Provinces . Hue is the capital . of Thuathien Province. : Heightening the threat ts Htie , Vietnamese troops nearing the city from the south- : West reportedly struck at Fire Base . Birmingham , 13 miles from the city . The base was : subjected to heavy artillery : fire . Meanwhile , the , United States . aircraft : carrier . Mid- ? way arrived off Vietnam to help . support South Vietnamese forces , The Associated Press reported . With her arrival , the United States had five carriers operating in the area for the first time in the war . In the center of South Vietnam , LanOing Zone English , the last Government position in the northern part of the coastal province of Binhdinh , was reportedly abandoned last night after several days of heavy enemy pressure . American advisers were evacuated from the base . Monday , indicating that the base had been effectively written off . American military sources reported that South Vietnam 's 40th Infantry Regiment pulled out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bongson , and retreated toward the coast . ' Me Associated Press reported that the troops had been picked up by landing boats . In the southern part of the province , the capital city of Quinhon was struck by four 122-nnam rockets Monday night . Four civilians were reported killed ? and six wounded . In the neighboring province to the west , the encircled city of Kontum reportedly came under light shelling during the day . Later , the Saigon command reported , that Government troops 12 miles west of the city were also . Shelled and that enemy tanks were spotted heading in the direction of Kontum , capital of the province by the same name . Ten miles south of the city , the command said , Government infantrymen clashed with North Vietnamese soldiers , killing 11 and suffering four wounded . American military sources said that the strong enemy forces in the area were being kept from mounting an all-out attack on Kontum by good flying weather , which allows United States and South Vietnamese planes to pound targets there .. Weather reports from the area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sixty miles north of Saigon , the besieged provincial capital of Anloc was struck by 780 artillery rounds yesterday , the South Vietnamese command reported , and North Vietnamese troops attacked the defenders in and around the city . The command described the casualties resulting from the shelling and ground attacks as light . United States planes continued heavy raids throughout South Vietnam yesterday , with B-52 's flying 26 missions in the 24 hours ended at noon . Twelve of the raids were directed at targets in Quangtri and Thuathien provinces in the north and 10 in the central mountainous province of Kontum , American fighter-bombers were also said to have flown 649 strikes in tactical support of South Vietnamese troops . On the front northwest of Hue , American sources said that 10 United States advisers remained with the Vietnamese marine brigade at Fire Base Nancy . Eight other Americans *ere said to remain . in Quangtri Province , presumably with the South Vietnamese , army and elements retreating southward after their rout at the city of Quangtri . Some of the marines were reported trying to hold three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day so as to slow- the enemy advance . The southernmost of the bridges is 20 miles from Hue , Copter Brought Down In fighting north of Fire Base Nancy yesterday , General Bowen , the American adviser , said that the North Vietnamese , using a hand-held heat-seeking missile , had brought down an American helicopter , killing its crew of four and an American adviser and two South Vietnamese . The general said it was the first known use of such a weapon in the war . These missiles find their target by following the heat waves that flow from it . Indicating the intensity of enemy ground fire yesterday , General Bowen said that his command helicopter , in which he toured the combat zone , had eight holes in it when it landed at Camp Evans in the afternoon . The camp , 18 miles northwest of Hue , is an American helicopter installation that , since the retreat from Quangtri , has become a South Vietnamese artillery base . The general reported that another American helicopter had been downed in the day 's fighting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , General Bowen said that the withdrawal had not been recommended ' by the American advisers and that he thought the town might have been held . Supply a Problem But the general added that " a lot of other factors " were involved . He cited the diffi culties in supplying the defenders and the heavy North Viet ? namese shelling . Brig . Gen. Vu Van Giai , the commander of the South Vietnamese Third Division , which was routed at Quangtri , wrote what he called " a letter from the heart " to his troops , most of whom straggled southward in disarray and beyond the command 's control . " I ordered you to retreat in order to consolidate our units and form a new defense line , " he said . General Bowen said that the Third Division had suffered considerable losses , more in materiel than in men . The losses were particularly heavy , the general said , in tanks and other vehicles . As Hue prepared for possible attack , informed sources reported that about 600 enemy infiltrators had been arrested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be students believed to be in contact with the Vietcong . The defense of Hue rests principally with the South Vietnamese First Division , some marine elements formerly based in Quangtri and as many fighting units of the routed Third Division as can be reassembled in the next few days . Military sources reported this morning that elements of a marine brigade that had retreated from Dongha north of Quangtri city had made their way south to Fire Base Sally , in northern Thuathien Province northwest of Hue . The nearest American installation is at Phubai , 10 miles to the southeast . About 1,800 soldiers are stationed there , including several hundred infantrymen.                     