@@733322

txt Two pioneers in international trade theory , one Swedish and the other British , won the 1977 Nobel Memorial prize in Economic Science , it was announced here today . They are Bertil Ohlin , 78 years old , once an academic prodigy and later leader of the Swedish Liberal Party , and James E. Meade , 70 , a former professor at Cambridge University . They were cited for their " pathbreaking contributions to the theory of international trade and international capital movements , " a field that had not been recognized in the eight preceding economics prizes . The Royal Swedish Academy observed that both men attracted wide attention when their main works appeared in the 1930 's and 1950 's and that others have used their theories as the basis for extensive empirical research . " The breadth and importance of Ohlin 's and Meade 's contributions have , however , not become obvious until the 60 's and 70 's in conjunction with the growing internationalization of the economic system , " the citation said . A committee member said later that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written . " The two winners will share a $145,000 prize . The economics prize , the last to be announced each year , is the only one of the six Nobel prizes not set up under the will of Alfred Nobel , the Swedish chemist who invented dynamite . It was established by the central bank of Sweden in his memory in 1968 . Six of the previous 12 winners have been Americans  --  the 1974 prize , like today 's , was shared by a Swede and a Briton  --  and some people have warned that the selection committee would find it hard to keep finding supremely qualified candidates . Nobel rules generally require a " discovery , " though it may be broadly defined . But both Professor Ohlin and Professor Meade are recognized giants in the field , with Dr. Ohlin 's 1933 book " Interregional and International Trade " bringing him recognition as the founder of the modern theory on the dynamics of trade . Professor Meade 's main contribution lies in relating trade to overall economic policy . His most famous work is " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published in 1951 and 1955 . The study of foreign trade advanced little until 1933 , when Professor Ohlin showed that trade was mainly determined by the relative shares the trading partners have of the basic means of production ? land , labor and capital . Ah example of this analysis , a committee member said in a briefing , is found in the longtime trade relationship of Australia and Britain . A country with abundant land , such as Australia , will tend to export agricultural commodities , such as wool , whereas Britain , with a large workforce , will tend to export labor-intensive goods , such as textiles . Professor Ohlin discovered that trade tended to equalize the prices of these factors of production ; as Britain exported more textiles , the cost of its labor went up , too . Another corollary is that the effects of , say , tariffs on income distribution is determined by a country 's resources . A duty on textiles , for example , helps the worker , while a duty on wool helps the landowner . Professor Meade expanded this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production and the allocation of resources . His biggest contribution is in the broader field of describing how governmental decisions on taxing , spending and interest rates affect unemployment and the balance of payments . " You can say that Bert Ohlin is the originator of the modern theory of international trade and that James Meade has applied this theory to economic policy . problems , " said Assas Lindbeck a member of the selection committee , after the brief announcement . Economic Stabilization Policy " You can also say that James Meade is the originator of the analysis of economic stabilization policy in open economies by his analyses of the conditions of internal and external balance and that Ohlin made a contribution himself in that field , " he added . An " open " economy in this context is one greatly dependent on foreign trade . Dr. Ohlin became a professor at the University of Copenhagen at the remarkably young age of 25 and did research in Geneva and at Harvard University in the late 1920 's . He then became more active in politics , becoming chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party reached its high point during World War II , and in 1944 he became Minister of Commerce in a coalition government . The Nobel committee was impressed by the fact that Professor Ohlin 's economic writings after he left offfice were " not much colored , " as Dr. Lindbeck put it , by his political involvement . Professor Ohlin may not have been entirely surprised by today 's announcement . He is a member of the Academy making the award , but starting quite early he was asked delicately not to attend any more meetings . League of Nations Service Professor Meade was chief economist of the League of Nations in Geneva from 1938 to 1940 and during World War II was the British Government 's top economist . It was while he was a professor of foreign trade at the London School of Economics that he wrote his major twovolume study . He went to Cambridge in 1957 but left nearly five years before he reached mandatory retirement age in 1968 . Professor Meade was described as a quiet man who rarely travels or accepts invitations to speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Wonderland " stories to his grandchildren . He is an abstract thinker of whom it is said , according to one source , " His heart is to the left  --  but his thinking is above . " The presentation of five Nobel awards ? all but the peace prize which is given in Oslo  --  will be made here D , ec . 10 , the anniversary of Nobel 's death in 1896.                     