@@728431

txt Forty-three resident doctors and one staff doctor at County hospital were ordered fired yesterday by the Illinois department of registration and education on the grounds that they do not have licenses to practice in the state . The action was taken in a letter sent to the hospital ad , ministration by Edward Price , attorney for the registration department , which stated that the department had either no applications or incomplete applications for licenses for the residents . Dr. Robert J. Freeark , hospital director , said the action was taken on a " minor technicality " and that the hospital will appeal the order . Dr. Freeark said that the staff doctor , Dr. Shahbudin Rahimtoola , co-director of the hospital 's cardiology section , will be suspended until the matter can be cleared up . Dr. Rahimtoola , an internationally recognized cardiologist , w a s named to his position last September at a salary of $27,000 annually . All Have Applied Dr. Freeark said that all 43 residents have applied for temporary licenses and they all have passed the foreign medical graduates ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon application if he passes the examination . Dr. Freeark said that the technicality involved was that the applications were incomplete because some residents were waiting for copies of their diplomas or they had neglected to include the $25 registration fee in the ' application . These technical errors will be corrected as soon as possible , he said . Foreign medical graduates frequently run into these problems , he added . Awaits an Agreement Dr. Rahimtoola , who had been recognized by the state licensing board as " eminent " in the field of medicine , is awaiting official confirmation from his native country , Pakistan , that it has a reciprocal agreement with Illinois , Dr. Freeark said . Under the state regulations a doctor recognized as . " eminent " can be granted a license if the state has a similar agreement with his native land . Pending the confirmation , Dr. Rahimtoola has not practiced any medicine and his duties have been confined to teaching and administrative tasks under the direction of a licensed physician , Dr. Freeark said . In the deepening crisis at County , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down 600 beds in July because of an inability to attract a sufficient number of interns . The newly-formed hospital governing commission met last night in the hospital 's school of nursing and heard testimony from doctors and nurses concerning the recent crisis . The governing commission , which is headed by Julian Wilkins , an attorney , approved three resolutions establishing a cut-off point for patient admissions , a patient-nurse ratio , and a committee to study the need for an in-depth look at the utilization of beds and laboratories . Rules are Laid Down Under the commission 's tidings , patient admissions into any department will be closed except to persons who are not able td finance their own care at a time when the patient census in any department reaches more than 80 per cent . The new resolution also establishes a 3.0 patient-nurse ratio which would mean 305 nurses could not care for more than 470 patients during a threeshift day . During the hearing , Mrs. Anne Zimmerman , executive administrator of the Illinois Nurses association , criticized the patient-nurse ratio and said her organization supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be 12 nurses for every 35 patients during a three-shift day .                     