@@732667

txt The 911 emergency telephone number system is being flooded by a record number of calls , and the police . citing dwindling manpower , say they can not ! handle the calls as fast as they would like This includes , they say , incidents involving what officials acknowledge are increasing activities by youth gangs " We need more people to handle 911 calls , " Inspector Charles F Peterson , commanding officer of the Police Depart'ment 's communications bureau , said yesterday " And we need Ian army to deal with these Iroving bands of youths " ' He was responding to charges by some civic groups that the police were inefficient and tardy in responding to three recent incidents in Manhattan , Brooklyn and Staten Island in which rampaging youths terrorized residents , shopkeepers , pedestrians and even passengers in taxis Such charges ore currently being investigated by Police Commissioner Michael J Codd . A spokesman indicated last night that the investigation could produce changes : n the way emergency calls were acted upon by radio-car dispatchers in the 911 communications center at police headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with John E Zuccotti , the First Deputy Mayor , to discuss the recent incidents involving youth gangs . At that meeting the police officials wire reported to have renewed their request for more manpower They told Mr Zuccotti that the number of personnel directThe 911 Emergency Setup Is Being Swamped by Calls // ly involved with the 911 operation had dropped from 745 in January , 1975 to the present figure of 624 . And they stressed that , according to police estimates , at least 730 people were required to insure that 98 percent of 911 calls were answered within 30 seconds . The police officials attributed the decline in manpower at least partly to the fact that 911 personnel have been retiring or being transferred at the rate of nine a month ? arid have not been replaced , under city policy . Because of this , the percentage of 911 calls picked up within 30 seconds has fallen from 98.5 percent in the first seven months of 1975 to 94 percent in the same period this year , Whatever the official explanation about the decrease in response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police should be able to answer 911 calls faster . And although a police spokesman maintained yesterday that actual time taken by radio cars to reach the scene was about two minutes , people who have been involved in encounters recently with youth gangs in Manhattan and Staten Island assert that the time was considerably longer Russell Warren , an art dealer who lives at 535 Westwood Avenue in the Willowbrook section of Staten Island , reported this week that two carloads of white youths armed with baseball bats , an ax , knives and tree limbs battered their way into his home late last Saturday night and slashed clothing and expensive art works Mr Warren , who is black , said that it was nearly two hours before the police arrived , despite four calls to the 911 system by him and his neighbors . Yesterday , Inspector Vincent T Agoglia head of detectives on Staten Island , said that the delay had been caused by the fact that the 911 system had " priority " calls He identified among these priorities two burglaries that were reportedly in progress between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first call  --  and 1 A M , when the police arrived at his house . In addition , Capt . Joseph Gilliam , commanding officer of the 122d Precinct , which covers the area , said that during the time Mr Warren and his friends made the 911 calls , his command had only three patrol cars as actable Similarly , a complaint to 911 last Saturday by Hells Gorski , manager of Deli City in the mid tom . died , was also placed in the low-priority category by 911 operators because marauding youths who had vandalized the property had already fled Those youths were among several roving bands who went 00 a four-and-a-half-hour rampage of robbery , assault and vandalism in midtown Manhattan on Saturday night . Yesterday , Inspector Carl Ravens of the Manhattan South command said that his men had not anticipated the attacks and that consequently no mounted police or special squads had been assigned to the area Those youths had apparently been turned away from a discoth  --  que contest at Manhattan Center and the police later arrested 10 of them on varied charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an incident involving a large band of white youths who poured out of their cars late Monday night in the Midwood section and attacked a handful of black youngsters on Avenue K. The police have arrested one youth so far . Some Midwood residents assert that it took the police more than 30 minutes to arrive , but the police say their records indicate the response time was half that . - Still , the officials at the Po lice Department 's communa.abons center declared yesterday that their operations were hampered by the fact that too many callers dialed 911 when in tact they were not reporting emergencies . " The proverbial callers with cats up their trees keep calling in , " said Capt . Victor N. Golar , executive officer of the cummunications bureau , noting that the volume of 911 calls in the first seven month of this year was a record 3.8 million  --  compared with 3.4 million in the same period in 1974 and 3 6 million in 1975 . Sgt Louis Galetta , also or the communications bureau , pointed out that the radio run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cars were dispatched ? have also increased in the first seven months of this year compared with the same periods in 197.1 and 197 , - , ? There were 1.56 million this year , l 52 million fast year and 1.39 million in 1974 Ile also noted that written complaints about 911 service had increased over last year 's For example , the communications bureau received 14.1 complaints in 1975 This year the figure was 197 So far this month the 911 system has been getting a re , - ord 20,000 calls a day , Sergeant Galetta said To persuade residents not to call except in a " real emergency " ? which the police now define as an " ongoing incident ' requiring rapid help "  --  the Police Department has worked out a campaign with the New York Telephone Company under which , next month , all telephone subscribers will get pamphlets in their phone bills advising them to e rime prudence in the use of 911                     