@@731672

txt Soviet party leader Leonid I. Brezhnev is off on another of his summits to reassure the new guard of Western leaders that he is sticking to the policy of detente worked out with men no longer at the helm . He is also , as Soviet press coverage makes clear , establishing his personal contribution to detente . This time it is Paris , where he is traveling with much fanfare to meet French President Giscard d'Estaing , who succeeded the late President Pompidou earlier this year . Diplomatics observers expect them to reaffirm a special French-Soviet relationship and to push for more bilateral trade . Mr. Giscard d'Estaing will be the third major new Western leader to meet Mr. Brezhnev in the past six weeks . West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt ( who succeeded Willy Brandt in May ) came here at the end of October , and President Ford ( who took over in the White House in August ) met Mr. Brezhnev in the Soviet far east a week and a half ago . Now only British Prime Minister Harold Wilson among the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he is expected to visit Moscow fairly soon . Special relationship With France there is an extra fillip of a relationship that both sides have considered special ever since General de Gaulle visited the Soviet Union toward the end of World War II . Soviet reception then helped General de Gaulle rebuild France 's shattered prestige , as his later pursuit of a conspicuous independence from the U.S. pleased Moscow . In addition ? once France got over the idea of a united Europe ? Moscow welcomed France 's position in Europe as a counterweight to West Germany . The Soviet press , which has been full of positive accounts of French-Soviet relations over the past fortnight , pulled out all stops on the eve of Mr. Brezhnev 's Dec. 6-7 trip . Tass interviewed the French Prime Minister , National Assembly depu ? ties , businessmen , and others . Chairman of the French National Assembly Edgar Faure was quoted as wishing the summit success ? and as discounting all fears about a " condominium " between the superpowers at the expense of Europe . Tass has also featured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the launching of a French rocket with Soviet scientific equipment on board , and completion of a French music festival in Moscow . Another article reported on a French Antarctic expedition . The usual nightly roundups of strikes and inflation in capitalist countries have been treating France gently . Editorial boosts summit Editorially , Izvestia commented , " ' The new Soviet-French summit meeting is a fresh convincing proof of the fact that a mechanism . . . firmly established for mutual consultations between the leaders of the two states contributes to strengthening mutual understanding and trust between the Soviet Union and France . " The emphasis Soviet media have placed on trade relations in the extensive previewing of the Brezhnev trip suggests this will be a major topic in the talks . Observers expect trade talks to extend to the broader Common Market area as well . Bilateral trade agreements are to be barred to Common Market members in future , and EEC President Francois-Xavier Ortoli is expected to visit Moscow at some point for talks with the Eastern European economic grouping Comecon . Western observers say the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is prepared to deal with it .                     