@@731976

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 36 Letters to the Editor Panama Canal : The U.S. Stake To the Editor . In advocating early conclusion of a new Panama Canal treaty ( Op-Ed May 16 ) , Theodore Sorensen makes some errors and misleading generalizations . Like him , I am persuaded of the need for modernization of our unique relationship with Panama , but I believe the complexity of the problems inherent in it requires balanced presentation of the issues . Mr. Sorensen refers to " enormous military installations wholly unrelated to Canal defense . " The Canal Zone accommodates a cluster of relatively small bases at either end of the zone , including one logistics installation , all integrally related to Canal security and manned by a few thousand servicemen . He writes of " bitterly criticized " training at these bases of Latin-American " counterinsurgency " forces without Panama 's consent . Some 50,000 students from nineteen Latin-American countries have received instruction at three small training establishments , but with what can only be construed as Panamanian support . Panama has not complained to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panama herself has had some 3,000 members of her elite National Guard trained in these schools . Mr. Sorensen refers to Panama 's location as " her principal natural asset , " in the exploitation of which she does not have a fair share . Panama 's founding fathers successfully exploited Of C.U.N.Y. , Tuition And Costly Economies To the Editor : We appreciate your editorial endorsement of the City University , free tuition and open admissions " State of the City : School and Campus , " May 20 . But the " serious qualifications " you attach to it are deadly . You propose that we economize in staffing by taking such measures as suspending sabbaticals . Similar measures have already been taken . We have squeezed our students into about half the space that is available at other public universities ; we have jammed them into classrooms that give us the highest student-faculty ratio in the state ; we have curtailed electives and other allegedly non- " productive " ( small enrollment ) courses , and we have staffed a third of our classes with low-paid part-timers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation , and instruction has suffered accordingly : 56 per cent of all open admissions students adTo the Editor : This responds to Michael H. Cardozo 's May 29 letter . His basic contention is that publishers are seeking , through the promising new copyright bill now under consideration by Congress , to restrict the definition of " fair use , " which is the time-honored privilege of making a royalty-free copy of copyrighted material for purposes of scholarly research . In fact , the opposite is true . The new bill , for the first time in our history , spells out that privilege in explicit statutory language . It draws the line , however , at " systematic " copying , which it says should require permission and royalty payment . Publishers of scholarly journals need protection against the growing practice of large central libraries to make literally hundreds and thousands of copies of journal articles for satellite libraries , research institutions and corporate staffs . This is not individual scholarly research in any accepted sense ; it is reprinting on a vast scale without compensation to the copyright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many important scholarly and scientific periodicals . Mr. Cardozo is correct in saying that scientists who write articles usually desire wide dissemination of their research and are less concerned about their rights to control publication under copyright law . But their inclination does not change the fact that the channels essential for dissemination of their research will dry up if the economics of journal publishing are destroyed by wholesale uncompensated copying . Moreover , Mr. Cardozo deals with only a narrow segment of the total problem . Scholarly journals are not books , and scientists comprise only a small and specialized kind of author . Most scientists live on salaries and grants . Most real authors live on royalties , and their works are the lifeblood of the nation 's literary and imaginative existence . Each such work is a fragile undertaking , created by the intensity and conviction of a single her location in 1903 to win independence and concomitant assurances of security and economic viability . She is quite free , in whatever partnership , further to exploit that asset , and in terrain considered more suitable than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American than a Panamanian asset , and not a natural one . It is a product of American ingenuity and skill , constructed against tremendous odds at great cost . Such a risky and highly uncertain venture would not have been undertaken except at such a location and on , extremely favorable terms respecting , . use , security and duration . The last point has to do with supposed alienation of " all of Latin America " and a risk to " hemispheric peace " if a new treaty should fail to get Congressional consent . This is highly exaggerated . While many LatinAmerican leaders and others publicly espouse Panama 's cause , they do so s. largely out of an imperative of " LatinAmerican solidarity " and while playing the popular game of tweaking Uncle Sam 's beard . Privately , . more Of them than not are either entirely Uninterested in the matter or quite happy with the reliability of U.S. control of the Canal and the reasonable tolls that are so important to their nations ' economies . ROBERT F. CORRIGAN , Chevy Chase , Md. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of Defense for Inter-American Affairs . mitted in September 1970 dropped out after seven semesters . Some of the economies you recommend are not economies . A senior professor taking a sabbatical at half pay is often replaced by a junior instructor at less than half his pay . But even when they do cost money , sabbaticals are investments in new knowledge , just as are graduate programs , which you suggest we prune , eliminate and freeze . Research is what makes a university something more than a postgraduate high school . Your proposals would concede to other universities the vital function of generating new knowledge and reduce C.U.N.Y. to what you call , with no apparent distaste , an " industrial service station . " You are right in aspiring to more state and Federal support for C.U.N.Y. But we can not buy that support at the price you offer . Without adequate instruction and scholarship , there is nothing worthwhile left to support . BELLE ZELI.ER President Professional Staff Congress/C.U.N.Y . New York , May 21 , 1975 An editorial on this subject appears today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is such authors who need full and fair copyright protection . Without them , there would be no books . Without books , there would be no enduring life of the mind . TOWNSEND HOOPES President Association of American Publishers New York , June 3 , 1975 ? Castro and the Kennedys To the Editor : I am sorry that Tom Wicker chose to rely in his June 2 column on the incomplete version of the George Smathers oral history as printed in Richard J. Walton 's " Cold War and Counterrevolution . " Had Mr. Wicker checked the Smathers transcript himself , he would have discovered that President Kennedy , in Senator Smathers ' words , " finally said to me , ' George , I love to have you over , I want you to come over , but ' I want you to do me a favor . I like to visit with you , I want to discuss things with you , but I do n't want you to talk to me any more about Cuba . ' " And later : " I raised the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . And I remember that he took his fork and just hit his plate and it cracked and he said , ' Now , dammit , I wish you would n't do that . Let 's quit talking about this subject . ' And so I said all right , it 's fine with me . ' I appreciate this opportunity to come over and visit with you , and this subject I wo n't bring up again . ' And I never did . " Quite apart from all the other reasons , moral and prudential , that led John and Robert Kennedy to reject the idea of assassinating Castro , it must be remembered that both men were deeply concerned , almost obsessed , with the fate of the Bay of Pigs prisoners . Nothing would have doomed these prisoners more certainly than an American attempt to kill Castro . ARTHUR SCHLESINGER Jr . New York , June 3 , 1975 The Nixon ' Never Dids ' To the Editor : If prior Administrations perpetrated " dirty tricks , " let 's get it out in the open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the framework of " some of the things that Nixon never did " column June 5 is sheer casuistry . It is difficult to believe that even Mr. Safire knows everything that Mr. Nixon " never did , " much less those things that he " did , " especially when we recall that the fact-finding machinery was thwarted not only at every step but even at the end . Neat distinctions between how L.B.J. misused the F.B.I . ( why did n't Mr. Safire mention this ? ) and how Mr. Nixon attempted to misuse the F.B.I . ( and , to boot , the C.I.A. ) will only soothe the strongest Nixon apologists ; otherwise , they , and the list of " never dids , " merely serve to strain logic beyond acceptance . MARK K. KESSLER Philadelphia , June 5 , 1975 ? To the Editor : The press , led by The New York Times , was among the groups that sought and succeeded in removing President Nixon from his office . The so-called Watergate is gradually becoming history , not only of Nixon 's mistake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those of us who have this opinion were pleased to read Mr. Safire 's article " Nixon Never Did , " and we thank you for that . JOHN ANTONIADES , M.D. Philadelphia , June 5 , 1975 ? To the Editor : William Safire 's column June 5 itemizing the awful things Mr. Nixon did not do and which he charges a series of other Presidents did do was a wondrous and easy effort . Presumably he could extend the list to near infinity if he went back farther among the Presidents . Mr. Nixon did not , so far as I know , have . a drinking problem ; Grant did . Mr. Nixon seems to have had no marital strife ; Lincoln did . Mr. Nixon did not sire a child out of wedlock ; Cleveland did . Mr. Nixon 's attempt to equip the . White House guards with uniforms out of music halls was not nearly so dramatic as Washington 's attempts at royalty . There are a few of Mr. Nixon 's achievements , however , which do , stand alone on the lists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bald-faced lies about public matters and policies and actions ( waging war on Cambodia while swearing we had never violated her neutrality ) , about his complicity , in the obstruction of justice in the Watergate affair ; the . selection of a Vice President , a , series of Cabinet officers and a list of White House counselors and aides who were convicted in unprecedently large numbers of criminal offenses against the law they were sworn to uphold . In the end , of course , Mr. Nixon achieved that true pinnacle never achieved by any other President : resignation from office under fire and a Presidential pardon for all unlawful acts . Mr. Safire is right to cite the objectionable activities of other Presidents , ' but he seems interested in them only as a means of removing tarnish from the reputation of his old boss . There are more useful reasons to review Presidential history . ERIC P. SWENSON Weston , Conn. , June 5 , 1975 ? On Improving the Park To the Editor : About ten years ago the overpass over the bridle path at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it has been closed ever since with fencework whose cost may have covered a substantial part of the necessary repair . Repeated presentations to the Parks Administration and the city remained without satisfactory reply . Meanwhile the park sustained costs incident to such questionable additions as the Papp theater and expansions of the Metropolitan Museum . These costs were and are probably considerably higher than the relatively paltry amount needed to reopen that little overpass , which facilitates access to the walking and jogging path around the reservoir . The performance of the city in this matter seems strange indeed . JOACHIM 0 . RONALL New York , June 6. ** Copyright Law : To Draw the ' Fair Use ' Line                     