@@728910

txt The White House tonight denounced ' the continued detention of a group of American citizens by Palestinian guerrillas in the Middle East dispute . It warned that the situation is totally unacceptable to the United States government . In a statement read by Ronald L. Ziegler , White House press secretary , the Nixon administration made clear it was referring particularly to the holding of maybe as many as 19 Americans who have dual American-Israeli citizenship . The Americans were among the passengers on planes hijacked last week by the Palestinians . Rejects Any Distinctions " The illegal detention of United States citizens in a dispute involving another nation is particularly reprehensible , " the White House statement said . " The United States rejects any attempts to establish distinctions among its citizens on any basis whatsoever . " The White House said that the bearer of a United States passport carries prima facial evidence of his American citizenship . " Holding a United States citizen , then , is totally unacceptable to the United States government , " the state department said . " It goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostages by any nation . " Robert J. McCloskey , State Department press officer , said 38 possible Americans , including crew members of the hijacked plane ? are still in guerrilla hands . He said 23 of the 38 have been definitely identified as Americans . 19 of Dual Nationality " One of our reports indicates that there may be as many as 19 with dual American-Israeli nationality , " McCloskey told newsmen . The State Department spokesman said , at this point , it is not possible to determine whether all of the possible 38 Americans being held by the guerrillas are Jewish . The 19 of dual nationality hold Israeli as well as United States , passports and could be considered , or consider themselves , Israeli citizens . The White House , meanwhile , refused to comment today on Israeli action over the weekend in taking about 450 Palestinians into custody . Not Informed in Advance Ziegler said the United States was not informed of the Israeli action in advance . He indicated that the administration considers the action separate from efforts to obtain the release of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be to work with the five nations involved thru the International Red Cross to obtain the release of all remaining hostages being detained by the hijackers , " Ziegler said .                     