@@729909

txt The 92d Congress reconvened today with the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate striking the common theme that legislating should be placed ahead of politicking . When it came to legislating , Congress got off to an unusually fast start . Dispensing with the custom of waiting for the President 's State of the Union Message before settling down to business , the House passed and sent to the Senate a bill giving Guam and the Virgin Islands nonvoting delegates in Congress . There was also a measure of politicking as Representative Bella S. Abzug , Democrat of Manhattan , joined by a few Democratic cloves , took to the House floor to introduce a resolution to censure President Nixon . She proposed to censure Mr. Nixon for disregarding an amendment passed by Congress last year declaring it to be the policy of the United States to withdraw all its forces expeditiously from Indochina , subject to the release of American prisoners held by the enemy . The Abzug move set off applause and demonstrations among some 250 members of Women Strike for Peace sitting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Oklahoma , the women finally were quietly ushered from the gallery after they held up posters bearing such slogans as " Censure Nixon the Mad Bomber . " Otherwise , the , opening day , customarily dedicated to handshaking , went off routinely as the House and Senate passed resolutions to inform each other and the President that they were back at business . With members still straggling in from a month-long recess , the Senate managed to muster 56 of its 100 members and the House 306 of its 435 members on their first quorum calls . President Nixon will deliver his State of the Union Message before a joint session of Congress Thursday at 12:30 P.M. In a variation on the traditional State of the Union address , the White House announced that the President would have two messages  --  the speech he will deliver before Congress plus a longer , written version . In his message , the President will help set the tone and agenda for the new session , and statements by White House aides indicated that Mr : Nixon would call upon the Democratic-controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a Republican Administration . In comments aimed equally at the White House and their own Democratic colleagues , Speaker Albert and the Senate majority leader , Mike Mansfield of Montana , both emphasized the desirability of subordinating politics to the need of handling a heavy legislation , " Speaker Albert told reporters before the session began . Senator Mansfield said in an interview ' that relations between the Democratic Congress and the Administration were " up to the White House . " " As far as we are concerned , we will try to cooperate , making changes in legislation where we deem it advisable , " Senator Mansfield said . " If it becomes political , it is not going to be our fault . " The forecast by Senator Mansfield was that the Senators trying for the Democratic Presidential nomination would " not play much politics on the Senate floor , " reserving their politicking for the campaign trail . In any event , Senator Mansfield made clear that he was not going to adjust the Senate legislative timetable to accommodate the Presidential hopefuls . " The business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Senate minority floor leader , Hugh Scott , Republican of Pennsylvania , said that the Democratic Presidential candidates " will be bothersome , whether they are present or absent , but we will get a lot done simply because it has to be done . ' The indications were that Congress would move rapidly with the Administration 's legislative program , passing most of the major Nixon bills , although often with a Democratic imprint . The House Ways and Means Committee , for example , will start considering tomorrow its own version of the revenuesharing proposal advanced a year ago by Mr. Nixon . The committee decided to proceed with executive sessions to draft the legislation even in the absence of its chairman , Wilbur D. Mills , who is still in Arkansas suffering from back trouble .                     