@@734480

txt Letters MILTON KIRCHMANHARRY L. LANGERCORNELIUS F. MURPHY JR.R.M . CAMPBELLANDREW KEEN ... pg . A30 Letters Politics vs. the Hospitals Corporation To the Editor : One way to keep the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation afloat is to let it alone for a while . It already has had more than a reasonable quota of captains . Its board chairmen and presidents are changed so often , they hardly get to know each other before they are cast overboard . If it were a leaky ship , a resourceful skipper and operating crew would be just what the Health and Hospitals Corporation needs to keep it from sinking . But the corporation is not a leaky ship . Its doctors responsible for medical care are affiliated with several of the more prestigious medical schools in the city . The quality of municipal hospital care is attested to by the nationally recognized medical audit of the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Hospitals . The commission 's accreditation has often been denied voluntary hospitals enjoying a better press . The cries of mismanagement are frequently political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being whittled away ; they are seldom , if ever , disregarded . No substantial case has as yet been made for corporation corruption . Most of the difficulties confronting the corporation are not of its own doing : population shifts , the care of aliens and of the working poor , the citywide problem of excess beds . The corporation does rather well in collecting on its insured and in-patient beds ; it fails in collecting from those unable to pay , a failure common to Brooklyn Jewish , St. Mary 's and St. John 's , lately salvaged by Federal grants . The danger to the corporation lies partly in the constant shuffling of command by those who are not sympathetic with its aims or by those whose sympathies are right but whose interference is wrong . Corporation directors should be detached as much as possible from direct political interference , supposedly banished when the Health and Hospitals Corporation was established in 1970 . At the same time , the corporation should be fully accountable for its actions , actions for which it can not be responsible if its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed without impartial analysis , if it is made to give away its more attractive facilities , leaving it with the wreckage of a system sinking with no funds , with abandoned social aims and with no leadership to carry on . MILTON KIRCHMAN Member , Board of Directors Health and Hospitals Corporation New York , Dec. 5 , 1979 Different Interest Rates The Security Council 's Glancing Blow For Different Tasks To the Editot : ? The present Federal policy of a single general high rate of interest to fight inflation is undesirable because it has a depressing effect on all segments of our economy without being selective . It might lead to a serious recession or worse . A feasible alternative is a policy of selective interest rates and money supplies under the control of the Federal Reserve Board which would regulate the cost and quantity of money to each sector of the economy , such as residential construction , industrial expansion , consumer credit , foreign trade , oil purchases , agriculture , etc . Mechanically , this could be done by dividing the mandatory reserve deposit requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts that would correspond to each major sector of the economy and set individual reserve ratios and discount rates for each part . Thus , by varying the separate reserve ratios , discount rates and size of each portion of the mandatory reserve requirements allocated to each economic sector in each Federal Reserve District separately or together , the Fed could minimize inflationary risk in battling inflation , fine-tune the economy and moderate expansion , regionally or nationally , in accordance with Administration policy . Conveniently , the Fed 's districts and the country 's economic regions correspond closely . HARRY L. LANGER New York , Dec. 4 , 1979 Freedom Power To the Editor : At a speech in San Francisco on Nov. 12 , Dr. Edward Teller said : " By 1990 Russia will control the oil spigot in the Middle East . If those who have been identified as elitist ? the environmentalists , the consumers , the small-isbeautiful advocates , whatever you want to call them ? win their fight against nuclear power , the U.S. is doomed , freedom in the world is doomed . Nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fight for the survival of freedom . " He received a standing ovation . Evidently , there are still Americans who believe that survival of freedom is more important than that single-interest pressure groups have their way . R. M. CAMPBELL Cohasset , Mass. , Dec. 4 , 1979 To the Editor : When Secretary General Waldheim called for an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Nov. 25 , he exercised powers granted him by the U.N . Charter to call to the Council 's attention " any matter which , in his opinion , may threaten the maintenance of international peace and security " ( Art . 99 ) . The Council was given the opportunity to determine , under Chapter VII of the Charter , that the situation constituted a threat to the peace and make recommendations or decide upon the measures necessary to maintain peace and security . The text of the resolution adopted on Dec. 4 indicates that the Council chose to treat the crisis as arising under Chapter VI of the Charter . Under the chapter , the function of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement of international disputes . The political realities may have made it necessary for the Council members to adopt such a concilatory posture . However , this approach does not address the most dangerous aspects of the Iranian crisis . During the drafting negotiations , Ambassador insisted upon preserving the right of the United States to use force , as permitted under Article 51 . The text of the adopted To the Editor : In his Dec. 4 letter , Steven B. Rosenfeld discussed the legality of the Iranian Government 's gaining access to our judiciary . Iran seeks equitable relief , specifically an accounting of the Shah 's assets , a preliminary injunction and the creation of a trust in its favor . Mr. Rosenfeld correctly asserted that a court may deny equitable relief to a petitioner with " unclean hands . " However , he incorrectly interpreted the doctrine of " clean hands " and thus erroneously concluded that , on this basis , Iran may be denied equitable relief . The clean-hands doctrine is not a license to deny rights to all those guilty of unethical conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct is the source or part of the source of his equitable claim . Therefore , such a claim should not be impeded by a plaintiff 's unrelated villainous conduct . ( D. Dobbs Remedies resolution is susceptible of an interpretation which recognizes such rights while insisting upon the general duty of member states to refrain from the use or the threat of force . However , Article 51 , which is part of Chapter VII , specifically provides that the rights of self-defense may be used only until the Security Council has taken measures necessary to maintain international peace and security . These measures include the power to call upon member states to apply economic , diplomatic and , if necessary , military sanctions to support the enforcement of the Council 's decisions . The Council has adopted a resolution calling for the release of the hostages with full knowledge not only of Iranian defiance of its authority but also of the intention of the United States to use whatever force it determines is necessary to obtain its objectives if diplomacy fails . Further initiatives by the Secretary General may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assume its full responsibilities as contemplated by the Charter , events will carry us to these " grave consequences " over which the Council has expressed its concern . CORNELIUS F. MURPHY JR . Professor of Law Duquesne University Pittsburgh , Dec. 6 , 1979 46 1st ed. 1973 ) . " What is material is not that the plaintiff 's hands are dirty , but that he dirties them in acquiring the right he now asserts . " ( Republic Molding Corp . v. B. W. Photo Utilities , 319 ** 347 9th Cir. 1963 ) . Mr. Rosenfeld is obviously correct when he states that Iran 's current behavior is unethical . However , the atrocities of which Iran is guilty with respect to American citizens is an issue separate from the Shah 's alleged unlawful conduct with regard to Iran . The two have been meshed by current events . The reprehensible conduct of holding the hostages is not the source ( as required by the doctrine of clean hands ) of Iran 's claim that an individual previously diverted funds illegally from Iran 's government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be denied access to our courts by invoking the doctrine of clean hands . ANDREW KEEN Great Neck , L.I. , Dec. 4 , 1979 Iran as a Seeker of American Justice Federal Student Aid Programs in Need of Basic Reform To the Editor : In your Nov. 12 editorial " The Middle Way on Student Aid " you argued for modest change rather than basic reform in the overall Federal financial aid program . Such caution just now is unfortunate . As declining enrollments Intensify financial pressures on colleges and universities , Federal financial aid will increasingly be looked to as a means of rescuing institutions in jeopardy . As those claims grow , the chance of improving the program in the broad public interest will diminish . Therefore , the sooner a serious effort for basic reform is mounted , the better its chance to succeed . One element of a desirable coherence in Federal financial aid programs should be a clear separation of loans and grants ; just now , what is called loans is an untidy intermingling of grants and loans . A second element should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsubsidized loans to all , while making these loans the sole vehicle of aid to the middle class . Although the Federal grant programs are not without flaws , it is the loan programs which need improvement most . Both the Administration bill and the Kennedy-Bellmon bill are on the right track in proposing to reduce the element of subsidy in loans to students and to begin governmentsponsored lending to parents . We regard the provision for lending to parents as especially important because of our strong view that parents should contribute as much as they can to the cost of their children 's education . We recommend reducing further the element of subsidy these bills still contain . A still better loan program would provide for essentially unsubsidized loans , which means that the interest rate should be the Government 's average cost of providing capital . Further , as provided in the Administration bill , though not in Kennedy-Bellmon , even those not otherwise eligible for grants and other forms of financial aid should be able to borrow some substantial fraction of the cost of education without a means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost . Programs which result in transfers of tax dollars from lower- to higher-income groups are inequitable . The cost per dollar lent would be much less than in the current program of insured lending because , despite the publicity given to defaults , it is the subsidy of students ' interest payments ( fully while the borrower is enrolled and heavily thereafter ) which is that program 's truly expensive element . Interest subsidies could reach $1.4 billion for the current fiscal year . Some view our proposal as harsh because it requires a substantial increase in the interest rate to students . However , the financial burden on students depends not only on interest rates but on the repayment period and the amount borrowed as well . We believe that amount should be limited by : adequate funding of grant programs , generosity on the part of parents , including their willingness to borrow , and respect within state legislatures for low tuition as the most important access-to-education program of all . The proper starting point for the reform of Federal financial aid policy is to make grants adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. DEITCH Cambridge , Mass. , Nov. 30 , 1979                     