@@728839

txt Five black inmates of the Manhattan Men 's House of Detention were escorted from their cells to a legislative hearing yesterday and testified that a major cause of the disorders there last week was the beating of a black prisoner by white guards . Handcuffed together , the men testified for four hours before the State Senate Committee on Crime and Correction , charging that their rights were violated by unfair court procedures while they were held in an overcrowded , filthy institution . Later yesterday the Correction Officers Benevolent Association announced that its men would resign en masse unless they were given permission to go through the city 's jails section by section to search for weapons , repair locks and restore security . The alleged beating was a decisive factor in a long list of " brutalities , " according to the inmates of the institution , known as the Tombs . They insisted that the only purpose of the two days of rioting last week in which hostages were held and windows and furniture smashed was to reach the public . A sixth prisoner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacked by black prisoners in retaliation for the alleged beating of the black prisoner . But he said that the protest at the prison was not basically racial , being joined by both black and white prisoners . " Visit the institutions , " Fitzroy Mascall , one of the black inmates told the lawmakers , " and then for yourselves give an honest report of its mentally dying population who breaks windows in the Tombs not to escape but to say : ' Remember me . " Repeatedly , the men questioned whether the committee members and other public officials were interested in the incidents only superficially to bl zme others . " You want us to indict Mayor Lindsay or Nixon or Agnew , " one prisoner , Stanley King , said , angrily , asserting that the problem involved far more than individual responsibility . " If you think you can go on playing this silly , fantastic game and get away with it , you 're out of your mind . The time is yours , but the cause is ours . " At one point , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked by State Senator Waldaba Stewart , a Brooklyn Democrat , whether they viewed life in the Tombs as , in effect , " preventive detention . " A chorus of replies came back : " Yes , sir ! Right on ! That 's the basics of the thing ! " In their description of the alleged instance of brutality , the inmates said that three unidentified guards took aside David Felder , one of those at the hearing , and beat him Aug. 7 after a dispute over a bowl of milk . Version Cited Commissioner of Correction George F. later commented that his department 's version of the incident was that the inmate had thrown the first blows and had to be restrained by guards . The incident is under investigation by the city Department of Investigation , he said . Mr. has been a strong critic of the decision to have inmates testify at the hearing , which was held in the 25th floor hearing room of the State Office Building , 270 Broadway , six blocks from the Tombs . The chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nassau Republican , has maintained that a public hearing was necessary so the public could get the facts and understand the need for reforms . " A lot will depend on what you fellows do , " the Senator said to newsmen . However , television technicians for most of the city 's stations walked out of the hearing room after disrupting the hearings with a labor dispute . As the loud argument , over the use of nonunion men by WNEWTV , blocked the view of the panel , members of the audience cried out : " Please , let us hear the prisoners ' problems , not yours ! " The feuding TV crews eventually made separate appearances and records of the proceedings . The New York Times David Felder , inmate who was said to have received beating in detention center . The sixth inmate , William Hickey , testified separately that , as one of two white men in the Tombs ' ninth-floor area , he was beaten by black prisoners Aug. 8 in retaliation for the alleged beating of Mr. Felder by guards . Mr. Hickey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Felder to the cell . The thin , hesitant inmate , handcuffed alone to the witness chair , said that contrary to this initial racial incident , the general disorders , which began two days later , on Monday , Aug. 10 , involved no racial animosity . " It was , more or less , inmates , black and white , trying to get things changed , " he said . The only other witness on the first of two days of hearings , Albert Boyce , a correction officer from the Tombs , indicated sympathy with the inmates ' protest . " More people in the political world should look into the prisons , " said the officer , who was credited with helping to restore calm to the Tombs . " It 's a hard life as it is . To be in there and feel unwanted is a terrible thing . " Mail Censoring Charged Discussing the alleged brutality , Mr. Boyce said that there might be " a few " guards who do that , " but you should n't make a blanket statement . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compels correction officers to put three men in a cell , " the guard continued , " that 's brutality . " Asked for comment , Commissioner , who is to testify today , said : " I guess he means the courts . Certainly , we have no choice but to accept prisoners sent over by the courts . " In their complaints , the inmates said that their mail was censored to the point where pictures of sweethearts were confiscated and writs mailed to courts were intercepted . Commissioner said in an interview that it was against regulations to confiscate mail but that supervisors might read such things as writs complaining of detention conditions . " It makes good sense for our superiors to be alert , to try and correct alleged abuses , " he said . " The writs still are mailed . " The commissioner emphasized his view that Senator Dunne 's group and the news media had had more than enough opportunity to hear the inmates ' grievances at the Tombs and there was no need " to parade the men before TV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he declared , " but not at the expense of blowing up this institution . " He said that he referred to a new factor , that the men were getting " chesty " from the publicity , and creating additional tensions . Mr. Boyce , the guard , told the panel that " these men the leaders who testified have complete control of the Tombs " because of the inmate soli darity produced in the protest . But Mr. said his men were in control . Complaints Are Listed In their complaints , the prisoners charged that they had been denied rights to preliminary court hearings , that grand jury minutes had been altered , and that long delays while they waited in the Tombs had been tolerated by " a consenting Legal Aid Society and an impatient judge . " They contended that they rarely had the same legal aid lawyer with each court appearance and that the main order of business appeared to be not justice , but the striking of bargains between prosecution and defense that sent innocent people to jail merely to clear court calendars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued , there is cold food , requests to telephone lawyers that never get answered , and hundreds of 1 mice and roaches scampering through cells so crowded at night that men sleep on the floor . " The locks are strong , " Mr. King told the legislators . " If we put you in a cell would you become an animal ? Of course not , because you think you 're ' , civilized . Well we think we 're civilized , too . " The other inmate witnesses were Leroy Glenn and Robert Rice . The circumstances that has kept the six men in the Tombs , they said , range from a petty larceny charge against Mr. Hickey to a pending sentence for homicide that Mr.I Rice is facing . The black inmates contended , that after the first day of protest , in which , they said , thick glass windows were broken so messages could be thrown to the streets , correction officials encouraged a second aay of disorder so they could tell the public : " See , I told you these were animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded conditions . You can only put so many people together before you have riots and fights and everybody 's on edge . " Among the problems attributed by Commissioner to the fact that the Tombs was operating at nearly twice its 932-man capacity , was the delay inmates suffered in getting guards to make telephone calls . " We 're terribly overburdened on phone calls and so much more , " he said . " Get us down to 1,000 men and we can start improving . "                     