@@728749

txt The auto companies and the auto union parade to the bargaining table oday , and never has each side been so deternined . It looks now as if at least one of the Big Chree auto makers will be struck before an agreement is reached to replace the contracts hat expire Sept. 14 . It will be a rough summer for all concerned , rut it will be roughest by far for short-temiered Leonard Woodcock . As the new president if the United Auto Workers union , Mr. Wood-rock not only will be leading the union bargaintrs for the first time but also will be trying to ; onsolidate his union position and prove to the nembers that he is a worthy successor to the ate Walter Reuther . His tasks are gigantic . Many of the union 's 650,000 workers at the mitt ) plants are restless . Their pay has been declining as overtime has disappeared and layoffs have increased . They have seen American industry grant huge wage increases in recent months , and they want as much or more . They want a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They want resumption of an unlimited cost-of-living escalator , which was bargained away for other gains in 1967 , and they want ? on top of whatever else they get-26 cents an hour to make up for money " lost " under the current limited cost-of-living formula . The auto makers are in no mood to give the workers what they want . The manufacturers ' are already battling mounting costs and declining profits . Industry officials vow to resist the union 's demands , which General Motors negotiator Earl Bramblett calls " the most extravagant ever . " Comparisons With Reuther Walter Reuther endorsed the union 's bargaining goals at an April convention in Atlantic City a few weeks before he died in the crash of a private plane . Because of his strong position in the union , however , he probably could have retreated from some of these goals at the bargaining table , as he had done in past negotiations . Observers figure Mr. Woodcock wo n't be able to back off so easily . " Woodcock is locked into postures that he might not have taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Everyone is going to compare Woodcock 's performance and settlement with Reuther , " says a UAW official . " Whatever the settlement , everyone will say Reuther would have gotten more . " Thus , some observers here think Mr. Woodcock will readily call his men out on strike just to prove he is no easy mark for the companies . The negotiations could n't come at a worse time for the 59-year-old Mr. Woodcock . He has been spending most of his time lately trying to sell himself to the membership as Walter Reuther 's liberal heir , and he would clearly like more time to make himself known and liked in the union before sitting down to bargain . Within 12 hours of his election on May 22 , the usually soft-spoken union man lectured GM officers at their annual meeting at Kent State , Jackson State and Augusta , Ga. , and flew to Atlanta to join a march protesting " repression and war . " Since then , he has issued a flood of statements supporting various causes . Last week he was in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more headlines in the past two months than Walter Reuther made in his last two years . The headlines , of course , help Mr. Woodcock prove to the members that he does n't plan to alter the UAW 's politics . Union chiefs deny there was ever any power struggle after Mr. Reuther 's death . Mr. Woodcock goes out of his way to appear on platforms with UAW officials of all stripes , and he painstakingly seeks to demonstrate that he has no enemies or rivals within the union . " There is no power struggle , and there was no power struggle , " flatly declares Emil Mazey , the UAW 's secretary-treasurer . Still , the 1.6-million member union is n't one big happy family , and Mr. Woodcock finds he must do a lot of politicking to build a power base . " Reuther helped protect the jobs of some regional directors , and many staffers owe their jobs to him , " says an industrial relations man in Detroit . " Woodcock does n't have that kind of claim on these guys . " On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leadership of the UAW and to sniff out any disunity on the eve of the bargaining . On one recent day he started the morning with an interview at 7:45 a.m. in New York , flew to Toledo for an afternoon meeting , with union members and then drove to Warren , Mich. , for a dinner meeting with local UAW leaders . At the dinner , he moved through the crowd , shook hundreds of hands , posed endlessly for pictures and gave a 50-minute speech . He was last seen that day carefully autographing six tiny snapshots for a union member . The grueling pace is repeated daily . Mr. Woodcock has visited 12 of the union 's 18 regions . " I think he is pushing himself too hard , " says an adviser . But his health seems good ? he apparently has fully recovered from a bout with bronchial tuberculosis last year  --  and he is intent on winning over the men who will have to sell to the rank-and-file the package he negotiates . That selling job could be exceptionally tough this year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement , but they might this year . The union 's skilled tradesmen have the power to veto a contract even though they account for only one of every six workers in auto plants , and they are pressing especially hard for big gains this year . The 59-year-old Mr. Woodcock still does n't seem at ease when he meets with younger leaders , even though he has been in the UAW organization for 30-years and is well versed in all facets of the operation . Ile has no flair for rousing rhetoric , and he uses big words that many union people do n't understand . But he is learning to smile more now , and he generally is received warmly by union leaders . The union chief 's task of building loyalty is complicated by another task he is undertaking : Cutting the union 's staff . Like the corporations its members work for , the United Auto Workers union is strapped for cash . In an emergency cost-cutting program , Mr. Woodcock is planning on laying off 100 to 125 persons on the union 's 975-man staff . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  many workers have long complained that the union bureaucracy was too fat  --  but it wo n't do much for morale on the staff he has to rely on . On top of all this , Mr. Woodcock is entering the bargaining room with little actual experience in negotiating a contract . He was head of the union 's General Motors department for 15 years , but never during that time was GM chosen as the company that must work out the contract that the others would be patterned on . The Ford or Chrysler contract was always set first . It is n't yet clear which company will be the strike target this year ; the union does n't expect to name the target until September . But there is speculation within the union that GM will be chosen . General Motors seems to be the healthiest of the Big Three at the moment , and it has gone the longest without a major strike . Some executives there privately say they expect a walkout just as they get their 1971 autos rolling . The auto companies seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has observed Mr. Woodcock during contract talks says the new UAW chief works hard and drives a hard bargain . Others who know him say Mr. Woodcock uses his short temper to great advantage , flaring up to win a point that he might otherwise lose . Other friends of Mr. Woodcock insist that he is a far better administrator than was his friend Walter Reuther . And they claim that in recent years Mr. Woodcock has had a better grasp of union problems than Mr. Reuther had . They say the long-time president of the union had become bored with day-to-day problems of the operation . These friends insist that Mr. Woodcock should not be sold short . Says one : " He 's a very sharp guy . "                     