@@732828

txt The deadlock that has prevailed at the month-long conference on Rhodesia 's future was overcome tonight when two black nationalist holdouts accepted a British formula fixing March 1 , 1978 , as the date for independence under black control . Ivor Richard , the Briton who is the conference chairman , announced after a meeting with Joshua Nkomo and David Mugabe , two of the four black leaders at the talks , that the " date issue will no longer hold up the continuation of the conference . " Mr. Nkomo and Mr. ' Mugabe , who are linked for the talks in a loose alliance they call the Patriotic Front , had refused to discuss the other issues before the conference until a firm date had been set . The other black delegations , led by Bishop Abel Muzorewa and the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole , had agreed with . the chairman to shelve the date issue to enable the conference to begin examining a crucial question : the biracial government that is to act during the transitional period leading to black government in the former British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , headed by Foreign Minister P. K. van der Byl , had strongly endorsed Mr. Richard 's view that no more time should be lost at this stage on the issue of the date for a formal grant of independence to the territory , whose white minority unilaterally declared independence in 1965 in a dispute with Britain over the status of the majority . Mr. Richard told newsmen after seeing the two holdouts that the Patriotic Front had asked for two amendments to his latest formula on the date and that they were accepted . The formula , not officially published , said Britain was committed to March ' I , . 1978 , but it did not preclude possible slippage should the conference delay agreement on the structure of the projected biracial interim government and on the constitutional and other processes for the turnover of power from the 270,000 whites to the six million blacks . Earlier Turnover Is Possible The British formula , handed to the Patriotic Front three clays ago , also did not rule out the earlier advent of independ- , ence if the transitional processes could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , contesting Britain 's view that those processes will require 15 months , called for independence by Dec. 1 , 1977 ; the whites had sought 23 months , and also want to control the interior and defense ministries . Under the British plan the conference is to revert to the independence date issue at a later stage . Mr. Mugabe , who is political spokesman for the Rhodesian guerrillas operating out of Mozambique , and Mr. Nkomo , the veteran among the black leaders , particularly objected to what they saw as the absence of an irrevocable British commitment to independence under black rule . While the Rhodesian Prime Minister , Ian D , Smith , proclaimed the territory free of its colonial tie to Britain in 1965 , the action was not recognized by Britain or the community of nations . Like Mr. Richard , the Patriotic Front delegates refused to disclose the amendments they had asked for in the chairman 's formula , saying only that they had been accepted . While a British spokesman said they were small textual changes , a black nationalist source said one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be possible by Dec. 1 , 1977 . Strains were visible in the Patriotic Front as the two delegations labored to forge a common response to Mr. Richard . Mr. Nkomo was believed to be more amenable than was Mr. Mugabe , who was said to have to consider how his moves would be received by the guerrilla forces . Some of the so-called front-line states , the black-governed nations bordering Rhodesia , are known to have counseled the black nationalists not to allow the conference to collapse on the date issue . Before the breakthrough , Bishop Muzorewa , in an unmistakable allusion to the Patriotic Front , complained that independence for Zimbabwe , the African name for Rhodesia , had been delayed by a month " while some people are wining , dining , bickering and dithering in expensive , luxurious and posh hotels . " Rhodesia Reports 35 Deaths SALISBURY , Rhodesia , Nov. 26 ( UPI ) ? The security forces ' headquarters said today that 35 people died in guerrilla warfare in recent days , including 21 black nationalists slain by troops since Tuesday and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been murdered by terrorists " and that one black was killed and three others wounded when their vehicle detonated a guerrilla land mine .                     