@@733615

txt Letters CHARLES J. MORRISGLENN E. WATTSPEGGY CHARRENHELEN M. FRANCSTEPHEN L. TROKELPH ... Letters Labor Law Reform : To Balance the Remedies To the Editor : Prof. Leo Troy asserts ( letter May 4 ) that the Administration 's labor bill will " engage government even more deeply in labor relations than at present . " He misconceives the nature of the proposed amendments . More important , he overlooks the Government 's long-time involvement in the regulation of labor relations  --  involvement which has slowed down the pace of union organizing and blunted traditional union economic weapons . The 1947 Taft-Hartley and 1959 Landrum-Griffin Amendments intensified the role of the Federal Government , both administratively and judicially , in labor-management disputes . For example , mandatory injunctions and damage suits were made available against secondary boycotts by unions , and union organizational picketing was effectively outlawed . In addition , most of the N.L.R.B. representation and election procedures became more cumbersome , with the result that the total . time required for obtaining union recognition was greatly increased . Thus , under the present law the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are no quick , certain and strong remedies available to deter employer unfair labor practices , and because N.L.R.B , representation and complaint procedures operate so slowly , these same legal procedures are too often used  --  or abused  --  to forestall or avoid complying with the law 's requirements . The proposed legislation does not create new unfair labor practices . It simply seeks to supply a better means to enforce the present act and thereby balance the special remedies which already exist for union unfair labor practices . Just as law-abiding unions need not fear those special remedies , law-abiding employers should not fear the proposed amendments . Passage of the Labor Law Reform Act would provide for more fairness and more efficiency in the administration of the nation 's basic labor law . CHARLES J. MORRIS Visiting Professor of Labor Law Cornell University Ithaca , N.Y. , May 5 , 1978 To the Editor : As final U.S. Senate action on the Labor Law Reform bill approaches , lawmakers and the general public would do well to look past the propaganda put out by the bill 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out any new principles of law that would tilt the balance of power between workers and their employers . The bill 's aim is clear : to guarantee the balance between employee and employer in labor management negotiations that has been national policy for more than 40 years . As the law now stands , even if an employer is eventually found guilty of unfair labor practices , chances are that it will take two to four years before the victims of his discrimination realize any justice  --  if ever . The employer is able to take a chance on winning his case with little risked  --  perhaps some back pay and attorney 's fees , all tax-deductible , if he loses . This is the type of situation that the Labor Law Reform bill is designed to correct . As both Business Week and The Wall Street Journal have pointed out , this bill is not the all-encompassing piece of legislation that its opponents claim . It is aimed at eliminating procedural delays and beefing up penalties for willful and persistent violators of our nation 's labor laws . Congress guaranteed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , The time is long overdue for Congress to insure that workers are protected in the exercise of those rights . GLENN E. WATTS President Communications Workers of America Washington , May 3 , 1978 Of Children 's TV and an ' Irresponsible Threat ' To the Editor : Senator Lowell Weicker 's irresponsible threat to cut off funds to the Federal Trade Commission if the agency refuses to call off its investigation of children 's television advertising ( news story April 28 ) is a perfect example of what happens when powerful industry lobbies act to subvert the political process . The F.T.C. voted unanimously in February to ask for public comment on the health consequences of certain // Alexa Grace commercial messages directed to children because of great concern from many professional groups , including the American Public Health Association , the American Academy of Pediatrics , the Society for Nutrition Education , and from dentists , teachers and parents across the country . At that time , the broadcasting , cereal and candy industries met to plan strategies to fight the public on this issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a $2 million war chest to convince the people that there is no issue , with " a ' big thrust ' to the Commerce and Appropriations Committee of the Congress " ( Broadcasting , March 20 : " War-gaming on the ad ban " ) . It would seem that the industry has fired its first guns and that one member of Congress has been badly wounded . Senator Weicker 's suggestion that a concern for the health consequences of what American children eat " is a waste of taxpayers ' money " raises more doubts about his priorities than those of the F.T.C. Since the commission has a mandate to investigate misleading and unfair trade practices , To the Editor : It is now just about a year since the hotly disputed anti-boycott legislation was adopted . At that time you and others published numerous letters grimly warning that if the law were to be enacted American trade with the Arab states would be seriously damaged . Indeed , one of your letters characterized such legislation therefore as " sheer and utter madness . " What has happened since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American-Arab trade in fact been cur-tailed ? No . Nothing of the sort . Far from a diminution of Arab-U.S. trade , that trade has increased since the U.S. antiboycott bills were considered . In 1975 , Saudi Arabia imported $1.5 billion of U.S. goods , In 1976 , the figure jumped to $2.7 billion and in 1977 U.S. exports to that country are estimated at $3.6 billion . In addition , since 1974 about $25 billion of construction and service contracts have been signed by U.S. concerns for work in Saudi Arabia . Instead of decreasing their trade with the U.S. , Arab commercial interests are intent upon increasing it . A group of more than 100 private and public-sector Arab business executives recently visited five cities in the U.S. to discuss with their counterparts means of expanding U.S.-Arab trade . These meetings are sponsored by the General Union of Arab Chambers of Commerce , Industry and Agriculture and various U.S.-Arab Chambers of Commerce . The American Banker , a daily newspaper specializing in banking news , one would think Senator Weicker would want to withhold funds if the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an elected representative should try to block a procedure that for the first time permits the public to have access to an issue of tremendous public importance . We hope that the other Congressional committees targeted by the advertising industry will prove stronger advocates of the public interest than Senator Weicker . PEGGY CHARREN President Action for Children 's Television Newtonville , Mass. , April 29 , 1978 What Money Can Buy To the Editor : With regard to the excellent April 29 editorial in The Times , " Doctoring Admissions for the Rich , " I only regret that you did not point out the relevance of this situation to the Bakke case . Does it not seem ironic that the question of skewing admissions to a university 's medical school in favor of the disadvantaged should have polarized public opinion and required taking all the way up to the Supreme Court for a decision , when all along those highly advantaged by virtue of wealth should have been able to buy their way into some of our most prestigious professional graduate schools ? HELEN M. FRANC New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : Those of us who enjoy the use of bicycles for travel and pleasure know there is no safety in the streets of New York . It is most unusual for the stream of New York traffic to respect the right of way of cyclists . This and the potholes combine to make biking in the city streets hazardous . Can not Westway incorporate a bikeway along its length ? A separate path reserved for the cyclists would provide safety on one major north-south route in Manhattan for the cyclist . This is a unique opportunity to expand safety of bicycling in New York City . STEPHEN L. TROKEL New York . May 4 , 1978 carried an article in its issue of April 19 headlined , " U.S. Boycott Laws Seen Not Affecting Trade With Arabs . " That article declared : " A New York banker who had earlier said he feared that ' the Arabs were not going to budge , ' said Tuesday that ' we 've seen a lot of modification on the parts of the Arabs . ' He added : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' " It all goes to prove something we should all have learned long ago : Especially when a moral principle is at stake , the best way to resist a bully is to stand firm . PHIL BAUM Associate Executive Director American Jewish Congress New York , May 4 , 1978 U.S. vs . F.B.I . Agents : ' Ridiculous ' Prosecutions to the Laitor : Few of us can forget the horror of Munich and the senseless killing of Israeli athletes by Arab terrorists . Acts of international terrorism continue to dominate the world news , with kidnappings , hijackings , bombings and assassinations becoming ' alarmingly more frequent . The United States has not been free of terrorist acts . The Weathermen have set off bombs across the country destroying property and - lives . Their bombs have exploded in the Pentagon and in the Capitol . The ' U.S. Department of Justice has decided to counteract the threat of terrorists by prosecuting those F.B.I . agents involved in the investigation of the Weathermen . None of these men obtained personal gain from their acts . None of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country , to identify terrorists and to apprehend fugitives . All of these agents firmly believed they were discharging assigned responsibilities , given to them by Congress , Attorneys General and several Presidents , and were following long-standing procedures . In his April 10 press release , Griffin Bell , the current Attorney beneral , stated that " one or more " ' of the attorneys in the Department of Justice had knowledge of the F.B.I . ' s actions . The . very department that is prosecuting these agents had knowledge of the investigations and the procedures being used . The result of these ridiculous prosecutions can ? only be the crippling of our Government 's ability to seek out , identify and stop terrorists prior to the commission of their terrible acts . It 's time we awoke to the reality of the threat of international terrorism and learned to respect the dedication of the men we have asked to protect US . GEORGE M. O'KELLEy White Plains , May 2 , 1978 The writer is a former special agent of the F.B.I . Historic Biltmore To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may shortly acquire the Biltmore Hotel . It was in the Biltmore Hotel in May 1942 that an American Zionist conference , attended by Chaim Weizmann and David Ben-Gurion , resolved on the immediate establishment of a Jewish state as its political program . This resolution had as its direct consequence the establishment of the state of Israel five years later . The establishment of the state of Israel inflamed Arab nationalism , and ininflamed Arab nationalism has had its role in jacking up oil prices . Now , out of their oil profits , the Arabs may buy the Biltmore Hotel . Thus the minor ripples of history . A few weeks ago an Israeli diplomat suggested to me that a plaque be placed in the Biltmore to record its place in Zionist history . I wonder whether the idea will appeal to the new owners . S. D. TEMKIN Albany , May 5 , 1978                     