@@729895

txt ? A 34,000-ton oil tanker split in half and sank as she was pulling away from the dock at Port Jefferson harbor this morning . The Martha R , Ingram , a nine  --  month-oId , $12-mil I ion tanker , the first of her type ever had already on loaded her cargo of gasoline and No. 2 fuel oil , so only 200 gallons of gasoline spilled into the harbor . It quickly evaporated . The accident again raised the fears of residents of Port Jefferson , the best port on Long Island and the site of four tank yards , and those of residents of other major harbor facilities , of potentially serious damage to the environment from major oil spills in the combined areas of these sheltered harbors . Coincidentally , Stewart L. Udall , former Secretary of the Interior , today released a study prepared for the Consolidated Petroleum Co , npany , at whose dock the accident . occurred , suggesting expansion of facilities such as Port Jefferson 's to handle larger tankers , phasing out some 315 smaller unloading areas throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crewmen and pilot and there was no explosion or fire , although fire units from the Coast Guard and the Port Jefferson Fire Department as a precautionary measure sprayed some 160,000 gallons of highexpansion foam through the broken hold of the ship , which ' still contained some residual Cautinued on Page 41 , Column 1 Empty Tanker Splits and Sinks Leaving Port Jefferson Dock // gasoline . The foam was sprayed ' into the hold after the ship 's captain expressed concern that the rising tide would cause the two sections of the craft to rub together , producing sparks that could cause an explosion . " I was standing in the pilot house at about 9:30 this morning in the process of undocking , " said Kenneth W. Johnson Jr . of Northport , L. I. , the ship 's pilot , " when I heard this tremendous cracking sound . There was a tidal wave of water as the hold split open and the salt water ballast came out . " I told the tugboat at the stern to come around to the front and it took off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rear onto the dock . " There was some damage to the dock and to nearby facilities from the water discharged from ' the hold in the accident . The 640-foot ship , which carried 280,000 barrels of petroleum products when fully loaded , immediately sank at both ends into the 32 feet of water at dockside , finally coming to rest as an immense inverted " v " tied together only by pipes and cables at the top . The Coast Guard , as a precaution , immediately closed Port Jefferson harbor to all ship traffic and sent a 40-foot utility patrol boat and helicopter to the scene . Survived 2 Hurricanes The ship , owned by Ingram Ocean Systems , Inc. , of New Orleans , was under charter from the Shell Oil Company , carrying petroleum products from Houston , Tex. , to Bridgeport , Conn. , and the Consolidated Petroleum Company unloading facility here . The vessel was built by the Alabama Ship Building and Dry Dock Corporation of Mobile . " I ca n't explain this at all , " said the ship 's captain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point , L. I. " This ship has been through two hurricanes since it was built nine months ago and never one problem . " A team of a dozen naval architects and engineers flew up late today from the Ingram Corporation in New Orleans to begin an examination into the cause of the tanker breakup , which officials tentatively attributed to " unusual stress " an a key pivoting joint at midship . Residents of Port Jefferson who have feared proposals being considered by the Army Corps of Engineers to dredge the harbor to permit its use by supertankers , lined the fences surrounding the dock area to watch the operations . " I thought the oil tanks were exploding , " said Mrs , Edith Eaton , who has lived in the village for 25 years . " Would n't it have been nice if this had been a supertanker ! " Mr. Udall 's report was prepared by his environmental consulting corporation , Overview , for Consolidated Petroleum . The report , called " Petroleum and the Long Island Environment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive petroleum products be cut to 12 superharbor facilities . One of them would be Port Jefferson , , which would have a deepened and widened channel permitting large tankers to dock and unload . Pipeline Proposed The report further recommended that from these harbor facilities , a major oil pipeline be run the entire spine of Long Island and that at least one major tank farm facility to be constructed near the Nassau-Suffolk line to store petroleum products for distribution . The report 's conclusions followed basically those of the Nassau-Suffolk Regional Plan , which also called for a pipeline facility to ease the congestion on highways caused by movement of petroleum products by large tank trucks . However , the report went further in stating that the danger of oil spills from 40 port facilities was greater than from 12 larger consolidated facilities and suggested five potential sites for a major tank farm ? in the towns of Oyster Bay , Babylon and Huntington . It passed over a controversial site in Melville , where Consolidated Petroleum-Northville Industries was defeated by community opposition in its plans to build the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13 years with an enormous , e increase in energy needs on Long Island and everywhere in the United States , and the environmental problems associated therewith , " Mr. Udall said at a news conference after presenting his report . " This does n't mean to me that Long Island should decide not to import petroleum . But Port Jefferson is better equipped than any port on Long Island to handle spills . We 're better off having fewer harbors where you could have personnel and equipment to handle any conceivable spills , "                     