@@729120

txt About 600 workers were evacuated from the Nevada nuclear test site today after an underground nuclear test blew a cloud of radioactive dust . 8,000 feet in the air . It was the largest number of persons reported exposed to radiation at the 1,350-square-mile test site , which is situated in barren desert .80 miles northwest of Las Vegas , since underground testing began in 1963 . About half of the workers evacuated from the proving grounds were reported to have radiation on their clothing or vehicles . The Atomic Energy Commission . said that a radioactive air mass was moving " north and northeast very slowly " but that radioactive levels were " dropping very rapidly . " A spokesman for the commission emphasized that the level of radioactivity traced beyond the test site boundaries was " very low " and said that it was well within permissible levels for humans . No towns in the immediate area of the proving grounds were reported evacuated . The closest town is Alamo , about 10 miles north , with about 250 residents . The spokesman refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would cross United States boundaries . The 1963 treaty that limited nuclear tests , signed by the United States and more than 100 other countries , allows underground tests " so long as they do not cause radioactive debris to be present outside the territorial limits of the nation under whose jurisdiction or control the detonation was conducted . " The'radiation was the second reported in four underground nuclear test shots here since Wednesday , when minor spillage , from one test rose 400 to 500 : ? feet aboVe the ground and was confined to within the test shot site . The latest device , codenamed . " Baneberry , " was planted 900 feet below ground . It had a listed force of less than 20,000 tons of TNT . Like the previous shots , it was a military weapons development test , the Atomic Energy Commission said . The . spokesman said that about 300 of the 600 workers evacuated from the test site 's northeastern corner " were found to have radiation on their clothing and vehicles . " They were made to take what the spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changing clothes , and washing their vehicles . Some underwent tests to determine if any radioactivity was present in their bodies . The spokesman said that there was no immediate indication that such was the ease . The commission said that six aircraft were tracing the radioactive air ' mass . The evacuated workers , hired by concerns under contract with the commission , were all in the proving grounds ' northeast corner . It was the 17th time that the commission had announced that radioactivity had escaped from the site since the underground testing began under the treaty . A total of 230 tests have been annolinced at the site , 30 of them this year . There were tests both above and below the ground at the site from the time it opened in 1951 until the treaty was signed . Along Highway 25 , the commission said , the radiation was measured ' at less than one milli , roentgen an hour , extremely low . A person must be exposed to 170 milliroentgens a year to be in any danger , the commis ! Rion said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 50 milliroentgens . The shot was detonated at 7:30 A.M. The radioactive spil was not announced until sev eral hours later . The A.E.C. said that , approxi mately seven and a half hours after the shot , minute traces of radioactivity had been detected as far as 30 miles from the tes site . The spokesman said that low levels of radiation had been detected tonight in the small town of Warm Springs , 20 miles from the test site 's northern boundary , and in the Humboldt National Forest , area about 45 miles northeast of the test site . Measurements in Cloud Special to The New York Times YUCCA FLAT , Nev. , Dec. 18 ? A spokesman for the Atomic Energy Commission said tonight that the aircraft inside the cloud had measured radiation at between five and 10 milliroentgens . Few Treaty Violations Since the signing of the treaty limiting nuclear tests , there have been few violations of the provisions . However , Communist China , which was not a signatory to the treaty , has put quite a bit of radioactivity into the air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " dirty , " or highly radioactive , atomic bomb and the debris drifted out over Japan where it was in turn monitored . More than a week later , Georgia Tech professors detected small quantities of radioactive debris over Atlanta from that same blast . In the same month , the Soviet Union exploded two underground devices that the United States contended had released radioactive gases into the atmosphere and were monitored in Sweden and Finland . Most of the problems dealing with fallout in the underground nuclear tests have been with domestic fallout or ground-level contamination in the vicinity of the sites . In general , underground nuclear tests , even of comparatively high - yield weapons , pose little threat of radioactive contamination to surrounding areas , even as close as 50 or 100 miles away .                     