@@733878

txt APPELLATE COURT JUDGE Henry W. Dieringer , whose handling of a case involving racetrack bet Messenger services has been the subject of an judicial inquiry , resigned from the bench Thursday . Dieringer , 68 , collapsed in the lobby of the Daley Center and fractured his cheekbone Aug. 24 . He explained in a letter to Chief Justice ' Daniel Ward of . the Illinois Supreme Court that failing health required him to step clown effective Nov. 15 . " I 'm still under a doctor 's care and I ca n't go back to work , " said Dieringer when reached for comment on his resignation . " My doctor insisted that I not go back because there is too much stress and strain . " The resignation ends a probe by the Illinois Judicial Inquiry Board into Dieringer 's role in the assignment to his own three-man appeals panel of a 1977 case involving the constitutionality of racetrack bet messenger services . THE INQUIRY HOARD was seeking to determine whether Dieringer , who was then acting as assignment judge for Judge Henry W. Dieringer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blind selection system to steer the case his way . State officials had charged . that the failure of Dieringer 's panel to act on an appeal in the case for nine months allowed the messenger services to collect hundreds of thousands of dollars after a Cook County Circuit Court ruling banned them . The inquiry board , an arm of the state Supreme Court , only has the authority to investigate sitting judges . Dicringer 's resignation closes its probe Into his conduct , but he still could be subject to a criminal investigation . Despite ? Dieringer 's resignation and other recent changes , the First District Appellate , Court still has enough judges to function , if three Circuit Court judges temporarily assigned to assist are inchided . NEVERTHELESS , tile Supreme Court will ' have the option of appointing a judge to replace Dieringer rather than allowing a circuit judge to act in his stead . The high court meets next week and the subject of Dieringer 's resignation could be placed on its agenda . Dieringer , who would have been forced to step down in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Served 14 years as a Superior Court and Circuit Court judge in Cook County before ascending to the Appellate Court in 1970.                     