@@732074

txt Activist attorney William Kunstler was jailed briefly Monday on a contempt of court charge after exchanging words with the judge in the Joan Little murder trial . Kunstler , colorful counsel to many of the nation 's best-known Leftist radicals , had tried to join Miss Little 's team of defense lawyers to replace Atty . Morris Dees , who was removed from the case and arrested on a witness-tampering charge last week . Chief defense counsel Jerry Paul formally requested that Judge Hamilton Hobgood allow Kunstler to enter the case as court opened Monday morning Paul argued that Dee 's ouster left a gap which Kunstler could fill . Hobgood immediately denied the request , saying that Miss Little still is represented by six attorneys . KUNSTLER , WHO had been seated In the spectators ' section , rose at that point and said : " Thank you , your honor . I 'm glad to see the quality of justice in North Carolina has not improved . " " If you make many more comments like that you 'll be up on the fifth floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wake County Jail two floors above the courtroom . " Take me up there , judge , " said Kunstler . " I think what you 're doing is outrageous . " With that , Kunstler was led off to the lockup a scant five minutes after he entered the courtroom . TWO HOURS LATER Hobgood ordered his prisoner returned to court and informed him that he had been cited for contempt . The judge then sentenced Kunstler to two hours in jail , ruling at the same time that the period already spent in jail completed the sentence . The penalty against Kunstler paled in comparison to the sentence of 4 years and 13 days he received from federal Judge Julius Hoffman on numerous contempt citations following Chicago 's Conspiracy 7 trial in 1970 . That jail sentence was revoked later by another judge , altho the contempt conviction has been upheld by the United States Supreme Court . Outside the courthouse Kunstler told reporters he whiled away his time in jail watching a television soap opera and reading the gospel of St. Matthew , that portion dealing with " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's action , saying it denied Miss Little " the constitutional right to effective counsel . " Sporting a multicolored Indian - belt and watchband mementos of Ms  --  stint as defense counsel at the celebrated trial of the Wounded Knee Indians where he was also cited for contempt , Kunstler said he hopes to organize a team of legal experts to monitor Hobgood 's conduct thruout the rest of the trial . Among the lawyers he hopes to enlist for the job , he said , are former U.S. Atty . Gen. Ramsey Clark , another outspoken activist whose arrival in Raleigh would assure that the trial will receive even more national attention . Already the case of Joan Little  --  a 21-year-old black woman accused of murdering her white jailer last Aug. 27 in the Beaufort County Jail  --  has become a cause celebre among civil rights and feminist groups . MISS LITTLE admits she stabbed C2-year-old Clarence Alligood to death with an ice pick , but claims she did so in self-defense against sexual assault . The prosecution , now beginning the second week of its case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge of first degree murder , punishable by death in North Carolina . The jailer who preceded Alligood on duty the night he was killed testified Monday that he recalls seeing the ice pick in a drawer of the desk in the jail office at least two dayr before the incident . Previous testimony has established that Miss Little was allowed out  --  of her cell to make a phone call ' in the ' office the night before Allgood died : BECAUSE MISS LITTLE does not deny the stabbing , this testimony ? concerning her access to , the ice pick does not seem to be crucial .                     