@@732778

txt Arab leaders ended a two-day conference here without final agreement on arrangements for an ex ? panded Arab peacekeeping force for Lebr. anon . But their closing statements . appeared to imply that Syrian troops already in Lebanon would dominate it . A fund to pay for the force was agreed on , with the richer oil-producing Arab countries pledging to provide most of the ; money . - After two days of sometimes rancor ? ous argument over Syria 's role in Leba non and the composition of the peacekeeping force , the meeting ended tonight . several hours later than scheduled ' and with an unexplained cancellation ofa nal open session of the 14 heads of state and senior officials representing the 21 Arab League members at the conference . It was officially announced that there would be no immediate disclosure of how many troops would be provided for the force , which now consists of about 2,300 and which is to be expanded to 30,000 . The exact composition , the announcement said , will be worked out by the secretary general of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Predominate Arab officials said they interpreted the announcement as meaning that Syria ; - which already has 23,000 soldiers in Lebanon , would make up more than half , and perhaps two-thirds , of the force . The cow , ference action , taken despite objections to Syria 's role in Lebanon that were raised by Iraq , Libya and the Palestihe ' . Liberation Organization , was seen not only as confirmation that Syria would dominate the peacekeeping force , but also as tacit acceptance of Syria 's large military intervention in Lebanon . Another official statement issued as the meeting ended said that necessary guarantees would be taken to achieve peace in Lebanon . It also upbraided4Israel , charging it with escalating aggression in southern Lebanon , but did not say specifically how the Arab countries would react . There was no hint of any militpry ultimatum to Israel . Reports from Beirut said that Syria , as part of its recent accommodation with the Palestine Liberation Organization , had agreed to reopen its supply route to Palestinian forces in southern Lebanon . Page 3 . J An Ambitious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here was over , the participants had embarked on what was considered here " as the Arab world 's most serious and ambitious attempt to stop the 18-month-old Lebanese civil war . They approved the general peacemaking proposals agreed to last week by a limited summit conference in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia , with leaders of Egypt , Syria , Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , Lebanon and the P.L.O . taking part . At the conference here , as in Riyadh , one of the main themes was that Arab solidarity , which had been tattered the past year by the Lebanese war and disputes between countries such as Egypt and Syria , must be strengthened concurrently . Arab leaders here muffled their quarrels with each other and indicated that they would turn their invective increasingly toward Israel , which was described by several leaders here as the chief beneficiary of the Lebanese war , and quarreling among the Arabs . As the meeting ended , there was ? no ' evidence that Syria intended to withdraw a substantial number of its troops from Lebanon . The enlarged Arab peacekeeping force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Lebanon for several months  --  was expected , according to officials here , to be in place within two or three weeks . The enlarged force is nominally to be under the command of President Elias Sarkis of Lebanon , who was elected seven months ago with full Syrian polit. ical and military support . While the conference here did not praise Syria for its intervention in Lebanon , which turned the course of the war in favor of the Christian-dominated rightist forces , it was careful not to condemn it or even mention it explicitly . Those expected to provide new troops for the peacekeeping force , in addition to Syria and the P.L.O. , are Saudi Arabia , Yemen , Southern Yemen , Libya , the United Arab Emirates and the Sudan . Egypt and several other countries , including.Algeria and Morocco , have reportedly refused to provide troops . Some Arab countries , such as Egypt , have agreed to supply weapons . The cost of maintaining the enlarged peacekeeping force , $15 million a month , is to be shared by the Arab League members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kuwait , Qatar and the United Arab Emirates expected to pay about 65 percent .                     