@@728867

txt Vice President Agnew , whirling across the country as President Nixon 's stand-in , declared here today that the " real peace lobby today is composed of those who maintain the peace , not those who disturb it . " Mr. Agnew called for renewed efforts to strengthen " the pattern of mutual respect and mutual forbearance " that he said was the essence of the American system . In a speech to members of the American Legion at their national convention here , the Vice President said it was time to seek " true peace " both at home and abroad . " Confronted with a choice , " Mr. Agnew told the Legionnaires , " the American people would choose the policeman 's truncheon over the anarchist 's bomb . But true peace lies neither in bomb nor in truncheon . It lies in that pattern of mutual respect and mutual forbearance that is the essence of a civilized society . " Takes Nixon 's Place Mr. Anew addressed the Legion convention on short notice , filling in for President Nixon after the President decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then the Vice President got back aboard the Air Force jet that has been a second home to him in the last two weeks and sped toward Johnson City , Tex. , to give former President Lyndon B. Johnson a briefing on his five-nation tour of Asian trouble spots . It was all part of a significant demonstration that Mr. Nixon has come to rely in increasing measure on the Vice President to carry his message to Americans and American allies . Although weary from the Asian journey that ended Sunday in Honolulu , Mr. Agnew had cut short his scheduled rest stop in Hawaii to fly to San Clemente , Calif. , for a meeting yesterday with the President and the National Se- // curity Council . Then , at Mr. Nixon 's bidding , he took a route for Washington today that wound first to Portland and then to Johnson City . Mr. Agnew was up late last night and again early this morning writing his Portland speech , and when he delivered assembly , " he said . " Those are trespasses on the equally sacred . rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the free enjoyment of their liberty . " Referring to domestic demands for a reordering of national priorities and , to use one of Mr. Agnew 's favorite words , a " diminution " of defense spending , the Vice President said that the Nixon Administration had reordered priorities . But he said it had taken an approach different from that of individuals or groups whose " automatic answer " was to cut defense spending . " We begin by asking : What is the minimum level of military expenditures we can set without endangering the nation 's security or jeopardizing : the peace of the world ? " he said . " Then we say : Cut to that level , but no further . " young antiwar demonstrators gathered outside the Portland Memorial Coliseum , waving hastily lettered placards . An Hour in Portland The Vice President was in Portland barely an hour . When he arrived tonight at Bergstrom Air Force Base near Austin , Tex. , newsmen traveling with him were not permitted to go along to the Johnson ranch . In Portland , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of change and progress the world has ever seen . " He said it had gone to war three times in a generation and four in half a century , not to seek combat but to provide security for a billion and a half people in the free world . And at home , he added , the American system has directed progress toward ends chosen not by arbitrary authority but by the people themselves . " We do n't brand murder and arson and rape crimes just as an excuse to put people In jail , " deleted 40 lines                     