@@728755

txt A battle raged tonight about 55 miles from Pnompenh on the highway linking the capital with the port of Kompong Som , the former Sihanoukville . Nineteen busloads of former mercenaries of the United States Special Forces in South Vietnam were moved to the scene of the fighting this evening to assist two battalions that had been sent there earlier and were pinned down by heavy enemy fire from the hills overlooking the road . The battle is considered the first real test of the former mercenaries , who are the elite troops of the Cambodian Army , fighting without the support of the South Vietnamese Army . In their previous engagements , the ethnic Cambodian mercenaries , known as Khmer Krom , have served mainly as blocking forces for South Vietnamese attacks . 6 Battalions in Army Six battalions of Khmer Krom , in all numbering 3,800 men , have been incorporated into the Cambodian Army . They are equipped and supplied by the United States as part of the current $7.8-million militaryassistance program to Cambodia . They are the best-equipped troops in the Cambodian Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have never before fought without either the support of the South Vietnamese Army or the American advisers who led them into battle in Vietnam . Military sources expressed a belief that if the situation remained critical , South Vietnamese troops would be called to the Cambodians ' relief , but none are near enough to reach the scene tonight . Gunships Strafe Foe So far , the only South Vietnamese assistance in the battle , which began in the resort center of Kirirom in the densely wooded hills north of the highway Saturday , has been from gunships that have strafed enemy concentrations at night . During the day , T-28 light bombers of the small Cambodian Air Force attacked the Communist troops . The Cambodians have refrained so far from using napalm in order to spare the pine woods that have made Kirirom a resort for the wealthy residents of Pnompenh . The battle began Saturday morning , when Communist forces overran the military base at the summit of the mountain . Soldiers of the hilltop garrison who made their way down to the highway along a 17-mile road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded in the defending force . Two battalions of Khmer Krom were sent from Pnompenh Sunday to capture the road to the summit . They were halted about three miles up by heavy fire and withdrew to the highway . Yesterday they staged a new diversionary attack up the The New York Times July 15 , 1970 Battle around Kirirom Is considered first real test for elite Cambodian force . road . As a result , the Corn munist troops descended to halt them and two battalions of regular Cambodian troops moved up mountain paths from behind and retook the center of Kirirom . But the Khmer Krom at the same time found themselves pinned down by heavy enemy fire from above and had to call for reinforcements . The new threat to the American-built highway is not considered an imminent menace to the security of Pnompenh . The city can be supplied with all its vital needs as long as the South Vietnamese keep the Mekong River open . ?  - -  Cambodians Reach Temple Gates ANGKOR , Cambodia , July 14 ( UPI ) ? Cambodian troops fought their way today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a series of Communist ambushes to reach a tourist hotel opposite the main temple . 6 G.I. 's Reported Killed SAIGON , South Vietnam , July 14 ( Reuters ) ? North Vietnamese troops killed six American airborne soldiers and wounded seven more in a predawn attack today , the United States military command reported . The command said that three North Vietnamese had been killed in the hour-long engagement after the Communists attacked a position of the 101st Airborne Division . The clash , 34 miles westsouthwest of the northern city of Hue , was the only significant ground action reported by the American military spokesman today . United States marines reported having killed one North Vietnamese and having captured five in a clash yesterday 21 miles southeast of Danang . The United States command said that four marines had been killed in the daylight engagement . Laotian Town Overrun SAIGON , July 14 ( UPI ) ? Communist troops overran a town in southern Laos , yesterday , the Laotian Defense Ministry announced in Vientiane . Both the Laotian defenders and North Vietnamese attackers reportedly suffered heavy casualties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north of the Cambodian border . The town has a population of 10,000.                     