@@730418

txt Dr. Daniel A. Manelli was fired yesterday as superintendent of the troubled Elgin State Hospital in the first of a series of shakeups expected in the hierarchy of the state Mental Health Department . Robert J. Mackie , 47 , of Glenview , a business manager and deputy superintendent at Elgin since 1969 , will become the new superintendent , The Tribune learned . Mackie formerly was executive director of the Cook County School of Nursing and also was business administrator of the Illinois State Psychiatric Institute . Brewing Since March The Otster of Manelli , a 35-year Mental Health Department MHD veteran who was on sick leave , has been brewing since Tribune Task Force disclosures last March that Ricardo Munoz-Velez , an apparent medical impostor , had ministered bizarre treatments to patients while working as a doctor at the hospital for more than three years . These disclosures were followed by a series of hearings at Elgin conducted by a state legislative subcommittee . The subcommittee issued a report last month criticizing hospital conditions as " deplorable and intolerable " and charging that Manelli was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Evergreen Park headed the subcommittee . Hits Physical Facilities The subcommittee r ep o rt criticized inadequate and deteriorating physical facilities , poor safety and sanitary standards , and ineffective security and supervision of the hospital 's 1,800 patients . During the hearings committee members criticized Manelli for failing to make regular rounds of the hospital wards and charged that other physicians had seized control of his institution . Manelli , 64 , a psychiatrist , said yesterday he has made no future plans . He protested some of Ozinga 's criticisms as unfair and said they were not concurred in by the rest of the subcommittee . He said this was the first time he has been criticized in his MHD career . Manelli 's replacement by Mackie reflects a continuing tendency by Gov . Ogilvie and Dr. Albert Glass , MHD director , to put businessmen in charge of everyday institutional matters , leaving doctors to run the zone and clinical level operations . Did n't Take Action Tho Manelli was not responsible for hiring or assigning Munoz to treat Elgin patients , state officials criticized Manelli for not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the University of Havana medical school was closed the year Munoz claimed he was graduated from it . Manelli told reporters he had been unable to accumulate enough evidence on his own to justify firing Munoz , tho nurses and doctors had continually protested his strange patient orders such as treating a choking patient with a boiled potato and banana . One doctor warned Manelli that Munoz was jeopardizing the lives of patients he treated . Munoz was immediately suspended after The Tribune disclosures and was fired by the state last month . The job of Dr. Alexander Kaluzny , the man responsible for hiring Munoz , was abolished . The Kane County state 's attorney is still investigating the possibility of charging Munoz criminally for his patient care . The firing of Manelli follows Ogilvie 's signing a bill that would cut- down from 8 to 3 years the time that an unlicensed physician can practice medicine in state hospitals I under a temporary permit .                     