@@729070

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor One Plan for Health Care To the Editor : Recent reports indicate health care is the leading cost in the present inflationary period . These increases in hospital and medical charges are a grave threat to the continuation of union-industry health insurance , plans . Contributions by some of these plans now amount to 30 per cent of the costs of incurred benefits . Sig ? nificant increases in employer contributions could not be obtained at this time , when inflation forces union gains to be mainly in the form of wage increases . The New York Labor-Management Council of Health and Welfare Plans , Inc. , representing labor-industry health insurance plans , covering 700,000 employes and dependents , calls for the formation of national , state and city commissions of independent status , to probe the continuing skyrocketing of hospital and medical costs and the defects in the health care system . The council has already called upon President Nixon to set up such a commission to examine the causes of the problem and alternative actions , recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with recommendations to be made early in 1971 . The President agreed that " now is the time to act on this problem . " The United States is lagging behind other nations in quality and universality of health care . Millions of Americans without any health insurance face impoverishment because of soaring health costs . Private insurance plans are less able to give adequate financial protection . when serious illness or injury strikes . The Senate Finance Committee 's proposal to insure against catastrophic illness will help few people and contribute to an already critical healthcost problem . The Administration 's proposals to date , we have informed the President , fall far short of meeting the problem , and time is running out . We now find the employed middleclass American is the new medically indigent category . The time has come to develop a single national system of health insurance , with proper controls of cost and quality care ? and organized around the tested concepts of the Social Security system . With an attack on health costs and ? financing should go a massive investment in new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House states that " we can not hope to achieve this national objective without the commitment and involvement of all interested organizations , agencies and others . " It is to be hoped that efforts of individuals and organizations will induce President Nixon to exert the leadership that can only come from his office to get things done . WALTER J. SHEERIN Executive Director New York , Dec. 8 , 1970 ? Hickel 's Law To the Editor : Walter , Hickel 's well-meaning response ' to a question on television , " Does President Nixon really Dare ? , " is revealing as well as unfortunate in its implications . " President Nixon cares , if the people around him care , " asserted the ex-Secretary of the Interior . This restatement of the law of the computer  --  that the quality of the output depends solely on the type of input  --  confirms my long-held belief that President Nixon is too much a political machine , lacking the greatness of human vision so essential for the kind of leadership our nation desperately requires . RICHARD A. SHWALB Morristown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given it a continuity of action based upon the experience and competence of its members . The tradition of reappointing judicial and quasi-judicial members who reader competent and honorable service is in serious danger of destruction if Beverly Moss Spatt is not reappointed to the City Planning Commission . She has served for over five years . Her service has been characterized by ability , diligence , dedication and a fierce independence . Mrs. Spatt offers both extensive training in urban planning and broad experience . Her fearless independence is both constructive and refreshing . If the Mayor does not reappoint Mrs. Spatt , the public is entitled to a bill of particulars as to the reasons , and she is entitled to the opportunity to answer them publicly . If she is being purged merely for her independence , the public is entitled to know that also , since this would be a significant factor in evaluating whether a City Planning Commission whose members are less than fully independent has any value in the structure of city government . BERTRAM R. GELFAND City Councilman Eighth District Bronx , Dec. 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I note in The Times of Dec. 3 that United States Ambassador Walter Annenberg has had a problem with squirrels invading the grounds around his London residence , to munch on newly planted crocus bulbs . To my great surprise , the park authorities in London gave his gardeners the wrong advice  --  of trying to stop the squirrels by shooting them . It could have been predicted that this would arouse the ire of every animal lover in England , not to mention other countries . Actually , there is a very simple remedy which can be employed without harming a single squirrel and yet saving every bulb . We had a similar problem in our tulip beds a few years ago and we were advised by our gardener to sprinkle dried animal blood  --  a fertilizer easily procured at any garden shop ? throughout the beds . We have not had a single case of a squirrel molesting a tulip , although they continue to play around on the grass and In the trees . While the smell of the dried blood is apparently very disturbing to squirrels and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It also acts as a good fertilizer for the soil . ALEXANDER F. MILLER New York , Dec. 3 , 1970 ? Mass Terror : Dictators ' Device To the Editor : Joseph Alsop In a Nov. 28 letter refers to my review of Robert Conquest 's book , " The Great Terror " ( New York Review of Books , June 19 , 1969 ) . Mr. Alsop describes my review as " , a tearful analysis . . . the gist of which was that one had to understand that from time to time leaders ' like Stalin really had to kill people on an enormous scale . " He also adds that " although one may be sure sic that Professor Gerschenkron would have liked to attack Conquest 's figures . : . he apparently sic considers their beyond challenge . " The ill-mannered practice of imputing motives has become too common to get excited about . But to depict me as seeking to justify Stalin 's terror and wishing to minimize its extent is to misrepresent me inexcusably . With respect to Mr. Conquest 's estimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote quite explicitly that " the figure is unlikely to be much lower and may be a good deal higher . " And the truegist of my review was that mass terror must be seen as one of the vicious devices practiced by the dictatorship striving to maintain and increase its power . In other words , the horrors of terror are the result of the very existence of a despotic system and could have occurred even in the absence of a criminal paranoiac at the helm . This view which I have expounded in a number of studies dealing with the stability conditions of dictatorships may be correct or false . But no reasonable man could deduce from those writings or from the review which is based on them a desire to justify , tearfully or otherwise , dictatorships in general , or the Soviet dictatorship in particular , or the murderous conduct of any man who attains so . preme power within the system . Mr. Alsop has given a thoroughly perverted account of what I have said in my ? review . I understand that a harried columnist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of scholarly writings . But I do believe that when his flagrant distortions are pointed out to him , he owes it both to me and to the readers he has misinformed to admit his errors . ALEXANDER GERSCHENKRON Professor of Economics Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , Nov. 30 , 1970 The New York Times Beverly Spatt Should Be Reappointed To the Editor : The City Planning Commission is created in the Charter as an independent body . To insure this it is provided that although its members are appointed by the Mayor in his sole discretion , they have tenure for a term of eight years . This is similar to the Mayor 's power to appoint Criminal Court and Family Court judges for terms of ten years . The City Planning Commission like the Board of Standards and Appeals is a quasi-judicial body . It has been a tradition in the city that judicial and quasi-judicial officials whose service is competent and honorable be reappointed regardless of any political consideration . This tradition is critical to the independence of these officials who have the responsibility to make vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the City Planning Commission during the La Guardia administration , successive mayors have reappointed its members through different administrations . This has sustained the commission 's To the Editor : The Times 's Dec. 1 editorial accuses SST advocates of " making desperate efforts to assure approval " of the appropriation before the Senate on Dec. 2 . I find " desperate " too soft a word for The Times 's editorial which marvels at William Magruder 's audacity in accusing " leading economists " of not understanding aviation economics but offers no evidence to contradict him . Is it a fact or is n't it that you must go back to the DC-3 to find a major U.S. commercial airplane not developed largely from a base of Government funding ? The only thing really new about the Government funding of SST is that Boeing will return the investment in royalties . You accuse me of " breathtaking assertions , " such as my statement that flights at 60,000 feet will be smooth , and you assert that " air traffic controllers report that the SR-71 .. has already encountered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if this contradicted my statement . There is clear air turbulence at SST flight levels , and the SST will be designed Supersonic Transport : Conjured and Real to withstand it just as today 's jets do at lower altitudes . You assert that " while climbing from zero to 1,500 feet , the SST will make ear-shattering noise louder than anything today 's jets produce " but you fail to make the connection between the fact that , because it climbs out faster , this noise reaches the surrounding community with less intensity than jets give today . You assert that " cloudbursts do not put water vapor into the stratosphere . " Simply false . I cited at least 3,000 cloudbursts per day  --  each depositing as much water vapor as the whole SST fleet  --  but I was very conservative . A reputable geophysics handbook estimates 50,000 thunderstorms a day , many extending into the lower stratosphere . Will you accept as an objective spokesman for environmentalists Dr. William W. Kellogg , chairman of M.I.T. 's Working Group on Climate Effects ? He states : " Nowhere have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held up or delayed pending the results " of studies on the SST 's effect on the stratosphere . Finally , you say the " airlines are running away from it . " Every airline president involved has given his strong support in writing for the SST prototype development . Why do n't you run their position rather than speak for them irresponsibly ? In general , the SST that The Times and critics like Senator Proxmire have constantly conjured up , any conscientious person would be against . But those who have looked carefully into the facts do not oppose the real SST . JAMES J. HARFORD Executive Secretary American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics New York , Dec , 2 , 1970 Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     