@@731224

txt Washington watches breathless as the Watergate adversaries jockey to final positions in the great struggle . ? The House impeachment panel came up with a broader version of what constitutes an impeachable offense than did President Nixon 's supporters . ? The Judiciary Committee 's special cotmsel , John Doar , said he would wait " a day or two " to see if the White House complies with a request for 17 tape recordings and 700 pages of documents . ? Indictments , jury selections , court pleas , special elections , statements , and rumors raised tensions around the main issue . ? A former Nixon speech writer says , reluctantly , that he thinks impeachment now is the best way out . The ancient impeachment device of 1787 moved inexorably toward an answer on the basic question : As between the House of Representatives and the White House , would it be cooperation or confrontation ? List of documents On the mechanics of the House inquiry , two critical steps have been taken : Special Watergate prosecutor Leon Jaworski provided " a detailed list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either received or asked for from the White House . This implies a Jaworski-Doar " willingness to cooperate " in the two-prong impeachment probe . Counsel Doar , in turn , has urged Mr. Jaworski 's list of documents for his own request to the White House , with the prospect that the relationship between the inquiry and President Nixon now will be known shortly . This request has not gone to the White House yet but is expected this week . Unlike Mr. Jaworski , whose authority rests on executive appointment , the House impeachment inquiry is based uniquely in the Constitution . Refusal to produce White House evidence might conceivably be deemed basis for impeachment itself . A Judiciary Committee staff study gives a broad definition to impeachable offense . This is not binding on members of the committee . The Justice Department has volunteered a guidance report giving a narrower version . This might help House members who want to vote " no " on impeachment . Other developments : Rep. Edward Hutchinson ( R ) of Michigan , ranking minority member of the impeachment inquiry , gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nation . " // * Impeachment : new skirmishes ; prosecutor , house cooperate // Previously the congressman took the position that " the country ca n't afford impeachment , " but he modifies this to " we should avoid it at all possible costs " and " only in the last resort . " Observers watched Mr. Hutchinson closely for evidence of partisanship within the committee . However , he praised counsel Doar and minority counsel Albert E. Jenner and said the staff is " performing on a very professional basis with no political overtones . " He revealed that he had not wanted the staff report discussing what is an impeachable offense to make any conclusions , but showed no bitterness that it had done so . Mr. Hutchinson wants White House counsel James D. St. Clair present at closed-door committee interrogations , with the right to cross-examine witnesses . This appears to be contrary to the views of chairman Peter W. Rodino Jr . John K. Andrews Jr. , former Nixon aide and speech writer who resigned last December , told the National Public Affairs Center for Television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approached the question , he said , " with terrible reluctance .. . but with that reluctance I 'd ultimately have to say yes . " He said , " I began to feel in early 1973 that the President was extremely negligent in the kind of moral leadership I feel we need . " Mr. Andrews is a nephew of Representative Hutchinson so that his views were noted here in context with the latter 's statement . The Andrews comment is the first recommendation for impeachment from a former member of the Nixon White House staff . In its reluctant tone it follows the pattern of some other comments of young staff members formerly with the White House . Asked if he had ever tried to communicate his ideas to the President , Mr. Andrews said , " I tried last fall before leaving the White House to take my views privately to the President . And when the idea was presented to him by General Haig , Haig was told that it did n't seem like a very pleasant occasion for the President . He does n't like that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " - Mr. Andrews traces his doubts of the President " to the summer of 1970 , where he approved a domestic intelligence plan , admittedly under considerableprovocation , but a -- plan which he was advised by the lawyer who recommended it had elements that were clearly illegal . " From this plan stemmed the mentality which led , in 1971 , to the feeling on the part of the ' plumbers ' unit that they could use breaking and entering , under what they thought again was extreme provocation . " It led , in turn , to the Watergate break-in . " Summing it up , Mr. Andrews concluded that he thought Mr. Nixon " must be held responsible for political offenses , not criminal offenses : offenses of abuse of power or permitting power to be delegated to the abused : offenses of , as I say , negligence or dereliction in seeing that the laws are faithfully executed "                     