@@729744

txt Thousands of Canadian Jews used Soviet Premier Alexi Kosygin 's visit here today as an occasion to demonstrate against the treatment of Jews in Russia . They were led by rabbis in prayer shawls and sang the Hatilivah , a hymn of hope , They marched two miles thru downtown Ottawa from a park near the Soviet Embassy to the grounds of the Supreme Court Building . 10,000 in March Police had kept the throng , which was estimated at 10,000 strong , from demonstrating in front of the embassy or the Parliament buildings . The crowd heard speeches and joined in prayer on the Supreme Court grounds . The Jewish groups came here in more than 200 buses from Montreal , Toronto and other cities in eastern Canada . Several other groups of Jews carried placards and chanted songs and slogans in front of the Rideau Club where Kosygin was entertaining Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau at a luncheon . The club is across the street from Parliament Hill and next to the American Embassy . Kosygin took hard but veiled shots at United States economic policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation . " Without mentioning the U. S. by name , he said its policies are causing unemployment and economic slowdowns in other countries . Such a system is no basis for international trade , he said . Kosygin said international trade " must be based on a stable system of foreign exchange rates , on a system which does not compel some countries to pay for it by slowing down their economic development , by curtailing their commercial operations , by increasing unemployment on account of the economic miscalculations of others . Puts Blame on War " This is all the more unacceptable when these miscalculations are not due to chance circumstances , but a 're in fact rendered inevitable by the pursuit of policies creating focuses of tension and conflict in various parts of the world . " Kosygin blamed America 's economic difficulties on the war in Viet Nam , saying , " No country , no matter how rich , can afford ... unlimited expansion of the production of war materials . " Nearly 1.000 uniformed men of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police , Ontario provincial police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the club with Kosygin . The Russian left in a limousine with a police escort for a trip into the countryside outside Ottawa and a visit to a paper ntill . Meanwhile , Trudeau began to walk across the street toward the main Parliament building , and the crowd surrounded him . It was not until the throng had come to a stop inside a side gate that the Mounties on Parliament Hill reacted Scores of Mounties then raced across the lawns toward the crowd , leaping over wooden barricades or crawling under them . Chant at Luncheon A phalanx of Mounties finished the walk with Trudeau up Parliament Hill and then held back the crowd at the entrance to the building . During the Kosygin luncheon , the Jewish groups had chanted , " One , two , three , four , open up the iron door ; five , six , seven , eight , let our people emigrate . " A small plane circled over the Rideau Club with a banner reading , " Let them live as Jews or let them leave . " Leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violent incidents during Kosygin 's visit , which will take him to Montreal , Vancouver , Edmonton and Toronto . A rabbi from Toronto said that Canadians should realize that the Kosygin visit has evoked " dreadful memories " for many emigrants from Eastern Europe . Police security for Kosygin was increased today after an attack on the Soviet leader yesterday . A Hungarian immigrant , Geza Matrai , 27 , had leaped on Kosygin 's back and grabbed him around the neck . Suspect Is Arraigned Matrai was arraigned today in Provincial Court on an assault charge . He was held without bail pending a court appearance Nov. 2 . A second person taken into custody was released last night . The attack on Kosygin yesterday was not mentioned today during two hours of talks between Trudeau and other Canadian officials . The formal talks centered on the situation in the Middle East , Soviet purchases of Canadian wheat and on the Soviet-Canadian trade agreement , which expires next April . Regulation of Shipping Canada proposed drafting an agreement with Russia for the regulation of shipping in Arctic waters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would consider it . More talks will be held tomorrow before Kosygin goes to Montreal by train on Thursday . Kahane Deported I MONTREAL , Oct. 19 M. ? Rabbi Moir Kahane , leader of the militant Jewish Defense League in the United States , was deported from Canada today . He and six other persons had come here to protest the treatment of Jews in the Soviet Union during the visit of Premier Alexei N. Kosygin . Rabbi Kahane and his group were detained last night after landing at Montreal 's airport . Cuban Visit Set MOSCOW , Oct. 19 Reuters ? Soviet Premier Alexei Koskygin is to visit Cuba at the end of this month , Moscow radio announced tonight . The radio said Kosygin has been invited by the Central Committee of the Communist Party and the government of Cuba .                     