@@728340

txt There is an imperative need for more research on the possibility that dangerous genetic damage may be done by some drugs , food additives and other chemicals , a scientist said today . The possibility that some chemicals used or consumed by man might be causing such damage has been much debated in recent years . Some scientists have argued that the peril is real , and others have said it is most unlikely . A witness today before a Senate subcommittee said new research techniques for assaying the genetic effects of chemicals had been developed in the last few years and should be used on a major scale . These techniques rely largely on tests In animals . The speaker , Dr. Marvin S. Legator of the Food and Drug Administration , was one of four witnesses at the opening sessions of hearings on the safety of birth control pills . He is a specialist in research on chemicals that cause damage to the human genetic material and , particularly , on chemically caused mutations , or inheriteC alterations of the genetic material . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes it especially imperative that the conUnited Press International Dr. Marvin S. Legator at Senate hearing yesterday . traceptive steroids , singly and in combination , be evaluated fo mutagenic mutation - causing effects , " he said . Dr. Legator , a biologist who emphasized that he was speaking as an individual scientist and not as a spokesman for the F.D.A. , said there was almost a void of experimental data on this subject , largely because the research techniques are new and Few laboratories are equipped to practice them . " There is a pressing need for program development in this area , certainly with the oral contraceptives , but more generally with all of the drugs and food additives to which we are continuously exposed , " he said . Some studies are in progress to see if the contraceptive drugs ever produce adverse effects on human chromosomes . There have been no conclusive results yet . Dr. Legator said , however , that tests in animals would probably be the only practical means for determining the longrange genetic effects of chemicals . A large part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in man would be indistinguishable from effects of the same sort arising from many unknown causes , " If thalidomide had produced an increase in mental retardation or other genetic abnormalities that are quite common , it might have gone unnoticed , and we would probably be using it nc ? . r , " he said . Thalidomide , a sedative widely used in Europe but never licensed for sale in this country , was banned after the discovery that pregnant women who took it produced an unusually large number of babies who were malformed in ways that had previously been considered rare . Dr. Legator said it had been discovered in the last few years that some chemicals , including some food additives , pesticides and drugs , produced long-range ill harm in animals , including pre- critical of the birth control p : sumptive effects on the genetic on other grounds . Dr. M. Jame : material that might lead to Whitelam of San Jose , Calif. cancer , birth defects or inherita- said they could have ? adverse ble mutations. effects on fertility after theft 8 Million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of contraceptive pills , he said that never had so many healthy individuals of child-bearing age been exposed fora prolonged period to a drug for nontherapeutic use . Another witness estimated that the pills were used by about eight million American women . " It is absolutely essential that we know of any potential mutagenic effects of drugs , such as oral contraceptives , that are used on a wide-scale basis in healthy women , " said Dr. Legator . The other witnesses were all Dr. Hugh J. Davis of the Johns Hopkins University school of medicine said the widespread use of the pills had ? given rise to health hazards on a scale previously unknown to medicine . He said it was medically unsound to give such drugs when birth control could be attained by simple means of greater safety . More Study Urged Dr .. David Carr of University , Hamilton , Ont. , said more study was needed of the health of babies born to women who had been using the pills . Senator Gaylord Nelson , Democrat of Wisconsin , v*ho is conducting . the hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risks , dangers and efficacy of the pills . He expressed doubts that doctors and patients were being given enough of the pertinent facts . His Subcommittee on Monopoly of the Senate Small Business subcommittee has been studying the drug industry 's performance for several years , with particular attention to cases in which drug hazards have been minimized and efficacy has been overestimated by industry publications and spokesmen . The hearing was interrupted briefly by six young women who were protesting both the pill and the subcommittee hearing as evidence of oppression of women in the United States . They said they represented Women 's Liberation Front , a group dedicated to promoting women 's rights .                     