@@729555

txt Palestinian militants reported today that scores of Arab commandos had been fleeing across the Jordan River into Israeli-occupied territory to escape from King Hussein's'forces . But the Jordanian Government charged that some of these were Israeli agents , and the King 's forces continued the hunt for Arab commandos in the stony valleys here between Ajlun and the river . The Baghdad radio announced that Iraq , in support of the Palestinian commandos , was closing her border with Jordan and was asking Amman to withdraw its Ambassador , United Press International reported from Beirut , Lebanon . Shots were heard today outside the town of Jarash and Salt and near this village , five miles west of Ajlun . The Government maintains that major fighting between the army and the commandos ended three days ago , but the continuing hostility between the King 's supporters and the commandos , or fedayeen , runs deep . Commando Chief Sought Gleeful Jordanian militiamen showed this correspondent the body . of a young commando in a foxhole outside this . village . And Jordanian officials said the Government was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as Abou Ali Iyad . The Government says he murdered nine captive soldiers . In Beirut , Lebanon , a commando spokesman said that 250 fedayeen had ' crossed the river to escape pursuing soldiers . The spokesman said that " criminal treacherous acts " by the Jordanian Army had " forced a number of commandos to cross into occupied territory to face the Zionist enemy rather than face such treacherous actions . " He said that the army had broken a truce arranged by Syrian mediators . The Amman radio seized on the news of the river crossings to try to discredit the commando movement . Quoting a military spokesman , the radio said 70 of the commandos who had crossed Israel 's eastern front were ac // tually Israeli agents , and it renewed earlier charges that 300 commandos were Israeli infiltrators . Between 1,500 and 2,500 commandos were thought to be in the Jarash-Ajlun area before the Army attacked on Tuesday , forcing them westward . The commandos ' present strength there is unknown . The military spokesman , citing what he said was an intercepted commando @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been picked up by helicopter after they crossed to the west bank . Even before the 1967 ArabIsraeli war there were reports here that Israel had penetrated the fledgling Arab commando movement . The movement expanded enormously after the war , taking on thousands of new members , No figures about the number of commando casualties in recent days have been given by the Government , although the Government newspaper Al Rai said today that 21 soldiers and civilians had been killed and 40 wounded , Reports of 200 Killed Some sources close to the palace have said that 200 fedayeen were killed during the righting and that several hundred were taken prisoner and are being held in army camps . The Government says 400 commandos surrendered to the army last week . East Jordanian militiamen said that several commandos were shot near here in the last two days . They said the youth in the foxhole had been surprised and shot from the side as he waited armed with a hand grenade . An empty ammunition pouch lay near the foxhole and there were no small arms near the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commandos ran out of ammunition last week and had been throwing away their weapons . The youth also had no canteen , which fitted reports that commandos are short of water . The arid scrubland here is evidently not included in the unspecified area that the Government says it has set aside for the commandos to operate in freely . King Hussein , concerned about criticism from other Arab nations , said yesterday that he endorsed commando operations against Israel , and he said , ' ' If need be we are all fedayeen . " It is said unofficially that the Jordanian Army is to over- , see food and arms supplies td the commandos in the designated areas . Some Jordanian officials say that 300 commandos are wanted as criminals . They are I said to be accused of crimes including murder , rape and sabotage . Abu Ali Iyad , the guerrilla chief sought by the Government , is a second-echelon leader who came into the limelight during last week 's leg while the main commando chiefs were out of the country. , Palestinian militants say they admire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the only commando leader who kept his men in good order during the retreat westward ' from the Jarash-Ajlun area . Palestinians here say they assume Abu Ali Iyad is with one of four commando groups now in the hills overlooking the Jordan valley . He is said to have lost much of the use of one eye and one leg through earlier wounds . Government officials say Ahu Ali Iyad 's men were holding nine Jordanian soldiers captive when the Army began its offensive against the fedayeen last week . They say the captives were held in a forest cave outside Ailun . But when troops later burst into the cave they found the captives dead . " Abu Ali Ivad 's men tied their hands behind their backs and then they shot them , " one official said . " Their bodies were riddled with billets . " Considered a Leftist Palestinian militants who admire Abu Ali Iyad say he is something of a leftist compared with other leaders , who tend to play down ideology . Militants also admire him as a dyed-in-the-wool guerrilla leader , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' from the officer corps of Arab armies , And they say he showed more of a taste for combat and danger than many of his colleagues . In the past , secon  --  echelon men like Abu Ali Iyad were overshadowed by the main leaders such as Yasir Arafat . But Mr. Arafat , along with most of the fedayeen leader . ship , was at a meeting in Cairo on the day the army began its offensive . As far as is known , none of these leaders has returned to ' Jordan now that their last stronghold ? the Jarash-Ajlun area  --  has been taken and their forces shattered . Mr. Arafat has ' ventured only to Dera , a Syrian town north of the Jordanian border . This has led Jordanians , including King Hussein , to mock these leaders , who , the King said yesterday , " sat so far from the battle . "                     