@@733552

txt Palestinian and Lebanese leftist fighters continue to lose ground to Israeli forces in southern Lebanon . The Israelis have now pushed far beyond the six-mile strip of Lebanese land they captured March 15 , which they said they needed as a cordon sanitaireguarding settlements in northern Israel . As the Israeli advance brings Israeli troops nearer and nearer to the Syrian troops on peace-keeping duty in central and northern Lebanon , the Arab states are engaged in a flurry of diplomatic activity aimed at facing this new threat to their interests . Syria in particular is desperately anxious to halt the Israeli advance . since in the view of most analysts here Syrian President Assad is extremely reluctant to confront Israel on the battlefield ? at least until reported work on a new Soviet-provided air-defense system is complete . ' One Syrian soldier here told reporters he would like to fight the Israelis ? but he did n't have the orders , and anyway his unit was not equipped for such a task . // From  --  a e 1 Israeli advance pressures a reluctant Syria Similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinian envoys in Damascus seeking Syria 's support in the battle . Syrian President Assad has , however , said he will allow any aid for the Palestinians offered by other Arab states to be shipped into the battle zone through Syria . Such an offer is doubly important now that the Palestinians main supply route by sea through Israeli-encircled Tyre has been cut off , but Palestine Liberation Organization spokesmen have been unable to report any new shipments of Arab aid since Mr. Assad 's offer . Some decision on future offers of Arab aid may be made when foreign ministers of the hard-line " steadfastness front " states meet in Damascus late March 19 . Elsewhere , Arab diplomatic activity continues with Arab League Secretary-General Mahmoud Riad seeking an emergency Arab summit on the issue . Palestinian sources here deny , however , that Mr. Riad 's activities ? Mr. Riad is Egyptian ? signal any thaw in Egyptian-Palestinian relations . Getting the Israelis out Western diplomats here , meanwhile , stress the extreme importance of putting a halt to the Israeli advance and seeking a speedy withdrawal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they stay , the harder the situation becomes , " one such diplomat told this reporter . Considering what factors might induce the Israelis to withdraw , the diplomat was forced to admit , however , that that would mainly depend on the Israelis themselves " seeing the light " about the dangers incurred by their continued presence . A Palestinian spokesman reported that the Israelis seemed determined to take the south Lebanese port city of Tyre . He said the Israelis were advancing toward Tyre on four different fronts , from the armored brigade which was slowly pushing up the Mediterranean coast road from the south , to a column well to the northeast , which appeared to be trying to cut through to the coast road north of Tyre . Eyewitnesses also reported continued bombardment of the city from Israeli gunboats , one of which was practically inside Tyre 's thousand-year-old harbor . Reuters reports from Tel Aviv , Israel : The Israeli chief of staff , Lt.-Gen . Mordechai Gur , said March 19 Israel 's most important capture of the day was a major Palestinian guerrilla base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base was near the Arkaya Bridge across the Litani in the central sector of the region . Its importance lay in its location on a main north-south road which was now cut off to Palestinian reinforcements , he said . General Gur said his forces had moved to an average seven to nine miles inside Lebanon . He said that many more villages in the western sector ahead of the Israeli advance had sent delegations to Israeli commanders inviting Israeli forces to take them over . Asked why Israeli forces had pushed beyond their original six-mile buffer zone , General Gur said : " We are not talking about a security belt any more but about a general agreement and arrangement in the area . " He said that since the fighting had become an issue in the UN Security Council , it had evolved into a political issue rather than a purely military one . " We hope , " Genera Gur said , " that a political agreement will cover the whole of southern Lebanon , and put an end to terrorist activity in all of the Lebanon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 19 in Israeli-occupied Arab territory on the West Bank of the River Jordan and in Gaza . In the Gaza Strip town of Khan Yunis , Israeli troops opened fire on demonstrators and injured three students . At Nablus , Hebron , Khalkilia , and other West Bank towns , police arrested dozens of youths for throwing stones and burning tires.                     