@@730118

txt The Nation Associated Press Ling-Ling , left , and Ilsing-Hsing , the two giant pandas given to the United States by Chinese Premier Chou En-lai , settle into their new home In Washington 's National Zoo . Their first official visitor last week , Mrs. Pat Nixon , said : " I think everyone would like to cuddle them . " ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? 1 ? 161 ? 1111MIN Pandas : A China Doll and Pal Come To Town Chi-Chi , the giant panda , might have become an American citizen had not the Government banned her entry in the late 1950 's as " a product of Communist China . " Instead , she flourished  --  and continues to flourish  --  as the pride of London Zoo . Last week , the American Government welcomed two panda products from Communist China with open arms . Ling-Ling , a I36 pound female , and Hsing-Hsing ( pronounced ShingShing ) , a 74-pound male , had been presented to President Nixon by Premier Chou En-Jai during the trip to China earlier this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look at the new arrivals in their air-conditioned , glass-walled panda pad in Washington 's National Zoo . Their first official visitor was Mrs. Pat Nixon who cooed : " They give you an extra dimension of joy . I think everyone would like to cuddle them . " Ling-Ling pit on a show for the visitors . First she lay coyly on a log , nibbling honey-bread toast clutched in ' a forepaw . Then , she picked up a pan of rice and soybean gruel and , while sitting on her rump , licked the platter clean . She did not , however , repeat the private performance of the previous day when , after finishing the gruel , she clapped the empty pan atop her head . Smaller Hsing-Hsing , in an identical compound next door , was much more morose . Keeping his back to the visiitors he crouched on all fours to slurp up his gruel . The panda ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca ) came to the notice of the Western world in 1869 and there followed a century-long disagreement among scientists about whether it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the bear family . American interest in pandas came much later , in the 1930 's , when the first one took up residence in Chicago 's Brookfield Zoo , only to die accidentally 14 months later . Curiously , enough , Brookfield later achieved the best western longevity record with another panda , 13 years and 10 months , but London 's Chi-Chi may exceed that figure later this year . The second Brookfield panda far outlasted the other seven brought to America in the thirties and forties ; they died of various causes after comparatively brief sojourns . But Dr. Theodore Reed , the National Zoo director , says that two pandas in the Peking Zoo are 18 and 19 years old and " do n't have the look of old animals . " What is a good span of years for a panda ? Nobody really knows because too few have been kept in captivity to establish reliable actuarial tables . If the panda is a giant " raccoon , " 14 years could be a respectable life span ; if it is a bear , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . And what'is the prognosis for HsingHsing and Ling-Ling ? Like any living creatures they are subject to accident and disease , but the likelihood that ; they will outlive - their predecessors in America is high . The first pandas arrived when there were no antibiotics , and when both human and veterinary medicine lacked much of the technological sophistication of today . The last American panda died nearly 20 years ago when the body of knowledge in these fields was a good deal slimmer . Anyone inclined toward a pessimistic view should remember the dour prediction of a leading American zoo director who wrote , half a century ago , " there is not the slightest reason to hope that an adult gorilla ... will ever been seen living in a zoological park . Due to then unforeseen advances in medicine and animal care , elderly gorillas are becoming a common sight in zoos , and the apes are producing young with increasing frequency . Whether the two pandas will breed is another matter . Some animals ? otters for example  --  will not mate with just any member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have their own private criteria , which no amount of propinquity will affect . The Peking Zoo has bred pandas , but they have had more than one animal of each sex in residence simultaneously . While Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing were settling in at the Washington Zoo , President Nixon 's gift to the people of China , two musk oxen named Milton and Matilda , were doing likewise in Peking . But Dr. Reed , for one , thought Americans had the better of . the deal , " Frankly , " he said , " I just do n't think musk oxen have the sex appeal pandas do . You like musk oxen , but pandas can steal your heart away . "  - -  TOSEP/- 1 1D.ILVES Mr. Davis is scientific assistant to the Director of the Bronx Zoo and is writing a book : on giant pandas.                     