@@729327

txt Pupils in at least two Brooklyn elementary schools were coached for the citywide reading tests given hereon Thurs ? day by being drilled on material taken directly from the tests or based on them . At one school , Public School 178 , two teachers copied sections of the vocabulary section of the test for their grade  --  including the actual test illustrations  --  and used the material to prepare their pupils for the examination . An acting assistant principal at the same school also showed 15 words from the vocabulary section to teachers at a workship she conducted and told the teachers to use these words " in teaching situations " with their pupils . The workshop was attended by new teachers from P.S. 137 as well as P.S. 178 . At another school , P. S. 327 , pupils were given advance exercises that contained paraphrased versions of all eight examples in the reading comprehension section of the test used in the third and fourth grades . A reading coordinator at the school said yesterday that she and another coordinator did this intentionally " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests because they regarded the tests as " unfair " and " inaccurate , " particularly for disadvantaged pupils . She said that they intended to disclose their scheme when the results were made known later this spring and the school 's pupils " hopefully would score 100 per cent . " Last year 's test showed that the average fifthgrader at P. S. 327 was two years behind in reading comprehension . Accusations at P. S. 137 At P. S. 137 , some teachers have also charged that they were given practice material by a school administrator that contained words that appeared on the actual test . One such sheet , alleged to have been distributed to teachers , contained 32 words-30 of which were mentioned in the test . The principal of P. S. the district office , where officials refused to make specific comments at this time . The principals of the other two schools  --  P . S. 178 and P. S. 327 ? have conceded the seeming test irregularities at their schools . They said they had no ' advance knowledge that actual or paraphrased test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Williams , the acting principal of P.S. 327 said that she would " support " the two reading coordinators who admitted using paraphrased test material as part of their asserted scheme to discredit the citywide tests . Teachers Are Praised " They are two of my best teachers , " M. Williams said in the presence of one of the coordinators . " They reflect the feeling of a majority of teachers in this city that the tests ere unfair and should not be used . " All ? three schools are in Community School District 23 , which takes in the largely black and Puerto Rican Ocean Hill and Brownsville sections . An investigation into the test irregularities is now being conducted by Deputy District Superintendent David Marcus . This was ordered by Assemblyman Samuel D. Wright , the president of the local school board , at the request of Dr. Harvey B. Scribner , Chancellor of the city 's schools . Pupil Achievement Tested The standardized tests  --  given each year to some 600,000 pupils in the second through ninth grades in all city schools ? are used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results have shown that city pupils generally lagged behind national reading standards . But many teachers and supervisors have long charged that the tests are " culturally biased " against minority-group children and to some extent all urban pupils because of the use of words and situations more familiar to middle-class and rural youngsters . The tests , known as the Metropolitan Achievement Tests and published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich , are widely used by schools throughout the country . City educators have also complained that the tests results are also being used unfairly by parents and others to " rate " the performance of chum teachers and school principals . Over the years there have been general - charges that some schools or some teachers or principals improperly coach their pupils , for the tests . But these have been , seldom supported by ' specific allegations . Board , of Education officials say that it is. permissible , as many schools do , to prepare pupils for the annual tests Iv , drilling them ' . on similar material or even questions . taken from previous Metropolitan tests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current tests came from Alan Meltzer , a teacher at P.S. ' 137 , at 121 Saragtoga Avenue. - Other Teachers Agree He asserted that teachers at the school received in advance lists of words given in the test . Another teacher , Ray Landis , supported the allegation . Mr. Meltzer added that he had signed statements from . other teachers . David Lee , principal of P , S. 178 , at 2163 Dean Street , who had ' earlier this week denied that any improprieties had occurred in connection with the reading tests , volunteered the information yesterday that his further inquiry had disclosed the incidents involving the teachers and the acting supervisor . He said that he was " heartsick " over the findings . At P.S. 327 , Mrs. Williams , the principal , denied yesterday afternoon to a reporter that she had any knowledge of a series of official-looking reading exercises alleged to have been given to teachers there in recent weeks . ' Mystery ' Is Solved Two and a half hours later , when the reporter returned to P.S. 327 , Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She introduced the reading coordinator ? asking that her name not be published ? who then related her story of the attempt to discredit the citywide test . Neither the coordinator nor Mrs. Williams said they had any knowledge of still other material alleged to have been used at the school on Tuesday and Wednesday . These duplicated sheets contained , in slightly re-worded form but in virtually the test sequence , 40 of the 50 vocabulary words contained in Thursday 's official test .                     