@@729920

txt Europe ' on the Brink of What ? Ey C. L. SULZBERGER PARIS  --  This weekend marks a fateful event in modern European history . Britain , Ireland , Norway and Denmark formally accede to the Common Market or , as it is often known , " Europe " and that enlarged community for the first time can see on its horizon the chance to become a kind of collective superpower in an evolving world . But , despite admission of four new lands , the European Community is far from that goal today . The Common Market is stuck at dead center and will require all the new energy , administrative talent and intellect of the British to help get restarted . Either it must move on into new fields and eventually attain greater political , financial and even military unity or it will ultimately subside into a gradually outmoded customs union of aging nationalistic states . Many precedents were shattered by the Market 's current spasm of growth . This marks a final British recognition that their empire is gone , their purely maritime outlook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is clotted and their future is committed to this continent , IsritaM is unique accretion to " Fi cope , " lc Is tie only Community member that has never been militarily occupied . As a recent imperial power it brings with It enormous competence in international finance , administration , trade and technical talent . And it enters with a surge of energy at a fateful moment There is also , if lesser , significance in the other new memberships . Norway and Denmark chose to go into the Market instead of toying with a purely Scandinavian policy as Sweden suggested and ( in the background ) Moscow evidently preferred . The Irish Republic effectively sacrifices its neutral tradition by joining an organization whose other members are all signatories of the North Atlantic Alliance . The next two years could fairly well decide whether " Europe 's " geographical growth will mark a transfusion of new energy and ideas and get the organization on the move . Recently it has shown a sad tendency to subside into its past nationalist hankerings in every field , each member bargaining in favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought for the over-all fate of the Community . ' ' Europe " still lacks a common currency . It still lacks a common diplomacy . It still lacks ar common legal rode , P still lacks a rismnien FOREIGN AFFAIRS to defense . It still lacks even the vestige of a common nuclear policy . Above all , it lacks a common idea ? i for the idea which originally inspired it has faded . Indeed , the real atmosphere of the organization into which the four new members suddenly intrude is one of desuetude and stodginess . " Europe " has become accustomed to the tedium of its own imposed bureaucracy and has lost sight of its original dream . There is only one way to electrify this atmosphere and that is by introducing into the Community 's councils and top administrative apparatus tough , visionary statesmen who are not afraid to think " European " and who carry political clout in their governments back home . A new type of leadership is required to replace functionaries who have stumbled into a wilderness of nitpicking . No doubt Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach , if willing to do so . Should it hike the lead , there is reason to expect the other inenshern , both old and new , wil ! aliska Tetra s. : % ; too 711 : . " 7 that have to be faced  --  and not ignored . West Germany is being subtly . enticed eastward by Soviet sirens . France is still obsessed by suspicion of anything smacking of the word " integration . " Moscow is out to paralyze the Community and Washington , if it has made up its mind to really help , has successfully concealed this intention . Nevertheless , a new vista has just opened up . Within two years a European security conference will have been convened . In one or another way , it will juridically acknowledge the existing de facto partition between East and West . By that time the West , dominated by the Common Market , will be perforce thrown in upon itself . Almost simultaneously one can foresee diminishment of U.S. military power directly under the NATO apparatus and the consequent need for " Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ? as a Community  --  and a determination to move forward into fields that have hitherto been mentioned only in scared whispers  --  like joint diplomacy , joint defense and even a little nuclear umbrella jointly raised . It is now plain that the European movement must move  --  either backward or forward . History will mark this weekend as the moment of decision on which direction to choose .                     