@@730390

txt Henry A. Kissinger , President Nixon 's adviser on national security , held another private meeting with North Vietnam 's negctiators in Paris today , the White House announced . He then flew to Switzerland to help celebrate his parents ' 50th wedding anniversary , The White House said he would leave Switzerland tomorrow , but declined to say where he would go from there . The latest private Paris meeting  --  the third in a month ? came at a time of increased public polemics between Hanoi and Washington and an intensification of political debate in this country over the Nixon Administration 's handling of the Vietnam negotiations . Details Withheld The White House gave no further details on the session , other than that Mr. Kissinger met with Le Duc Tho , the Hanoi Politburo member charged with Vietnam negotiations , and Xuan Thuy , the regular North Vietnamese delegate to the semipublic sessions ' between North Vietnam and the Vietcong on one side and the United States and South Vietnam on the other . The 155th such session is scheduled for Thursday , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the White House press secretary , told newsmen of the Paris meeting today while it was going on and said that Mr. Kissinger would then go to Laax-Flims near Zurich . His parents , Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kissinger of New York , were vacationing there . Newsmen told Mr. Ziegler that his silence on Mr. Kissinger 's ultimate destination would lead to speculation that he might go back to Paris for another session . But Mr. Ziegler refused to elaborate on the travel plans . The session today was Mr. Kissinger 's 16th in a series that dates from 1969 . The first 12 were completely secret and were not disclosed until January of this year by Mr. Nixon . Newt of the 13th meeting , in May , was leaked out of Paris . The last three meetings have been held with a prior understanding between Washington and Hanoi that they would be announced as soon as they occurred . Mr. Kissinger met with Mr. Tho and Mr. Thuy on July 19 and again on Aug. 1 . Because of the polemic tone adopted by both sides at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as in their public statements , many diplomats and State Department officials here ihave expressed skepticism th t Mr. Kissinger was making any progress in the confidential sessions . North Vietnam , in its statements both in Paris and in Hanoi , has sharply attacked Mr. Nixon for what it calls a deliberate campaign to destroy its dike system and to create floods throughout the countryside . The United States has accused Hanoi of conducting " a big lie " campaign and accused the North Vietnamese of making propaganda . In Paris today , the North Vietnamese delegation refused to confirm the Kissinger meeting and lashed out at some reports of a new American peace plan by saying , " Everyone knows the Nixon plan is to intensify  --  the war in both zones of Vietnam , pursue the policy of Vietnamization , and maintam the puppet Nguyen Van Thieu in Saigon . " White House officials have cautioned against any speculation about Mr. Kissinger 's sessions . They have said that only he , the President , and a few aides know their content and that any views expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Effort Indicated The White House view is that North Vietnam must recognize that simply by meeting with Mr. Kissinger it is aiding Mr. ' Nixon during this political campaign , by.leaving open the possibility that a settlement might , take place . " Obviously , Hanoi has no love for the President , " one White House aide said , " So we must assume they are serious about these negotiations . " Secretary of State William P. Rogers told newsmen on Friday that although it was possible that Hanoi might stall at the negotiating table until the elections , in the hope that Senator George would be elected on a Vietnam plank more acceptable to North Vietnam , " I would n't want to leave the impression that we think that the negotiations are hope . less . " He said that United States intelligence had information that lead the Administration to believe that " the enemy thinks  --  and I think many of the nations that are allied with them think ? that the President is going to win again . " The key issue at the negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted publicly that it will make no deal that does not include the ouster of President Thieu , and the replacement of his Government by a coalition acceptable to the Communists . Deal Held Possible The United States has said it will not " impose " a political settlement on Saigon but is willing to negotiate a separate " military " deal , involving a cease-fire and the release of American prisoners in return for the withdrawal of all Americans from South Vietnam in four months , and an end to-the bombing of North Vietnam and the mining of its waters . The State Department today continued to deny that W. Averell Harriman or Cyrus R. Vance , the United States negotiators at Paris under the Johnson Administration , had urged that the Nixon Administration do anything special to take advantage of what the two men called " an opportunity for a negotiated settlement " caused by the withdrawal in 1968 of 90 per cent of North Vietnam 's troops from the northern two provinces of South Vietnam . Their statement was made on Saturday to support an assertion by Sargent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon " blew " a chance to end the war . In a separate interview with The New York Times on Saturday , Mr. Harriman said that the North Vietnamese troop withdrawal took place in October and November , 1968 , before Mr. Nixon 's inauguration in January , 1969 . This led Mr. Rogers to tell newsmen in Miami Beach today that if the United States ignored a North Vietnamese peace signal four years ago , " it was President Johnson who missed the boat , not President Nixon . " Meeting with newsmen after testifying before a Republican platform committee hearing , Mr. Rogers said that the Democratic Administration " had had three months to act on the supposed signal before President Nixon took office : " " What did they do about it ? " he said . " I 've been making a search of all papers and documents available and I find no trace of any such signal . "                     