@@732779

txt With President Ford , Vice President Rockefeller and Jimmy Carter campaigning on Long Island during the final week of the Presidential contest , the suburbs there have become a crucial battleground in the fight for New York State 's 41 electoral votes . The candidates ' schedules in the last week of the campaign , when their time is carefully rationed , signal their view that Nassau and Suffolk counties are critically important . But there are other signals . A New York Times survey , as well as other polls , indicate a large undecided vote on Long Island and the possibility that President Ford is not running strongly enough in the two counties to roll up the pluralities necessary to counterbalance a heavy Democratic vote in New York City and thus win the state . The Times survey of 1,335 registered voters in the state also points to the suburbanite as the closest to a moderate , middle-of-the-road , swing voter in the state . The survey also indicates that Long Islanders , as well as residents of WestContinued Chester and Rockland Counties , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residents . Rut it . is Long Island that is getting the attention in probably the most concentrated politicking in one area by both sides since the Presidential campaign began . Vice President Rockefeller is campaigning in Nassau County all clay today . Mr. Carter will speak at a major rally at Hofstra University tomorrow evening . President Ford will campaign in both Nassau and Suffolk Sunday afternoon and evening , less than 36 hours before the voters put an end to the speeches and handshaking . Ford Pluralities Seen Nassau and Suffolk Republicans said that the Presidential and Vice Presidential appearances represented a judgment that Long Island was fertile territory for Ford gains and that he could still win the state with massive pluralities in Nassau and Suffolk . " We 'll be trying to offset the problems he has in New York City , " said Edwin M. Schwenk , the Suffolk G.O.P. chairman . The President may he even in more rouble than Republicans usually are in Iew York City because the Carter forces ire making a major issue of Mr. Ford 's ' hard line " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year . However , current surveys by The Times and The Daily News , as well ' as an earlier poll by Newsday , indicate that the President is not running strongly enough on Long Island to win the state ... Mr. Fcrd would have to win each county by at least 100,000 votes to capture the state , assumig there are ' normal votin gpatterns in New York city and up= : tote . While Mr. Ford is trying to increase hi ; vote on Long Island ; Mr. Carter is obviously concerned , too . Gerard F. X Doherty , the Carter campaign coordinator in the state , noted that the Democratic nominee was running " better than most Democrats upstate " ? an opinion supported by the Times survey  --  but added that " our problems are the suburbs , " with their large numbers of onetime New York City Democrats who become more independent and moderate once hey acquire a mortgage ' and real ' estate tax hills . The moderate image of the suburbanite was clear in The Times survey . More re , , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ideology in any other section of t he state . Statewide , slightly more than a third classified themselves as moderates . Only about 20 percent of the suburban- , tea classified themselves as conservatives and an equal number as liberals while in the remainder of the state , ideology was more polarized  --  more , liberals in New York and more conservatives upstate . ' Moderate ' Positions The " moderate " self-classification is backed up by the suburbanites ' stand on many issues . Invariably , they position themselves midway between the city resident and the upstater . In the Times survey , for example , 71 percent of New York City residents favored a Federal health insurance program . The figure was 60 percent in the suburbs and 55 percent upstate . On a Federal takeover of welfare , the city approval rate was 70 percent ; suburbs , 59 percent , and upstate , 49 percent . On several issues , the suburban view seemed to he closer to the city residents ' position than that of upstaters . Six of 10 suburbanites felt that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City , compared with 7 of 10 city residents and only 3 of 10 upstaters . The Times survey was conducted by telephone from Oct. 15 to Oct. 20 . The telephone numbers were chosen at random , but were weighted to reflect each section of the state . In theory , one can say with 95 percent certainly that the overall results in a sample of this size will differ by no more than 3 percent either way from the results of interviews with every registered voter in the state . A small margin of additional error can result from practical difficulties in taking any survey . Assisting The Times in the survey was Prof. Gary R. Orren of Harvard University .                     