@@730361

txt It is a truism of politics as well as economics that events are determined " on the margin . " Possessors of the last few votes needed to pass a law or win an election often can determine policy for the majority . But the price the Administration has been paying to its conservative supporters for acceptance of the historic strategic arms limitation ( SALT I ) agreements with Russia evidently is beginning to seem excessive even to the election-minded White House itself . The overhasty Administration support given to reservations in a resolution proposed by Senator Henry Jackson reportedly is being reconsidered . It has to be seen whether compromise language really can be found that does not undermine the SALT I pacts and , even more , the prospects for mutual reductions of nuclear weapons in SALT II . The essential cornerstone for strategic arms limitation , the treaty restricting defensive antiballistic missiles ( ABM 's ) to 200 on each side , already has been approved 88 to 2 by the Senate . It halts the offense-defense race in weaponry and makes it feasible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces , only some of which are to be temporarily restricted now . The preliminary five-year agreement limiting numbers of ICBM 's and submarine missiles could make a useful contribution to arms control , even though it permits some further increases in offensive missile forces and has failed to head off Pentagon efforts to accelerate nonrestricted strategic weapons programs , such as the longrange Trident missile submarine and the B-1 bomber . But the Jackson resolution , as it now stands , makes it questionable whether that interim agreement is worth having at all . The first major reservation in the Jackson resolution would warn the Soviet Union against taking steps to endanger American strategic deterrent forces , saying such steps would be grounds for abrogating the treaty . But this reservation already is covered by the standard escape clause in the interim offensive missile agreement . The United States can abrogate that agreement at any time if new weapons developments actually endanger American security . There is no need to specify as one such development Soviet deployment of MIRV multiple warheads on its giant SS-9 missiles  --  a development that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deploying MIRV 's and refusing to make realistic proposals for a mutual MIRV ban . If Soviet MIRV 's one day should endanger the American Minuteman force ? and the Administration has insisted that they could not do so within the life of the five-year interim agreement ? Defter countermeasures are possible than abandonment of arms control . Invulnerable sea-based missiles and airborne bombers would continue effectively to deter a Soviet first strike . The second reservation in the Jackson resolution is not only unnecessary but destructive . It would call for the U.S. in SALT II to seek equal numerical limits on Soviet and American strategic offensive weapons . It is destructive because it challenges Administration assurances to Congress that parity of strength is provided by the asymmetrical interim agreement , which gives the Soviet Union an edge in missile numbers to compensate for British and French missiles as well as for American geographic advantages and an American edge in warheads and missile quality . It would also call ' n American negotiators in SALT II to seek treaty terms the Soviet Union has shown itself unwilling to accept on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inferiority . There is no doubt that , to the layman , the numerical edge in the interim offensive pact appears to give the Soviet Union an advantage , although the Pentagon and its supporters know that this is not so . President Nixon showed political courage in agreeing to the Moscow terms . To undermine this achievement and further arms control prospects by concessions to Mr. Jackson and the military-industrial complex would be the height of folly .                     