@@733891

txt ASK SOMEBODY on the street about the Chicago School of Economics and he might m*ible something about a training Progrda for downtown bankers . But ask an economist , or someone familiar with economic theory , and it 's another story completely . The Chicago School of Economics is really a school of thought headquartered In Hyde Park ? in small , cluttered offices in the University of Chicago 's Department of Economics and Graduate School et Business . The complex theories and formulas hammered out there really affect all of us , though , because they may be translated into government policy and ultimately could help to determine the rate of inflation , unemployment , and how much the dollar is worth abroad . IN ECONOMICS and government circles , the Chicago School is world renowned both for its scholarship and its controversial ideas . " There is a very deep cleft in the profession between those who accept what the Chicago School stands for // In economics , many look to complex U. of C. school // and those who do n't , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for economics . Simon , a Carnegie-Mellon University professor who won his doctorate in political science at the University of Chicago in 1942 , added , " And my work is pretty diametrically opposed to the Chicago School . " " It 's Simon who is outside the mainstream not the other way around , " countered Milton Friedman , the 1978 winner of the Nobel Prize for economics . Until last year , Friedman was a prJ fessor of economics at the University of Chicago and the Chicago School 's leading figure . " And in every discipline , the essence of a successful science is that it appears to be implausible  --  but it works , " Friedman said . THERE ARE really three aspects of the Chicago School , Friedman explained in a 1974 address to the University of Chicago board of trustees . First , the school is distinguished by its scientific approach  --  its attitude toward economics as a discipline and its belief that economic analysis can help explain the way the world works . " We go out and look at the world instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yale Brozen , a University of Chicago professor of business economics who has been at the university for more than 20 years . Chicago School economists , for example , have applied economic analysis to studies of politics , to marriage and divorce , to crime , and even to safety and health . Second , the school has a distinctive approach to economic policy In general . ' You have to understand what economics is about , " said Arnold Harberger , Department of Economics chairman , who was awarded his doctorate at the university in 1950 . " Market forces really work  --  supply and demand  --  and there 's not much you can do about them . " TRADITIONALLY . the professors said , the school has been known for its belief in the value of free markets and private enterprise and its lack of enthusiasm for government control and intervention in economic affairs . Perhaps for the third reason , the school has developed a reputation not completely deserved , its members say for being monolithic and a bastion of conservative thought . " I know most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But the fact is we 're probably more evenly divided politically than most other economics departments . " What the Chicago School is known best for is Friedman and his theories of monetary analysis and monetary policy . Even though he is gone and now affiliated with the Hoover Institute at Stanford University , Friedman 's legacy has no. =tined as strong as ever . IN VERY SIMPLE terms . Friedman believes that the total money supply ? demand deposits and cash  --  controls the economy . " Our attitude has been that the important thing about monetary policy Is whet happens to the quantity of money and not what happens to interest rates ; that changes in the quantity of money have played an important role in producing inflations , depressions , and recessions , and that the appropriate policy for a country to adopt is a steady rate of increase in the quantity of money , " Friedman said in his 1974 speech to the university 's trustees . This idea which may sound almost obvious today originally was regarded among economists with extreme skepticism because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1930s , John Maynard Keynes , a British economist , put forth the idea that government deficit spending would remedy unemployment . The theory largely was accepted until recent years when economics " stagflation " high inflation accompanied by high unemployment knocked the underpinnings from much of what Keynes said . ? IT WAS AT this point that the Chicago School and Friedman 's ideas began to gain more and more respect around the world . The University of Chicago 's Department of Economics has been awarded a disproportionate number of the top honors in the economics profession , including Friedman 's Nobel Prize and the Walker Medal of the American Economic Association won by four of the school 's professors . WHILE CHICAGO School economists are respected by their collegues at other universities and in goverment , some , like Nobel laureate Simon , stir . sharply disagree with their conclusions as well as their methods of applying economic analysis to explain human behavior . " I just do n't think the method holds much water , " Simon said . " The world is just too complex . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisest or moat satisfactory decisions , economically or otherwise . " They often work with assumptions of the real world that just do n't strike me as accurate , realistic , or appropriate , " agreed Robert Solow , professor of economics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . " Their appeal is that they give neat , easy answers , " said Solow , who is incoming president of the American Economic Association . PERHAPS TILE most consistent critic has been Paul Samuelson , also of MIT . " The world is turning more conservative so Chicago School ideas are more in season , " he said , adding that he respects his Chicago collegues . " Much of the world sees the Chicago School as nominating interesting ideas , " said Samuelson , who is widely known for his basic economics textbooks . " But it is often thought that the glasses are clouded by the preconception of the seer . "                     