@@730354

txt Son . Edmund Muskie f le w to his home in Maine today after both he and Sen. George dropped broad hints he went there to think about becoming 's Vice Presidential running mate . After admitting they had had a long talk on the vacant Vice Presidency last night and saying they may have a weekend announcement , both acted to squelch further speculation by putting a lid on further comment . Loses Cool As speculation over 's choice to replace the jettisoned Sen. Thomas Eagleton Mo. mounted over the last few days , much of it centered around Muskie , and both men were dogged by reporters constantly . This morning lost some of his characteristic calm and told , reporters following him thru the halls of Congress , 1 " It 's a little ridiculous , gentlemen  --  I 'm not going to say any ' thing else today . " Then he went to his office and'issued this statement : , " I have discussed the Vice Presidential matter with Sen. Muskie . I will have no further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say before the end of the weekend . " " No Doubt of Offer " One Liberal Democratic Senator told a reporter , " There 's no question offered it , and there 's no question Muskie 's considering it now . " Neither was It certain whether Muskie would accept if an offer were made . He told reporters , " I 'm concerned about this campaign ; I 'm concerned about the issues Involved . " Senate associates were quoted as saying that before talking with . last night Muskie seemed unlikely to accept a spot on the ticket because he considered the campaign to ne too car behind . Mrs. Muskie said she was opposed to Muskie 's joining the ticket . Offer Up in Air Later this morning , Muskie was surrounded by reporters as he left his home in suburban Bethesda , Md. , on his way to the airport . Asked whether be had decided about running on the ticket , he said , " That 's the question that I 'll have to resolve in due course . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff aides , have left the pression Muskie is high on the list of candidates , it has not been determined whether an offer has been made directly . Muskies office issued a short statement saying the two spent two hours together at Muskie 's home last night , discussing " the fall campaign and the question of a Democratic Vice Presidential nominee . " " Sen. Muskie will have no further statement for the time being , " the statement concluded . was thought to have pinned high hopes on Muskie in an effort to take safe refuge in a known politician with clear appeal to conventional wings of the party , altho speculation has continued that a Kennedy family in-law , R. Sargent Shriver , was a likely second choice . One member of Congress running for election this fall said he was asked by adviser Frank Mankiewicz about Shriver and Muskie but that Mankiewicz seemed more interested in questions having to do with Shriver . AnOther suggested that the staff would have a better ; ' idea of the effect of a Muskie candidacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Muskie with staff assistants , reporters who had . out the Muskie home saw aides carry a rotary address file into the ho us e , suggesting that Muskie may be making phone calls to plumb party opinion across the country toward a ticket . picked up an important labor endorsement today when the Communications Workers of America became the second AFL-CIO affiliate to bolt the AFL-CIO executive council decision of neutrality .                     