@@733961

txt In his morose essay on population . Malthus put forth that happiness is directly related to the quantity of food available . If proof need be offered , the Metropolitan Museurr ( of Art has done so by mounting a very cheerful exhibition titled " The Print Collector in the Kitchen . " It is on view through Sunday Of one can find one 's way through the King Tut and Dresden exhibit throngs ) and includes samplings of prints by various artists of people selling . preparing and eating everything from pasta to chicken , pale-encroute to pastries . A print by Rembrandt , for example . depicts a humble pancake woman ; another by the ** German artist The Gallery Burgkmaier presents the Emperor Maximilian carrying a tureen as he learns the workings of the royal kitchen so that he could properly order a banquet ) . And what could better illustrate the pleasures of eating in quantity than some Neapolitans shoveling macaroni straight out of a vat and into their mouths with their fingers , as in one page from an illustrated book ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it gamely traverses about six centuries of art and eating . Particularly plentiful are images of singleitem vendors who carried their goods in baskets and trays through streets and countryside announcing their arrival with cries and maybe a song : " 0 body wellfilled out , " intones a big-bellied vendor as he marches along with his roasted chestnuts . Celery , eggs , even baked potatoes are offered by other hawkers , often presented by the artists in peculiar-looking outfits that apparently symbolized their trade . The consumers are equally varied , ranging from a refined ** party picnicking in front of a dreamy castle surrounded by swans , boats and musicians , to a very ill-behaved family throwing wine at each other ( the foot ' is already on the floor ) . Questionable table manner , are also displayed in a print called " Dogomania " in which an eccentric lady serves a chicken leg to her table companion -a spaniel . A glum  --  looking maid sits behind her all alone , staring at a herring in her lap . - This is perhaps not the Ideal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former group might take some pleasure in a print by a ** Dutch artist , which shows happy hares gleefully roasting a hunter on a spit Nearby is an exhibition of 51 photographs by Alfred Stieglitz of the painter Georgia O'Keeffe ( through Jan. 14 ) . Stieglitz 's friendship with the much younger artist began when she was in her very early 30s ( she is now 91 years old ) . The photographs are part of some 500 portraits taken of her , beginning in 1917. many of them never shown for reasons that remain unclear . But Ms. O'Keeffe has surprisingly approved this venture and even participated in the selection ( a handsomely printed book of the exhibited works is also available I. The works on view , particularly those from 1918 , of the painter in a soft , white . opened shirt , are beautiful images . taken in a gentle , caressing light . Stieglitz photographed Ms. O'Keeffe 's body with such intimate knowledge and intensity of feeling that occasionally one feels rather like an intruder . At least for this viewer , esthetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private nature of some of the works as to Stieglitz 's merciless recording of the passage of time : The last photographs taken in the 1930s of her gaunt , lined face already foreshadow the next 50 years . Downstairs in the lower depths of the Metropolitan . usually reserved for costume shows . Diana Vreeland , the fashion world 's flamboyant emissary to the Met 's Costume Institute . has taken on Russia 's equally flamboyant emigre to the West - the ballet impresario , Serge Diaghilev . And the result is a marvelously entertaining , visually exciting show that should send the most lethargic museumgoer into at least a mental fete . The exhibition ( comprised largely of loans from London 's Victoria and Albert Museum ) is titled " Diaghilev : Costumes and Designs of the Ballets Busses , " and will be on view through June . Supplementing the costumes are several sculptures - among them Malvina Hoffman 's exquisite wax mask of Anna Pavlova and Rodin 's muscle-rippling bronze study of Nijinsky - and numerous sketches for costumes and sets . The material documents what surprised Europeans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danced in Russia ) called the " Diaghilev Miracle " when the dancers first burst on the Scene at the Theatre du Chatelet in Paris in 1909 . During its 20-year existence , the company revolutionized and revitalized ballet with a brilliant synthesis of dance , decor and music . Vanguard coinposers ( among them Stravinsky and Sane ) combined forces with artists like Bakst , Goncharova , Picasso and Matisse and a heady array , of choreographers ( such as Massine and later Balanchine ) to create a symphony of gestures and sound , passion , fantasy and color . As is usual with Ms. Vreeland 's extravagant installations , the costumes scintillate and glitter in an atmospherically lit setting . Mitstiko perfume ( which Guerlain created for Diaghilev ) sometimes wafts through the air , supplemented by wonderfully tantalizing sections from many of the scores used by the , Ballets Russes , the " Polovtsian Dances , " for example , or " Invitation to the Dance " which brought Nijinsky onstage with a phenomenal leap that , so it is related , caused the more sensitive to faint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of grand gestures but little detail ) readable labels that at least offer a bit of information about the legen dary company . One exhibit of Nijinsky 's ruffle and brocade costume for the prince in " Swan Lake " is particularly well presented : The spotlight illuminating it pulsates rapidly with increasing and decreasing light intensities and one can easily imagine the great danseur floating through the air . But the real stars of the exhibition are . I think . two designers . Leon Bakst and Natalia Goncharova . Bakst 's sense of fantasy was superbly suited for the more exotic ballets like " Scheherazade , " and his unconventional juxtapositions of brilliant colors and patterns , derived from Persia . Turkey and India , created a frenzy in the world of fashion and interior design . Goncharova , who is equally known as a painter , is represented by boldly schematized designs for " Le Coq d'Or " that reveal her interest in the indigenous peasant art of Ritssia . Those still in a holiday mood might also like to visit the yearly Christmas tree and creche set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monumental 17th-Century choir screen from Valladolid , Spain ( on view until Jan. 281 . A plethora of angels occupy the tree branches , with the Holy Family , shepherds and an assortment of animals placed beneath ? all smoothly shaped in terra cotta and ornamented by expert sculptors of the baroque era in southern Italy . The museum also pipes in  - -  at subdued volume - carols and organ music that are rather more pleasing than the ordinary Christmas clatter so prevalent in recent days .                     