@@730434

txt President Suleiman Franjieh of Lebanon has begun a diplomatic effort to get major powers that are interested in the Middle East to tackle the Palestinian refugee problem , which underlies much of the violence in this region . After presiding at a Cabinet meeting yesterday called to consider Lebanon 's vulnerability to attack from Israel , such as the air strikes that killed 20 persons on Friday , Mr. Franjleh said he would send notes to " friendly heads of state " proposing new approaches to the problems of the nearly 1.5 million Palestinians estimated to have been displaced from Israel and the Israeli-occupied areas , Calm on All Fronts The problem of these refugees , and the political organizations and guerrilla forces that support the creation of a new Palestinian state in territory that now constitutes Israel , erupted in the killing of 11 Israeli hostages and their Arab kidnappers at the Olympic Games in Munich . The violence at Munich was followed by a new military and diplomatic offensive by Israel against the commando groups . After Israel 's air strikes Friday against Lebanon and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the Golan heights yesterday , a calm settled on all fronts today . Proposal by Waldheim The General Assembly of the United Nations , which convenes Sept. 19 , has been asked by Secretary General Waldheim to consider international measures to protect " innocent victims " such as airline passengers from acts of political terrorism , Foreign Minister Abba Eban of Israel has said that the immediate problem in the Middle East is not the quest for a peace settlement but control of the commandos . Israel , he declared , is prepared to strike against commandos operating from neighboring countries if their Governments are unable or - unwilling to eliminate attacks on Israel and her citizens . In a different approach , reflecting the viewpoint of moderate Arabs , Mr. Franjieh said : " Before considering a curb on violence undertaken by a group of people in a continuous state of despair and provocation , we should tackle the causes of this despair and put an end to provocation . " There are approximately 300,000 Palestinians in this small country of two million people and 85,000 of them are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camps are under the control of commando organizations , which recruit many guerrillas from the young men and women in the camps . Other Palestinians constitute a major intellectual and political force in Lebanon . Although the main military strength of the commandos , who are believed to have 10 , - 000 men under arms , is in Syria , there are active commando groups conducting operations against Israel who move men and arms through southern Lebanon . A brief tour of the area along Lebanon 's southeastern border with Syria , down the highway from Damascus , Syria , to Marjioun , finds Lebanese Army forces forces controlling main highways at frequent checkpoints , with occasional armored cars dug in beside rough sandbag pillboxes . All this area is under military control . It is understood that the Lebanese troops are in southern Lebanon as much to see that the commandos abide by a 1970 agreement to refrain from launching border attacks on Israel as they are to defend the border against Israeli incursions . Because of Israel 's overwhelming military superiority , there is great concern in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caught , as one Lebanese businessman put it , between the anvil of Palestinian commandos and the hammer of Israeli retaliation . Therefore , in the tensions that followed the killings in Munich by the Arab terrorist Black September organization , the Lebanese Government has been insistent that the major commando organizations that have headquarters here refrain from making any declarations that would compromise Lebanon 's position . The order to keep quiet is being observed by the Palestinian commando leaders , in. eluding Yasir Arafat , the head of Al Fatah , the major commando group . Some of the more radical Palestinian leaders on the left of the movement , such as Dr. George Habash , head of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , have not even shown up in Lebanon recently .                     