@@732735

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 188 Letters to the Editor Presidential Race : Toward . a Decision To the Editor : I am a feminist , a Catholic , a Republican , and I love Jerry Ford . I 've been reading your Democratic rhetoric now for months , and I 've decided that it 's time to speak up . Gerald Ford is an honest , reflective , facilitative President who has enough respect for the intellectual and moral capacities of his people to trust their own decisions when he seeks a more responsible country at every level . We do n't need a candidate who looks on the diversity to which this country is heir and talks about " ethnic purity . " We do n't need a candidate who talks about being " reborn " and from evidence in the press apparently surrounds himself with only white Secret Service agents to protect his image with Southern constituents . No candidate who lacks the chutzpa to buck the tide in such mundane moral issues is capable of a White House role . I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any poster rack , imaged as a modern-day messiah . America is not a land of messianic dreams . We are a country founded on a dream and a belief that every person has a unique and personal contribution to the well-being and uplifting of the entire country . Each one of us is responsible for every action of the elected official . If we allow a candidate to usurp our right to govern , then we , not Washington , are to blame . We decry the fiscal , political and social decadence of our city , yet we continue to do nothing , continue to be apathetic . It 's time the country stopped deluding itself about the messianic qualities of Jimmy Carter and took responsibility for the situation , assumed responsibility for social change , for its poor and marginal people , for the violence and deterioration that besiege our urban neighborhoods ? without waiting for a savior to do for us that which we find repulsive. deleted paragraph To the Editor . Many of today 's ills appear to spring from one obsession ? In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mushroom and balloon beyond the abilities of many corporate and government entities to fulfill . Social Security payments are not funded . Because of unconscionable medical claims and ensuing exorbitant malpractice premiums , doctors often require unnecessary physical examinations to protect themselves , and they occasionally go on strike . Anticipation and expectation of inflation help to establish permanent inflation . They 're a factor in this phenomenon . Because of concern for protection from inflation , union wage demands are materially increased . Labor strikes are snore frequent and costly . Environmental concerns cause such drastic antipollution regulations that economic activities are sometimes thwarted and needed energy sources remain undeveloped . The quest for consumer protection causes government mandates , increasing costs of distribution and prices . Consumers become dependent on bureaucratic edicts . Many of the safety requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration are superfluous and extremely costly for low-risk commercial and agricultural operations . These are just a few of the areas Politicians vs. the Poor To the Editor . How can anyone who would ordinarily rejoice over the passing of the 556 billion social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut off Federal funds for poor women who seek abortions not only violates the spirit of the Supreme Court ruling but reveals the Democrats ' indifference to the poor when the politicians are threatened by the loss of Catholic support . And what kinds of consciences can the spokespeople for the church have , asking U.S. citizens to subsidize its vast properties through tax exemption while denying aid to poor women who do not hold the views of the Roman Catholic Church ? ELAINE UNICELESS New York , Oct. 1 , 1976 in , which the obsession for security is counterproductive . It 's not to say that reasonable insurance against common disasters such as fire , storm and theft ? should not be provided , But it 's an impossibility to insure against every contingency . Common sense , faith ' ( replacing fear ) and normal risk-taking should be resurrected , Over-concern with security is a symptom of an imperiled civilization rather than a developing society . The optimum of creature security is represented by the slave and man 's pet  --  his dog . HAROLD P. BURGESS Cortland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : Can it really be that the American people were so overwhelmingly committed to Mr. Carter in July but now are rethinking their commitments in such great numbers ? I think not . The truth is that only recently have the candidates and parties been clearly defined in the public mind . The President runs on the NixonFord record : 2% million more unemployed now than when Ford took office ; 1/2 a million more unemployed now than two months ago ; soaring welfare and unemployment costs ; prices one-third higher now than in 1972 ; a seemingly incoherent and contradictory foreign policy ( where each intervention leaves the U.S. in a weaker position than before ) ; unpunished crime and corruption in the top levels of government ; a dollar twice devalued ; citizens increasingly distrusted and spied triton ; public policies based on utter stalemate ; an absolute vacuum of leadership , in the White House . Unbelievably , Mr. Ford says he is proud of his record . His promise is only to rectify his and his predecessor 's mistakes . By contrast , Mr. Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to work ; knows that the way to a strong foreign policy is consistency and prudence ; knows that the way to restore confidence in government is to punish corruption and to trust the American people for a change . On Nov. 2 , the choice is between more weak-kneed , stalemated nonleadership and economic decline under Ford and a new beginning and strong leadership under Carter . CLYDE JAMES J. Lubbock , Tex. , Sept. 27 , 1976 ence on any messianic figure . It has n't been Democratic Party policy to support independence , but then , how long can we allow such an un-American vision to govern ? ANNAMARIA PROFIT New York , Sept. 24 , 1976 ? Milo Hess numbers continue to sit on timer hands . This in spite of the fact that in the last decade more of the youth , the blacks and the women have become enfranchised . Is there a profound social significance to this phenomenon ? I am inclined to think so . I believe that the absence from the . polls is an indication of the disenchantment with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stay home is as much an affirmation of the people 's thinking as is the lever pulled by the voter . What prompts me to reassess my own thoughts about voting in the corning elections ( until now I have always voted ) is the candidates ' caliber and their unprincipled positions . In the Presidential race , two mediocrities vie with each other in political opportunism . Principle is discarded in favor of pandering to ethnic prejudices . The Defense Department and its budget are regarded as sacred cows , end the inner cities and their continuing deprivation are totally ignored . We have a similar situation in the New York Senatorial race . Two candidates , alike as two peas in a pod , both conservative and reactionary , are served up as the only choice for the traditionally progressive voters of New York . A. non-vote , paradoxically , can in this situation become the only affirmative vote . MAX SPEC OR Maspeth , N.Y. , Oct. 4 , 1976 ? Our Asian Indians To the Editor : The suggestion in a recent letter that to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belong to the Caucasian race is an insult to all sensible persons irrespective of race . The position of the Association of Indians in America ( A.I.A. ) in regard to the 1980 Census enumeration and the affirmative-action program is based on sustained study over a period of several years encompassing extensive communications with members of the Indian immigrant community from all walks of life . Some have been here since 1907 . Some are members of the National Academy of Sciences and recipients of high honors for their contributions to arts and letters Hundreds have suffered discrimination in job situations . The A.I.A. seeks a correct enumeration of the immigrants of Asian Indian heritage in the 1980 Census . The fact is that the Indian immigrants can not be classified as " white . " They are currently4categorized as " others . " Surely this is an unscientific way of classifying a group of new immigrants whose number exceeds a quarter of a million . But no self-respecting Indian immigrant will elect to accept a racial description which he or she perceives to be incorrect . Not all Indians are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be described as " white " because ( a ) they simply are ? not white and ( b ) the terms " white , " " Caucasian , " and " European " have been used synonymously , For the present , the Census Bureau has on its questionnaire regarding race/color these categories : American Indian , white , black , Japanese , Chinese , Korean , Filipino and " others . " This is at best a historical monstrosity . The A.I.A. 's alternative proposal based on a race-region matrix of enumeration could greatly correct the situation . Short of that , the A.I.A. argues that the immigrants of Asian-Indian heritage , should be enumerated as Asian Indians in an independent category , so that Caucasian and non-Caucasian Indian immigrants can continue to share their common heritage . . The affirmative-action program is a different issue . ? America 's multiracial , pluralistic society has drawn on immigrants from Europe , Africa and Asia . The Asian-American population , a small fraction of the total population , remains a minority for all administrative purposes .. The Chinese , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Samoans and other Pacific Island natives , now constitute the Asian-American population , and the Indian immigrants shall be honored to join this class , to which they naturally belong . MANORANJAN DuTTA President , ALA . New York , Oct. 6 , 1976                     