@@734310

txt Letters STANLEY H. FRIEDELBAUMCHARLES R PARMELE 3dJAMES F. FIXXHARRIS L. PRESENTJULI ... Letters Gasoline Rations of the People , by the People . ? To the Editor : If , as seems likely , the Senate moves to consider the House-approved standby gasoline rationing plan , questions of delegating power and the setting of standards should rank high among the issues open to review . It is pointless to claim , as several House members did during last week 's debate , that the role of special-interest groups was so pervasive as to preclude any realistic effort to establish rationing guidelines . The art of reconciling competing interests is one of the essential components of legislating . For the House to have abdicated its responsibility in this regard signals an institutional failure that threatens the future of representative government . Whether by design or out of a sense of desperation , a number of commentators have advanced the view that the formulation of standards should lie largely with the administrative agencies concerned . The assumption is that democratic accountability will be preserved by such requirements as public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In regard to the Aug. 6 letter from James Stewart , president of Smokers United , Inc. , I can not pose as an expert on most of its content and will not attempt to contradict all the nonsense it contained , but as an insurance agent I am intimately familiar with one subject mentioned . Mr. Stewart said that insurance companies have not imposed penalty premium rates , which suggests that the level of harm in cigarette smoking is so low , it has not affected actuarial studies . The opposite is true . If you are not a cigarette smoker , many companies today give you 10 to 15 percent off your premium . In other words , companies are penalizing cigarette smokers . This does not apply to cigar and pipe smokers since their life expectancy is approximately the same as that of non-smokers . It is only the cigarette smokers who have the problems ? big ones . CHARLES R. PARMELE 3d New York , Aug. 7 , 1979 ? To the Editor : In his defense of smokers ' rights , the president of Smokers United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a dangerous mania " and goes on to argue that it is joggers and not smokers whose activities should be curbed . Mr. Stewart seems to have suffered a lapse of logic . After all , even if jogging were as dangerous for participants as Dr. Barnard seems to think it is , it could hardly endanger nonparticipants . The same can not be said for smoking . It would be unfortunate if readers whose health could be improved by Energy-Wasteful Pasteurized Milk To the Editor : If we are looking for ways to reduce oil consumption substantially , why do we continue to use pasteurized milk , with its huge demand on refrigeratiop and electricity ? Sterilization , used in every European country , Canada and Mexico , is- the way to go . I made a point of drinking sterilized milk during a trip to Europe this summer and found it no different in taste , odor or mouth-feel . Not only would sterilized milk reduce refrigeration needs in markets all over the country , it would also reduce losses to microbial spoilage . Pasteurized milk does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , once purchased , sterilized milk can be chilled at home , avoiding the need to drink milk at ambient temperatures . MELVIN A. BENARDE Professor of Community Medicine Hahnemann Medical College Philadelphia , July 30 , 1979 Kennedy 's High Virtue To the Editor : Contrary to Charles Stevenson 's Aug. 2 letter , leaving " politics aside , " I believe that if indeed " the real question about Ted Kennedy " is what the profoundly regrettable Chappaquiddick incident reveals about his character , it can not be answered without studying the tragedy 's prelude and long aftermath . In full context , Kennedy 's agony may actually personify our times , and his moral courage in adapting to the highest calls of leadership may be seen as high virtue . I believe that the majority of the American people think Kennedy can lead our country brilliantly , if he must . EDGAR DEVINE Bergenfield , N.J. , Aug. 2 , 1979 turiity for hearings and a ready access to the courts . It is folly to place so heavy a measure of reliance on procedural models or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legislative craftsmanship , adopted at the outset , are far more effective and salutary . In recent years , Americans have had occasion to criticize the acts of an imperial Presidency , yet Congress must bear the principal blame when it sets the executive adrift without sufficient direction . There is a tendency to strike a note of urgency when controversial issues arise . During the summer of 1971 , a resort to mandatory wage/price controls occurred in the midst of an economic " crisis " somewhat akin to the regional panic that followed a misallocation of available gasoline supplies earlier this year . But events , no matter how pressing , ought not to obscure constitutional safeguards intended to prevail , especially during periods of national trauma . Peacetime rationing is fraught with jogging were to be frightened away from the sport by allegations like those of Mr. Stewart and Dr. Barnard . Jogging is no panacea . Joggers pull muscles , get blisters and are subject to other sport-induced injuries . But they also have fewer heart attacks and strokes and experience a number of other well-documented health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Ralph S. Paffenbarger Jr . at Stanford University , demonstrated that jogging for as little as 20 or 30 minutes a day reduces the risk of heart attack by a full 64 percent . This effect seems to hold true , incidentially , not just for rural joggers but also for those who , like most New Yorkers , must share their jogging routes with buses , cars , taxis and 18-wheelers . JAMES F. FIXX Riverside , Conn. , Aug. 7 , 1979 To the Editor : In likening the Palestinian issue to the " civil-rights movement here in the United States , " President Carter is moving forward toward the gradual recognition of the P.L.O . and the human right of the Palestinians to return to Palestine . But is the Palestinian movement similar to the civil-rights struggle ? There are similarities and differences . In their goals , the Palestinian and the civil-rights struggles are identical . Both aim at attaining equality and freedom , for the Palestinian people and for the black people . The difference is in the tactics used by each due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil-rights movement was directed against a civil authority . The Palestinian movement , on the other hand , is directed against the Israeli military occupation of Palestine . Civil disobedience , which is an effective device against civil authorities , is useless as a device against brutal military oppression . In its tactics , therefore , the Palestinian struggle is more akin to the tactics of the Partisans in Italy and the Resistance movement in France during World War II , when Europe was under Nazi occupation . We wished the Palestinian movement were able to use the tactics of the civil-rights movement ; with no violence and no terrorism . And , of course , we condemn terrorism , Palestinian or otherwise . However , in the first place , we condemn the cause of terrorism . And the cause of Palestinian terrorism is Israeli occupation of Palestine , Israeli state terrorism and denial of the human right of the people of Palestine to return to Palestine . Once Israel terminates its occupation of Palestine and recognizes the the human right of the Palestinians to greater risks than the freezing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon an individual 's right to travel , and it may well restrict the ability of many to earn a livelihood where viable alternatives to personal transportation do not exist . Congress need not return to the rigorous standards of delegation prescribed by the Supreme Court in the early years of the New Deal . All the same , it is instructive for members to ? recall Justice Cafdozo 's condemnation of a grant of executive discretion so sweeping as to provide a " roving commission to inquire into evils and upon discovery correct them . " What the Court more recently has referred to as " accepted tests " of delegation may be fashioned by leslators intent upon affording the ext , ive agencies a suitably broad authority to implement policy while avoiding an extravagant surrender of Congressional initiatives . STANLEY H. FRIEDELBAUM Professor of Political Science Rutgers University New Brunswick , N.J. , Aug. 6 , 1979 To the Editor : In reading of the latest shake-up in New York City 's government by Mayor Edward I. Koch , my initial reaction to the Mayor 's oft-reiterated question " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a question , " What are you doing ? " The fact that men of the outstanding ability of Herman Badillo , Philip L. Toia and Phillip R. Trimble are leaving municipal government at this time is to indicate that the Mayor has failed to employ their talents properly . The recent dismissal of the nationally re- ' nowned Dr. Michael M. Baden as Chief Medical Examiner is further evidence of the Mayor 's propensity at getting rid of superior public servants . Undoubtedly the Mayor is devoted to doing the best for New York , but he must learn that this can not be done without respecting the sensibilities of others who have much to give our city if properly respected and utilized . HARRIS L. PRESENT New York , Aug. 3 , 1979 Bring Out the Maps ! ' To the Editor : What good is the M.T.A. 's " new and improved " version of the 1978 map experiment if the maps are not avail-able ? I have asked for the map at more than a dozen subway stations ? in Manhattan , Queens , Brooklyn and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maps ! JULIO C. NUNEZ New York , Aug. 2 , 1979 return , the Palestinian struggle for equality and freedom will become in all its features identical to the civilrights movement here in the United States . M. T. MEM President American-Arab Relations Committee New York , Aug. 3 , 1979 News Plus Gore On the TV Screen To the Editor : As a New Yorker , a working mother of school-age children and a television news watcher , I have become increasingly dismayed by the sensationalism and lack of discretion that is exhibited day after day in the choice of film footage used to illustrate television news stories . At a time when the control of violence on television is an issue , must we and our children see the dead victim of a teen-age gang drowning as he is being dragged from the Harlem River ? Is it necessary that we view the burned wreckage of Thurman Munson 's plane moments after his fatal accident ? Must we examine the bloody corpse of Carmine Valente , which is forced on us day after day as casually as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that our newscasters have enough skill and imagination to report the news without bombarding their audiences with gratuitous gore . The purpose of the news is to transmit information , not to entertain the bloodthirsty . It is unfortunate to have to wonder whether the good old evening news is as exploitative of , if not as inciteful to , the violence for which prime-time broadcasting is criticized . SANNA MAYO New York , Aug. 3 , 1979                     