@@728401

txt Three Arabs armed with grenades , in an apparent attempt on the life of the son of Defense Minister Moshe Dayan of Israel , killed an Israeli airline passenger and wounded 23 persons in attacks yesterday on a bus and a lounge at the Munich airport . Assaf Dayan , who was unhurt , was among the Israeli passengers aboard El Al flight 435 , which stopped at Riem Airport in Munich on its way from Tel Aviv to London . Mr. Dayan , 24 years old , is an actor . A grenade was thrown onto an airport bus that 19 of the plane 's passengers had just boarded for the ride back from the terminal to the plane , the police said . The explosion killed Ari Katzenstein , a 32-year-old engineer from Haifa , and wounded several , including an Israeli actress , Hanna Maron , and the Ipilot and co-pilot . Young Mr. Dayan was already aboard the plane . Another of the Arabs threw a grenade into the lounge , which was crowded with 100 persons . One suspect was seized just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which exploded in his hand , wounding him . After a brief gun battle with the police , the two others were captured and disarmed . After , interrogating the three suspects , the Munich police chief , Manfred Schreiber , said there was reason to believe that Mr. Dayan had been the target of the attacks . The police said that their investigation indicated that the three Arab suspects arrived this morning , armed with hand grenades and pistols . They are believed to have come from Paris aboard an Air France plane with tickets for a further flight to Rome . This would have permitted them to linger in the lounge for international flights , facing the main parking apron , until the El Al passengers were ready to depart . The police confiscated four suitcases at the airport bearing Air France tags . According to the police , the attack started at 12:58 P.M. in the following manner : Two suspects joined 19 El Al passengers who were entering the bus . They both pulled pistols and one ordered the bus driver to open the doors . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . When the bus doors opened , the third Arab threw a grenade inside . The explosion killed the Israeli engineer . His father , Heinz Katzenstein , the pilot , flight engineer and four others were wounded by shrapnel . The other Arab then threw a grenade into the lounge . After throwing his grenade , one Arab started firing a pistol , wounding a Bavarian policeman in the leg . In the ensuing hail of shots , two suspects were hit and disarmed . The entire eight-man airport detachment of the green-uniformed frontier police was available as they are alerted whenever Israeli airliners arrive at Munich . The police closed the airport for departures for three hours after the attack . Identification of the assailants was not complete by midevening . The Arab whose hand was injured by his own grenade was said to have carried a forged Portuguese passport . Most of the victims were treated at Munich 's Rechts der Isar Hospital . Mr. Dayan went there this afternoon to visit Miss Maron . Both were said to have been on their way to London for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a United Arab Airlines Comet bound for Cairo caught fire and crash-landed in a field just after take-off from Munich . The police were investigating whether there was any connection between the two incidents , but officials said it was unlikely . Syrian Role Charged Special to The New York Theo TEL AVIV , Feb. 10 ? A military commentator on the state radio said tonight that the Democratic Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , a Marxist group that has claimed credit for the Munich attack , was backed by the Syrian Government , which supplied weapons . The organization maintains headquarters in Jordan and publishes its organ in Lebanon , but that is consistent with Syrian practice of operating through other ' Arab countries , the commentator said . In Jerusalem the Foreign Ministry said the attack should " reawaken governments and international bodies to put an end to criminal lawlessness by taking all necessary steps to insure freedom of civil air travel . " But the Transport Ministry was doubtful that there would be any international measures . " There 's no harm in going ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come of I it , " Transport Minister Ezer Weizman said . " We have to defend ourselves . "                     