@@728787

txt Israel was reported to have moved today toward accepting a United States formula for a limited cease-fire and the opening of peace talks with the Arab states , but acceptance was said to be conditioned on receiving military and political assurances from Washington . Premier Golda Meir and her Cabinet met for five hours this afternoon and scheduled further discussion for Tuesday . A speech to the Knesset , or parliament , planned for tomorrow by Mrs. Meir , was put off , probably until Wednesday . An official spokesman said , " The Cabinet commenced deliberations on the situation arising after the recent statements by the Egyptian and Soviet Governments regarding the United States initiative . " Mrs. Meir and Foreign Minister Abba Eben were said to have been the principal speakers at the meeting . Situation Seen Crucial According to one source close to the Premier , there is no doubt that the Government considers this the most crucial period in Middle Eastern diplomacy since the beginning of the peace-making effort 18 months ago by the United States , the Soviet Union , France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message from President Nixon on Friday urging Israel 's prompt acceptance of the United States proposal for breaking the diplomatic deadlock and getting peace talks under way . The formula presented to the governments concerned by Secretary of State William P. Rogers on June 19 , calls for a 90-day cease-fire and the opening of peace talks under the auspices of Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring of Sweden , the representative of Secretary General Thant . Declaration by Nasser President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic in a speech Friday declared that his acceptance of the proposal . was " not qualified , not conditional . " The Soviet Union also on Friday made public the pertinent parts of the ' Nasser speech , an . act that could be interpreted as an endorsement of Mr. Nasser 's position . Only then was Israel asked Israeli Cabinet Is Said to Move Toward Accepting Rogers Plan for a response , Foreign Ministry officials said . Israeli diplomats have called for peace talks for the last three years . since the Arab-Israeli war of June , 1967 , but the 90-day cease-fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Officials reported intensive consultation between Jerusalem and Washington on the details of the Rogers proposal . They said that a flat rejection was virtually out of the question because of Mr. Nasser 's declaration of acceptance . Questions Reported Asked But Israel was said to be seeking assurances from the Nixon Administration on two points . First , what guarantees and practical safeguards could be provided to insure that Egyptian and Soviet military commanders do not use the 90 days to consolidate and even expand their missile bases in the Suez Canal zone ? The canal 's western bank has been bombed daily by Israel for the last two months to insure that the Soviet-supplied SAM-2 and SAM-3 missile-defense network does not end Israel 's air supremacy over the canal and render the 1967 cease-fire line indefensible by Israel . In a new cease-fire that bombardment would have to stop . Second , will , the United States support Israel 's contention that talks under . Dr. Jarrin .. should be without prior conditions ? Specifically , Israeli policymakers are worried that the united States , In Its eagerness to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's interpretations of the Rogers plan as accurate and binding . " We want to know whether we are being asked to stop shooting and start talking about what Secretary Rogers said , or about what President Nasser said Secretary Rogers said , " one official said . In saying he accepted the United States formula , Mr. Nasser defined two conditions for peace talks  --  that Israeli troops must withdraw from all the Arab territories seized in the 1967 war and that the rights of the Palestinian people must be restored . Mr. Rogers cited no such conditions in proposing the ceasefire and opening of talks . For the Israelis , the question is whether the Americans will stand by their own proposal , and thus leave Israel free to bargain on all points , or slip toward the Egyptian definition .                     