@@730081

txt Gov . Ogilvie today curbed quick construction of Chicago 's controversial Crosstown ExnrrssiknV In a letter , Ogilvie ordered William Cellini , state transportation director , to suspend final state action on the proposed $1 billion expressway until : ? Full public hearings are conducted on the first and second phases which run from the Stevenson Expressway north to the junction of the Edens and Kennedy expressways . ? Alternative alignments arc considered and public hearings are held for Phase 4 , the segment linking Midway Airport and the Dan Ryan Expressway . ? Phase 3 , the segment between the Stevenson Expressway and Midway Airport , has been reevaluated . Ogilvie instructed Cellini to make a thoro study of all sections of the proposed route , focusing on how they will affect the environment , relocation of residents and businesses , and other socio-economic factors . The governor 's slowdown order appeared to spike earlier speculation that he had agreed to push the Crosstown , one of Mayor Daley 's favorite proj-1 ects , in return for Democratic legislative support for his $900 million transportation bond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ release of $40 million for right of way purchase for the Crosstown and part of his $550 million highway programs for 1972 . That marked the first release of state and federal funds for the project since Ogilvie refused to approve it more than a year earlier . At that time , Cellini said work on the project would go ahead because the bond issue provided new money for mass transit and the high cost of the Crosstown had been cut by $117 million , He predicted completion of the project by 1977 or 1978 . In the letter , however , Ogilvie directed Cellini to permit no property acquisition for the Stevenson-Midway segment of the expressway until he has reevaluated the Phase 3 plan . He issued those instructions even tho public hearings already have been conducted on Phase 3 . Acknowledges the Need " I recognize the concept of an expressway to conveniently link the North Side of Chicago and Cook County to the South Side has long been acknowledged as necessary , both for expanded transportation thru mass transit Iines as well as for improved auto and truck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is substantial federal funding available to us for this project , and that it will assist us in creating new jobs and further strengthening our state 's economic position in a time when such considerations are of importance to all of our people . " Nevertheless , I do not feel that such a project should go forward unless the environmental and social-economic ' aspects are known by all and the rights of the people preserved by fully informed decisions in the public interest . "                     