@@731463

txt SAM GIANCANA , former operating chief of the Chicago crime syndicate , came home yesterday from Mexico , ignominiously and just as suddenly as when he departed in the middle of the night eight years ago . The $500 silk suits he customarily wears , the raky beret he sported while in self-enforced exile , the hairpiece he affected to conceal his balding head  --  all these were missing . When he stepped off an American Airlines jet at O'Hare International Airport at 2:20 p. m. , he wore wash pants , a long-sleeved shirt , and bedroom slippers . His only luggage was a shopping bag containing only his bathrobe . HE HAD NO wallet , no identification and ? far worse , as far as he is concerned  --  no passport . It was , in the words of Walter Murphy , commander of the police intelligence unit , " quite a comedown for Sam . " Giancana , 64 , and lightly bearded , was rousted from his Mexico City apartment early Thursday by Mexican immigration officials . He was held thru that day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a plane bound from Mexico City to San Antonio . Federal Bureau of Investigation agents met the plane in San Antonio and handed Glatt'cane a subpena to appear next week before a federal grand jury in Chicago . THEY ALSO gave him a little money and a plane ticket to ' Chicago , and waited until his plane took off . Police intelligence division investigators met him at O'Hare and took him to police headquarters at 11th and State Streets , where he was questioned for 30 minutes . Murphy said Giancana claimed he knew of no reason ler being expelled from Mexico , altho he admitted that Mexican authorities told him several ago he was n't welcome there . " We told him he was no more welcome in Chicago than he was in Mexico , " Murphy said . " We asked him about the murder of Richard Cain , " and he said he did n't know anything about it . When he left to catch a taxi , he said he was going to his home in Oak Park to see his sister . " Giancana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park . GIANCANA LEFT Chicago in the summer of 1966 , soon after being released May 31 after remaining in jail for a year rather than testifying under a grant of immunity , before a Federal Grand Jury investigating organized crime . When there was talk of bringing him before another grand jury , granting him immunity , and sending him to jail again if he still refused to testify , he went to Mexico , where he had an apartment in Mexico City and a villa hi Cuernavaca . ' He was joined in Mexico in 1972 by Richard Cain , former policeman who had turned hoodlum and served a prison term . Cain became his driver , wheeling Giancana around in a Mercedes-Benz . Shortly before Cain was shot sandwich shop on Grand Avenue , Glancana and Cain had traveled to several countries in the Middle East to study the feaSibility of setting up gambling operations and making investments . CAIN MADE PERIODIC trips back to Chicago . He was suspected of being the triggerman in the gang-style killing of Sam DeStefano , notorious loan shark , in April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cain reportedly was organizing a move to take over control of the Chicago crime syndicate . Giancana reportedly w a s seen on the West Coast at the time of Cain 's murder . There were occasional reports that Giancana had returned to Chicago from exile for short visits , but none , of these were confirmed . Now Sam is home to stay . Without a passport he is not likely to stray far afield . His next trip , if he refuses to answer grand jury questions , may be to 26th Street and California Avenue  --  the County . Jail .                     