@@733297

txt Presidential press secretary Jody Powell said in an interview Sept. 19 that " we may be in a new ball game , " that the Lance case clearly was looking up from Mr. Powell 's and what presumably would be President Carter 's point of view . Mr. Powell said his optimistic view stemmed directly from the Lance hearings so far and from information he feels will surface during upcoming testimony by Senate Government Affairs Committee staff members . While Sen. Charles H. Percy ( R ) of Illinois was saying that staff members would testify that Budget Director Bert Lance had not been forthright in telling them about his previous private financial and banking problems , Mr. Powell indicated that Mr. Lance is prepared to provide strong , documented rebuttal . Senator Percy . still calling for Mr. Lance 's resignation at the conclusion of the committee hearings . said . " The testimony under oath we have just heard from the committee staff differs substantially from that of Mr. Lance " lie also said . " .. while polished . Mr Lance 's testimony was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were actually misleading . " The Powell comments were growing evidence that the President still was clinging to the hope , and perhaps intention to keep his embattled budget director . - ? The President now says the three days of Lance testimony enhanced the budget director 's position , making it " even stronger . " The implication seems to be that Mr. Carter felt Mr. Lance 's position was strong before the hearings and that the budget director 's performance reinforced the President 's intention to keep him . // From page 1 White House leans toward keeping Lance ? Both Mr. Powell and the President 's top political adviser , Hamilton Jordan , were in an extremely hopeful mood early Sept. 19 ? expressing what appeared to be new and deeply held optimism about Mr. Lance 's future . Mr. Powell , in reinforcing this " upbeat " attitude in the White House , said the Office of Management and Budget ? Mr. Lance 's office ? received 2,025 " pro " messages and 245 " con " on the Lance performance . And he said the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " con . " ? In talking to news editors , Mr. Carter indicated Sept. 16 that he believed the Lance case was an accumulation of allegations ? a stand that was the heart of Mr. Lance 's defense . ? While both Sen. Abraham A. Ribicoff ( D ) of Connecticut , chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee , and Senator Percy , ranking Republican on the panel , continued to call for Mr. Lance 's resignation , Senator Ribicoff said that Mr. Lance 's future is in the hands of " two men ? the President of the United States and Bert Lance . " As further indication that Mr. Ribicoff felt the decision was not his committee 's responsibility , he said that hearings into Mr. Lance 's financial activities will be suspended for two weeks . ? What the general public feels about the Lan6e hearings is not yet clear ? beyond the messages received by OMB and the White House . Gallup pollsters , in response to a Monitor call , said they were " not sure , yet . " A spokesman for the Harris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do one for ABC television news . " But there was not indication on how quickly the Harris poll would be ready . Earlier , Mr. Powell indicated that President Carter would not make his final decision based on public opinion . into Obviously , the President will take into account what leaders on Capitol Hill are saying , particularly what Senate majority leader Robert Byrd says on the subject . Earlier , Mr. Byrd said Bert Lance should resign . But now he seems to be holding an open mind as he digests the findings of the hearings .                     