@@732997

txt President Carter has brought back the meaning of " defensible boundaries " of Israel to about what it had been under the last three U.S. presidents . He did so in a way that emphasized as much as possible a sympathy toward the words of Israeli Premier Yitzhak Rabin . But he left his outline generalized enough not to alienate Arab leaders scheduled to visit Washington during the next two months . In response to a question at his third press conference , the President said his first step toward peace in the Mideast would come this year when he would " mount a long effort " to end the tensions in that part of the world . He said that along these lines he would be meeting with both Israeli and Arab leaders before May . He has just finished meetings with Mr. Rabin . The President indicated that a peace settlement would come only after a long , tedious process . " He said this had to begin by assuring Israel 's survival ? which he has done , very specifically . in his talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems , is for Israel to give up much of the land it captured in the 1967 Middle East war  --  but with a buffer zone being set up between Israel and its Arab neighbors . Monitor Defense Department correspondent Dana Adams Schmidt reports that the Carter plan to have Israeli defense lines that " may extend beyond those recognized borders " goes far toward accommodating Israeli demands . But Mr. Schmidt adds : " Some Arab diplomats say this sounds as though the President were boldly advocating a solution on the lines of the ' Allon plan ' which called for establishing Israeli defense posts along the Jordan River valley after the West Bank had been evacuated by Israel . " The Carter words indicated that he was in no way locked in to his planning and that he envisaged a long , drawn-out process of interim steps which might take " two , four , eight years or more . " The President seemed to be emphasizing , too , that the plan is one that must // From page 1 Carter 's approach to Mideast peace be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one that he was seeking to impose on the parties . At one point he said of the bor der adjustment he proposed : " That 's a matter for Israel and its neighbors to decide . " On other subjects , the President had this to say at a meeting with reporters in which he , once again , was low-keyed , cool , and apparently , quite ready for all the questions that were asked : ? He was asking Congress to pass a $1.5 bil lion program that is directed toward increasing employment among youth . He said that this was part of ? and not in addition to ? the economic stimulus package he had earlier put together . ? He reaffirmed his campaign commitment to withdraw U.S. troops from Korea but indicated that it would be coming over the next four or five years . ? He said he took the criticism of Paul Warnke as the prospective chief U.S. arms negotiator as really being directed at him ? a " lack of Confidence " in the President . Ile said he equated his opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want to see a substantial reduction of nuclear weapons in the world . " ? In underscoring the protection of human rights in the United States , the President said that Americans now would be free to travel as in the past . He included Cuba , North Korea , Vietnam , and Cambodia . ? Mr. Carter expressed unhappiness with Brady Tyson , deputy leader of a U.S. delegation to the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva . He called Mr. Tyson 's comment that American officials had a role in the 1973 overthrow of Chilean President Salvador Allende ? " inappropriate . " He said there was no proof of U.S. participation in the overthrow of Mr. Allende .                     