@@734437

txt Letters A ' Proceed ' That the Nuclear Industry Never Got The Game People Lose To the Editor : The Edison Electric Institute published a misleading full-page advertisement in the Nov. 2 Times , with the headline , in letters half an inch high : " The electric companies agree with the Kemeny Commission 's message on nuclear power : proceed , but proceed with caution . " I was a member of that commission . We gave no such yellow light to the nuclear industry . The initial statement of our report , to which we unanimously agreed , includes the following sentence : " We did not attempt to reach a conclusion as to whether , as a matter of public policy , the development of commercial nuclear power should be continued or should not be continued . " The Edison Institute might be forgiven for overlooking a single sentence in a long report , but not for missing the gist of the opening statement . Under the heading " What we did , " Interest and Dividends Should Get Tax Delay To the Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nowhere in the fight against inflation . The only certainty is a deep depression . Why not try a positive approach to the problem ? Deferring taxes on interest on bank deposits until the funds are withdrawn would reverse the trend of disintermediation . It would save many small banks and savings-and-loan associations from forced mergers or bankruptcy . The banks would be in a position to lend money at rates in the range of 71/2 percent if their effective rate of interest to the depositor remained at 5 to 51/2 percent . Carrying the concept a step further , deferring taxes on corporate dividends reinvested in a qualified plan would permit a corporation to generate internal funds since many people would take advantage of the tax deferral . The pressures on the money markets would be reduced , resulting in lower finance costs . Many companies would raise their dividend payout , knowing that a significant portion would be reinvested and the funds made available for capital improvements . The Government would not suffer in the long run since savings and dividends must inevitably be withdrawn . The appropriate tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Nov. 5 , 1979 we explained that we had investigated the accident at Three Mile Island and that this had necessarily led us into consideration of the role of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , training of personnel and other factors directly involved . Under " What we did not do , " we explained we did not consider such matters as the disposal of radioactive waste , military applications of nuclear energy and other factors only indirectly involved . Any such determination as the Edison Institute claims we made would require a much broader investigation , involving ( to quote our unanimous report again ) " economic , environmental , and political considerations . " If our report is to be boiled down to one sentence , it should be : " If the risks of nuclear power are to be kept within tolerable limits , fundamental changes must occur in the organization , procedures and practices , and above all in the attitudes of the NuTo the Editor : During today 's noon hour , crowded 51st Street ( East of Madison Avenue ) was the scene of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of shills and a group of incredibly gullible pedestrians , all watched by curious onlookers ( including me ) . Does it really take a college education to realize that this is a pure and simple sucker game with all the earmarks of a $20 dollar bet rip-off ? About five minutes into the performance , a denim-clad husky gent and a " typical " Madison Avenue character wedged themselves into the proceedings , whipped out their badges and clear Regulatory Commission and the nuclear industry . " The Edison Electric Institute advertisement is just another example of the mind-set for which the Kemeny Commission criticized the nuclear industry and the N.R.C. Although we failed to obtain the necessary seven votes on any one of several resolutions calling for a moratorium on new construction permits , eight of the 12 commissioners ? including myself ? voted for such a moratorium on at least one of such motions . It is my own view that the only safe nuclear reactor is the sun , and that we should move aggressively to capitalize on this abundant source of energy so we can phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manmade nuclear fission reactor . RUSSELL W. PETERSON President , National Audubon Society New York , Nov. 6 , 1979 took the dealer away in handcuffs . That 's just fine , but does the public really need protection from itself ? The arrest was done quickly , without undue force and , in fact , quite politely . However , is this a first-priority application of available police manpower ? Bank holdups , muggings , purse snatchings , stabbings , burglaries , robberies and many other types of violent crime literally cry out for more and better round-the-clock availability of the police in adequate numbers , both visible and under cover . I 'll defer judgment of such " victimless crimes " as prostitution to the man with more ironclad morals than my own . But confidence games that are perpetrated in full view of the general public should be accorded the lowest degree of police attention . It 's pure and simple greed that makes a person plunk down a $20 bill in hopes of beating impossible odds . Both the dealer and bettor deserve each other . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular offense are nothing more than a bone which the Mayor and his Police Commissioner have thrown to us , just to let us know that they 're " doing something to protect the public . " I 'd feel a lot safer if I 'd read of intensified efforts to reduce the more violent incidents on our streets and in our catacombs called subways . ARTHUR BODENHEIMER River Edge , N.J. , Nov. 2 , 1979 . ? 11g g ? - rl If the Minority in Northern Ireland Had Its Way To the Editor : I should like to take up three points in John Hume 's Oct. 24 letter , published in reply to my Sept. 9 Op-Ed column . Mr. Hume says : " The keystone of British policy in Northern Ireland has been the unconditional guarantee of support to one section of the community , the Unionists , at the expense of another . " This has to be decoded . What John Hume is talking about here is Britain 's policy guarantee that - Northern Ireland will be allowed to remain in the United Kingdom as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is paralleled by another policy guarantee : that Britain will put no barrier in the way of Northern Ireland 's joining a united Ireland , whenever a majority of its population so desire . These policies , made explicit in 1974 , do not seem to me either wicked or unreasonable , nor do they in any way discriminate against the minority community for which Mr. John Hume speaks . Mr. John Hume also says that " the British Government should , jointly with the Irish Government , commit their many resources to a planned process for integrating the traditions on this island . " This assumes that a government can do things that are not in the power of governments . Separate and indeed antagonistic traditions can not be " integrated " by executive decree or by legislative action . Again , some decoding seems to be necessary . What Mr. Hume is really asking is that Britain and the Republic together should override the will of the majority in Northern Ireland at the behest of the minority there . Thinking of that kind does not point toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil war . In his conclusion , Mr. Hume complains of my article as " telling us we do not have a future . " What kind of future those whom Mr. Hume represents will have depends not at all on me but to a large extent on decisions and attitudes now taken by men like Mr. Hume . Mr. Hume is extremely influential , not only with Catholics in Northern Ireland but also with all parties in the Republic and with prominent Irish Americans . The course he has set is that of putting pressure on Britain to shove the majority in Northern Ireland in the direction ? eventual unity ? desired by the minority but firmly rejected by the majority . If he and his friends continue on that course , I am afraid that the future , especially for those whom Mr. Hume represents , is likely to be dark . CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN London , Oct. 31 , 1979 As Iraq Intensifies Algeria and the Western Sahara Issue Its War on the Kurds To the Editor : In the current campaigns by the free world against racist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts being perpetrated by the Baath Government of Iraq . In this past year , the Iraqi rulers have accelerated their operations to exterminate the four million Kurds in southern ( Iraqi ) Kurdistan . Since last year , the Government of Iraq has been waging a new form of terror , namely the forced removal of peaceful inhabitants from Kurdish villages that are situated within 12 miles of Iraq 's borders ders with Iran and Turkey . Under the threat of aerial bombardment , men , women and children are driven out of their houses , without permission mission to take even the dearest of their belongings . Their homes are then burned ; orchards and fields are destroyed ? with the support of helicopter gunships . Iraqi troops humiliate these destitute people and then herd them into army trucks , which move them to " collection centers " in the Arab areas in southern Iraq . About 500 Kurdish villages have thus far been destroyed . An eyewitness account of these acts of destruction , written by a correspondent of the Stockholm daily Aftonbladet , was published by that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Iraqi regime 's efforts to wipe out Kurdish guerrillas and to create a " free zone " between Iraq and Turkey . Once and for all , the Iraqi Government wants to put an end to the Kurdish liberation struggle in that country , a struggle the Kurds have been waging since 1961 . Unless the humanitarian forces throughout the world do something quickly to discourage the racist regime of Iraq from its evil plan to Arabize the Kurds , completion of the genocide of the Kurdish people in Iraq is only a matter of time . KAZEM SAMARAI Chicago , Nov. 2 , 1979 To the Editor : Prof. John P. Entelis 's Oct. 28 letter is a total misrepresentation of Algeria 's position on the Western Sahara issue . Algeria does not want the Western Sahara to be " the puppet for Algerian expansionist interests in Northern Africa . " In fact , everyone knows that : ? Algeria has no territorial claim to the Western Sahara , nor to any other territory in Africa or elsewhere . No Algerian soldiers are stationed outside Algeria . ? Morocco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has now occupied the remaining third . The Western Sahara conflict is not a bilateral issue between Algeria and Morocco or an ideological confrontation between East and West but a problem of decolonization and national liberation resulting from the withdrawal of Spain from this territory . The International Court of Justice , the United Nations , the Organization of African Unity and the movement of nonaligned countries have all recognized and called for the implementation of the right of the Western Saharan people to self-determination . It is odd and saddening that an American university professor advocates the suppression of a whole people in the name of stability and security in North Africa , in defiance of the rights of this people and of international law and ethics . S. I. DEBAGHA Minister Counselor , Embassy of Algeria Washington , Nov. 2 , 1979 The Moynihan Choice To the Editor : It is of increasing importance to the national , state and local interest that the New York delegation go to the Democratic National Convention committed to the favorite-son candidacy of Senator Moynihan , who has astutely offered to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter and Kennedy , then Moynihan would be available to head the ticket . And is not a third , truly qualified choice what the nation would prefer in any event ? RAYMOND POLIN Professor of Government and Politics St. John 's University Jamaica , N.Y. , Nov. 1 , 1979                     