@@734342

txt Is there an American Middle East policy , and if so , who is shaping it ? Not since the gaudier years of Franklin Roosevelt has so much confusion over authority been so visible in Washington . In the wake of the Andrew Young affair , another American envoy , Robert Strauss , is saying that he too should have more leeway as a negotiator . Mr. Strauss complains that his hands have been tied by Secretary of State Vance and National Security adviser Brzezinski . Then , when President Carter was asked , during his riverboat jaunt down the Mississippi , who was in charge , he responded : " Mondale . " The confusion is Rooseveltian ; the orchestration is not . In truth , the differences paraded so far do not concern substance so much as tactics and personality . All the principals , including Andrew Young , are committed to the same policy a Middle East settlement that is grounded on a regional recognition of Israel 's secure right to exist . Thus the present disarray is sad and pointless , coming as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eve of a bitter United Nations debate . It is a time when the American voice ought to be especially clear and cogent . ? The pity is the greater because the bickering has been about details . Mr. Strauss is affronted because at the last minute he was handed negotiating instructions that he regarded as too rigid , impelling him to dismiss as " not good " his own recent trip to Jerusalem and Cairo . The President 's special Middle East envoy may have a point , though his credenReproduced tials are stronger as a politician than as a diplomat . But was it necessary to take the world into his confidence ? If nothing else , the headlines about Mr. Young ought to have deterred the special envoy from spurring yet another guessing game about American policy . If there is any short-term benefit from the midsummer distemper it is that the United States has dropped a tricky plan for using a Security Council resolution to attempt an overture to the Palestinians . Premier Begin took exception to this means of bringing the Palestinians into the peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Now , at Mr. Strauss 's urgings , the United States will seek to postpone a vote due today on a pro-Palestinian resolution . If a vote is called , the United States will use its veto .. What had been expected to be a dramatic confrontation may end up more like an anticlimax to the more engrossing debate over who is minding the store in Washington . ? No Presidential holiday lasts forever , and the downstream realities will face Mr. Carter when he turns again to the Middle East . Foremost among them is the need to clarify American intentions now that his ambassadors , advisers and diplomats have had their say , both on and off the record . Just how far does the United States intend to go in its soundings with the Palestine Liberation Organization ? Has there been a tilt in American policy ? Mr. Carter 's officials , and his public , will be curious to know .                     