@@728374

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Protective Shields To the Editor : I find it to be most difficult to understand the reasoning of those who criticize the implementation of an ABM . system . Would it not be in the best interests of not only the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. , but of the world and of peace if the major powers became defensively oriented ? Would not the construction of effective protective shields preclude the possibility of a pre-emptive assault , and thus serve as the strongest conceivable deterrent to nuclear holocaust ? I believe that if the nuclear powers concentrated on defensive installations such as an ABM system , that it would both reduce the stockpiling and improvement of offensive weapons ? such as the MIRV  --  and would do a great deal toward alleviating the overbearing psychology of fear and suspicion that pervades the world . While your Feb. 2 editorial expounds the belief that Nixon 's decision to expand the ABM system " is likely to spur the missile race with Russia , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' that the only thing that the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. agree upon is that an ABM system would be an effective deterrent . Thus , I would say that our major objective at the SALT proceeding should be an agreement toward a rapid procurement of " heavy " ABM systems combined with a moratorium  --  and abolition ultimately  --  on MIRV testing and development . The result would be a network of impenetrable shields . Under these conditions the prospect ? of disarmament would be most realistically enhanced . LAWRENCE R. HERMAN Stony Brook , L. I. , Feb. 2 , 1970 ? Vietnam Policy To the Editor : The Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearings on the war in Vietnam have raised some questions of a strictly military nature . President Nixon 's policy of Vietnamization is subject to the interpretation of the military situation as seen by the Pentagon . It is fair to state that the Pentagon 's interpretation of the military situation in Vietnam has not always been realistic , yet the Pentagon enjoys the unusual distinction of being both judge and jury . The President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our Vietnam policy were based not solely upon Pentagon information and predictions . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee would be well advised to , secure the counsel of an independent panel of military experts capable of separating the realities from the illusions of the " Vietnamization of the war effort . " ERIC ENGEL Winnetka , Ill. , Feb. 6 , 1970 ? Jordan 's Mideast Stand To the Editor : I read with interest the Topics column written by Eugene Rostow published Feb. 7 . Mr. Rostow said that at Khartoum the Arab summit policy was " no peace , no negotiations , and no recognition . " This simply is not true . The Khartoum policy emphasized that there can be no " peace treaty " with Israel as long as there is occupation and aggression . There is no peace today in our area because of the continued Israeli occupation of territory in three Arab states ; because Israel illegally annexed Jerusalem in defiance of the Security Council resolutions ; because Israel feels that by an illegal act a ? legal result in her favor should be produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcibly occupied territories are not negotiable ; and because Israel has ignored the rights of the people of Palestine . I wonder whether Mr. Rostow would have advised his Government back in the forties to negotiate a peace treaty with Hitler when the armies of Hitler occupied most of Europe together with North Africa and were at the doors of Moscow and Leningrad . Our position is very clear . We maintain that there should be no fruits for aggression ; that Israel should honor its past obligations before seeking new ones , because if Israel 's promises are to be accepted in the future , she should honor her promises of the past ; that she should stop relying on force as a substitute for a promise kept . Is it too much to ask Mr. Rostow as a lawyer and as a citizen concerned about the protection of American interests to emphasize these principles , because title should be determined by law , not by naked force ? Is it too much to insist that Israel should discontinue displaying its arrogance of power and should stop bombing civilian centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Rostow is well familiar with the Israeli tactics and maneuvers aimed at evading peace and facing the world with a fait accompli . Perhaps some day Mr. Rostow will share this knowledge with the readers of The Times . MUHAMMAD H. EL-FARRA Ambassador , Permanent Representative of Jordan to the United Nations New York , Feb. 9 , 1970 ? For Private Transit To the Editor : The calm acceptance of a fare increase limited to five cents on the part of the privately owned bus lines in Queens has not gone unnoticed by residents of this area . Some of us ca n't avoid making comparisons between these companies and the Metropolitan Transit Authority 's inability to make ends meet at the same figure . Unlike the entity presided over by William Ronan , moreover , rolling stock must be paid for from whatever fares are collected . When . equipment wears out and new buses become essential , the funds for their purchase wo n't be supplied at the taxpayer 's expense . No municipal funds are allotted for this purpose . The superiority of private enterprise has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contrast been so vividly evident , though , as in the present instance . Would not the public be the ultimate beneficiary if transit routes in all the city 's borctiglis were to revert to franchised operations ? THOMAS G. MORGANSEN Jackson Heights , N. Y. Jan. 28 , 1970 ? Judging Justices To the Editor : Your editorial of Jan.28 , contrasting " favorably " the position of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. with that ' of the American Bar Association on the nomination of Judge . Carswell , suggests a disturbing standard for the appointment-of the judiciary . You commend the A.F.L.-C.I.O. for utilizing a nominees political and labor record as the criteria for his nomination to the Court ; conversely , you criticize the A.B.A. for regarding ; the nominee 's judicial quali- ' fications as the decisive factor . in ascertaining his guanacotions . Do you thereby advocate a criterion of political desirebility , rather than judicial experience and integrity , in determining who should become a member of the Court ? Surely , under that test , many distinguished justices ( such as Black and Brandeis ) who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would never have been confirmed . While the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , is entitled to express its partisan views , certainly the A.B.A. as the " union " representing , the nation 's ? lawyers , and your newspaper , should not adopt a similarly myopic approach . LAWREI , CE M CORM Chicago , Jan. ; 48 , 1970                     