@@728938

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Open Admissions Mandate To the Editor . The crux of Anne Paolucci 's argument ( letter , Sept. 26 ) seems to be that open admissions at the City University will somehow dilute the quality of degrees in higher education in New York City . This is emphatically not the case . Open admissions , as Is now being implemented at the City University ? a truly open door rather than a revolving one  --  has never been tried before . The Board of Higher Education and the university have based their plans partly on past experience with such state-mandated programs as SEEK and College Discovery , partly on available data , and partly on what we believe will work . Editorial Sept. 19 . The rate of success for students in the SEEK and College Discovery programs , incidentally , has exceeded expectations and is at about the same level for college students throughout the country . The physical plant , while currently grossly inadequate , can be made to work and will , within a span of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year the university is devoting a majority of its time and resources to developing ways for speeding up the process of facilities construction . The open admissions mandate of the Board of Higher Education specifically states that the quality of the degree shall be preserved , and the plan now being implemented is designed to carry out that mandate . College credit is being given , and will continue to be given , only for college-level work . Finally , more than $15 million in student financial aid has been received by C.U.N.Y. this year from Federal and state sources . This money is awarded to the student population of the university on the basis of an internally developed , uniform needs analysis , and comes in the form of grants-in-aid , work-study funds and loans . Similar forms of student assistance are available to students in the private sector . In implementing open admissions , the City University is fulfilling its traditional mission to the people of New York City , offering them the one sure way of breaking out of the povertywelfare cycle . In response to the organic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JEAN-LOUIS d'HEILLY Member , Board of Higher Education New York , Oct , 7 , 1970 ? Busing to Overcome Bias To the Editor : Suzanne Brandeau finds it " incredible " that American school children can be " moved about on the basis of race . " Letter Oct. 1 . " It smacks of Nazism . . " And , further , " . . . what is being emphasized is color , not people . . . " She resents the implication that people who oppose court-ordered busing " . . . are all racists . It is not so . " Have these people been similarly outraged over the past hundred years at the harsh rejection of children at the school house door ( and , in the same pattern , at the door of the Christian house of worship ) on the basis of " color " alone ? It is a fact that the vast majority have been silent , apparently approving , in this arrangement of things . Why ? Are we seeing the birth of a new idea  --  that it is wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is progress . Editorial Oct. 3 . HERBERT H. HINMAN White Plains , N. Y. , Oct. 1 , 1970 ? Goldberg 's Stand on Carswell To the Editor : I was surprised to read in your issue of Oct. 4 that Arthur Goldberg had attacked Governor Rockefeller for his supposed " silent acceptance " of the nomination of Judge Carswell to the Supreme Court . Last February Judge Samuel Rosenman , formerly President of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York , Bruce Bromley , formerly Judge of the New York Court of Appeals , Bethuel Webster , formerly President of the Association and I , then its President , prepared a lengthy statement urging the rejection of the Carswell nomination . The statement was widely circulated and was signed by over 500 prominent lawyers and law school deans and professors ; I think it can be said to have been influential as regards the Senate 's eventual rejection of the nomination . When the statement was being circulated , Judge Rosenman asked Mr. Goldberg if he would sign . After some delay , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nomination , he would not do so publicly . He said that the place on the Court to which Carswell had been nominated was the place he had vacated , and that as a consequence it would be inadvisable and counter-productive for him to make a public statement against the nominee . This seemed a curious excuse ; one would think that the fact that it was his seat would have made him the more obligated to speak out publicly . At that time Mr. Goldberg was not an avowed candidate for public office ( indeed , he had repeatedly said he would not be ) ; it looked as though the movement against Carswell was Quixotic and hopeless , and that he would be confirmed . When Mr. Goldberg finally switched and formally announced his candidacy , the vote in the Senate on Carswell began to look close . Mr. Goldberg then seemed to forget his scruples , saw that it was popular in New York to oppose Carswell , realized there was a good possibility that Carswell would be beaten , and on March 23 publicly announced his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had written prevented his making any public statement . I do not see how Mr. Goldberg can now attack Governor Rockefeller for some supposed " silent acceptance " of the Carswell nomination , when he himself was unwilling to oppose it publicly at the time when public opposition really mattered . FRANCIS T. P. PLIMPTON New York , Oct. 8 , 1970 ? Inequality of Bail System To the Editor : Violence in city jails is unlikely to end until state judges cease regarding mandatory bail review and general reform of the money bail system merely as accommodations to rebellious prisoners , while at the same time resisting systematic revision of the law governing pre-trial release . In the leading New York case of Gonzalez v. Warden , Brooklyn House of Detention , the N.A.A.C.P. Legal George Tames/The New York Times Defense and Educational Fund and Mobilization for Youth petitioned the Court of Appeals in 1967 to declare that a financial test for release of the poor conflicts with the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution , alternatively , to adopt standards similar to the Federal Bail Reform Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security which is beyond a defendant 's means , and requires that a judge setting conditions for release which a defendant can not meet state his reasons in a way which facilitates appellate review of his decision . Although the Court of Appeals conceded that the present bail system is " subject to abuse " it found that , initially at least , bail reform was a matter for the Legislature . Unfortunately , on May 20 , the Governor signed into law a new Code of Criminal Procedure for the state , the provisions of which totally ignore the overwhelming evidence that the present bail system incarcerates the poor rather than the dangerous . In such circumstances , it now becomes the responsibility of the courts to protect constitutional rights to equality by ending needless pretrial detention in the medieval conditions which presently prevail in city institutions . MICHAEL MELTSNER Associate Professor of Law Columbia University New York , Oct. 6 , 1970 ? Predicting Delinquency To the Editor : Dr. Arnold Hutshnecker 's Oct. 2 Op . Ed. page article gives the false impression that his plan to test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has all the scientific support and his opponents are merely silly . On the contrary , Dr. Hutshnecker 's plan is based on a theory of criminology that has been repeatedly and conclusively proven false . It is not possible to review the history of the last twenty years of criminology but a few points might be made . While it is possible to select with varying degrees of accuracy who will eventually be arrested for delinquency , repeated studies have shown that who is arrested exhibits little or no correlation with the frequency or severity of the delinquent acts . Almost all male children and many females go through periods of delinquent acting-out . The major factor in determining who is to go on to an adult criminal career is whether they get labelled delinquent by legal and psychiatric control agents . The labelled child gets sent to reform schools and placed in " treatment " which only serves to confirm his deviant identity and provides him with deviant friends . Both the official agencies- ; I control and the tests wh ; ch Dr. Hutshnecker supports discriminate against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason , on both scientific and ethical grounds , to object to Dr. Hutshnecker 's proposals ; they would not decrease crime and there are reasons to fear that they would increase it . Beyond this , they distract us from making the changes in legal , police and child guidance procedures that could have a favorable effect . CHARLES W. LIDZ Research Associate , Dept. of Psychiatry Yale University School of Medicine New Haven , Oct. 2 , 1970 ? Spirit of Duffey Campaign To the Editor : As the Joe Duffey campaign comes to fruition throughout Connecticut it is interesting to observe the make-up of the " volunteer army " that has formed an amorphous mass about the candidate and the issues . Reflecting the efforts of Eugene McCarthy , once removed ? casting shades of Allard Loewenstein , twice removed , while continuing the quest for excellence , unremoved  --  the cast of characters has been punctuated by militant grapepickers , pacifist schoolteachers , competent medical doctors , and a host of youngsters , hoping to realize that the system can work . Paradoxically , this spirit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic party . Its growing momentum has survived a conventional convention in June , a partisan primary in August , and at present is irreversibly directed to deliver its candidate , Joseph Duffey , to the United States Senate in November as a matter of reverberatory retaliation toward those who would espouse the practice of " politics as usual " as being the keystone of our system . GEORGE H. KOTOK West Hartford , Conn. , Oct. 1 , 1970 ? Objections to SST To the Editor : The defense by Prof. Henry Wallich ( letter Oct. 6 ) of his original endorsement of the SST shows a continued parochial view which can no longer be condoned . He points out that the SST has been criticized on environmental as well as economic grounds . Mr. Wallich then proceeds to proclaim , in the most imperious of tones , that we are dealing with a fait accompli ; that it is a foregone conclusion that the skies over open waters are soon to be inundated with SST 's ; that it is in the economic interest of America to jump on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to comment upon the major objection to his premise . The country can not be concerned with cleaning up the disastrous present condition of our environment while actively supporting a new , major contributor to air and noise pollution . One would have thought that the time was long past for serious reappraisal of our economic trends in light of knowledge of our ecological needs . The reassessment would be particularly appropriate in this area , since we are discovering that the 747 's are falling considerably short of what their publicists touted . One can only won "  --  why any more should be expected from a super mammoth . STUART S. BLUMNER Glen Cove , L. I. , Oct. 7 , 1970                     