@@732793

txt Jimmy Carter , who hinted at a tax cut while he was a candidate , confirmed Thursday night as President-elect that a decrease in taxes is " a very strong possibility " if the economy does not improve by early next year . At the railroad depot that had been his hometown headquarters , a subdued and more presidential-looking Carter indicated that a tax reduction for wage earners to stimulate consumer spending probably would be necessary if the country is still in its " economic pause , " as President Ford calls it , by late January . It was Carter 's first press conference after the election , and he used his time on national television to call for unity " no matter who anybody voted for " and to caution against expecting him to run the country from Plains while Ford is still in the White House . CARTER ALSO defended his narrow electoral vote margin over Ford that he said was similar to margins for Harry Truman in .1948 , John Kennedy in 1960 , and Richard Nixon in 1968 . Carter added that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going for Ford and the East and the South for Carter  --  Would not force him to be " timid or cautious " about pushing the programs he has promised In the 22 months he campaigned . " I 'll be very aggressive about keeping my promises to the American people , " he said . HOWEVER , there was a hint at the outdoor encounter that Carter has found a loophole for those promises he is not able to keep over the four years of his administration . " I know the American people realize that we ca n't do everything , " he said . Carter then added that he would need to share the responsibility for achieving his goals with the Congress and the people . Ile said that in the next two weeks or soon after , he plans to meet with Ford and some of his advisers to discuss the transition of power . ASKED TO ASSURE the nation 's at-lies that there will be continuity in his international policies , Carter said : " That should be clear to them . There will be , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the possible invasion of Yugoslavia that President Ford criticized as showing Carter understands little of the art of diplomacy . Carter said that if the Soviet Union invaded Yugoslavia , It would be " unlikely " that he would send troops there to intervene . lie added that he has made it clear he would consider such an invasion a breach of peace that would damage the details and the spirit of detente . Ford and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger had criticized an earlier such statement by Carter as diplomatically naive for saying in advance what he would do . ASKED HIS VIEWS on upcoming meetings of Mideast oil-producing countries , Carter said he hoped they would be " reticent " about raising oil prices . But Carter was hesitant about a campaign-style attack on the Mideast for considering such increases . " One of the things I want to be careful about is not to act as though I 'm already President , " he expained in an swer to the oil price question . Carter said he will open an office in Washington in the next few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with congressional and administration leaders . He had said Tuesday that he will be in Washington two to three days a week as part of his transition from Plains to the White House , but he told reporters after the press conferen-:e he has decided to spend less time in the nation 's capital and more time in his hometown . AFTER A THREE-HOUR meeting with Carter , Sen. Walter Mondale of Minnesota , the Vice President-elect , told reporters he had been " Invited to sit in on all crucial meetings , see all material , and play an advisory role in the selection of personnel in Carter 's administration . " Mondale said he had not received any specific assignment as Vice President . " I expect to have a good deal of advice to give him as we go along , " he said . He said he had been " given full access " to all the materials prepared by Carter 's transition staff , but he had not yet seen the 75 names submitted by the staff for key posts In Carter 's administration nor did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think , is a very good one , " Mondale said . " I do n't think he could have been more forthcoming or supportive . I could n't have asked for more . " Carter is to meet with advisers Friday and will go Saturday to St. Simons Island off the Georgia coast for a " five-day working vacation " to consider his staff appointments and begin the long process of picking his cabinet for next year .                     