@@728777

txt An explosion ripped thru an automobile in a parking lot in this St. Louis suburb today , killing Philip J. Lucier , 49 , president of the Continental Telephone Co . Two vice presidents of the company , James Robb and James Napier , were waiting for Lucier to back the 1966 Cadillac out of a parking spot when the explosion took place . They were not injured . They said Lucier got into the car and turned on the ignition key , and the car blew up . Returned from Lunch The three men had just returned from lunch in the Pierre LaClede Center , an office building . They were planning to return to the offices of the telephone company in Clayton . Continental is the third largest independent telephone company in the United States . Lucier was the father of 11 children . He lived in St. Louis . The explosion ripped a hole 18 inches in diameter in the floor of the car in front of the " driver'p seat . There were two small holes in the ? roof . ' The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Car Maj. Herbert Johnson of the Clayton Police Department said the type of explosive had not been determined . The car was Philip J. Lucier moved to a police garage for closer inspection . " So far we have no possible motive for the incident , no information whatsoever , " Johnson said . " Our department has begun an *intensive investigation . It 's too early to guess . " Johnson said the bomb was what is usually called a " pipe bomb " and it probably took no more than five minutes to install it . " It was probably a professional job , " he said . Lucier did not engage in many civic activities but recently became ? involved in a campaign to rehabilitate the racially integrated St. Louis west end neighborhood where he lived . Robb said the company bad no labor problems and Lucier never mentioned any threats or fears . Robb discounted the possibility Lucier had any enemies in the business world who would resort to violence . Napier said he and Robb had just opened the car doors when the bomb exploded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and when Lucier turned on the ignition the thing blew up , We were pushed back a bit by the force of the blast , but it was n't powerful enough to injure us , " he added . Napier said he knew of no reason why anyone would pine the explosive in Lucier 's car . Former Equipment Salesman Lucier joined StrombergCarlson Co. in 1946 as a telephone equipment sales representative , In 1961 he switched to Continental as assistant treasurer . His father was an executive for United Utilities Co. of Kansas , traveling the state merging rural phone systems with town switchboard services .                     