@@728824

txt Twenty persons , half of them seized at the headquarters of the Black P Stone Nation , were in custody yesterday as police sought the identity of snipers who wounded two policemen on the south side . The 20 were charged with various offenses . A half-mile square centering around the closed Southmoor Hotel at 66th Street and Stony Island Avenue was turned into a virtual battleground between 11:30 p. m . Thursday and 3 a. m. yesterday as police ducked bullets from a number of snipers . Police said Ronald D. Adkins , 24 , of 6430 S. Stony Island Av. , and Caesari Marsh , 20 , of 1526 E. 66th Pl. , were arrested in front of the P Stone headquarters at 1468 E. 76th St. Adkins was carrying a .38 caliber revolver . A third individual ran into the building and , with others in the P Stone office , held the door shut . Police forced it open and arrested eight in the gang headquarters . The Black P Stone Nation is an amalgam of street gangs with the Blackstone Rangers the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early this morning with conspiracy to commit murder in connection with the critical wounding Thursday night of Detective James A. Alfano Jr . The two men are Maurice Carter , 17 , of 1532 E. 65th St. , and Lee Jackson , 26 , of 6528 S. Kimbark Av. , both allegedly members of the Black P Stone Nation . Thomas J. Lyons , director of the police department 's intelligence division , said both men had been arrested Friday night . They had not been listed , however , among 20 suspects arrested in connec tion with the shooting incident . Would Not Elaborate Lyons would not elaborate on the arrests or charges , but did say Jackson was arrested at 67th Street and Blackstone Avenue . Neither of them are members of the gang 's Main 21 ruling body . Carter and Jackson will appear this morning in Holiday Court . Capt . John Cartan , commander of the homicide bureau , said most of the 20 arrested were believed to be members of the Blackstone Rangers . Riding in Back He said the first burst of gunfire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit as he sat in a police car , may have been an ambush of police by ' Street gang members . Alfano was in the back seat of an unmarked squad car driven by Detective Richard Crowley , 35 , and with Detective Thomas K. Donahue , 29 , in the front seat , patroling an east-west alley between 66th and 67th Streets , alongside the Southmoor Hot e I. Suddenly , Crowley stopped the car because a chair blocked the alley . Crowley was attempting to push the chair aside with the car when there was a burst of gunfire from behind the car . One bullet pierced the trunk and split ; one fragment entered Alfano 's body . Crowley immediately drove the car to Billings Hospital , where it was determined Alfano had been wounded in the liver . He was in ' critical condition when he was rushed into the emergency room . Critical Hours Ahead The . hospital reported at 2 p. m. yesterday that a surgical team from the University of Chicago hospitals and clinics had completed six hours of surgery in an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responded well to surgery and is holding his own . " The doctors said the next 40 to 72 hours will be the critical period for Alfano , who received more than 60 pints of blood . The other policeman wounded James A. Alfano Jr . was Patrolman Gregory R. Courchene of the Grand Crossing District . He was struck in the right arm by shotgun petlets at 63d Street and Dorchester Avenue . Courchene was treated at Jackson Park Hospital and released . Search Every Room Cartan said the area of the Southmoor Hotel was patroled regularly by police because it had been a secondary headquarters for the Blackstone Rangers , who had taken over the building before it was boarded up earlier this month . Police made a room by room search of the old 12-story hotel after gunfire started but found no one there . Other vacant buildings and some occupied ones in the neighborhood also were searched . Police were shot at in various sections of the neighborh o o d . Altho heavy weapons were taken into the area and more than 100 police were dispatched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police helicopter was called into service , first to transport blood from the Beverly Blood Center at 9934 S. Western Av. in Evergreen Park to Billings Hospital . Later it hovered over the area of the shootings , its searchlight aimed at alleys , roofs of buildings , and other places where snipers might be lurking . Suspect Conspiracy Lt. James Reilley of the gang intelligence unit said there were " indications of a conspiracy to murder a policeman , and particularly one from the ? gang intelligence unit , by the Black P Stone Nation . " He said reports were received that a killing was ordered by the Main 21 , the ruling hierarchy of the Black P Stone Nation and the Rangers , after word spread thru the gang that it would have to outdo " the California thing . " This was a reference to the killing of a judge last week in California after weapons bad been taken into the courtroom and the judge was kidnaped from the bench . Sgt. Joseph Adlesick of the gang intelligence unit said that shortly before the shooting of Alfano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lights on the elevated tracks . They reportedly acted on orders of Jeff Fort , head of the Black P Stone Nation , to darken as much of the area as possible . About 50 persons who got off an Illinois Central suburban train at the 63d and Dorchester station were kept inside the station by police for more than an hour before they were evacuated . The railroad said a freight train was delayed about 30 minutes during the shooting .                     