@@734263

txt Letters GARY W. YOHEPAUL FLACKSD.R . BENSENJOHN STUART PIRRIL.M.R.I . MARTIN SPIERJIM D ... Letters To the Editor : Now that Alfred Kahn has raised the possibility of gasoline rationing from within the Administration , it would seem wise to reiterate the point made by Professors Scarf and Tobin several weeks ago in a letter published , here ( June 7 ) . The population need not fear a coupon rationing scheme as long as the coupons can be bought and sold in a " white market . " In lieu of the free-forall scramble for underpriced gasoline that can be dismissed as the most inefficient and unfair method of allocation , one must choose between price rationing and coupon rationing . A careful comparison of the two can thus prove quite revealing . Consider price rationing first . Raising the price of fuel achieves an efficient reduction in consumption that can be made fair by redistributing the extra revenue to the less advantaged consumers . The Government can collect that revenue by either a windfall tax on profits or a direct tax on consumption , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucracy to collect and redistribute the revenue . Besides the obvious administrative expense involved in such a process , one must determine what price to charge . If the targeted reduction in consumption is to be achieved , that is a special price , indeed . The alternative coupon market To the Editor : Messrs . Peretz and Wieseltier in their rebuttal to Theodore Mann are guilty of serious inconsistency . They insist that the 59-signers of the letter to Prime Minister Begin condemned " all settlements unrelated to Israel 's security needs . " At the same time , they concede that " it is not for us to make life-and-death decisions . " How can those living outside of Israel presume to express views dealing with the security of that sovereign nation ? Do literary editors , musicians of note , and philosophers have the ability to decide which Israeli military expert is right ? General Sharon may be " unsettling " to them but his views on settlements are as valid as any other military hero in determining Israel 's security requirements . These letter writers felt free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereign nation , what decisions he should make regarding national security . Would they also feel comfortable and qualified to advise the American Joint Chiefs of Staff what early warning system can best protect the American people from enemies that surround us ? While new settlements may seem , by American standards , to be an insignificant deterrent to attack , Israel 's experience shows otherwise . Unwise Decision To the Editor : A story in the July 6 issue of The New York Times concerning the possi  --  bility of a closed hearing in an attempted-murder case makes clear the unwisdom of the recent decision by the United States Supreme Court giving judges broad discretion to close their courtrooms to the public . Justice Schwalb 's offer to " sink " the sentence for this crime into time already served before it was committed ? in effect giving the defendant a two-for-the-price-of-ope license for his activities ? appears outrageous enough ; the prospect of allowing the justice even the slightest voice in concealing his proceedings from the public is unthinkable . Many of our constitutional rights arise from the conviction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be trusted . This conviction is borne out daily , and any measure which inhibits full public scrutiny of the actions of any of our institutions is clearly and gravely dangerous . D. R. BENSEN Croton-on-Hudson , N.Y. , July 6 , 1979 mechanism is the better choice . It can be shown that the white market would produce a distribution of consumption roughly identical to the distribution achieved under the correct price increase , regardless of the initial coupon allocation and without anyone 's knowning the correct price . The redistribution of income required to make the price rationing scheme fair is , in addition , automatically achieved by the transfer of cash from the purchasers to the sellers of coupons . An egalitarian ( with few exceptions ) allocation of coupons could therefore serve not only to restrict consumption to a prescribed level , but also redistribute income a bit . Finally , there are many reasons why one might not want to continue to issue coupons indefinitely ; it would be desirable to return to a market structure once the population has adjusted to lower levels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price that supports that lower consumption . The coupon niarket produces the answer to this question , though , since the market clearing price for coupons corresponds to the price of fuel that sustains aggregate consumption at the nmcgrihM IPVPI GARY W. YOHE Associate Professor of Economics Wesleyan University Middletown , Conn. , July 2 , 1979 Without a regular standing army , the Jewish nation relies on such settlements to give warning and in fact , has succeeded in heroically turning back Arab attacks . The " impossible dream , " peace between Egypt and Israel , was achieved . With difficulty but with promise , the negotiations appear to be moving along . Israel describes recent talks as being " helpful and constructive . " Egyptians report them as " very serious and fruitful . " James Leonard of the U.S. delegation said he was " satisfied with both the spirit and the substance of the negotiations . " Those anxious that peace be achieved and that harmonious coexistence of Arab and Israeli be fulfilled do not serve these goals by being critical of one side , Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful negotiation . For Israel 's " friends " to level public attacks within three months of the negotiating process is an act of impatience bordering on irresponsibility . Let Israel and Egypt continue the tedious process while the rest of us exercise restraint , confidence and hope that it will succeed . PAUL FLACKS National Executive Director Zionist Organization of America New York , July 5 , 1979 Choosing Gas Stations To the Editor : Now that it is becoming increasingly evident that the gas crisis of 1979 is easing , at least by the dramatic decrease in gas lines as of last week , the long-suffering consumer would do well to take a moment to contemplate the immediate future . Let him or her think about what gas station he now wants to patronize . Let him think twice about whether he would go to the station that always had the " NO GAS " signs out while giving gas to selected customers , or go to those gas stations that have been imposing the ridiculous limits of $2 to $3 so that 10 minutes after you left the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or go to the stations that increased their prices to such astronomical highs as $1.05 , $1.10 , even $1.60 while others managed to remain at 78 to 89 cents a gallon . This time , let the consumer choose his gasoline station carefully , just as the stations chose their customers during the past month . JOHN STUART PIRRI White Plains , July 4 , 1979 Truckers ' Demands A Threat to Safety To the Editor : The action of the independent truckers in demanding higher speeds , higher weights and cheaper fuel further proves the arrogant attitude of many of these truckers toward others who use our road system . To call for increased speeds ? which have been proven to increase fuel usage ? in the face of a countrywide fuel shortage // Scott Neary certainly puts personal gain above all else . To increase weight is to hasten the destruction of an already undermaintained road system and to add to the tax dollar burdens of the citizenry . To increase both weight and speed is certain to increase the already appalling highway injury and death rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report of the National Highway Safety Board for 1977 on truck inspections to realize that present truck weights and speeds are already too high . Of the 18,421 trucks inspected , 6,214 , or 34 per cent , were placed out of service because of major defects , with a total of 59,960 violations . Of the 6,214 vehicles ordered out of service , 1,972 were for defective brakes and the others ranged from bad tires and defective steering to lighting failures and defective exhaust systems . The next time a truck is tailgating you , remember it may have defective brakes , and even if its brakes are in perfect condition , with the full ( or excessive ) load it is carrying , it ca n't stop as fast as you can in an emergency . Also unfortunately there is considerable chance that the driver has failed to keep ? or falsified ? the log he is required to keep and is driving without adequate sleep and without proper medical certification of his fitness to do so . As for fuel snnnh , anr1 fuel costing less these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 , 1979 Coin Confusion To the Editor : I have just received my first Susan B. Anthony dollar and I am completely confused when the coin is combined with quarters in my pocket . The dollar 's angular rim requires incredible dexterity and sensitivity on the part of the blind , who must distinguish its configuration from that of the quarter . Also , there are many older people whose vision is impaired who may confuse dollars with quarters . Perhaps a raised rim would help the blind , while those with poor and even normal sight could recognize the coin if it were minted with beryllium copper , an alloy that would give it a reddish hue . Although it might hot have as good abrasion resistance as nickel , it would still be substantially harder than plain copper . Whatever the outcome , it would not be necessary to recall coins already minted . The old version of the coin would simply co-circulate as was the case with the zinc-clad pennies of 1943 . Nonetheless , in its present state , I am sure that this coin will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I. MARTIN SPIER New York , July 5 , 1979 For Coupon Rationing Fruits of Destructive Criticism The Dimensions of the Human Tragedy in East Timor To the Editor : In a letter to The New York Times ( June 16 ) concerning the Indonesian Government 's record of progress , Samsi Abdullah of the Indonesian Embassy makes an inaccurate reference to my testimony concerning the extent of casualties in East Timor resulting from the annexation of that territory . In the first place , I was not the original source of the report that 100,000 Timorese may have perished as a grim consequence of Indonesia 's military operations in the former Portuguese colony . At the time of the hearing I merely quoted from a confidential report on the situation in the territory that had been sent here by responsible and well-informed church sources in Indonesia . Secondly , Mr. Samsi 's claim that I subsequently " refuted " and " disavowed " this disturbing account of casualties is quite erroneous . I merely pointed out that , as the International Red Cross and other international relief agencies  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been denied access to the former colony , it was impossible to assess , let alone authenticate , this account of the humanitarian consequences of Indonesia 's brutal military operation . We have now received information from Indonesia that accords considerable credibility to the report carried by Eqbal Ahmad in his Op-Ed article in your paper , and extends a new and terrible dimension to the little-known tragedy of East Timor . A recent report from a well-placed church source notes that although the population of the province was estimated to be 688,771 in 1974 , according to a population estimate compiled by Indonesian defense authorities late last year , it had declined to 329,271 , of whom over 300,000 were in the category of displaced persons . And here , as the leader of an Australian Council of Churches and Catholic Relief aid mission that operated in East Timor between the end of the brief civil war and the Indonesian invasion , I should like to point out that , according to the assessment carried out by the International Red Cross and my mission , less than 3,000 Timorese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no doubt true that more than half of this enormous loss of life resulted from disease and starvation , and not Indonesian bullets or bombs , the vast majority were victims of the deliberate . Indonesian policy of isolating and starving into submission the resistance led by Fretilin . The Timor tragedy has been virtually ignored by most Western nations , including those like the United States who have actively been pressing for more attention to human rights , and yet , when the full facts emerge , it might well constitute one of the most serious contraventions , in per capita terms , to have occurred in rerpnt world history . JIM DUNN Chairman Human Rights Council of Australia Canberra , July 2 , 1979                     