@@731931

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 28 Letters to the Editor How to Boost City Bond Sales To the Editor : The increasing cost of new financing is one of the major problems facing the City of New York . Because of the tremendous sums constantly required by New York , concern for its future solvency has been voiced in many quarters . This has resulted in the necessity to pay higher and higher rates of interest with each successive borrowing and caused a downgrading of the rating of the city bones recently . At the same time , arrears in the collection of realestate taxes have sharply risen because of the problems facing many landlords in the stabilized sector of this industry . The general obligation bonds of the city are secured by the fact that realestate taxes , when collected , must first be applied to the payment of the interest and principal of these obligations in the event of a default . Therefore , if the city were to issue a ruling that , in the event of a default in payment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holder thereof could offset his claim against any obligation of the holder to the city for real-estate taxes , a very great percentage of property owners would be encouraged to buy the bonds . With this added assurance of safety , the tremendous increase in the demand for the city bonds would assuredly result in a sharp drop in the interest rates the city has to pay for new money and a drastic reduction in current costs for the city . Since the obligations of the city on In Lieu of Parades ? To the Editor : As a taxpaying citizen of New York who is deeply interested in the future of the city and depressed over its financial situation , I become more and more enraged every time I see the notices of yet another parade down Fifth Avenue . They not only block traffic over the whole of the Upper East Side ; they are another financial burden on the city , requiring extra police and sanitation. staff to clean up after the irresponsible marchers and their friends . They also hurt business , as they force some stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would dream of shopping on a parade day . This , in turn , means that the city loses the sales taxes . Why are these enthusiastic ethnic Of Congress , To the Editor : A letter on April 21 points out that Congress has passed an amendment to the Foreign Assistance Act directing the President to withhold U.S. financial support from UNESCO " until the President certifies to the Congress that UNESCO has adopted policies which are fully consistent with its educational , scientific and cultural objectives , and has taken concrete steps to correct its recent actions of a primarily political character . " The recent actions to which Senator Case objected in introducing the amendment in question are ( 1 ) withholding UNESCO assistance from Israel ( in the amount of $24,000 per ' biennium ) until Israel respects the resolutions and decisions of the UNESCO General Conference concerning the preservation of historical features and monuments of Jerusalem ; and ( 2 ) failure to grant Israel 's request to he a member of the European Regional Grouping . The actions were taken by the eighteenth General Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken after a sequence of UNESCO requests , repeated year after year since 1968 , to terminate excavations and other measures in the occupied Old City of Jerusalem which endangered historical monuments , in particular Moslem and Christian shrines , had been ignored by Israel . Thus it need not be characterized as a political measure ; moreover , the financial sanction which it imposes on Israel is minimal . The secits bonds are adequately funded by the real estate in the city whose taxation is the underlying security for the payment . of these bonds , the city has nothing to lose by offering this additional safety factor . LEONARD AMSTERDAM New York , April 30 , 1975 ? The Council 's ** Gift To the Editor : In approving Intro No. 666 , " In Relation to Fees for the Licensing of Vehicles , " the New York City Council has effectively burdened this city 's budget with a $1-million subsidy to the taxi industry . Under an administrative order from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency , the Taxi and Limousine Commission must now inspect taxicabs for exhaust pollutants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry , the City Council Finance Committee eliminated a proposed $100 annual fee that would have paid the inspection costs . On April 29 the full Council approved this action , and Mayor Beame signed it into law . As the city prepares to fire thousands of city employes , it seems incongruous for the Council to hand out $1 million as well in public funds to an industry that uses public streets for private gain and that helps to destroy the very environment in which many of us live and work . BEVERLY KOPF Citizens for Clean Air , Inc . New York , May 2 , 1975 groups not made to hold their parades and festivities in Rancialls Island Stadium or Flushing Meadow Park ? Better yet , they could contribute all that time and money to the city in the form of volunteer service to show what good citizens they are . REBECCA MALON EY New York , May 5 , 1975 ? Of Pensions and Taxes To the Editor : This is in regard to Jack J. Kahgan 's April 28 letter " Pension Inequities . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax-exempt , there are several facets to public and private pension plans that Mr. Kahgan ignores . First , city pensions are not tied to the cost of living . A recent subtle change in Federal law has given Federal workers this wonderful benefit . Most , public employes are excluded trom tax-deferred annuity plans . It is taken for granted , yet the Social Security system retirees are exempt from all forms of taxation . And what is not commonly known is that those workers who retire under the Federal Railroad Retirement Act have tax-free pensions . So , no one is eating the whole pie . In good times public-service jobs are looked upon with disdain . Now , quite the opposite is the case . Perhaps Mr. Kahgan should have been a publicsector employe and enjoyed the lambasting we regularly receive in the press . JASON KRAUSS Yonkers , April 29 , 1975 and motion must be assumed to be politically motivated ? an expression of the unfortunate antagonism which Israel 's actions have evoked in many developing countries . On the other hand , the motion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Israel 's actions and influence within UNESCO ; it can even attend meetings of the European Regional Grouping ( the first of which is scheduled for 1977 ) as observer , just as the United States participated in similar meetings after its request for membership in the European Regional Grouping was denied in 1972 . In summary , however greatly we may regret the actions of the UNESCO General Conference and the emotional state of the world which has contributed to them , their adverse effect on Israel is minimal . Under the circumstances we can only regard the action of Congress denying to UNESCO the assessment of the United States , which amounts to about one-quarter of UNESCO 's total budget , as irresponsible overkill . We are glad to note that Israel , unlike the United States , is continuing to pay its assessment and hope that Congress will revise its action , so that the United States may do the same . EDWARD RAMBERG Philadelphia , April 23 , 1975 The writer is secretary of the subcommittee on the U.N. , Friends Peace Committee of Philadelphia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam war is not  --  despite reiteration  --  over yet for America . It wo n't be until we plan and develop new housing , jobs and home towns for the thousands of Vietnamese whom President Ford has generously ordered rescued and transported to our country . I applaud his acceptance of a national responsibility . But if this newest group of immigrants are to find a new home , and if they are not to become targets of tension and unrest in a troubled era , I believe we must do four things : 1 . Approve the $507 million the President requested of Congress for humanitarian and resettlement needs of the refugees from South Vietnam . 2 . Create an adequate number of new towns adjacent to metropolitan areas , offering homes and jobs to the newcomers as well as to Americans now enduring substandard homes and/or joblessness. 3 . Open job opportunities through new town development for American architects , planners , engineers , sociologists , construction workers , builders , developers and other needed specialists . 4 . Expand the original appropriation to the several billions which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massive scope . By so engaging ourselves in solving the human and physical problems of America 's Vietnam catastrophe , I believe we may find the healing we desperately need after the decade of horror . Not incidentally , the ripple effect may also stir our economic stagnation and the despair it has already generated . Only then can we hope to " put Vietnam behind us . " SHIRLEY S. PASSOW Englewood , N. J. , May 5 , 1975 The writer is principal planner , New York City Department of City Planning , ? Sam Adams ' Priority To the Editor : Eric Foner suggests in an April 30 letter that the Boston Tea Party 's Sam Adams subscribed to a philosophy of government which would have favored price regulation and opposed the free market . Can this be the same Adams who said , " The love of liberty is interwoven in the soul of man , and can never be totally extinguished Or who lectured the Massachusetts Legislature that " too frequent speculative experiments " by government " may tend to render the motions unsteady , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who , in speaking of trade and agriculture , praised the " spirit of enterprise , which so remarkably animates the citizens Professor Foner accurately quotes Adams as seeking to whip up " popular indignation " to bring the " downfall " of Revolutionary War profiteers . But the full paragraph in Adams ' letter of Jan. 10 , 1778 , actually questioned the practicality of legislative controls over business , noting that " nothing more betrays the weakness of government than to make laws which can not be executed . " In that context , Adams ' call for " popular indignation " was a plea for persuasion as an alternative to regulation . Consistently , Adams saw government fiscal and monetary restraint as the principal answers to high prices . Obviously , no one can say precisely what Sam Adams would favor if he were alive today . And I am not suggesting that he was an economist . But one thing is crystal clear from his voluminous writings : When it came to the crunch , Adams was for freedom . That is precisely the context in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page , suggested him as a " radical for today . " Economic treedom in the petroleum industry is endangered . Price controls and other regulations , and threats of still more regulations , are discouraging the search for new U.S. sources of energy , increasing our country 's dependence on foreign crude oil . Does Professor Foner truly believe Sam Adams would have liked that ? HERBERT SCHMERTZ Vice President , Mobil Oil Corp . New York , May 5 , 1975 ? The Defense Supermarket To the Editor : Probably nothing illustrates sn clearly the lack of a conceptual approach in defense thinking as many of the articles on defense in The New York Times . Robert Kleiman , in his April 30 column , " U.S. Defenses Abroad , " presents the appearance of a shopper in the defense supermarket taking a few of these , some of those , none of this , etc . What is the poseible guide for such an approach ? It borders on a mystical approach to defense thinking and perhaps should be classified as metaphysics . The truth of the matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy . This is often notecl but discounted . It is , for example , admitted that the U.S. has nn senior military service . Yet . classic military thinking maintains that no nation can over a long period spend large sums on all branches  --  which is what the U.S. has been trying to do for the past twenty years . Until some clear thought is given to strategy and the intrinsic relationship between force and policy , then this supermarket approach to defense spending is dangerous  --  and events have clearly demonstrated this to anyone who can see . ROBERT E. WALT ENS New York , April : 30 , 1975 Israel and UNESCO                     