@@733336

txt SPRINGFIELD  --  Gov . Thompson was in a conciliatory mood Monday as he told a joint session of the Illinois General Assembly he believes legislators will " find we are together on goals and even closer on paper " on the administration 's proposal to overhaul criminal sentencing laws . " I have yet to see an important piece of legislation that was not the product of compromise , " he told the lawmakers . " Only the people will be the losers if we stalemate . " Thompson has been widely criticized by Democrats who called his insistence that some crimes be labeled Class X felonies a " public relations gimmick . " He acknowledged some lawmakers opposed the bill because of the label , but said he still believes the name to be important as a crime deterrent . " But I may be wrong , " he said . " In any event , let that question be settled quickly . Vote the name up or down , and then let us move to the other tasks which the people have sent us here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Thompson 's message , but criticized him for wasting their time and not offering any solutions . A Thompson aide said the governor 's crime package will be unveiled Tuesday along with another message to the legislature . Lawmakers returned to the capitol Monday , faced with an agenda for a veto override session and two concurrent special sessions covering such thorny issues as creating a new state Board of Elections , bringing state unemployment compensation laws into compliance with federal requirements , state funding for abortions , and giving the state Department of Public Aid the authority to disqualify fraudulent Medicaid health care providers . Bills covering those issues were among the dozens introduced Monday for consideration in this fall term , which leaders hope to adjourn by Thanksgiving . At least three bills creating a new state Board of Elections were introduced , with two of them  --  one backed by Thompson and one offered by House Democrats  --  calling for an eight-member board consisting of four Republicans and four Democrats , with equal representation from Cook County and Downstate . DURING MS Speech , Thompson also asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise // of a sense of your own conscience as I have tried to act out of mine " in consldering attempts to override vetoes . Al . though he did not mention them specifi ? catty , his vetoes of bills legalizing Laotrite and banning the use of state funds for elective abortions are the most vulnerable . About 900 members of the Illinois ProLife Coalition were bused here for the opening of the General Assembly and =held a rally at noon in the rotunda . They then met with individual legislators to urge them to overturn Thompson 's veto of the abortion ban . Later , as Thompson concluded his speech , a number of those in the pro-life group unfurled a banner from the House gallery and their wild cheering nearly drowned out the General Assembly 's applause for the governor . Legislative leaders from both sides of the aisle agree that there is a good chance the abortion veto will be overridden .                     