@@733908

txt The national right-to-life movement , which emerged from the elections this year as a potent , controversial force in American politics , has set an ambitious agenda for 1980 and beyond . In addition to continuing efforts on the state and local levels against abortion , national leaders of the movement have set goals that include the defeat of five of the more liberal Senators who will be up for re-election two years from now and Congressional approval by 1982 of a proposed Constitutional amendment that would end legalized abortions except to save the life of the mother . The Senators targeted for defeat are HERBERS New York Times Bob Packwood , Republican of Oregon , and four Democrats ? Birch Bayh of Indiana , John Culver of Iowa , George of South Dakota and Frank Church of Idaho ? all of whom have stfpported use of public funds for abortions . The proposed constitutional amendment would be submitted to the states after gaining Congressional approval . Many Dedicated Supporters Two years ago , such sweeping aims would have been dismissed as ludicrous . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Action League , says it won some " stunning victories " itself this year and blunted the effort to roll back the 1973 Supreme Court decision that made abortions legal under certain conditions . . But the league and other right-tochoice groups have nothing like the single-minded , fiercely dedicated supporters of the right-to-life movement . These supporters have had an impact in states and districts across the nation at a time when many Americans are disillusioned with government and have abandoned political processes to the single-issue and special-interest groups . Here in Minnesota , which has been a stronghold of participatory democracy , the right-to-lifers are no longer dismissed as a fringe group unable to win elections or affect policy on the single issue they represent .. Setbacks in Key Races " They are an extremely effective political organization , " said Rick Scott , executive director of the Democratic-FarmerLabor Party , which dominated politics here for several years but which suffered major setbacks Nov. 7 when it lost the Governor 's office and two Senate seats to the Republicans . In the major races , the margins of victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its support was decisive , but Minnesota nevertheless will have next year.two Senators , a Governor and a Legislature friendly to the right-tolife position , a reversal from the past . Mr. Scott acknowledged serious defections from the D.F.L. Party of traditional Democrats who this year voted for Republicans solely on the abortion issue . Ile said that the right-to-life people , working through a proliferation of organizations and committees , had mastered quickly and in a sophisticated way the " position approach " to politics . For example , both candidates for Governor had records that the right-to-life people could embrace . Gov . Rudy Perpich , the Democrat , had vetoed legislation that the right-to-life people opposed . Representative Albert Quie , his Republican opponent , had done better ? he had sponsored legislation in Congress for a constitutional amendment against abortion . Two days before the election the state was flooded with right-to-life literature supporting Mr. Quie , now the state 's next Governor . The movement recorded other gains across the nation . In New York , for example , the newly formed Right to Life Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to insure an automatic place on the ballot in future elections , a development that will give it higher visibility and more leverage . Mary Jane Tobin , the candidate for Governor , said , " It is now evident that , just as the major party candidates courted the Liberal Party endorsement , they must now turn their attention to the Right to Life Party . " Right-to-life grassroots activity was an important factor in the defeat of Senator Dick Clark , Democrat of Iowa , and Senator Thomas J. , Democrat of New Hampshire ; for the election of a number of candidates to the House and to Senate offices ; and for the willingness of a proliferation of candidates on all levels to endorse the right-to-life position . Gains by the Opposition Betsy Chotin , director of the political action committee for the National Abortion Rights Action League , pointed out in Washington that a referendum in Oregon to prohibit the use of statewide funds for abortions had been rejected , that a number of antiabortion candidates had been defeated and a number of those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spent $75,000 in the campaigns . But the right-to-life groups have an unusual grassroots movement that in many areas has built up so much force and fervor that it is now by far the strongest of the single-issue groups that have sprouted in abundance in recent years . raising questions about its long-range effectiveness and impact on the decline in national political parties . Although the movement until now has been concerned with only one issue , it is far from unified . Nationally and in most states it consists of a proliferation of organizations . The largest umbrella group is the National Right to Life Committee , based in Washington and composed of members from 50 states . It has a political action committee that directs funds and other assistance to candidates and forms national political strategies . Committees in Most States Paul A. Brown , director for political action , disclosed in an interview plans for 1980 and beyond . Over the next two years , he said , state political action committees will be set up in all or most of the states . Mr. Brown is sensitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the far right , regardless of how they stood on other issues of importance to its members . " Some of the candidates we supported are liberals , " he said . " The chairman of our political committee is Morton Downey Jr. , who has been a Kennedy Democrat . Most of our people are Democrats , but the Democratic Party does n't provide a home for us . " Mr. Downey is a Nevada businessman . In Minnesota , the state party platform calls for freedom of choice on abortion . Mr. Scott acknowledged the difficulty of the party embracing two warring elements , although some popular leaders of the past have been able to pull it off . Vietnam War Protesters The rise of issue politics , Mr. Scott said , is a move toward pure democracy , which is a disorderly process that the country may have to live with . " But I do n't oppose issue politics , " he said . " My own field was philosophy , but I got into politics to oppose the Vietnam war . A lot of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antiwar movement . " Mary Schmidt , education coordinator for Minnesota Citizens Concerned for Life , the chief lobbying organization for the movement in the state , is a Democrat who was part of the Vietnam protest . She said that the right-to-life movement was the same , bringing people into the political process who might otherwise be inactive . Despite their sophisticated methods , the movement in state after state has a homemade stamp . Organizations are run out of homes , Roman Catholic churches and stores . The leaders say they hope to keep it that way . But on the national level , Mr. Brown talks of broadening the base . The movement has been criticized for protesting abortions but not joining social movements to help poor children when theya re born . Mr. Brown said that an effort would be made to persuade organizations to expand into social work . More Than Abortion Issue Two sisters , Maureen Fiedler and Dolly Pomerleau , who are co-directors of the Quixote Center of the Washington , D.C. , area , recently conducted surveys to determine attitudes among other Catholics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a broad national sample were persons involved in the right-to-life movement . Not all members of the movement are Catholic , but Catholics make up a substantial portion in most communities . The sisters concluded , according to a report in The Catholic Reporter , that the movement arose from a concern for rq ) - cial morality . " These data suggest that many if those in the movement , " they said , " see abortion at the deepest phychological level , less as a taking of human life than as a practice threatening to existing social patterns and customs in families , marriages and sexual relations . "                     