@@732055

txt While city officials and most citizens are preoccupied with day-to-day efforts to avert disaster in the deepening fiscal crisis , twelve New Yorkers are feverishly winding up a two-year effort that could help to reduce the danger of similar crises in the future . They are members of the State Charter Revision Commission , which is scheduled to formulate its final recommendations by Aug. 6 for presentation to city voters in ' a referendum in November . Although the principal focus of the commission has been on proposals to decentralize city government in order to make it more responsive , significant attention has been devoted to budgetary and administrative problems that bear directly on the current fiscal crisis . Indeed , the commission 's reports and those of the State Study Commission that preceded it , have carried clear warnings that the city was headed for the kind of fiscal impasse that now confronts it . Thus the final Charter package can he expected to include recommendations for sweeping reforms in the way the city prepares and administers its budgets and for a thorough overhaul of administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the commission are high on the list of reforms that are being pressed on the city by the state 's Municipal Assistance Corporation ( " Big Mac " ) . Many may already be in effect by the time the commission proposals , go to the voters next November . That will not , however , obviate the need to write broad and fundamental reforms into the Charter . The sooner the city demonstrates by such action its determination to set its own house in order , the sooner it will regain the ability to finance its needs and to manage its own affairs free of state supervision . The state corporation , the commission and the city itself have a mutual interest in developing and supporting a strong fiscal reform component in any proposed Charter revision . ? The relevance of decentralization to the fiscal crisis is less apparent , but by no means negligible . The tough budgetary restraints that will be required while the city works its way out from under its burden of accumulated debt no doubt will necessitate some slowing down of the process of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new community districts . Nevertheless , strengthening neighborhood government could help the city cope with what will be a prolonged period of enforced austerity . It is significant that during the recent sanitation strike , Mayor Beame turned to the existing Offices of Neighborhood Government to help communities deal with mounting piles of garbage through the proposed distribution of plastic bags . Some neighborhood groups even organized local collection and disposal efforts . A decentralized city is a less vulnerable city . Particularly at a time when city personnel and services must be curtailed , strengthened district boards can help assure that those personnel and services that remain are used most effectively in response to community needs . Although the work of the Charter Revision Commission has been overshadowed in recent months by the fiscal crisis , the crisis in fact offers powerful new incentives to revise the Charter along the lines toward which the commission has been pointing .                     