@@730503

txt Sen. George has picked up seven points on President Nixon in the latest Tribune Poll , but he must overcome a 29-point deficit to defeat Nixon in Illinois on Nov. 7 . The Tribune Poll 's second wave found that cut the President 's first wave lead of 60 to 24 per cent E36 points ) to 58 to 29 per cent . Rating Up In Nation has brought his position in Illinois into line with his national standing , which has ranged from 26 to 30 points behind in recent surveys . 's gains in Illinois were recorded by The Tribune Poll between Sept. 30 and Oct. 8 in telephone interviews with a scientifically selected panel of 1,000 voters . The first wave results were taken between Aug. 25 and Sept. 13. 's improvement in Illinois reflects his capture of previously defecting Chicago Democrats and increased support from younger voters and many voters who traditionally prefer Democratic candidates . Even tho his overall seven-point gain is notable , it may be only relative in view of the opposition must overcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Illinois . The outcome of 's race with the calendar will be measured in the final wave of The Tribune Poll , to be conducted in the campaign 's final week . Leads in Chicago 's biggest gain was in Chicago , where he overcame Nixon 's nine-point lead and went ahead 46 to 44 per cent . The turnabout indicates that 's peace-making efforts with Mayor Daley have paid off . The influence Daley 's regular Democratic Party organization wields in Chicago was made apparent by the decisive reduction of the ranks of undecided voters from 23 to 10 per cent . By comparison , the statewide level of indecision has changed little since the first Tribune Poll , dropping slightly from 16 to 13 per cent . Little Other Change Nixon maintained his firm grip on the support of downstate voters , who favored him 64 to 21 per cent , dropping his lead from 49 points to a still overwhelming 43-point advantage . Cook County voters outside Chicago wavered only two points in their preference for Nixon ? down to 66 per cent from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ score they gave in the first poll . Among voters 18 to 29 years old , has pared Nixon 's 31-point lead by 10 points , from 60 to 29 per cent to 57 to 36 per cent . Voters aged 30 to 49 favored Nixon 60 to 27 per cent , a 12-point change from his original 64 to 19 per cent advantage . Voters 50 and older preferred Nixon 59 to 27 per cent this time , changing little from their initial 60 to 24 per cent preference . In the first wave , led Nixon only in two groups of Illinois voters : fellow Democrats and blacks . In the second wave , he added Chicago to his column and strengthened his leads among Democrats and blacks significantly . Altho has cut into Nixon 's early leads among other traditionally Democratic voters  --  those with low incomes and little education , and voters in union members ' families ? be has failed to gain the preference of any of these groups . Catholics Prefer rei:4 Traditionally Democratic Catholic voters remained strongly opposed to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second wave after backing . Nixon 60 to 22 per cent hi the first one . - - campaign strategists also will be disappointed with their failure to gain significant favor with better educated and more affluent voters , and the young and independent ones , to whom they have directed many of their appeals . The results in today 's report came in response to this question : " The candidates for President and Vice President are Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew for the Republican tielcAt and George and Sargent Shriver for the Democrat ticket . If the election were held today , for whom would you vote ? " To nullify any bias resulting from one ticket being mentioned before the other , half of the 1,000 respondents were asked the question with the ticket mentioned first . The poll is conducted for The Tribune by Urban Facts , an independent research firm . Tomorrow : Charles Percy vs . Roman Pucinski for senator .                     