@@732612

txt A meeting will be held at the National Institutes of Health Monday to decide whether to discontinue X-ray tests for apparently healthy women under 50 participating in a breast cancer screening program . About 258,000 women are enrolled in the five-year project , which began in 1973 and has 27 detection centers around the nation . It is being conducted by the American Cancer Society and the National Cancer Institute . At issue is whether the tests  --  known as X-ray mammography  --  may not themselves eventually lead to an increase in breast cancer because of exposure to radiation . Of particular concern are women under 50 , both because they are less likely than older women to develop breast cancer and because their breasts ? being denser ? require heavier doses of radiation for diagnostic purposes . HIGH DOSES of radiation , like those experienced by survivors of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima , are known to have increased the rate of breast cancer in those exposed . But whether the lower doses used for X-ray mammography also carry this risk is unknown . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mammogram , many scientists believe it may . A report by an outside group of experts headed by Dr. Lester Breslow of the University of California at Los Angeles has recommended to the National Cancer Institute that mammography for symptom-free women under 50 be discontinued . The Breslow report is one of three reviews commissioned by the Institute since questions about the safety of the test were raised by such critics as Dr. John Bailor III . Baiter is editor of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute . A SPOKESMAN FOR the American Cancer Society said the society would be reluctant to see the use of mammography curtailed since breast cancer ? the leading cancer killer of American women  --  is most easily cured when detected early . More than 220 breast cancers have been detected to date in the 129,000 women under 50 screened by the project ? 100 of these by mammogrpahy alone and almost 80 per cent of them before the tumor had spread beyond the breast , he said . Critics of the society point out , however , that an earlier test of mammography conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960s did not show any benefit for women under 50 , although the breast cancer death rate for the older women participating was reduced . But even this finding is controversial because countercritics contend that im provements in technology since may have made the procedure safer for younger women . OFFICIALS OF BOTH the Cancer Society and the Cancer Institute will make their decision with the help of experts from such organizations as the American Radiological Society and the government 's Bureau of Radiological Health . The meeting will be open to the public . Although the screening project is in its third year , it was only last May that the program began to inform the participating women of the potential risk .                     