@@732381

txt TOUTING THE rights of the unborn and the sanctity of life , a well-organized , grass roots movement has made legal abortion a volatile issue in the 1976 presidential campaign . Calling itself " pro-life , " its members are polarizing Americans of every political stripe , pushing for a constitutional ban on abortion , and working to elect candidates who agree with them and defeat those who do n't . The controversy has been dubbed the " sleeper " issue of this year 's campaign . It has been popularized with billboards , bumper stickers , and Bicentennial " pro-life " postcards . A HIGHLY emotional issue of life , death , and sexuality , it commands attention and strong opinions . Unemployment , inflation , and other issues have not inspired such gut-level responses . " Abortion is the hottest political issue , " said Ray White , executive director of the National Right to Life Committee . " It goes against the American grain to see a million children 's lives taken in the abortion process . It is un-American . " In 1973 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure . Almost three million legal abortions have been performed , including about one million last year . A Harris poll released last May showed a 54- to- 33 per cent majority of the American people support legal abortion . Eight per cent were unsure . PRO-ABORTION forces are beginning to react to the antiabortion movement . They call the furor a false issue that is muddying the political waters and a setback for human rights . They have called for tax audits of campaign funds of some antiabortion candidates , say they plan to speak out publicly , and promise a full-scale fight ? if the time comes . Many do n't think it will . ! Most Americans are not going to vote on this issue alone , so we do n't have to take the more aggressive view , " said Karen Mulhauser , executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League MAR-AL ) . " Abortion does n't belong in the political arena , " says Rep. Bella Abzug D. , N.Y.I. " It 's a private right , like many other rights concerning ? family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " AS FAR AS the national elections are concerned , the issue may become a matter of discussion , but I do not believe it will be s decisive factor , " said Mary Louise Smith , GOP national chairman . Abortion foes became active in the /ate 1960s when some states tried to Liberalize abortion laws . They were galvanized and organized nationally after the Supreme Court ruling . Antiabortion groups are numerous . The major nonsectarian group is the National Right to Life Committee , claiming millions of members and chapters in every state . It plans to organize in every congressional district . The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops is carrying out the major religious effort and plans to mobilize opposition in every diocese. , ANTIABORTION forces successfully have urged every major party presidential hopeful to take a stand . Ellen McCormack , a Long Island , N.Y. , housewife , has qualified for federal matching funds as a one-issue , " pro-life " presidential contender . She says she will be on the primary ballots in New Hampshire , Massachusetts , Vermont , Florida , and Nebraska @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The antiabortionists are dogging state and local politicians , holding rallies , trying to select " pro-life " delegates to both major party national conventions , and pushing for antiabortion planks in the party platforms . But the major goal of the antiabortion movement is a constitutional ' amendment outlawing abortion and invalidating the Supreme Court decision . " WE CAN HAVE a definite impact in electing a President , especially in weeding out candidates , " White said . " We could absolutely swing an election , the Mormon father of eight said . " For many races a 3 or 4 per cent block can send the election down the drain . " We are organizing in every congressional district for political action . You saw the effect in Iowa Democratic caucuses . " He referred to initial " pro-We " support of former Georgia Gov . Jimmy Carter , who finished first in precinct caucusing . Abortion foes also are hounding Indiana Sen. Birch Bayh , a Democratic contender who supports the court decision . " NO MATTER how right a man is on every other subject , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's the wrong man , " said Dr. Carolyn F. Gerster of Phoenix , Ariz. , national chairman of the committee . " There can be no more Democrats or Republicans , liberals or conservatlires , until this amendment is passed . " The size of the movement has not been determined . A " pro-life " march on Washington on Jan. 22 drew an estimated 50,000 persons . : The committee says California and ? Massachusetts each have 100 chapters . However , in some ' states , such as Vermont and North Carolina , the movement has not emerged as a strong political Odor . ' , The National Right to Life News , official publication of the committee , has a paid circulation of about 28,000 . AN ARTICLE ' last November told ' Tatters : " It behooves all pro-lifers to immediately get to understand bow and when your state will designate delegates to the national conventions , and how pro-lifers may capture some of the spots . " Abortion foes emphasize their grass roots , previously apolitical nature , but the membership also includes many professionals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their own kitchen phones , " . says Helen Greene , chairman of the New York State Right to Life Committee . " It is the supreme and total dedication of people who have never been active before in any kind of organization or strongly for or against anything . " Antiabortion activities are community oriented and include small prayer meetings , door-to-door appeals , and leafletting at factories . Fund raising has the same hometown approach of bake sales , car washes , and garage sales . THE COMMITTEE says its funding primarily comes from small donations and says it receives no money from the Roman Catholic Church . The national committee sells " right to life " tie tacs , money clips , key chains , and pendants for $3 . Local ' groups sell " pro-life " cookbooks , embryo-embossed belt buckles , and children 's T-shirts advertising : " I 'm a little right to lifer , " Some abortion foes display pictures of aborted fetuses and purchase newspaper space showing tiny embryonic feet , but their proabortion counterparts have maintained a low profile . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has very little to do with religion or that fetuses  --  are people , " said Karen DeCrow , president of the National Organization for Women . " It is a last-ditch , well-planned effort to keep women in their place . " Women 's groups say their major goal today is to ensure passage of the Equal Rights Amendment . Other proabortion organizations , such as the Religious Coalition for Abortion Rights and NAPAL , have employed a low-key approach of providing abortion information to the public and Congress . " People who want to keep the status quo do n't make any waves , " said Jeanie Rosoff , director of the Washington office of Planned parenthood . " After all , legalized abortion is the law of the land . "                     