@@728335

txt Obstacles facing relief organizations in the now-disintegrated , war-ravaged secessionist state of Biafra remain immense  --  despite overwhelming international offers of assistance . They are immense because the last few days of battle have brought an entirely new perspective to the Biafran relief situation . For instance : ? Now the war is over a highly sensitive Nigerian Government , staggering under the weight of strong international pressures to initiate rapid relief work , is reacting sharply to what it obviously regards as interference by international relief organizations . These international relief organizations now claim that political factors more than the question of supplies or the logistics of distribution are proving the supreme obstacle to massive and immediate rehabilitation . ? Chaotic withdrawal of the civilian population into the bush in the face of advancing Nigerian troops means the location of large numbers of refugees is not known precisely . They are no longer in the villages , which makes relief work all the more difficult . ? Many trained relief workers who know Biafra well and who stayed on , until the last moment tending to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their experience and knowledge of local conditions are badly needed . ? The collapse of Biafra gives federal Nigeria political control over this territory . Although Nigeria has begun post-surrender relief and stressed the need for a merciful attitude . to the vanquished Biafras , relief organizations are nevertheless concerned at the implications of Nigeria 's assuming political control in this area . Specifically it means that Nigeria can enforce its policy of not cooperating with relief teams or organizations that operate exclusively in Biafra . Joint Church Aid , which worked unilaterally for Biafra and which flew in up to 250 tons nightly , would be a logical . victim . Unless the federal government changes its policy , Joint Church Aid , which provided the only significant contribution to Biafra in its last days , could be prevented from sending in any more supplies . This assumption becomes even more likely now that Gen. Yakubu Gowon , Nigerian head of state , has so contemptuously dismissed many relief workers as " foreign do-gooders " and advised their organizations that Nigerians " do n't Want their so-called blood ? oney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stance to an independent African state 's irritation at continual advice from white governments and organizations , and their dependence militarily on white planes , pilots , arms , and ammunitions . Red Cross cautious In a telephone interview from Geneva , an International Red Cross spokesman said that though familiar with local conditions some 50 IRC workers who escaped to Libreville in Gabon from Biafra would not be allowed to returkunder present Nigerian policy . Instead six new teams  --  each team consisting of between four and six doctors and Red Cross delegates ? have been freshly recruited , but must now await official approval from Lagos , already bogged down with an entry permit logjam , before being granted entry to the besieged areas . Sensitivity recognized According to a prominent British relief official here the sensitivity of the Nigerian Government , especially to relief agencies which were regarded as aiding and abetting Biafran rebellion through their aid work , is understandable . But he feels the situation is so grave  --  the need so imperative  --  that on-the-spot assistance by professionally trained , locally well-known relief workers is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on channeling all supplies and organizations through Lagos . The spokesman , Dr. Noel Moynihan , chairman of overseas relief , Save-the-Children Fund , explained why in an interview : " In a limited way the Nigerian Red Cross is extremely good and has done much better than most people give them credit for . " But he cautions the magnitude of the problem is beyond its capacities . As a doctor who has headed a medical team to Biafra , he believes it essential that groups involved in the relief work be headed by nutritional experts who know how to feed starving people . Ignorance resulting from feeding ravenous people indiscriminately he points out would exacerbate the already grave situation . Dr. Moynihan believes that only those relief organizations who have worked with frightened Ibos in the past have the ability and understanding to woo them from the bush . In the past , he notes , relief organizations had to work hard to persuade Biafrans they were not " emissaries of the Nigerian Government trying to trick them to come out of ' the bush and to massacre them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained its four existing teams in Biafra . SCF has been providing medical assistance to 15,000 and food supplies to 200,000 a month , 95 percent of whom are children .                     