@@728515

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 29 Letters to the Editor of The Times Fate of Arabs , Jews To the Editor : Amnesty International , London , in a news article in The Times of April 2 , asked for the formation of a commission to look into the alleged torture of four or more Arabs in Israel . I am not against that . But if Amnesty International wants to be impartial it should ask also for an inquiry commission to look into the fate of the Iraqi Jewish community . In Iraq many Jews have been tortured to death ; some twenty Jews were hanged in public places while the Government officials in Baghdad incited the mobs to come and " see the hanging Jews . " In Iraq Jews are denied all fundamental human rights . They are out of work ; under semi-house arrest ; communications are forbidden ; their savings blocked ; their properties frozen ; their businesses closed . They are being held as hostages and are not allowed to leave . If Amnesty International is concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let its voice and conscience be heard now , loud and clear . Let it ask for the release of those Jews in jails in Iraq ; let it ask for emigration of those still alive . While Amnesty International made official its concern about the alleged torture of four Arabs , it would be only too appropriate also to make official its concern about the fate of the whole Jewish community in Iraq , perhaps in another article in The Times . R. R. HORESH Roslyn , L. I. , April 4 , 1970 ? Repression in Belgrade To the Editor : Unfortunately , there is quite a bit of additional evidence to substantiate the contention of your April 4 editorial ( " Retrogression in Belgrade " ) that the denial of passports to Milovan Djilas , and even to the mother of dissident writer Mihajlo Mihajlov , is part of a broader campaign of intellectual repression now under way in Yugoslavia . For instance , in Zagreb police officials confiscated , on March 11 , the passport of poet Zlatko Tomicic , on the eve of his departure for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deli% er lectures and recitals of his poetry . Tomicic , one of the most outstanding of the younger Croat poets and writers , edited for eighteen months the Croat Literary Gazette , which attained a circulation of 40,000 and became the most widely read Yugoslav literary publication before it was suppressed by the authorities in November . The recent retrogressive trends seem part of the basic unresolved contradiction between democracy and totalitarianism apparent within the League of Communists of Yugoslavia since Djilas 's dismissal from the leadership in 1954 , which keeps creating strains and conflicts in all spheres of Yugoslav life . BOGDAN RADITSA Professor of History MATTHEW MESTROVIC Asst . Professor of History Fairleigh Dickinson University Teaneck , N. J. , April 4 , 1970 ? Hunter Happenings To the Editor : In view of the appalling situation at Hunter College , this correspondent , a faculty member , feels it to be incumbent upon him to inform the public as to how far a college of considerable distinction in this city has sunk . A hard core of defiant students are riding roughshod over the sensibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those who know in advance that they will not be held accountable for whatever vile and vituperative utterances they choose to speak or print . Student fees , a compulsory feature of all city colleges at present , are being used to pay for the printing of one student publication after another , each vying veth the other in spewing forth s &andalous; slurs and obscenities , garnished with filthy illustrations . Meanwhile , students who wish to continue their studies and attend classes have to toil up the stairs of the sixteenstory building to meet teachers who have done likewise , because other students have seized the elevators and halted their operation . At , a recent rally a young man , presumably a student , chided those of his fellow-students who. had complained about being deprived of elevator service . His sarcastic advice was , " If you want to get to class that much , there 's a stairway out there , you know . " At the latest rally , held to " clarify the issues " to students , a young lady informed the faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present student demands " for fifty-fifty representation on all present faculty committees , including Faculty Council and Faculty Personnel and Budget Committee , the students might just go ahead and " up our demands " ? after all , " there are nineteen thousand students and one thousand faculty , and the Supreme Court has ruled : one man , one vote ? that is democracy . " Wild cheers and applause . A fine hundredth anniversary for Hunter College . A FACULTY MEMBER New York , April 1 , 1970 ? Bay State Hailed To THE EDITOR : While the Administration continues to be insensitive to the feelings and wishes of the people , it is most heartening to see that one state is willing to assume the responsible and forceful leadership needed in our country . Congratulations to Massachusetts on passing legislation making forced military service in undeclared wars illegal . If other states will follow this inspiring example , we may be able to extricate ourselves from our misguided involvement in the Far East . AMY OLNEY JOHNSON Farmington , Conn. , April 2 , 1970 Hiring Handicapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heumann makes the Board of Education and the Board of Examiners appear rather heartless . Miss Heumann is no doubt a brilliant young lady , who al- , though confined to a wheelchair , is ready , willing and eager to teach children . To deny her a license seems an act of cold injustice . In my own experience there have been many emergencies where classrooms had to be ' evacuated promptly and in good order . On such occasions the teacher must be able to move swiftly through corridors and down stairways . What of the point of view of a parent whose child was caught in an emergency in a classroom where the teacher was confined to a wheelchair ? What if several children were hurt ? What of the feelings of a parent whose child was injured ? What of the legal liabilities of a Board that placed a handicapped teacher in this classroom ? The fact is that our Board of Examiners and medical officers have licensed many teachers whose handicaps are such that they have either slight limps ? or actually require tile use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet emergency requirements . What would happen to Miss Heumann if some catastrophe . struck the school ? Certainly Miss Heumann should become a teacher ? in one of the many programs in Adult Education where the students could take care of themselves and even of the teacher , if trouble arose . CHARLES M. SHAPP District Superintendent Board of Education Bronx , April 3 , 1970                     