@@733699

txt The Kremlin is hitting back these days , not just at rising pressure from the United States and NATO to the west , but at the worldwide maneuvering of Peking to the east . The new diplomatic activism of the post-Mao Tse-tung leaders in China is seen by Moscow as aimed directly at its own positions in Africa , Asia , and in the third world generally . Judging from recent commentaries in the Soviet press , and from the latest authoritative word from the Kremlin June 13 , the Soviets view Peking as : ? A definitely growing military threat . seeking sophisticated weaponry including aircraft , anti-tank missiles . and navigational equipment from Britain , Switzerland . Belgium , West Germany , Denmark , Italy , Sweden , and elsewhere . ? Defending the status quo in Africa against Soviet strategic moves there . o A hostile diplomatic force throughout the huge arc of Asia , opposing Soviet interests in Vietnam and Southeast Asia in particular . In all three fields the Soviets are enormously concerned that China 's interests run more and more parallel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long run this can only spell trouble , squeezing Moscow from both sides . A pressing Soviet worry is that the U.S. might be tempted to sell weaponry to the Chinese Government . The official Soviet news agency Tass quickly picked up reports from Washington that the U.S. was reviewing its policies and might be prepared to approve the sale of airborne survey equipment with some military applications . Some veteran Western diplomats here warn against any outright American arms sales to Peking . They say the Soviets would see the move as a major affi-ont and would be forced to take retaliatory action of some kind . Western analysts here do not think Moscow sees Peking as an essentially defensive power slow to commit its armed forces abroad . Rather , the Soviets view China as a huge , racially different country possessing the biggest land army in the world . They see it as laying strong claim to territories now-part of Soviet Central Asia , into which Chinese armies moved centuries ago . And they see it as having acted against Tibet and ? 200 years ago ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valley . In private , Soviet officials disclaim any concern . But the tone of their public utterances reveals another picture . // From page 1 Soviet worry : Peking 's world arms quest The latest top-level word came in the Communist Party newspaper Pravda June 13 ? a long and detailed pulling together of various anti-Chinese themes , signed by the pseudonym , " I. Alexandrov " . Pravda officials refuse to say who he might be : it is thought the name stands for senior officials in the Communist Party Central Committee . The article concentrated on attacking Chinese foreign policy rather than commenting on Soviet-Chinese relations . It called China 's policy of calling for a " united front " with imperialism a " serious destabilizing factor of the international situation . " In recent trips to Burma , India , the Philippines , and Thailand , Peking emissaries had talked of friendship , but Chinese " subversion " had never stopped , Pravda said . China had launched " provocative actions " against Vietnam , Pravda continued ? an apparent reference to a statement by Vice-Premier Teng @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Thai journalists that Vietnam had expelled 110,000 Chinese residents and that China would reduce its aid to Vietnam accordingly . Mr. Teng said Chinese monetary aid had totaled about $18 billion so far . The Pravda article repeated previous attacks on White House aide Zbigniew Brzezinski and the chief of the British defense staff , Sir Neil Cameron ? both of whom recently visited Peking . Pravda said those in the West who were pro-Peking were " playing with fire . " The Soviets warn over and over again that those who help China now will find the Chinese attacking them in the future : a forecast Moscow derives from its own experience with governments in Peking .                     