@@733048

txt North American man may still be considered a mere whippersnapper . But ? according to the Smithsonian Institution 's Dennis Stanford and an old pile of bones ? he may be some 15 centuries older than previously thought . While prevailing theories and radio carbon-dating tests hold that man thrived in the contiguous United States about 9,500 B.C. , striking , albeit tentative , evidence that man was surely here more than a millennium and a halt ' earlier is now surfacing // From page 1 Prehistoric man pulls a surprise Preliminary results unearthed from a site in eastern Colorado may confirm that a culture of primitive hunters inhabited an area deep within the American continent in approximately 11,000 B.C. ; that they hunted a wider variety of game than was previously thought ; and that their ability to convert bones for use as tools was developed prior to the stone-working peoples of the Clovis era of some 12,000 years ago ( or 10,000 B.C. ) . Bits and pieces of the bones , still in the early stages of being assessed and dated , were unearthed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of paleo-Indian archaeology , from two sites in eastern Colorado . Validation of the age of the artifacts awaits the scrutiny of radio-carbon dating , but Dr. Stanford told the Monitor he speculates their age at 13,000 years , and perhaps as much as 17,000 . Some 20 bones ? identified , according to Dr. Stanford , as belonging to mammoth , horse , camel , bison , sloth , peccary , antelope , deer , and wolf ? were removed from the Colorado soil . Previously , archaeologists beleived that cultures this old concentrated on hunting mammoth . These bones , all apparently showing their use as tools , indicate that this North American people subsisted on a wider variety of animals ? and that they may have been stirprisingly skilled as hunters . Word of the discovery comes within weeks of two archaeological claims of man 's presence in North America which carry dates of 40,000 and 100,000 years . The claims , made by Dr. Rainer Berger of the University of California at Los Angeles and Dr. Brian Reeves of the University of Calgary respectively , have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research ? particularly the nature of their dating techniques . Plaudits for Dr. Stanford 's capabilities and for his scrupulous approach to research were voiced recently by many archaeologists . Dr. Eileen Johnson , directing similar work at the Lubbock Lake site in Texas , Dr. Marie Wormington , author of the well-respected " Prehistoric Man in North America , " Dr. Bruce Rippetteau , the Colorado state archaeologist , and Wyoming state archaeologist Dr. George Frison , among others , have expressed to the Monitor their optimism over what the Stanford sites may yield .                     