@@732344

txt Democratic leaders from coast to coast are leaning toward a Humphrey-Carter ticket for November . That is the finding of a just-completed Monitor survey which reveals the first solid indication of thinking among Democratic Party chieftains . Even as caucuses were meeting in Iowa Monday ( Jan. 19 ) , it became clear that Jimmy Carter was making strong headway toward snaring the vice-presidential nomination . At the same time , it became evident that noncandidate Hubert H. Humphrey may be pursuing the proper stance for gaining the nomination : to stay on the sidelines and let the others fight it out . What the party leaders seem to be saying is that the primary process likely will bemeaningless this year in selecting the No. 1 spot on the ticket . This same strong support for Senator Humphrey as the candidate was voiced by many of these same leaders when they met in New Orleans a few days ago . Also clearly disclosed in the survey : a tacit admission by the same Democratic leaders that they are taking Sen. Edward M. Kennedy at his word that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a convention draft . Out of 123 responses from Democratic state chairmen and national committeemen and women there were 62 who said Senator Humphrey was the " most likely " to win the nomination . Fifty-one said Mr. Carter would be his running mate . The response came from 300 questionnaires sent out . The basic strength in the survey came from the nature of the support for Humphrey and Carter .. The next , " most , likely ! ' presidentialnominee was Sen. Henry M. Jackson with only 12 votes . The next " most likely " running mate was Sen. Lloyd M. Bentsen with 6 . " Most likely " presidential support was spread as follows : Carter , 8 ; Sen. Church , 6 ; Sen. Birch Bayh , 6 ; Fred R. Harris , 3 ; Kennedy , 3 ; Rep. Morris K. Udall , 3 . And Gov . George C. Wallace , Sen. Robert Byrd , Gov . Jerry Brown , Sargent Shriver , Gov . Milton J. Shapp , and Bentsen each had 1 . The " most likely " running mates followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and ' Udall with 5 each ; Terry Sanford , 4 ; Barbara Jordan and Shriver , 3 each ; Wallace , Kennedy , and Brown with 2 each . The following had 1 each : State Sen. Julian Bond , Sen. John H. Glenn , Gov . Hugh L. Carey , Sen. Edmund S. Muskie , Gov . Ella T. Grasso , Byrd , Hatris , Church , Lt. Gov . Mary Anne Krupsak , Shapp , Rep. Bella Abzug , and Gov . Reubin Askew .                     