@@732877

txt Letters Letters Foreign Affairs : ' Outmoded Grand Strategy ' To the Editor : In his survey of the world military situation in the Jan. 4 Times , Drew Middleton depicts the relative decline cf American and growth of Soviet military power . Citing as sources Pentagon military analysts and allied intelligence services , he compares American and Soviet strengths in terms of ICBM 's , tanks , military manpower . The survey , which patently reflects in main American military opinion , treats such things as the potential for trouble in the Middle East and tensions in the Northwest Pacific , but the prime point of reference is the American-Soviet military equation . That perspective is too narrowly focused . The United States does not command a united front of states devoted to overcoming , simply by military means , a single identified antagonist . The world in recent years has become multipolar , more complex , economics-oriented . Even the American-Soviet competition takes on other forms besides the military ; and many of the most exigent power problems in today 's world embrace political and/or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John J. Quinn 's Jan. 5 letter entitled " Subways : Dealing With the Real World , " in which he waxes enthusiastic about the New York City subway as the " best-run subway in the world , " and I wonder whether Mr. Quinn is talking about the same subway system I use every day , in which he was an assistant general superintendent for 49 years . Here is the real world of the New York subway system that millions of New Yorkers have been subjected to : Cold cars in the winter , overheated cars in the summer , dirty cars , doors that open halfway or not at all , overcrowded morning and evening trains , unpainted and cold subway stations and platforms , and , in short , for this not-worth-a-nickel experience we New To Protect Our Majestic Trees To the Editor : Today 's article on the sale of the " perfect " walnut tree for its veneer is cause for concern regarding the future of other landmark trees . Rather than preserving the ironically dubbed " Bicentennial tree " for future generations , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bidder valuing the tree at $30,000 ) . The economics and profit motives of modern civilization need to undergo re-evaluation and reassessment , especially as we enter our nation 's third century . We should ask ourselves the question : Is it prudent to chop down a tree and splinter its intrinsic value into small segments for the consumer market or to keep it intact as a living monument to mankind ? This article merely emphasizes the urgent need to formulate laws and guidelines to protect our national heritage  --  our majestic trees . According to national and regional landmarks organizations , trees ( as a class ) are excluded from the protection currently assigned to buildings . If laws are not forthcoming , the black walnut log which now lies on view in a North Carolina mill will be the sad testimony to the future of our country 's " desirable " trees . L. KAPELMAN Weston , Conn. , Dec. 29 , 1976 S. Harmon molding the outcome . Take the Northwest Pacific . What would be the probable effect on Japan 's political posture of an abandonment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have been told many times in the past and recently by David Yunich , the former head of M.T.A. , that were it not for his " super job of management " we would have to pay 65 cents for a ride through this Black Hole of Calcutta called the New York City subway system . " Super job of management " ? I.e. : worsened service , short trains , fewer trains . And to Mr. Quinn who wants to deal with the real world : Ask the people who must ride the New York subways daily and they will tell you that it is an antiquated , broken-down replica of the Toonerville Trolley but certainly potentially more dangerous and crime-prone . Dealing with reality , indeed . SAMUEL H. SCHWALB New York , Jan. 5 , 1977 Vulnerable Libraries To the Editor : The enormous interest and shock generated by the vandalism at the West Farms Branch Library is an interesting comment on the quality of life in New York City . Apparently it takes an act of wanton destruction to create concern for an institution that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with hardly any response from the public it serves so well . The incident at West Farms is by no means an isolated one . Similar problems have occurred qt many library branches . It should be noted that there is a direct correlation between the destruction of library property and materials and the extreme curtailment of library hours , forced by budget cuts , which leaves the buildings empty and vulnerable for many hours . We are very grateful for all the expressions of concern and offers of help we have received as a result of the vandalism at West Farms . We hope that the public outcry may act as a signal to the city fathers that the public does indeed care about its libraries , and that it will not tolerate any longer a system of priorities v  --  tich seems determined to destroy the library system bit by bit . ROBERT GOLDSTEIN Bronx Borough Office The New York Public Library Bronx , Jan. 3 , 1977 rea and Taiwan ? But , if the United States contrariwise maintains those defense ties ( and particularly that with Taiwan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shift the Chinese strategic line to our disadvantage ? all without the U.S.S.R. having fired ' a shot ? As regards the Middle East , if Israel ' in the end refuses to evacuate Arab ' lands , might not Saudi Arabia first ? move to increase the price of oil ( with general OPEC support ) instead of Arab forces ' launching military action ; and if the United States then threatened economic sanctions , what would be the stance of the European Economic Community ( E.E.C. ) ? The 1973 experience clearly indicates that the E.E.C . countries probably would not go along . There is the related question : What will happen to " our side , " the bloc of " industrialized democracies , " ? if the United States finds it impossible to ' accommodate its strategy to the policies of Western European states and Japan in circumstances where those military allies are already inclined toward courses diverging from our own in the political and economic fields  --  where so many critical issues now loom ? The United States is found over- ? extended in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is urgent need for basic revision of the outmoded American grand strategy , to relate it more effectively to the realities of our time . 0 . EDMUND CLUES U.S. Foreign Service Officer ( Ret . ) New York , Jan. 4 , 1977 Gov . Carey 's Tax Cut : An ' Inexplicable ' Plan To the Editor : It is difficult to understand Governor Carey 's request for a $200 million tax cut that will save most taxpayers little if anything . The startling proposal comes at a time when city hospitals are reducing their level of care to the danger point ; when city public schools suffer from seriously overcrowded classrooms and sharp reductions in teaching Services ; when the City University is starving ; when juvenile crime is soaring because of a lack of proper treatment facilities ; when thousands of children in day-care Centers are in danger of being turned out into the streets ; when there is not enough money for auditors and inspectors of nursing homes ; when Medicaid services are in peril of major cutbacks or total elimination , and when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attrition . The Legislature should reject the Governor 's unwarranted  --  indeed , inexplicable  --  request and use his proposed $200 million rebate to provide the people of this city and state with vital services they are sadly lacking . JACK M. FeLKIN Chmn. , New York Metropolitan Council American Jewish Congress New York , Jan. 6 , 1977 The Great Desperations To the Editor : The four great desperations which are the prime movers behind crimes of violence in our society are economic , sexual , addictive and genetio deprivations . Whether we address these four deprivations with formulas of the left , the right , the middle or some mix thereof is of small import ; what is significant is that all such formulas be compassionate . WILLIAM B. SHARP JR . Grovetown , Ga. , Jan. 4 , 1977 ' This Black Hole of Calcutta Called the Subways ... ' Attica and the Special Deputy Attorney General : ' There Was No Imbalance ' . , To the Editor : I must brand as false the assertions about me which appeared in your Jan . I editorial concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attica investigation conducted by the prosecutor 's office . Before the prosecutor 's office commenced investigation , vital evidence concerning the retaking of the facility was irretrievably lost by the failure of the State Police to collect it , thereby making legal determination of what occurred virtually impossible . There is an abundant record of a five-year investigation contradicting your other assertions and demonstrating : ? That despite monumental difficulties the investigation by the prosecutor 's office fairly and impartially applied the rule of law to these tragic events in an effort to determine the culpability of any and all persons . ? That throughout the years of the investigation , I personally pressed for funds for a fiscally starved investigation . Through these efforts , adequate funding for the investigation was first obtained in 1973 , thereby permitting the investigation to continue until its conclusion in 1976 . ? That the rehousing investigation involving the question of brutality to inmates during the rehousing of prisoners was conducted in a thorough fashion by the prosecutor 's office , the grand juries and the U.S. Department of Justice . This investigation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , did not develop sufficient evidence to posit a single legal case against any individual for brutality . ? That , respecting judgment , it was my responsibility as head of the investigation to exercise my professional judgment , and I did so literally thousands of times . For me not to have done so would have been to neglect these responsibilities . Regarding your remarks concerning " judgment , " Special Deputy Attorneys General Meyer and Scotti exercised their judgments during the period of their responsibilities . These judgments resulted in termination of the investigation without a single additional charee being made . The criticism made by Mr. Meyer of my judgment is that following three years of grand jury investigation of the retaking , in an effort to further investigate a possible hindering prosecution case against State Police and other higher governmental officials , I erred in forcing two ranking State Police officers to testify before the grand jury because it resulted in their receiving immunity by operation of law . Inasmuch as no further charges resulted from that investigation , history has proved my decision to attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been necessary . While matters concerning Attica were sub judice , or in the hands . of the court , I considered it to he , my , legal and ethical responsibility to refrain from comment . ANTHONY G. SIMONETTX Stewart Manor , L.1. , Jan. 2 , 1077                     