@@731794

txt The Central Intelligence Agency has warned employes they may he prosecuted for past " agency practices " and reminded them of their " constitutional rights to remain silent " if questioned by the Justice Department . In an interoffice memorandum , the agency said it " hopes no one will be charged with a criminal offense , " But the memo advises employes to retain " private counsel " and implies that in case of prosecution they will be on their own . The two-page directive , handed down Feb. 6 , was signed by David H. Blee , deputy director of the agency 's clandestine operations division , which has been accused of carrying out illegal domestic spying . MANY EMPLOYES of the clandestine services , the so-called " dirty tricks " sections of the agency , have interpreted the memorandum as another sign that CIA Director William Colby is unwilling to back employes who now might face prosecution for carrying out the orders of their superiors . " Employes of the CIA did not Exclusive explore the agency franchise when they became members of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They would have no means of determining whether or not they had participated in illegal acts . They thought they were becoming a part of a patriotic , endeavor to provide security for our own country , " Others interpreted the memo simply as a thinly disguised warning to the clandestine operators to keep their mouths ' shut . " The agency is a divided house now and we are all Hiving in chaos , " said one insider . " The letter was signed by a clandestine man Mee but it was ordered by management . " CIA sources said the longstanding feud ' between the agency 's clandestine employes and the " overt " side intelligence gathering and analysis ) has intensified since the agency came under fire for illegal domestic activities . " NOW THAT THE clandestine side is in trouble , the weight of the director Colby. ' has come down on the overt side , " said the source . " It has become very clear that management is no longer with us . " The Blee memo implied bid did not specifically state that ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is understood that the agency will supply attorneys in civil matters , " said one agency source . " But if it is a criminal offense , each employe must get his own lawyer . " The Blee memo , sent to supervisory personnel , suggested that all employes be " warned " that the Justice Department is " reviewing past agency practices to see if they conflict with criminal statutes " and that " they may be asked to volunteer information . " IF NOT WARNED , the memo says , the employes " might incriminate themselves . " It adds , " of course , we hope that no one will be charged with a criminal offense . " Any employe " likely " to be questioned , the memo directs , should be given the following warning before he gives any information : " Before you answer you should know that you have the right to remain silent and that any statements you make may be used against you . Of course , you have the right to confer with private counsel before answering any questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities for the last few weeks to determine if any agency employes should be prosecuted . TILE PROBE centers on two areas of CIA operations , the agency 's counter intelligence division and the office of security , which is charged with protecting agency secrets . Colby has acknowledged publicly that both sections of the agency carried out some ques tionable domestic activities , including surveillance and infiltration of antiwar dissidents and illegal entry . Of major concern was a do-1 mestic intelligence operation directed at suspected terror-I ists in the late 1960s and early 1970s and headed by Richard Ober , now an employe of the National Security Council . The operation is said to have included the compiling of information on 10,000 Americans . A special commission headed by Vice President Rockefeller and two congressional committees are carrying out similar investigations .                     