@@732433

txt President Ford is on the verge of giving Ronald Reagan a solid trouncing in the Illinois primary , soundings here indicate . Should Mr. Reagan win , however , it would be a major upset . One last-minute imponderable has been injected into the March 16 contest , however , that could increase the Reagan total : the President 's suspension of his campaign chairman , - Howard ( Bo ) Callaway . That move came after charges Mr. Callaway used his influence when Secretary of the Army to obtain land from the government for a Colorado ski resort he owns with his brother-in-law . But late checks with political leaders and rank and file around this state have indicated a strong current running for the President : ? Enthusiasm for Mr. Ford is surfacing for the first time in this toe-to-toe contest with . Ronald Reagan . In New Hampshire and Massachusetts , the Ford victories were compounded of lukewarm support . Backing for Mr. Ford was beginning to warm up in Florida . And now many Republicans in this state are sending out a cheer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , staff artist Reagan : they like him , too , but not that much *Ground swell builds in Illinois as Republicans see winner in Ford // ? Republican young people clearly are behind Ford here , more so than any other identifiable group . In Florida it was the " over 65s " who leaned the heaviest toward the President . The elder citizens seem to be behind Mr. Ford here , too . ? One does not encounter much of what could be anti-Reagan sentiment . Many of those who say they will vote for Mr. Ford say they " like Reagan . " They will vote for the President , they usually say , because they think Mr. Ford has a better chance to beat the Democrats in the fall . This concept of Mr. Ford being the better nominee in terms of holding the White House for Republicans was a part of the voting in previous primaries . But , with each new Ford primary victory the conviction is growing among the Republican electorate the President is the man most likely to succeed in November . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan , but say they will vote for Mr. Ford express their reason this way : Mr. Reagan , should he be the nominee , has only a narrow base of support like a Goldwater or like a McGovern . ? Everything seems to be running in the President 's favor . A new Gallup poll shows his public approval rating up to 50 percent ? 11 points higher than in December . The decided-lift in the economy is the main factor in this new and better perception of the President , observers say . Even the . farmers who usually talk gloomily have an edge of hope in their voice these days . They have questions about Mr. Ford , but his promises of new grain sales with the Soviets have softened farmers ' attitudes toward him here . Also , they like his talk of giving a tax break to help save farmers . One farmer put it this very way : " I like I Agriculture Secretary Earl L. Butz . And I know Ford . Now I do n't like Ford completely , but I know him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote for Ford . " ? Soundings continue to show , as they have in all the primaries thus far , that Mr. Ford is widely viewed by Republicans as having " more integrity " than Mr. Reagan . At the same time more Republicans seem to feel that Mr. Reagan is " more of a leader " than Mr. Ford . But samplings down state indicate that President Ford now is just about drawing even with Mr. Reagan on the leadership . Somehow , Mr. Ford 's string of primary victories seems to be convincing voters that he has the command or leadership quality . Mr. Ford is campaigning with the approach of a president who definitely is in charge and he seems to be convincing a lot of the Republican rank and file .                     