@@733192

txt The controversy between President Carter and some Republican members of Congress over whether a special prosecutor should be appointed to investigate South Korean influence peddling on Capitol Hill highlights two contrasting points of view : Mr. Carter ? in opposing such an appointment ? stresses that , unlike Watergate , the charges in this matter are not being made against the executive branch but against congressmen . Therefore , he argues , a special prosecutor is not needed . And such a presidential move would seem to be an affront to the-integrity of Attorney General Griffin Bell and the Justice Department . On the other hand , Republicans and those who favor a special prosecutor say there are problems involved when a Democratic president and his Democratic attorney general probe a matter where it appears that some Democratic members of Congress might be involved in an emerging scandal . Further , Republican politicians around the United States , when contacted by this newspaper , express these sentiments : 1 . Because this city and this nation have been through Watergate , this is the moment when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicion ( even unfair suspicions ) ? and he can do so by appointing a special prosecutor // From page 1 Influence scandal : who 's to investigate ? 2 .. Because this is a President w , ho emphasizes high ethics and that he wo n't tell h lie , he is expected to walk a high road that is even higher than most presidents might be expected to walk . 3 . By appointing a special prosecutor the President would bring full credibility to the probe that is looking into possible criminal action in this matter . 4 . That it could work out to be a protection , for both the President and Attorney General , for a special prosecutor to be appointed . " If there is any evidence that the Justice Department is dragging its feet on this thing , we 'll be glad to hear about it , " Jody Powell , Mr. Carter 's press secretary , told reporters . Mr. Powell denies there were appearances of anything wrong in the decision of the President to let his Attorney General go ahead with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Republican leadership in Congress asking for a special prosecutor , announcing that he had ordered Attorney General Bell to " vigorously pursue the , matter , without regard to person or party , and to let the chips fall where they may . " Mr. Bell made it known then that he expected prosecutions as the result of his investigation into these influence-peddling charges . The President said Attorney General Bell assured him at a , White House meeting July 18 that the day-to-day . government investigation is in the hands of experienced prosecutors , and investigators of the FBI and Internal Revenue Service . " In addition , " Mr .. Carter said , " there continues to be active participation by a federal grand jury , which has been meeting twice a week to hear testimony in this matter . " Mr. Powell makes it clear that he sees no similarity ' betWeen the present congressional probe and the Watergate scandal , when then President Richard M. Nixon finally did appoint a special prosecutor . ? Some here feel Mr. Powell was unresponsive to questions as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go out of his way to avoid even the slightest appearance of wrongdoing . When a reporter asked Mr. Powell whether Mr. Carter had not said , at least in some context , that there was a need for the President to be as pure " as Caesar 's wife , " the answer was humorous and vague .                     