@@733038

txt It is being billed as " ping-pong diplomacy " played with a basketball . The arrival in Cuba this week of a South Dakota basketball team appears a significant benchmark on the road to rapprochement for Cuba and the United States . It could well have an effect on Cuba-U.S. relations similar to the ping-pong matches four years ago that helped open the way for China-U.S. relations . But there is some hesitancy here about making too much of this week 's basketball games . The visit is the first officially sanctioned goodwill trip to Cuba by a group of North Americans since 1961 , when diplomatic relations were broken . It also is the first sizable contingent of U.S. citizens to visit Cuba since President Carter lifted the 17-year-old ban on travel to the Caribbean island . Moreover , it comes as contact between the two countries is mushrooming . Direct negotiations over fishing zones have been under way in New York for two weeks , and a sizable bevy of Minnesota businessmen will be going to the island later this month . Mr. Carter 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prohibition on spending dollars in Cuba have facilitated the talks and the trips ? and it seems likely that a move toward rapprochement between Havana and Washington is , indeed , coming . There are , however , major hurdles in the way : Cuba 's Angola and other African ventures , spotlighted by Cuban President Fidel Castro 's just-completed Africa trip , worry the U.S. The continuing trade boycott of the island by the U.S. bothers the Cubans . But neither hurdle seems insurmountable , and anyway visits such as that of the basketball team this week are not affected by the hurdles . // From page 1 U.S. , Cuba get together for some basketball Cuba would have preferred a baseball team ; indeed , Dr. Castro earlier this year invited the New York Yankees , but U.S. baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn scotched the idea , saying an all-star team ought to go , and the invitation languished . South Dakota Sen. James Abourezk and George McGovern stepped into the breach with the basketball visit . Both have visited Cuba in the past two years and discussed sports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Dakota team brings together the University of South Dakota Coyotes and the South Dakota State University Jackrabbits . Neither team is particularly strong , and the hybrid team in Cuba this week may not be much of a match for the Cuban allstars . But never mind . " We know we 'll be pretty well outclassed , " says South Dakota State University 's sports information director Dave Martin . Players , politicians excited " We 're pretty excited about the games . " And so are many in Washington , including Senators Abourezk and McGovern as well as Rep. Les Aspin ( D ) of Wisconsin . The State Department is watching the visit with some interest for its effect on future contacts . A number of top officials are pleasedabout the arrangement and will be looking for future signs that Cuba wants to participate in other sport competition . But this week 's visit is still somewhat low key . The analogy with Chinese ping-pong diplomacy does not entirely hold up , for there have been contacts with Cuba all along , with a variety of congressmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That was not the case with China before the ping-pong players took to the tables . Castro not present Moreover , the Cubans are playing the affair somewhat casually . Dr. Castro himself may not be present . Ile is in Moscow the first part of the week , after winding up his three-week trip to Africa , and it is not clear whether he will be back in Havana before the basketball team leaves April 8 after three exhibition games . Since there are no direct air links between Havana and the U.S. , the South Dakota team is flying on a chartered 100-seat DC-9 jetliner . It left Sioux Falls , South Dakota , early April 4 with a stop in Washington to pick up Senator Abourezk , Rep. Aspin , Miami Dolphins owner Joe Robbie , and a handful of newsmen . Senator McGovern will travel to Cuba separately , joining the group April 5.                     