@@729802

txt A Federal judge ordered 23 companies in this area to halt production today after air pollution climbed to about twice the level at which a danger alert would be given . The order was the first injunction against polluters made . under the emergency provisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970 . It was sought by the Environmental Protection Agency after the companies allegedly ignored appeals from local health agencies to shut down voluntarily . A stagnant air mass that , hung persistently over most of the Eastern Seaboard brought advisories of potential pollution dangers to half a dozen areas , including the New York metropolitan area . The United States Steel Corporation , which employs 11,000 workers at three plants , said that several steps had been taken to reduce the problem . But a local health official contended that the efforts were token " housekeeping " measures , and that the ' concern had adamantly refused to curtail production . After the order was issued early today by Federal District , Judge Sam C. Pointer , U.S. , Steel announced that its open hearth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full capacity , a level a spo. - man said was the minimum that could be ob- ' tained without damaging the equipment or causing . a completely prolonged shutdown . The emergency was eased today as a cold front pushed into the Southeast , unsettling the stagnant high pressure mass that had settled over the area for the last week . The local air pollution count dropped to 410 this morning and rain was forecast for tomorrow , which would further cleanse the atmosphere . The National Weather Service in Birmingham issued an air stagnation alert on Monday when calm atmospheric condi : tions limited the vertical mixing of pollutants over the city . Dr. Douglas Ira Hammer of the E.P.A . testified that when suspended particulate levels of 1,000 micrograms per cubic meter exist for a 24-hour period an " imminent and substantial " danger to the public health would occur . He said an equal danger existed when counts of 700 or more prevailed in an area for two consecutive days . A hearing was scheduled in Judge Pointer 's court tomorrow to determine if conditions would permit an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pollution particulate count of soot and dust reached 771 micrograms per cubic meter of air on Tuesday and was recorded at 758 yesterday when the appeal was made to the E.P.A . to seek the temporary restraining order . No marked increase of respiratory ailments were reported in the Birmingham area , however . An air pollution alert is issued when the particle count reaches the 375 level . Dr. George Hardy , health officer for Jefferson County , said that by yesterday the 23 companies had been requested by telegram to curtail 60 per cent of their production . He said that the response from five major concerns , including U.S. Steel , had been " inadequate " and that the firms had only been willing to make minor ' ' housekeeping " cutbacks without interfering significantly with production . Asked at a news conference if he believed that U.S. Steel had acted in the public interest during the crisis , Dr. Hardy replied , " I would say certainly not . " A U.S. Steel spokesman challenged the allegation and contended that the operation of the company 's open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the day instead of in concentrated releases . In addition , he said , incinerators were turned off , open fires banned and the use of gas was substituted for coal as fuel for boilers . " We are certainly concerned with public health , and we are doing our part to eliminate this problem , " he said . It appeared during the day that little state or Federal legal apparatus existed to supervise strict compliance with the court order . The State of Alabama had passed an air pollution law this year that got high marks from national experts , but Gov . George C. Wallace took no action to appoint a state commission that would enforce its provisions until last Monday as public alarm grew over the smog-filled air suspended over this industrial city . The commission has yet to meet and appoint a director . Judge Pointer issued the restraining order after midnight , and United States marshals notified the industries of its specifications as workers reported at plants for the morning shift . By that time , westerly breezes were already breaking up the stagnant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reddish-brown band of haze that has hung over the city for the last week . Last April , the city experienced a similar pollution crisis . This led to state and Federal officials to call for tougher controls on local industry .                     