@@731079

txt President Nixon today scheduled a televised energy crisis address to the nation for tomorrow night in which informed sources say he plans to order the Sunday closing of all gasoline stations . Administration sources said the service stations would be directed to close each reeicend from 9 p. m . Saturday to . midnight Sunday as a move to discourage unnecessary driving and gasoline consumption . Nixon 's speech is scheduled for 6 p. in . Chicago time tomorrow . The closings were not expected to affect this weekend 's driving . THE PRESIDENT ALSO was expected to announce a cutback in the allocation of home heating oil . Sources said the aim is to reduce consumption of home heating oil in residences by 15 per cent , in commercial buildings by 25 per cent , and in industry by 10 per cent . But these sources said Nixon would not impose any direct rationing of gasoline or other fuels to the consumer and would not announce any new fuel taxes or price increases . Such measures reportedly are under consideration within the administration but have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take the following steps : ? Urge petroleum refineries to reduce their production of gasoline and increase their production of home heating oil , diesel and jet fuel , and residual oil ? the heavy fuel used by industry and power plants . ? Direct ' gasoline stations to close on Sundays . Channels 2. 5 , and 7 will televise President Nixon 's ap eech on the energy crisis live tonight at 6 p. m . Channel 9 will televise a videotape of the speech at 7:30 p. m . ? Cut back the distribution of home heating oil . ? Impose lower speed limits on interstate highways built with federal aid and asked the states to reduce speed limits as well . The President was expected to propose speed limits of 50 miles per hour for passenger cars and 55 m. p. h. for trucks and buses . ? Sign into law the mandatory petroleum allocation bill passed by Congress , requiring him to submit a comprehensive program for allocating , at the wholesale level , all petroleum fuels . At present propane gas , home heating oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and residual oils are not . ? Urge voluntary reduction of nonscheduled aircraft flights such as private flying , corporation flying and airtaxi service , as a bid to reduce the use of jet fuel . Scheduled airlines have already begun reducing their flights . ADMINISTRATIONsources said other measures were under consideration for early action but had not been decided today . They said the President might proceed soon to impose mandatory allocation of residual oil , the fuel facing the most immediate problems . An Interior Department study predicted that residual fuel supplies would become critically short as early as Dec. 3 unless corrective action is taken . Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton told newsmen last Wednesday that shortages of residual oil , if allowed to develop , could cause widespread electrical brownouts or even a series of blackouts , particularly in the New England or the Middle Atlantic states . The administration also may ask for voluntary redactions in decorative lighting , including Christmas lighting and commercial advertisement lighting except for signs needed to identify business establishments . All of these measures were discussed by a Cabinet-level Emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with John Love , top energy adviser , and domestic counselor Melvin Laird to make his decisions . WHILE THE photographers snapped away , Nixon kidded Laird , asking , " Where 's your sweater ? " Laird replied he did not need one because of Washington 's unusually mild weather this past week . Nixon then turned serious to comment , " You never know what is going to happen in December and January . " The weather has been on our side up to this point , but not enough to avoid some pretty tough , strong actions we are going to have to take . " Afterwards Nixon left the White House and returned to Camp David , his mountain retreat in Maryland 's Catoctin Mountains , to work on his speech .                     