@@729835

txt President Nixon today vetoed a bill for a two-year extension of the Office of Economic Opportunity , objecting primarily to a 52.1 billion child care program he said was laden with " fiscal irresponsibility , administrative , Mid by louse , 210.180 The measure was approved by the House Tuesday by a vote of 210 to 186 . Since then , the League of Women Voters has given its support to the bill . The league and 24 senators , including four Republicans , sent a letter to Nixon urging him to sign the bill . Conservatives have opposed the child care provisions on grounds they could result in MACLEAN I Pres. Servicel governmental takeover of child rearing responsibilities . The President urged Congress to pass an extension of the OEO Act and to create a legal services corporation as proposed by his administration . Nixon ticked off nine objections to the child care program , He said neither the need nor desirability of a national child care program has been dem . onstrated . He said his welfare reform legislation , pending before Congress , provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare mothers can take jobs . ' Ca n't Be Justified ' " The expenditure of 52 billion in a program whose effectiveness has yet to be demonstrated can not be justified , " Nixon said , and warned the cost eventually could reach $20 billion annually . Nixon said the legislation could have unknown effects on family relationships and might diminish parental authority during decisive early years of a child 's life . He said the legislation fails to say where the staff for child development centers might come from , and could lead to " a new army of burocrats . " " The states would be relegated to an insignificant role , " Nixon said , granting the power to initiate and control programs to the federal government to an " excessive measure . " uttout mammy , Mal 1 it 111 1 1 y weakening implications . " However , Nixon said , he I would have vetoed the bill even had it come to his desk without the child care provisions . In a ! five-page veto message , the I President attacked congressional action which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and which would have created a legal services corporation which he said would not be accountable to the American people . " The most deeply flawed provision of this legislation is ... child development programs , " Nixon said in the veto message .                     