@@734481

txt Letters LEO PFEFFERC.A . BODGERJUDITH GLAZER(Prol) RICHARD GOLDSTONEPETER R. KORNBLUH ... Letters NOW 's Troubling Opposition to a Mormon Judge To the Editor : Serious constitutional issues are raised in your Dec. 4 news story that the National Organization of Women has called upon the Federal Court of Appeals to disqualify Judge Marion Callister from hearing a case involving the proposed Equal Rights Amendment . NOW 's challenge is based on the fact that Judge Callister is a regional representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( Mormon ) , which vigorously opposed both the proposed amendment and any extension of the deadline for its adoption . Article VI of the United States Constitution declares that " no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States . " Literally , disqualification of a judge from hearing a particular case may not be disqualification from public office , although a liberal interpretation would dictate its inclusion in that term . Even if that is not so , it would constitute a disqualification from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Was John N. Cole " Giving Old Sol His Due " or more than his due in his Dec. 1 Op-Ed article ? Our sun is but one of thousands of stars in the Milky Way galaxy , hardly the " massive gravitational force that holds each celestial sphere of our galaxy in its proper orbit . " Our solar system maybe . but not our galaxy . C. A. BODGER New York , Dec. 1 , 1979 Time to Reverse A Dropout Trend To the Editor : The high dropout rate of 40,000 entering ninth graders in the public schools of New York City has ramifications for higher education in the city . This dropout trend , when combined with demographic data predicting a 25 percent decline in the traditional college-going population of 18- to 20-year-olds in the 1980 's , will result in a lower applicant pool for New York City 's colleges and universities . Retrieval centers may resolve the immediate problem of re-entry for these dropouts now , but for the long range , more creative solutions may be called for . The extensive resources and expertise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs of new student clienteles , to design programs to meet these needs and to train teachers to implement these programs . The vitality of New York City 's public schools is important to all city institutions , and a period of contraction may be an opportunity for more creative partnerships between higher and lower education for the benefit of students as well as institutions . JUDITH GLAZER New York , Dec. 6 , 1979 trust " that he will judge all cases before him fairly and without bias based upon his own religious beliefs . Although the opening words of the Bill of Rights forbid only Congress to make any law prohibiting the free exercise of religion , the Supreme Court has held in many cases that the prohibitions encompassed in the First Amendment apply no less to the official actions of the executive and judicial branches of government . The amendment 's religion clauses , the Court has held , were based on Jefferson 's Virginia Bill for Establishing Religious Freedom . That measure provided that no one shall " suffer on account of his religious opinions or beliefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and by argument to maintain their opinions in matters of religion , and that the same shall in no wise diminish , enlarge or affect their civil capacities . " Even the clause in the First Amendment forbidding laws respecting an establishment of religion would be vioTo the Editor : With respect to Queens Borough President Donald R. Manes 's eloquent plea for establishing a law school at Queens College ( letter Nov. 30 ) , may I , as a New York City resident and a teacher in the Harlem community , respond to what looks suspiciously like old-fashioned pork-barreling . Mr. Manes disingenuously writes : " The creation of a law school which , while physically located at Queens College , would serve the entire city would greatly and efficiently raise the ' respect and prestige of the entire City University system . " Why in Queens ? Why at a campus which can be reached only by a single IND line plus a bus ride ? The majority of potential students , specifically residents of large sections of Brooklyn , Manhattan 's Upper East Side ( including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would live one to two hours away from the school . Moreover , Mr. Manes envisages the Queens law school as a boon to the Queens middle class . What law school facility does he propose for the sons and daughters of working-class people To the Editor : It seems strange that in the midst of a crisis of international terrorism in Iran the United States has quietly let the perpetrator of terrorism and assassination in Washington ? the Chilean military Government ? off the hook . The recently announced sanctions against the Pinochet regime for its refusal to turn over three DINA agents indicted in the 1976 car-bombing deaths of Chilean exile Orlando Letelier and a U.S. citizen , Ronni K. Moffitt , are pitifully lacking in substance . It is clear that General Pinochet has gotten away with murder . The measures decided on by President Carter are only symbolic and will in no way " punish " the Chileans . The cut-off Export-Import Bank loans and insurance by the Overseas Private Investment Corporation ( OPIC ) are gratuitous gestures . The Ex-Im bank has been severely retricted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic and military assistance to the Pinochet regime ( for gross violations of human rights ) in 1976 ; OPIC has not extended any loans or political risk insurance to Chile since 1970 . And surely the Chileans will not be bothered by the cutback in embassy military staff lated were Judge Callister to be disqualitied by reason of the fact that he is a member or an official of the Mormon Church . The Supreme Court has interpreted that prohibition to encompass actions whose primary effect is the inhibition of religion , or which prefer some religions over others , or influence a person to go to or remain away from church , or punish him for entertaining or professing religious beliefs . The consequences of a determination disqualifying Judge Callister are disturbing . It could justify disqualifying Evangelical Protestant judges from deciding cases challenging the constitutionality of laws barring the teaching of evolution in the public schools , Catholic judges from cases involving aid to parochial schools and Jewish judges from prosecutions for violations of Sunday laws . LEO PFEFFER Professor of Constitutional Law Long Island University Brooklyn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's other boroughs ? If the City University is to establish a law school , ought it not be placed , like the 42d Street Library or the city 's financial district , in an area easily accessible to all classes from all boroughs ? I admire Queens College as one of the City University 's excellent liberal arts institutions . I hope that it will initiate a program of urban and legal studies ( like that at City College ) which will prepare students for advanced placement in cooperating law schools . But to discriminate against the other four boroughs by situating a publicly supported law school so far from a central New York City location would exacerbate a certain suspicion . The suspicion would be that the hassle of getting to and from Fresh Meadows , Queens , is incorporated as a device to discourage attendance by those qualified students who most need a low-cost law school of unimpeachably high standards . ( Prof. ) RICHARD GOLDSTONE Faculty Ombudsman , City College Ned York , Dec. 3 , 1979 or the suspension of $6.6 million of military spare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lending them all the capital they need to continue their ruthless tactics ? The mild nature of these sanctions is clearly not commensurate with the gravity of the crime committed in this nation 's capital , nor do they show the President 's resolve to " make clear , both to the Government of Chile and to others throughout the world , that such acts of terrorism can not be tolerated . " If President Carter had been sincere in his commitment to defend this country against international terrorism he would have told the Pinochet regime in no uncertain terms that this country will not tolerate having its citizens and guests brutally murdered by foreign agents . To do this , he would have to cut off the lifeline of the Chilean Government : suspend all private bank loans to Chile and suspend all diplomatic ties to that country . As it stands now , the Carter Administration has kowtowed to the Chilean dictatorship and failed to demonstrate that the safety of residents of the United States against terrorism is worth a confrontation with corporate banking interests . PETER R. KORNBLUH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CUNY Law School Carter 's Mild Response to Chilean Murder The U.S. Role ? and Solution ? in Iran 's 1950 's Crisis To the Editor : In his Dec. 5 letter , Prof. Charles Issawi provides a superb example of academic deceit . He argues that " when Iran was in great economic straits , following the nationalization of the oil industry in 1951 , the U.S. extended $1 billion in economic aid and a considerable amount of military assistance . " Not only is his figure in error , but the implication ? that the U.S. Government provided extensive support for the Iranian Government during the 1951-1953 oil-nationalization crisis ? is entirely fallacious . After Mohammed Mossadegh nationalized oil in 1951 , official American policy reflected two conflicting consid-erations : ? The United States did not wish to encourage a trend of nationalization in the world that would be harmful to the American oil corporations or to other American business interests , and furthermore , America desired not to incur Britain 's wrath ( Britain initiated the oil boycott that was causing Iran 's economic crisis ) since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communism . ? Many Americans recognized that nationalization was an authentic popular response to a case of extraordinary exploitation ( in 1947 , the British Government received more than two and a half times as much revenue than the Iranian Government from the Iranian petroleum industry ) , and the American Government hesitated to oppose The Times welcomes letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters . directly the Mossadegh Government for fear that Mossadegh would turn to the Soviet Union for assistance or that alignment with Britain would increase support for the Tudeh ( Communist ) Party within Iran . To accommodate these two considerations , the United States Government decided to grant the Iranian Government enough aid to keep it from collapsing , but not enough to reduce pressure on the Iranian Government to reach a settlement with the AngloIranian Oil Company . American Point IV aid was increased from $1.6 million in 1951 to $23.4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mossadegh requested a $120 million U.S. loan , Truman replied that the United States would not lend any funds because Iran could obtain funds by resolving the oil crisis . Furthermore , the U.S. Government supported the decision of the American oil companies not to undertake oil operations in Iran , thus supporting the British boycott . And on June 29 , 1953 , the United States terminated Point IV assistance . American policy , therefore , rather than supporting Mossadegh 's Government , helped perpetuate Iran 's economic crisis and thus supported British efforts to re-establish control over Iran 's petroleum industry . As Iran 's economic crisis continued , domestic unrest grew , and Mossadegh , who refused to capitulate on the principle of Iranian control over Iranian resources , felt intensive pressure to resolve the crisis . Finally , in May 1953 , he played his last card by warning the United States that , unless Iran received additional financial aid , Iran would be forced to seek aid elsewhere . The United States , finding both greater American support and the possibility of Soviet aid untenable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ d'etat to restore power to Mohammed Riza Pahlevi , who ? as Kissinger stresses with pride ? proved to be a great friend of American interests . JEFFREY A. MERKLEY New York , Dec. 5 , 1979                     