@@732640

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the . Editor Securities Markets and Computers Co the Editor : In your recent editorial . " Competing br Shares , " you suggest that " tangible ienefits of cost and efficiency " Could iccrue to securities customers by re , lacing stock exchange specialists and loor brokers with a computer . As a lata-processing technician who has ; pent a considerable amount of time studying this question , I must take ssue with the view that a computer : an perform all the functions and activities of the present professional participants . A computer , while working at in:redible speed , can only respond to the nstructions of its programmers and it : cannot take even the simplest step without these precise directions . Consequently it can apply no test of reasonableness unless that test has been , reviously specified and programmed . For a computer to do the kind of job orou contemplate the programmers would have to identify every conceivable alternative and permutation that night confront it and develop a fixed ; et of instructions for dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment suggested by your editorial , it would be necessary to inalyze and build instructions not only for thousands of different routine sitnitions , but also for such unusual developments as major national news , special actions by individual compa'Abused ' Land Owners To the Editor : How kind of you to mention , in " Kill That Dam ! " editorial Aug. 21 , the victims of this memorable blunder , the paralyzed residents . But you do n't know the half of it . In July 1974 , after three years of appraisals by the Corps of Engineers , my land was condemned . Before the filing of the documents , the Corps reneged , although they had both the funds and the authority to consumate the transaction on " moral obligation " grounds . Since then , neighboring homes have been moved or demolished and the . remaining wreckage is a haven for drifters and misfits . Surviving residents are exposed to increased incidents of arson , looting and vandalism . we can not sell our land ; we can not develop it ; we can not move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bought in anticipation of the inevitable move . We are the prisoners of Congress , enemies of our Government , whose lives have been To the Editor : Your Aug. 4 editorial " Public Trust " is a timely criticism of wrongdoing in high office . But your call for " quick " action by the House on financial disclosure legislation , and your comment that the Senate 's " Watergate " reform bill ( S.495 ) differs only in detail from the House bills , overlooks grave dangers in both approaches . The evil of corrupt public officials will not be overcome by compelling 35,000 to 100,000 career Federal employees to expose their families , selves and homes to potential burglars , and kidnappers , who would have lawful access to the facts about employee family assets . The legislation you urge would put our property on the public record whether or not its source or ownership has any rational nexus with our job . There is no basis for the inference of a connection between preventing public officials from acting improperly and the opening of senior employees ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the streets and make fortresses of our homes . President Ford has suggested that disclosure be limited to elected and high-ranking policy officials ; but he would exempt those in the competitive service . His suggestion deserves consideration in order to attract and retain a talented civil service . Who will protect our children and nies , major imbalances of buying and selling interests , communications breakdowns , etc . In today 's markets , all of these situations are addressed by the collective judgment of the professional participants . Important improvements can and should be made in the securities industry 's ability to handle and communicate trading information ; but great care must also be taken not to dismiss the entire complement of those whose skills and judgment continue to be among the key elements of the existing market centers . The data-processing industry has been justifiably criticized in the past for being too ambitious in applying its systems expertise to non-routine tasks . In many of these cases , after great expense no significant cost savings were realized and the quality of service was not improved . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market data-processing system that would be one of the most complex and expensive installations anywhere , it is not the policymakers who are  --  to use your term ? " skittish , " but the data-processing people who have carefully studied and analyzed the problem . ROBERT C. HALL Chairman and President Securities Industry Automation Corp . New York , Aug. 4 , 1976 just as effectively , if not as brutally , disrupted as those highly visible Asians for whom our politicians bleed so profusely . We are truly second-class citizens , abused by the brutal and arrogant Corps of Engineers and ignored by Congress . I did not know that my Government had been given the right to destroy the value of my property and disrupt my life indefinitely because of a change in plans . I 've waited half my life under the shadow of this accursed project . How much longer , Government of the People , by the People and for the People ? R. G. HUBER Layton , N. J. , Aug. 4 , 1976 ? Ford for Vice President To the Editor : As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle made less confusing for the voters and be based on more real social , eco ? nomic and political issues , I would , re ? spectfully , like to make a suggestion to Governor Reagan in the event he is nominated for the Presidency by the Republican convention , and in the event . of an open convention , to its delegates . Instead of Senator Schweiker , Reagan should nominate to the convention as his candidate for Vice President ( or the delegates can vote for ) a person who has some experience in the Vice Presidency  --  and the Presidency , Gerald R. Ford . The people then could make their choice on the basis of a fairly consistent record in the State House , the Congress and the Presidency , in addition to whatever new issues might be developed during the campaign . Devoted as he says he is to democracy and the public good , I imagine President Ford would be humble enough to accept the nomination . JOSEPH P. MCMURRAY . Washington , Aug. 7 , 1976 Immigration and Jobs To the Editor : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tanton , President , Zero Population Growth , I feel compelled to note some factual misunderstandings arid make some general observations . Mr. Tanton 's criticism of the American immigration laws as undermining any federally subsidized employment program is not correct . His assumption that " the average immigrant age is in the early twenties " and citing 200,000 of the 400,000 annual immigrants as entering the labor market is also inaccurate . Despite these figures , the letter leaves the assumption that all such immigrants would be performing tasks which are readily able to lie filled by available American workers seeking employment in such fields . The immigration laws have been meticulously construed to prevent entry of such workers , except in ? ? t limited situation , such as having close relatives or proving to the Government 's satisfaction , that they will not be gainfully employed or will invest a substantial amount of capital ' to create , not to displace , employment ( the requirements for these exceptions to the general law , that specialized skills are needed , are stringently construed ) . The U.S. Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which require certification that an American worker is not available , that the prevailing wage is being met , etc. with all statistical data from the BJ , I7 reau of Labor statistics and local information at their disposal for verification . A shortage of physicians , tool and die makers , diamond polishers , etc. would be compounded severely , were immigration to be curtailed . The concept of the Oct. 3 , 1965 Immigration and Nationality Act , SA amended , is selectively to encourage immigration of skilled or professional workers . In our bicentennial. year , 74't behooves us to appreciate ' the torical benefits conferred upon America by immigrant workers . lin : fortunately , for political reasons , for agency staff-funding public relations reasons , for labor union publicity , etc : , the truth about the immigration laws and policies is often distorted to the public . ALAN A. MENDEL New York , Aug. 5 , 1976 ? The Uncertain Payoff To the Editor : It is obvious from Dr. Hoffman 's Aug. 5 letter that he is not a betting man otherwise he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : winners to accept their winnings in M.A.C . bonds . Horse players not only need their principal for future bets , but frequently bet winnings also as means of doubling up . Another consideration is that although playing the horses is n't a sure bet , picking the winning horse is a sure payoff . The doctor does n't realize what he is recommending inadvertently , because careful observation will show that M.A.C . bonds are the results of gam-. bling , but one that did n't pay off . : - STANLEY EGELBEM Eastchester , N.Y. , Aug. 6 , 1976 ? Green Polar Bear To the Editor : I was visiting New York this week and I went to the Central Park zoo I went to see my favorite animal , the polar bear . It is not easy being green , especiallk if you are a polar bear . Ca n't you help him ? MARY WHITEMAN Shaker Heights , Ohio , Aug. 7 , 1976 ? ? . - Dangers ' in Fighting Corruption our homes ? As to material aspects alone insurance is of little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burglary victims . Nor are current disclosure rules for executive branch personnel operative only when , as you suggest in the case of members of Congress , a congressional committee Is pressured to investigate .. There has long been a financial disclosure requirement in the Executive Branch intended to provide anonymity short of prosecution . If any legislation is to be enacted . Congress should adopt S. 495 , which excludes from the requirement for disclosure so much of otherwise reportable assets and transactions which are the sole property of other family members and which were not derived through the reporting employee . The Senate 's exclusion of household furnishings , automobiles , etc. , avoids unnecessary public exposure . Reports should be exposed only to those who adequately evidence their identity . The Federal employee whose report is examined should be promptly informed . Legislation calling for cataloguing all or substantial assets would expose us to the peril of some mistake thereby inviting perjury charges for having undervalued or overlooked an asset or two or more . NAME WITHHELD Washington , Aug. 9 , 1976 ? Social Democrats Merger To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the editor " clarifying " a Times re= port on Social Democrats , U.S.A. ? aa an occasion to rewrite history and distort the truth . Thomas P. Ronan , in his story on our national convention , did not " arbitrate a political dispute " but simply reported what was true : namely , that Social Democrats , U.S.A. is the official successor organization to the Socialist Party of Eugene V. Debs , Morris Hillquit , and Norman Thomas . Mr. mentions two groups which split from Social Democrats , U.S.A. after the delegates to the 1972 convention , by a vote , ' Of more than two to one , decided . p change the name of the organization : What he neglected to mention ' is that the present organization is the result of a merger of the Socialist Party with the Democratic Socialist Federation , a reunification which marked the end of the historic split in the democratic socialist movement which took place in 1936 . He also conveniently omits the fact that Social Democrats , U.S.A. is the official American member party in the Socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socialist , social democrallp and labor parties , in the world are affiliated . Mr. Ronan could hardly arbitrate a dispute that has already been decided . The convention which was the subject of The Times 's story was a sign of the dramatic growth of the social democratic movement in this country ' . At the present time Social Democrats , U.S.A. has a more significant influence on the course of American politics and labor than any socialist organization has had in many decades . This can , be deduced as much from the criticism of our opponents as from the praline of our friends . In that sense , and only that sense , Mr. ' gratuitous polemic against Social Democrats , U.S.A. sheds some light on the state of the American social democracy. - CARL GERSHMM'l Executive Director , octal Democrats New York , Aug. 2 , 197 ?                     