@@731920

txt After several years of effort , Congress this year is expected to pass a bill that aims to ensure the safety of American children at stammer camps . The bill would provide financial assistance to states establishing strict standards which include training counselors in sensitive jobs , such as swimming instruction , lifeguards , and guiding on exploration trips ; and minimum sanitation requirements . Congressional advocates stress that many American summer camps select their staffs carefully , and see that persons with positions relating to safety are properly trained . " On the whole , camps belonging to the American Camping Association are pretty good , " says a congressional source . What concerns proponents is that in their opinion some small , newer camps sometimes do not check with sufficient care into the background and training of counselors in key safety positions ? such as lifeguards , and guides who take children on wilderness " survival " jaunts , and trips down fast-flowing rivers . Under the measures Congress now is considering , federal standards could take effect if states did not set sufficiently strict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer camps // recent years , however , several states ? including Connecticut , Michigan , and New York ? already have begun to require strict standards in their summer camps , after years in which many states had no laws relating to camp safety . Both proponents and some opponents cite a study done by the U.S. Department of Health , Education , and Welfare to support their positions . HEW sent a questionnaire to 8,000 camps following the 1973 summer season , and received some 3,500 replies . In the camps that replied it found that 25 campers were killed that year , 1,448 injured , and 1,223 became seriously ill . Some opponents say these figures show how relatively safe today 's camps are . Advocates argue otherwise . For one thing , they say that 4,500 camps did not answer the questionnaire ? thus the national totals must be higher than those found in the questionnaire . Additionally proponents take the view of Sen. Abraham Ribicoff , ( D ) of Connecticut , sponsor of the Senate bill . He argues that many accidents , illnesses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent emergencies , or to know how to respond correctly to them . The bill would authorize $7.5 million a year in federal funds to help the states establish their standards , and to set forth minimum federal standards . Supporters of the proposal envision such additional standards as : ? Having a dietician plan meals . ? Having a medical nurse or physician , or a Christian Science practitioner , either on duty or on call at all times . ? Establishing standards for safe transportation of children ? no more carting youngsters in trucks , as occasionally is done at some camps .                     