@@732354

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Of Doctors , Competence and the Limits of Professional Review To the Editor : The recent Times series on the problem of incompetent doctors has concentrated public attention on a real and perplexing problem . The Medical Society of the County of New York is concerned , however , that the end effect of the articles could be to frighten rather than educate and to produce public agitation lather than remedial legislation . Your Week in Review summary of Gena Freschet Feb. 1 , states : " Most of the country 's doctors are thought to be relatively competent and conscientious . . . Why should medical care vary so enormously from one area to another ? from one hospital to another  --  from one doctor to another ? Can this be explained by 5 percent unfit physi-cians ? " The answer to this question , as well as how best to deal with the mentally ill , alcoholic or addicted physician , is not immediately clear . Our medical society is making every effort to address the larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as to discover , report and eradicate the inept and impaired practitioner . Using the services of 100 volunteer physicians , our peer review , grievance and disciplinary committees investigated over 1,000 complaints against Manhattan doctors in. the past year . Most were minor disputes between patient and doctor or insurance carriers and were resolved amicably . However , on numerous occasions we have turned over the results of our investigations to state agencies for official disciplinary action . At present , over twenty cases recently referred by us are in the " open " files of the State Education Department or the new Board of Professional Medical Conduct . By law , it is at this point that our action must cease . We realize our limitations as defined by the law and The Concorde - Set To the Editor : Notwithstanding the well-reasoned and manifestly fair opinion by Mr. Coleman about the Concorde , I take issue with one aspect of it . He claims , " It will enable us to evaluate whether SST is commercially viable , whether the consumer is willing to pay the additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument is unconvincing as it is premised on theoretical grounds removed from reality . Reality indicates that the " consumer " will , for the most part , be corporate executives whose travel expenses are tax-deductible or Governmental employees who care little for competitive values . ( After all , the taxpayers are paying their fare . ) Congressional junketeers will most assuredly he among the first passengers . This , then , is not a question of whether the " consumer " is willing to pay the additional fare ; it is a question of much more . The taxpayer is forced to pay for the privileged few . LLOYD HAUSER New York , Feb. 5 , 1976 ? Co-op City Impasse To the Editor : While tenant strike leader Charles Rosen fiddles and N.Y.C. Housing Administrator Roger Starr faddles , the residents of Co-op City burn . The fact of the matter is that the world-acclaimed , publicly designed middle-class housing development may become transformed into a wasteland unless the strike is swiftly brought to a satisfactory conclusion . Given the present impasse between the cooperators and the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert Wagner or Bess Meyerson , should he brought in to help resolve the dispute . The refrain " No way we wo n't pay ! " is unhappily changing to " No way we wo n't stay . " BERNARD GREENSPAN Bronx , Feb. 6 , 1976 have urged legislation which would permit our profession to suspend sick or dangerous doctors pending treatment or the result of official state investigation . We believe that , armed with this power , we can effectively " clean our own house . " Our society is working with the Federal Government , through our professional standards and review organization ( P.S.R.O. ) , our county and state peer review structure , hospital authorities and insurance carriers to elevate the quality of medical care . We depend on the support of the press for thoughtful assessment of the remedies as well as the illness behind the headlines . IVAN L. BENNETT JR. , M.D. President , Medical Society of the County of New York New York , Feb. 4 , 1976 ? To the Editor : I wish to congratulate you on your series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that your readers read the entire articles rather than limit themselves to the alarmist first few paragraphs . I am writing to alert you to a danger to medical practice : The " affirmative action " programs which have substituted sex , ethnic and racial quotas for more relevant criteria for admission to medical schools and postgraduate programs are resulting in an increase in unqualified physicians . Students are being accepted who are not qualified to study medicine , grades are manipulated to pass such students and , colleagues inform me , state licensing boards have been alerted that issued licenses must reflect the population make-up ratios , a clear mandate to substitute other criteria for competence . There are ways of increasing opportunities for underprivileged and otherwise excluded members of our society without lowering professional standards . EDITH T. SHAPIRO , M.D. Clinical Assoc . Prof. , Psychiatry New Jersey Medical School Englewood , N. J. , Jan. 27 , 1976 ? To the Editor : As one who has some understanding of the problems of both physicians and patients -- I am a layman who works close to the medical profession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served by your series of articles on physicians ' inadequacies and incompetence . Certainly there is a need for the public to be better educated about health matters , including knowledge of what to expect of a physician and what questions to ask . There is also a need for physicians to learn to make their patients partners in their health care and impart proper information to them . I am glad that these points To the Editor : As one who has thought highly of Senator Jackson for over twenty years , I was distressed to read of his proposal to limit the power of the Federal courts to desegregate schools . The proposal presents a viewpoint which is inimical to the rule of law , to the Constitution and to what Gunnar Myrdal described in " An American Dilemma " as the American Creed of equal rights for all Americans . Busing is a means of last resort which courts require only when they must to eliminate constitutional violations . Although few  --  black or white ? particularly like it , no one has yet proposed a workable plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can , the country will be in his debt . District Court judges who order busing to desegregate schools are doing what the Constitution and the decisions of the Supreme Court require of them . They did not write the Constitution , or the Supreme Court 's decisions that they must follow . What good would be accomplished by Senator Jackson 's proposal for a three-judge District Court ? That court , too , would be obliged to follow the Constitution and the decisions of the Supreme Court . There is already a three-judge Court of Appeals , whose decisions may be reviewed by a Supreme Court of nine justices . This country has endured a traumatic time recently because it respected the rule of law . Respect for the rule of law is required in connection with school desegregation also . Too often we get politics-as-usual from our leaders , where they would better serve the nation by urging respect for the law . We need a leader to bring us back from unemployment , and the deep divisions of the war and the Nixon years , but not at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the were finally brought out in the last article . The Times could have done a great service had it chosen to emphasize this need for communication . By choosing to emphasize examples of glaring inadequacy and incompetence , it can , I feel , only add to the already great distrust between physicians and the lay public . A vicious cycle has been created : This distrust is certainly a factor in the malpractice situation , and the threat of malpractice suits makes some physicians practice hdefensive " medicine , calling for more diagnostic tests than may be Warranted , performing surgery in cases aseS in which a " watch and wait " attitilde would previously have been perfectly good medical practice . The issues in health care today are complex , and better understandie  --  is needed ; physicians and patients shouts ' not be viewing each other as ads. ; 4rsaries once the doctor-patient relatAn has been established . DORIS E. Fmas New York , Jan. 30 , Tb76 ? To the Editor : I feel that your series on incompetent doctors was excellent . I hope:that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumers ? - to realize the critical role they must iSlity in their health care . I am convinced that a well-informed and confident consumer is the most powerful catalyst to turn around so many of ths problems that were raised in series . PETER M. liens Director , Health Education Project New Jersey Medical School Newark , Feb. 4 , 1976 ? To the Editor : Your article on the reluctancelsOf physicians to report errant colleagues accurately describes an important issue . One problem is the lack of method for disciplining doctors without destroying them . I recently saw a man of medincre skill make a lazy error which led to a death . Having seen this man treat dozens of patients adequately , I had no desire to threaten his license Or to subject him to a major malpraNce suit . I also know that I may make a mistake myself some day . So I did nothing . Physicians simply will not move against their colleagues , except in extreme cases , until some method of discipline is devised which is based on graduated degrees of punishment , rush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of practice under supervision . The present situation keeps us silent because it demands an all-or-nothing response . WILLIAM L. Clovis , ' M.D. Asst . Clinical Prof. of Psychiatry Hahnemann Medical College Philadelphia , Jan. 29 , " 1976 American ideal of equal rights so eloquently described by Dr. Myrdal , and Abraham Lincoln and George Washington before him . I would urge Senator Jackson to read " Simple Justice , " a book by Richard Kluges , which eloquently records the legal struggle ror equal rights from the Civil War to the mid1950 's . It helps put things in perspective . Maybe if he read " Simple Justice " he would reconsider and conclude that he would serve the nation better , to lead it to stop talking about busing and start talking about the Constitution and equal rights . If Senator Jackson can eliminate or reduce busing , without impairing constitutional rights , that would be an act of statesmanship worthy of him . His current proposal to limit the power of the Federal courts to restore constitutional rights is reminiscent of post-Reconstruction efforts to nullify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston , Jan. 29 , 1976 The writer is an attorney for the plaintiffs in a pending school desegregation case . ? The Confiscators To the Editor : There is no disagreement among economists that one of the major causes of inflation is excessive Government spending with an accompanying increase in the national debt . But as the real value of the dollar has been cut in half in the past five or six years , so has the real obligation represented by the Government dMn , been cut in half , and so has the real value of the citizens ' savings been L'ut in half . Thus , it is an illusion that the Government is spending money it does not have by means of borrowing . It ; is spending the citizens ' money in what ultimately amounts to a numbers game . Can someone explain to me in this Bicentennial year why one of our honest and perspicacious Founding Fathers , having been brought hack for a few hours and advised of the Pertinent facts and figures , would not indignantly declare this to be an unconstitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jan. 26 , 1976                     