@@733215

txt Letters Letters Toward ' Pragmatic ' Sentencing Guidelines To the Editor : This letter is prompted by Senator Kennedy 's July 29 Op-Ed article about sentencing guidelines to be established by a commission . We hope that careful consideration will be given to a study financed by the National Institute of Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice of the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration , entitled " Sentencing Guidelines : Structuring Judicial Discretion . " This resulted in the " Final Report of the Feasibility Study " of October 1976 . The committee which participated in the study consisted of a statistician , technical experts and judges from various parts of the country , among whom we were included . The report sets forth a technique making use of well-established mathematical and statistical methods , with computer assistance , for determining the central tendencies of sentencing decisions of judges in a given jurisdicdiction . In the language of the final report , it is " descriptive " of what the judges have done ; it does not purport to prescribe what judges shall do in their sentencing decisions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relative gravity of the offense and the personal characteristics of the offender , including his criminal record and his social stability , for the purpose of constructing relatively simple matrices which describe the median sentences imposed for offenses of certain gravity and offenders having characteristics simiTo the Editor : In contrast to the reporting from your London Bureau , Mr. Goldston 's Aug. 4 letter reminds me of the nodoubt-apocryphal story of the American foreign correspondent who begins a dispatch with the words : " It is difficult to exaggerate the gravity of the situation here ; but I shall do my best . " The social contract is not evidence of conflict in British society but of its inherent stability . Britain , in common with all other energy importers , has faced an unprecedented situation since 1974 . The British people responded by accepting severe voluntary wage restraint , unprecedented in any industrial society in times of peace : Real income fell by 6 percent in the 12 months from July 1976 to July 1977 . We have had the tightest control on public expenditure since the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a strategy for the regeneration of industry . At the same time we have had the lowest incidence of strikes for a decade . In all but one of the years of 1966 to 1974 our strike record is better than that of the United States . There are formidable problems ahead for all of us  --  the United States as well as Britain  --  and indeed for all but a handful of industrialized and developing countries . But , the evidence of the past couple of years surely indicates how unlikely Britons are to abandon their traditional moderation in favor of more extreme courses : Eurocommunism , for instance , has taken no hold in Britain . And while North Sea oil will not solve all our problems , it will radically alter  --  for the better  --  the context in which they will have to be tackled . To be self-sufficient in energy , as we will be by 1980 , may not be everything , but it is a new dimension in our affairs which favors the optimists rather than the pessimists . Certainly this seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration . These results can be used by the judge as an aid to his . sentencing decision . One merit of this ' technique is that it makes available for the sentencing judge an overview of the collective experience of judges in his vicinage . It shows what has been done in real life with real defendants . It is pragmatic , rather than theoof the overseas investors who placed over $2 billion into Britain from 1974 to 1976 . LAURENCE 01KgEFFE Director General " British Information Services New York , Aug. 5 , 1977 On Producing Tobacco To the Editor : Your editorial of Aug. 1 favored ending the U.S. Department of Agriculture 's tobacco program because , you said , it encourages the , growth of a substance deemed harmful . However one views the tobacco/ health controversy , your editorial is flawed by a misstatement of fact : The Government program does not encourage the growth of tobacco , it discourages it . You failed to point omit that farmers , in order to receive minimum leaf price guarantees , must adhere to acreage and poundage quota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debates on illadvised propositions to end the Government program , one result would be a substantial increase in tobacco production , accompanied , no doubt , by decreased prices and therefore a larger consumer market . WILLIAM KLOEPFER JR . Senior Vice President The Tobacco Institute Washington , Aug. 3 , 1977 From the Editor : It strikes us as peculiar public policy to help the producers of a harmful crop to increase their profits and stay in business . If price supports can be justified at all , it would only be as a way of assisting growers who agree to further drastic limits on their production . An end of price supports would force marginal growers out of business and perhaps encourage others to turn to alternative crops . retical . It has the advantage of reflecting what was done by those with direct responsibility for imposing sentences . Guidelines ' formulated by experts , however well qualified , who have not had the practical experience of sentencing can not have the same significance . Sentencing is not something which can be reduced to scien Lift certainty in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judges is a solid factor which should be used as a basis for sentencing decisions . The sentencing disparities to whit.n Senator Kennedy refers , documented by many studies , is the result in substantial part of the differences among judges themselves . It has been shown that the severity of a judge 's sentence often depends upon his social background . Additionally , a judge may not be consistent in his sentencing because of variations in his psychological state from day to day . It is our conviction that use of the technique formulated by the study to which we have referred will tend to diminish these differences and should help to remedy the evil of sentencing disparity . Sentencing guidelines formulated in the manner described are already in use in the State of Colorado and Cook County , Illinois , to the satisfaction of the judges there . We sit in Essex County , New Jersey , where sentencing guidelines have been implemented with the assistance of a grant from L.E.A.A. The administrative office of the Courts of . the State of New Jersey is conducting a study for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is our hope that proponents of the Kennedy-Rodino Bill will pay serious attention to this method . wuctee ) LEO TANOrT ( Judge ) JOHN A. MARZUI.LI Newark , July 29 , 1977 ? Preserve the Differences ' To the Editor : Senator Kennedy is justified in calling criminal sentencing a national scandal Op-Ed July 29 . He complains about disparity in sentences , and the fact that parole commissions actually determine a prisoner 's release . Unfortunately , the Senator 's cure is worse than the disease . According to his suggestion , the sentences , though imposed by judges , would actually be the product of sentencing commissions . They would have fixed " narrow range of sentencing guidelines . " At least judges know the facts of the individual case before them . At least judges know the background of the individual defendant before the court . At least parole commissions know those facts and also know the response of the individual while in confinement . The sentencing commissions , from afar , can only compile statistics and opinions and feed them through a computer . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Start by picking good judges . Give them adequate supportive court and probation personnel . Give them calendars that do not crush them with impossible numbers of cases . Inappropriate disparities in sentences ? Deal with them ! Create multijudge sentencing panels . Allow appeals thereto ? by either side . Give those panels the authority either to reduce or increase the sentence under appeal . Sentences will always vary . No two cases are identical . We should strive to preserve the differences in sentences . We should strive to make sentences fit the crime , the criminal and the needs of society . BERNARD MOLDOW New York , Aug. 1 , 1977 The writer is a City Criminal Court judge . rA " ,  - -  71 1111111 ? 1fr.i r1 ii ** 1 Of Britain 's Economy and Britain 's Stability Moscow Book Fair : ' To Intensify Cultural Exchanges With the West ' To the Editor : On July 11 , The Times published an editorial which called for a boycott of the First International Book Fair in Moscow . As one of the participants in the preparations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share my reaction to this editorial with your readers . The First International Book Fair , to be held Sept. 6 to 14 , is a cultural event of worldwide significance , featuring " books for peace and progress " as its main theme . Thus far , over 1,200 publishers , from most countries of the world , including the U.S. , have registered to participate . The fair has attracted the interest of the Soviet public as well as that of non-Soviet publishers , who will not only exhibit their publications but sell them , sell rights to translate such publications into foreign languages and buy similar rights from other publishers . It is quite evident that this international book fair , a new experience for Moscow , demonstrates a desire on the part of the Soviet Union to intensify cultural exchanges with the West and to adhere firmly to the principles and goals enunciated in various international covenants , including those promulgated at Helsinki . And now The Times rather bluntly condemns American publishers who plan to exhibit in Moscow , almost implying ? that their participation betrays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of your editorial writers dusted off some worn-out cliches that were in vogue during the bygone days of ' the cold war , when cultural exchanges were just about nonexistent . Resurrecting Some language and concepts borrowed from political extremists , your newspaper attempts to justify its outdated views by focusing on certain restrictions and limitations on the type of printed matter which publishers may wish to exhibit in Moscow . Yes , there will be some restrictions and limitations in Moscow . Publishers will have to refrain from exhibiting books and periodicals which advocate war , promote racism , offend the national dignity of other exhibitors and display poor taste that is incompatible with public morality . While reflecting Soviet legislation , the laws of the host country , such limitations are nevertheless in full accord with major international agreements and resolutions intended to outlaw war , eliminate racism and stamp out the proliferation of smut and pornography . Moreover , these limitations are by no means unique . Are there no restrictions at the publishing industry 's principal annual events , the international book fair in Frankfurt , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution or import is forbidden under laws in force in the Federal Republic of Germany " ? Were there no limitations on the type of printed matter which could be freely displayed at the international book fairs in Montreal , Cairo , etc. ? Indeed , there were ; It is most disappointing that you resort to a moralizing tone and rhetoric in your editorial , which , to say the least , grossly failed to meet the test of sober objectivity . LEV N. MITROKHIN First Secretary , Embassy of the U.S.S.R. Washington , Aug. 3 , 1977                     