@@728618

txt Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird said today that both United States and South Vietnamese forces had made brief incursions into Laos on specific , limited missions in the past , but he insisted that no Americans were engaged in ground combat on Laotian territory now . Mr. Laird 's comments were made to the disarmament subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Mr. Laird had been scheduled to testify on the Safeguard anti-missile system , but he quickly came under questioning about a statement attributed yesterday in Indonesia to South Vietnam 's Foreign Minister , Tran Van Lam . In an interview with The Los Angeles Times , Mr. Lam reportedly said that his country 's troops had struck at the Ho Chi Minh Trail of enemy supply lines in Laos and that these operations were continuing Misquotation Charged Spokesmen for the White House and the State Department refused to discuss this statement . In Saigon , the Foreign Ministry insisted that Mr. Lam had been misquoted and said he himself had " denied having told anyone that South Vietnamese armed forces have entered Laos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate subcommittee appeared to be paralleled by an interview that Mr. Lam granted today in Jakarta to The New York Times . Mr. Lam said that both South Vietnamese and American troops had been crossing the Laotian border from South Vietnam in " hot pursuit " of the enemy for several years . Mr. Laird told the senators // that he was not familiar with Mr. Lam 's statement yesterday and said that as far as he knew the South Vietnamese Army obeyed the same guidelines as the United States forces , which would confine their forays into Laos to " hot pursuit , " " protective reaction " and rescue missions . New Formula Is Used In Key Biscayne , Fla. , where President Nixon spent the weekend , a White House spokesman said that there had been " no change in the extent of our activities in Laos . " " Our policy is unchanged , " he continued . " We do not have American ground troops in Laos . " A State Department spokesman , Robert J. McCloskey , said at a news briefing that " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was asked to confirm the reports that Saigon 's forces were fighting in Laos . He said " no comment " when asked whether the United States Government was seeking to ascertain the accuracy of the reports about South Vietnamese activities across the Laotian border . Other officials suggested that the State Department preferred not to be drawn into discussions over the definition of " protective reaction . " They recalled that in ground operations in Cambodia as well as in air strikes at North Vietnam this month , the Defense Department had invoked the new formula of " reinforced protective eaction " to justify actions of considerable magnitude . Therefore , the officials said , it would not be useful to engage in explanations of subtle differences between various definitions of what Mr. Laird described today as " protective reaction . " While officials act:now/edged that Col. Thongphanh Knosky , a spokesman for the Laotian Defense Ministry , called last Friday for assistance from South Vietnamese forces , they said that no major allied thrusts in that country had been contemplated . In his Senate testimony , Secretary Laird @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incursions into Laos to prevent enemy troops from attacking American or South Vietnamese forces  --  were permissible under an amendment to the current Defense Appropriations Act , which prohibits the use of American ground troops in Laos or Thailand . He agreed with the Senators that it would not be in accordance with this amendment if American troops or South Vietnamese troops ' accompanied by United States advisers , were The New York Times Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird at the Senate hearing , sent against enemy sanctuaries or supply bases in Laos . Mr. Laird drew a sharp distinction between past brief penetrations in Laos by allied forces and the present " search and destroy " operations in Cambodia . " Their mission is not a ground combat mission or search and destroy or anything like that , " he said . Mr. Laird recalled that he had spoken of these brief incursions into Laos as far back as a news conference in South Vietman on March 10 , 1969 . He insisted that there had been no changes in the " rules of engagement " under which Americans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Laird said that he would not recommend to President Nixon the cessation of all air operations against enemy sanctuaries in Cambodia after United States troops are withdrawn June 30 . He made it clear that such air strikes would be against the enemy positions and not in support of whatever South Vietnamese forces may remain in Cambodia after the American units leave .                     