@@733823

txt Even as the United States presses to expand the scope of the Camp David agreements . details begin to emerge which make it more difficult to " sell " the accords to the : ; itab world . Further complicating the American ettort to include other Arabs in the agreements , Israeli Prime Minister Menachciu Begin has interpreted the accords to mean that Israel may maintain troops on the occupied West Bank of the . lordan River even after a five-year transition period . The Camp David agreements do not require Israel to relinquish its claim to sovereignty over the West Bank . On the positive side . Syrian President Ilafez al-Assad. a strong critic of Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat 's peace initiatives , has agreed to meet U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance for a briefing on the Camp David agreements . Mr. Vance was to leave for the Middle East on Sept. 19 for meetings with Jordan 's King Hussein and Saudi Arabia 's King Khalid . The participation of Jordan and the support of Saudi Arabia are considered essential if the " framework for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Camp David is to be successfully implemented . Analysts considered President Assad 's agreement to meet Mr. Vance a sign that the Syrian leader is " not burning all his bridges " to the United States or to Egypt despite his opposition to what is , in effect , a separate , U.S.-backed peace agreement between Egypt and Israel . President Assad may have been encouraged in part by President Carter 's remarks on the Lebanon situation in his address outlining the Camp David accords to a joint session of the U.S. Congress on Sept. 18 . Mr. Carter revealed that Lebanon was the subject of " heated discussion " when he met for the first time at Camp David with President Sadat and Prime Minister Begin . He said // From page 1 Selling ' the Camp David summit problems arise that he and Mr Sadat discussed the subject " many times " and that on the way back to Washington from Camp David all three leaders committed themselves to join with other nations , with all factions in Lebanon . with Lebanese President Elias Sarkis , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict . ' This affirmation of the role of Syria at the head of the Arab deterrent force in Lebanon and of President Sarkis , who has cooperated with the Syrians in Lebanon . was certainly not lost on President Assad . Jerusalem occupation The documents agreed to at Camp David and briefings by senior U.S. officials have revealed that Prime Minister Begin was able to resist Arab demands for the return of occupied East Jerusalem to Arab sovereignty . This is something which could seriously affect the attitudes of both Jordan and Saudi Arabia . The Saudis are recognized as the guardians of the Muslim holy places . among which . lerusalem is one of the most sacred . Prime Minister Begin insists that . Jerusalem is the capital of Israel and that it will never again be divided . The U.S. does not recognize the Israeli claim to East Jerusalem but it has never taken a position as to how the . Jerusalem problem is to be resolved . The documents and briefings further make it clear that the West Bank Palestinians are unlikely to be able to opt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomy . " Israel will be included in negotiations to determine the final status of the West Bank and the powers of the self-governing authority to be exercised in the West Bank and the Gaza district . And the Israelis will , in effect , have a kind of veto power over the whole process . Broad participation In theory , Palestinians of all persuasions will be allowed to participate in negotiations to set up West Bank election machinery . But they must be selected by Egypt and . Jordan and named to Egyptian and Jordanian delegations . Israel will retain a veto right over the naming of Palestinians who are currently living outside the West Bank and Gaza . In a television interview on NBC 's Today show on Sept . I9 , Prime Minister Begin said that some form'of Israeli military force would be permitted to stay on the West Bank for five , ten years , or perhaps forever . Karim Khalaf , the elected Mayor of the West Bank city of Ramallah , in the meantime . called the Camp David accords a " sellout . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a trip sponsored by the United Holy Land Fund and who is a supporter of the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) , said , " we only deceive ourselves if we believe peace is near . " The West Bank Mayor said there could be no legitimate elected leadership on the West Bank without the PLO and pointed to the fact that PLO sympathizers got strong support in the 1974 mayoral elections held in the occupied territory . In the U.S. Congress , the acclaim for the Camp David agreements was almost unanimous . But Sen. James Abourezk ( D ) of South Dakota , who is of Lebanese descent , predicted the accords would result in " an Israeli occupation under a different name . " However much they might welcome the agreements , many observers tended to agree with a U.S. official who said that , for the moment at least , the accords are " held together with Scotch tape . "                     