@@729931

txt United States and Greek naval officers have begun preliminary staff talks on granting full port facilities in Greece to the U.S. Sixth Fleet , official sources say . On the other side of the coin , according to unofficial reports circulating in Athens political circles , is that the Army-backed Greek Government is considering whether it should or could purchase U.S. Phantom F-4 or French Mirage fighter-bombers for the Greek Air Force . When U.S. Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew visited here last October , the same circles say , the U.S. tried to discourage soundings made by Prime Minister George Papadopoulos on the easy-credit purchase of Phan- ' toms by Greece . France then indicated it was prepared to consider selling one or more squadrons of Mirages , possibly those once sold to Israel but embargoed by the late President Charles de Gaulle , on the usual rigorous French cash terms . More flexibility ? French Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Jean de Lipkowski is expected to discuss this during his scheduled visit here Jan. 27 to 29 . On learning of the French overtures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Henry J. Tasca , to signal more flexibility on the possibilities of a Phantom deal , possibly tied into the naval talks . The most probable location of any port facilities for the Sixth Fleet is Pireaus , the port of Athens , or possibly the northern Greek port of Salonica . Under Greece 's treaty of accession to NATO of October , 1951 , and the bilateral U.S.-Greek agreements of February , 1953 , and September , 1956 , Athens and Washington would need no new formal treaty to grant the Sixth Fleet such port facilities . This would help to circumvent any potential opposition from Sen. W. J. Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas and other U.S. congressmen who oppose closer American ties with the Greek military regime . Long cruises Up to now , only the Sixth Fleet 's flagship , the cruiser Springfield , has had a Mediterranean home port ? the small Italian harbor of Gaeta . Most of the Sixth Fleet 's approximately 50 ships operate from Norfolk , Va. , and other U.S. Atlantic Coast ports on six- to nine-month cruises . Phaleronv @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anchorage here , but U.S. ships do not enjoy full shore facilities . The Sixth Fleet would welcome regular use of the repair logistic facilities at the Greek naval base of Scaramanga , near Piraeus . A permanent home port would enable U.S. naval dependents to move here during the three year tours of naval personnel . Hellenikon Air Base , adjoining Athens International Airport , has long been used by the U.S. Air Force as a staging base . U.S. Navy and Air Force units use communications and other facilities at other places in Greece , such as the base of Nea M , about 20 miles northeast of Athens . Greece 's traditional rivalry with its NATO partner Turkey and continued tension over Cyprus have strengthened the Greek pres. sure for new weapons from France and the U. S.                     