@@730858

txt The Kremlin is showing distinct sings of embarassment over the failure of an important , perhaps decisive , part of the recent Brezhnev mission to the United States : trade talks . The main purpose of the NixonBrezhnev summit , to judge from the Soviet press , was a vast expansion of trade between the two countries : There was a profusion of hints that the summit would be crowned with majoragreements for trade promotion . Massive Soviet press coverage of new trade prospects pushed virtually all other presummit topics into the background . Postsummit reticence Yet the contrast between the pre-summit promise and the reticence of the Soviet press on this subject since the summit suggests more than just disappointment in the Kremlin . Official Soviet propagandists are being challenged , during lectures they give to political audiences , toexplain what went wrong at the summit . According to one uninvited foreigner present at such a meeting , they are at a loss for an answer . No foreigners attend meetings of the Politburo , but it is reasonable to surmise , on the evidence available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similarly awkward questions from his associates in the Kremlin . Dismissal of two of his foes from the Politburo during the presummit preparations finally persuaded Western skeptics that Mr. Brezhnev had in-deed faced high-level opposition to his dealings with Presiden  --  Nixon . Toeing the line But the Politburo dismissals did not get rid of all Mr. Brezhnev 's opponents . The presummit buildup of a personality cult that elevated Mr. Brezhnev to the position of " head " of the Politburo bore all the signs of a campaign designed to intimidate his remaining opponents in the leadership , and to make them , toe the party line as he defined it . // *Brezhnev 's embarrassing failure // When his title of " first secretary " was changed some time ago to " general secretary , " the avowed purpose was to make it clear that he would be the servant of the Politburo , not the " head . " But now he was making it clear that he was master , and that he could crack the whip . The presummit emphasis on trade prospects was in part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it sometimes appeared in the Soviet press , it was calculated to persuade the opposition that the journey to Washington was both desirable and necessary Criticism voiced Shortly before Mr. Brezhnev left Moscow , he attended what one top Kremlin source described as " a very important meeting " during which he " directed criticism first and foremost against our own executives , " that is , top officials , who were dragging their feet on the question of trade with the United States The remark , an obvious reference to high-level opposition , was made by Mr. Brezhnev himself during his visit to Washington . In Moscow Pravda showed how politically sensitive the issue was when it " de-personalized " his complaint . In Pravda 's version , he was made to refer to Soviet Government " departments , " not officials , which were said to be unimaginative and timid in their approach to foreign trade . He complained , in particular , in a remark also censored in the Pravda text , that the officials and departments in question were " still wary of large-scale development of economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in economic resources . " This was a transparent reference to the Kremlin debate , of which there have been other indications , about the desirability of the big deals under which the United States would provide the capital for the exploitation of Soviet deposits of natural gas and other raw materials . Anti-U.S . arnument In urging these deals on the United States , Mr. Brezhnev 's spokesmen have sometimes used the argument that the exploitation of Soviet resources could delay the exhaustion of American depostits and avoid the spoliation of the environment about which , they point out , Americans are so sensitive . But it is easy to see that some Soviet party leaders might claim that Mr. Brezhnev is selling their birthright for a mess of American pottage . The emphasis in the Soviet press on the benefits of these long-term trade deals , combined with indications that something concrete would emerge from the summit to prove Mr. Brezhnev right , began to fade away only midway through his visit to the United States . Hones fade slowly Although Henry A. Kissinger said just before the summit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went on hoping until the very last moment , or he would have instructed the Soviet press to go easy . The Kremlin gave up some time before the summit its insistence on American trade concessions of the kind only Congress could grant , but it kept asking for the things that it was in Mr Nixon 's power to give . Mr Brezhnev wanted to take home at least a piece of paper which he could wave in the faces of his opponents . There was some talk of a " Declaration of Intent " on trade to be signed at the summit . But Mr. Nixon had to reckon with the new strength of his own opponents in Congress . Mr. Brezhnev had to go back to Moscow empty-handed . He is putting a good face on it , but it is the kind of reverse that will be chalked up against him for the day of reckoning in the next Kremlin showdown .                     