@@731594

txt Once again the U.S. is being treated to widely different views of the Watergate cover-up , as prosecution and defense match strategies at the long-delayed cover-up trial here . The prosecution strategy Is emerging as youthful , dark-curly-haired assistant special prosecutor Richard Ben-Veniste laid out what he called " our over-all theory " Monday . His case is to prove to the largely female , largely black , largely middle-aged jury that " the most powerful men in the government of the U.S " were involved in a conspiracy " which involved even the President himself . " " Step by step , he then began a step-by-step chronology , starting with the initial meetings in 1972 at which plans were first formulated for " gathering intelligence " on Democratic candidates ? plans which eventually led to the subsequent cover-up , he said . He used as a prop a chart of White House and the Committee to Re-elect the President personnel and their interrelationships . At this writing the defense case had not begun . The prosecution 's case was delayed for two hours , evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House tapes of former President Nixon the prosecution could use and because a juror was excused at the last minute and replaced with an alternate . According to some reports , defense strategies will vary , with John D. Ehrlichman , former domestic affairs adviser , claiming that he tried to have the truth told but was hindered by others in the White House , and H. R. Haldeman , former chief of staff , saying- that his dealings with Mr. Nixon were of a purely public relations nature . Both men said in pretrial papers made public late last week that they urged Mr. Nixon in the summer of 1972 to make " a full and complete disclosure " on Watergate . Some observers believe lawyers for former Attorney General John N. Mitchell will claim that the fault for the cover-up lies with the White House . Mr. Ben-Veniste began by telling the jury of nine women and three men that he was giving them " a preview of our case , to alert you to our overall theory , an overview . . . . It 's like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you see what the picture looks like , it 's easier to put the pieces together . " // AP photo Ben-Veniste : begins trial * Cover-up trial begins // He described a conspiracy as " no more than an agreement by two or more persons to violate the law . " There are five defendants in the case , all of whom have been charged with conspiracy : Mr. Haldeman , Mr. Ehrlichman , Mr. Mitchell , former Assistant Attorney General Robert C. Mardian , and Kenneth W. Parkinson , Counsel for the Committee to re-elect . All but Mr. Mardian also have been charged with obstruction of justice : Mr. Mitchell , Mr. Haldeman , and Mr. Ehrlichman have also been charged with varying counts of lying . Mr. Ben-Veniste explained the 12-count indictment to the jury , adding " an indictment Is only a charge , it is not evidence , and is not to be considered as evidence . " No Perry Mason tricks The jury listened attentively to Mr. Ben-Veniste , who promised , " I 'm not going to pull any Perry Mason tricks out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday , includes eight blacks and four whites , roughly representative of the racial proportions in the District of Columbia population . Their occupations vary widely : they include a logistics coordinator at Georgetown University , a dime-store counter-woman , a Department of Agriculture loan specialist , and a hotel doorman . There is some speculation here that Mr. Ben-Veniste , rather than the government 's chief prosecuting lawyer , James Neal , has made the opening statement as a result of some clashes within the Justice Department . Mr. Neal is expected to make the prosecution 's closing statement Following Mr. Ben-Veniste 's lengthy two and one-half hour opener , lawyers for Mr. Mardian , Mr. Ehrlichman , and Mr. Parkinson were to make statements for the defense , with lawyers for Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Mitchell making theirs after the prosecution 's case Is in.                     