@@730707

txt TWO ASSISTANT state 's attorneys were on duty in a nearby office but were not consulted when it was decided to drop a gun violation charge against Circuit Court Judge Sidney A. Jones Jr . last Wednesday night . The Tribune learned yesterday that the two , Paul Kamin and Joseph Sconza , were in an office in the Wentworth Avenue police station at 5101 S. Wentworth Av. when Jones was brought in by the arresting policemen . A spokesman for State 's Atty . Bernard Carey said yesterday that neither of the two assistants , whose assignment includes advising police on questionable arrests , was asked to discuss the matter with police officials nor were they aware that police brass were dropping the more serious charge against Jones . INSTEAD , CAPT . Fred Rice , district commander , after conferring with Deputy Supt. Thomas Lyons , decided there was insufficient evidence to bring criminal charges against the 63-year-old jurist . Jones was charged with only a minor traffic violation . Police Supt. James B. Conlisk said Friday he supports the decision and will take no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Tribune disclosed exclusively Friday the existence of a police report which charged that Jones was carrying a loaded and unregistered .38 caliber revolver in ' his coat pocket when stopped by police for erratic driving . INVESTIGATORS for Carey already have obtained all police reports of the incident and have interviewed Kamin and Sconza. - " If , from the state 's attorney 's point of view , there is enough evidence to indicate the police were wrong in their decision , the charges will be reinstated or a grand jury convened to study the evidence , " said the Carey spokesman . Carey 's investigators , it was disclosed , will seek to learn why neither of his assistants was asked for advice about dropping the charges . " IF THERE was insufficient evidence , the decision should have been made by the state 's attorney 's off ice or Jones should have been charged and the matter decided in the courts , " said the spokesman . " In this case , the police not only arrested Judge Jones , but also sat as judge and jury . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry will be aimed at determining if police may have attempted to cover up the incident . THE TWO arresting policemen noted in their report that Judge Jones appeared unstable , shouted obscenities at them and had to lean against his car for support . Because of this investigators will seek to learn why the jurist was not tested for drinking .                     