@@733733

txt With the economic summit of allied leaders in Bonn fast approaching , the Carter Administration is working overtime to disarm its critics abroad . Western Europe and Japan see the United States thirst for O. P.E.C. oil as the principal source of the huge American trade deficit and thus , indirectly , as the major impediment to world economic recovery . Not so , counter the Administration 's economists : the latest trade figures show a decline in foreign oil purchases and a spectacular increase in American imports of industrial products . In other words , they contend that the key to reducing the American trade deficit and strengthening the dollar lies in open markets abroad , notably a greater welcome for American agricultural products , and in economic stimulus in Europe even at the risk of some inflation . In this contest of statistics , neither side is being entirely candid . The decline in American oil imports is plainly temporary ; the United States needs a coherent energy policy , as the allies insist . And American imports of industrial goods will taper off as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watches and French cookware out of the American market . Mr. Carter understands this , but he is tiring of the lectures on oil conservation by the European heads of government and is simply striking back . For their part , the Common Market and Japan could undoubtedly ease the strain on the international economy ? and the dollar ? by lowering import barriers to American farm products and by generally expanding domestic purchasing power . Their leaders , like Mr , Carter , are simply not grateful for advice whose economic soundness conflicts with every domestic political imperative . The sad fact is that the Bonn summit comes at an awkward time . No one seems quite ready to make the hard political decisions needed to get the industrial economies back on the track . Mr. Carter had hoped to take a strong energy bill to Germany as evidence of American determination to strengthen the dollar and to lead the industrial world toward energy independence . He could still save face ? and oil ? by imposing quotas on oil imports without waiting for Congress to grind out his energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the President apparently prefers discord at Bonn to more trouble at home . Besides , import quotas are administratively a poor substitute for his energy proposals . For their own domestic reasons , the Europeans and Japanese are reluctant to yield now on important trade concessions . The Geneva negotiations for trade liberalization have broken down ; the chief American negotiator , Robert Strauss , has acknowledged that the deadlock in agriculture can not be resolved until fall , if then . Hope for an eventual accord rides on the allies ' understanding that a chronic American trade deficit creates a constant temptation for the United States to freeze out foreign steel , machinery and autos . But the diplomatic screws are not likely to be turned tightly enough within the month . ? The summit , then , promises little beyond public relations maneuvers . We should count ourselves fortunate if the personal and diplomatic irritations in the alliance are not exacerbated . Real progress will come when the major partners ? the United States , West Germany , Japan and France ? confront not each other but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   