@@734180

txt LETTERS RAUL HILBERG STANISLAW STARON Burlington , Vt.ISABELLA LEITNER Riverdale , N.Y . pg . BR11 LETITEIS Holocaust To the Editor : When we read Lucy Dawidowicz 's review of " The Warsaw Diary of Adam Czerniakow " ( Feb. 25 ) , we asked ourselves whether she wanted to cast this first-hand account of a catastrophe into instant oblivion . To her , Czerniakow is but a man of " modest talents , " an assimilated Jew who played only a " minor role " in prewar Jewish life , and his diary is neither history nor literature ? its " meager text " is hardly even readable . What a cavalier dismissal of the most important diary of the holocaust ! What a paltry appraisal of its invaluable contents ! Adam Czemiakow was chairman of the Jewish Council in the ghetto of Warsaw , the largest in Nazi Europe . He was in daily contact with the German overlords outside the ghetto walls and the Jewish victims held captive within . He alone saw both of these wp-lds as part of his daily routine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lively Ringelblum and not the intellectual Kaplan , for neither of them was occupying the pivotal position of council chairman at the very interface between the German agencies of destruction and those who were being destroyed . No one possessed his information . Czerniakow wrote down everything that transpired in the course of the constriction and disintegration of Warsaw Jewry , from the first week of the war to the time when the Germans began their mass deportations from the ghetto , a moment he chose to take his life . Of course , these notes , hurriedly written day after incredible day , could hardly be called literature in a conventional sense . His entries were not crafted , corrected , or perfected . Czerniakow dispensed with all artfulness and artificiality . There is no embroidery , only essence . Instead of paragraphs , there are sentences , and in lieu of sentences there may be phrases or solitary words . But all of these words are real , not invented , original , not re-created . Such is Czerniakow 's style and such are the translation and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he was . For us , Czerniakow 's universe is bizarre ? it must be grasped , not explicated . To be sure , the specific ( names , places , incidents ) are clarified in charts and notes . Our footnote material in particular is a fourth version of explanatory commentary ; in constructing it we have used and distilled the work of our Israeli , Polish , and German colleagues while adding to their findings the product of our own research in microfilms or manuscripts . We fully understand that even specialists may still not be able to absorb this book without mental effort or psychic costs . At the same time we must reiterate that this is a diary by a 60-year-old engineer who left us all he had : his indispensable and irreplaceable experience . RAUL HILBERG STANISLAW STARON Burlinzton . Vt . To the Editor : . If the historian In Lucy Dawidowicz deems a book praiseworthy only If it aids her in her search for new facts , I indeed failed in " Fragments of Isabella . " The facts that are transmittable are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not tell her that Hitler greeted us at Auschwitz with an armful of presents and love . I can not tell her that we dined on steak on Sundays . Had I said that , that of course would be new . The truth is we know things that can not be passed on to the historian . The word " smoke " ordinarily conjures up the image of smoke . We , the survivors , actually smell burning flesh . When we hear the word " lice , " we begin to itch . I brought to " Fragments of ' Isabella " only my weeping soul . I wanted to scratch a tiny patch of blue in the blackened skies of Auschwitz , " to plant a flower " for the dead . I wanted to share the landscape of our souls that lived even there . I wanted to tell the world that the love that bound my sisters and me together transcended the hate that was our daily bread in Auschwitz ? the love that Mrs. Dawidowicz in her search for new facts has n't even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for revenge . " What fury ? What revenge ? My brother speaking to us , his sisters , on page 29 of the book : " You must survive . You simply must . We not only have to pay them back . That is not reason enough . We must build a future free of bloodshedding . " There is no trace today of my mother . No trace that I ever had one . In " Fragments " I cry out : " You beast ! Give me the body , that frail little body . I want to bury it . " This might be hysteria to Mrs. Dawidowicz , but were I not to cry out symbolically , through the person of my mother , for the bodies of the six million , I would consider myself abnormal . I am not . Despite the fact that I was so battered , I am proud to have a heart . I am proud of my anger . I am proud of all the complexities that make one a human being . I have them all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , be singing along with me the Kaddish ( Jewish prayer for the dead ) that the book really is . ISABELLA LEITNER Riverdale , N.Y . Lucy Dawidowicz replies : The awesomeness of the holocaust calls up reverence for the murdered Jews and deference toward the survivors . But it is surely presumptuous to demand that we suspend critical judgment on books about the holomust . Messrs . Hilberg and Staron claim too much for Czerniakow 's diary . Indeed it is , as I wrote , " a rich source of raw material from which history can be constructed , " but still it is not the document , but only one of many valuable documents of the holocaust . Other equally important documents ? if they can be measured in units of importance ? include " The Chronicles of the Lodz Ghetto , " the minute books of the Judearite of Bialystok and Lublin , the diaries of Zelig Kahnanovich , Herman Kruk , Chaim Kaplan , Emmanuel Ringelblum . If Messrs . Hilberg and Staron really believe that " Czerniakow wrote down in his diary everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are even more inexperienced than I had supposed in reading documents written under conditions of extreme persecution and even more unfamiliar than I had previously concluded with what actually had transpired in the Warsaw ghetto . To begin with , it is perfectly clear that Czernialtow deliberately withheld , for reasons of discretion , matters which would have aroused the interest of the German authorities . Such matters , naturally , are of primary concern to scholars of the holocaust . Secondly , even a casual reading of Czerniakow 's diary discloses that he himself was illinformed , sometimes even uninformed , about many activities within the Judenrat , the agency which he headed but which he did not really run . How much more so , then , that this diary should reveal almost nothing about the great range of organizations and institutions that operated in the Warsaw ghetto apart from the Judenrat and often in opposition to it . Czerniakow 's diary has hardly anything to tell us about the extent of Jewish resistance to the Nazis for which the Warsaw ghetto was justly famous . That resistance ranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , publishing underground newspapers , maintain . ing a network of social-welfare ? and political groups and committing overt acts of defiance . Even before Czerniakow 's suicide , the Jewish political parties had begun to plan for armed resistance . The footnotes which Messrs . Hilberg and Staron say they distilled from the earlier Hebrew and Polish versions are only about one third as long as those . ' Distilled " here must mean " abridged and simplified . " But American readers , knowing little about Polish Jewish life or about the holocaust , should have had more help with Czerniakow 's difficult text than Israeli or Polish readers for whom the holocaust remains living history .                     