@@729304

txt The studio estate of the late Edward Hopper , celebrated painter of the American scene , has been received by the Whitney Museum of American Art . It comprises some 1,500 oils , water-colors , drawings and etchings . The gift , received after lengthy legal process following the death of his widow , Josephine , in 1968 and worth more than $1-million , is described by the Whitney as " the most important bequest of an American artist 's work to , a museum . " Museum officials said yesterday that it recalled in its significance the large donation of Thomas Eakins 's paintings to the Philadelphia Museum by his widow and a friend around 1930 , The material ranges in time from the artist 's student days to his death in 1967 at the age of 84 , and runs a gamut from major works to sketches of relatively minor importance . " Since Hopper has emerged as the foremost realist in 20th-century American art ? I think there can be no doubt of this  --  the collection is an asset beyond valuation , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It establishes a corpus of work in which the development of his art can be traced , in which several new or little-known aspects of his art are revealed , and where the evolution of many paintings can be followed through prepare. , tory studies and drawings . " The museum will mount a selected show of the newly acquired works in September . It was hard to pry from reluctant museum officials the exact number of items in the bequest , and they were careful to note that , although they would retain only some of them for the . permanent collection , they would not " dump " the rest on the art market . " We want collectors and other museums to have access to it , so we 'll put it on the market eventually , " said Lloyd Goodrich , advisory director of the museum . " But slowly . " A major Hopper oil painting was sold recently by his dealer , the Frank Rehn Gallery , for $60,000 , and Hopper watercolors have gone for as high as $35,000 . Mr. Goodrich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hopper acquisitions were distinctly minor  --  some simply sketches on scraps of paper . Although the taciturn artist never mentioned to Mr.Good. rich , a close friend , that he would leave his work to the Whitney , museum officials were not exactly surprised by the bequest . " Our long connection with him goes back to the days when he used to sketch at the Whitney Studio Club before 1920 , " said Mr. Goodrich , who is preparing , a critical study of Hopper 's work for fall publication . Wrote First Monograph Mr. Goodrich also wrote the first monograph on the artist 's work , and arranged two retrospective Hopper exhibitions at the Whitney in 1950 and 1964 . A personal bequest to him , from Mrs. Hopper , a painter herself who often served as a model for her husband , is a group of four ledgers , in which the couple kept careful records of the paintings Hopper sold or exhibited . On each ledger page , Mr. Hopper would sketch the painting , noting underneath it the dates he worked on it and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the painting 's contents and its colors , its sale price , less dealer 's commission , and the manner of sale . " At once snapped up by Lloyd Goodrich for the Whitney . $15,000 " she wrote of " Second Story Sunlight , " done by the artist in 1960 . The 60-odd oil pantings in the collection include a rare self-portrait , many Cape Cod scenes ( the Hoppers had a summer home at South Truro ) , and practically all of the canvases he did in Paris as a young man in 1906 , 1909 and 1910 . Sketches Included The Hopper haul is also notable for its inclusion of many sketches and finished drawings made by the artist in preparation for his oils . " He worked out his paintings very carefully , " Mr. Goodrich said , " thinking not only in terms of the whole work , but its individual components . " Before doing his famous " New York Movie " in 1939 , for example , he visited a. number of cinema palaces , makirig detailed sketches of chandeliers , chairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weary usherette . The artist , whose genre scenes of gas stations , New York streets and deserted cafes are regarded in some quarters as inspirational to Pop painters of the ' 60 's , rarely discussed his own work in relation to others on the scene . He admired such fellow-traditionalists as Reginald Marsh and Charles Burchfield , however , and in 1953 wrote a statement for " Reality , " a collection of writings by representational artists who felt themselves menaced by abstraction . " . . . No amount of skillful invention can replace the essential element of imagination , " he wrote , " One of the weaknesses of much abstract painting is the attempt to substitute the inventions of the intellect for a pristine imaginative conception .. . . The inner life of a human being is a vast and varied realm and does not concern itself alone with stimulating arrangements of color , form and design . "                     