@@732714

txt President Ford 's decision to veto Vietnam 's application for membership in the United Nations this year is likely to : ? Guarantee no reconciliation between the United States and Vietnam until after the American presidential elections in November . ? Produce a confrontation in the UN between many " third world " countries and the U.S. , which is expected to be accused , as the Soviet Union once was , of using the veto to try to unfairly impose its will . The vast majority of UN members favor Hanoi 's participation in the world body . ? Shift the debate from the UN Security Council to the General Assembly. ? where Hanoi 's supporters can be especially vocal . ( The Security Council agreed Sept. 14 , on a French initiative , to defer until November its consideration of Vietnam 's application . ) ? Encourage America 's anti-communist allies in Asia , like Taiwan and South Korea , which see closer U.S. ties with China or Vietnam as threatening to themselves . ? Open the way for a vigorous Vietnamese anti-America propaganda campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up ; impact beyond MIA controversy Hanoi appears to have no hope of changing American policies while U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger is in office . ? Maintain a divergent approach between the U.S. and some members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations , such as Malaysia , Thailand . and the Philippines , which have been exploring possibilities for better relations with Hanoi to reduce tensions in the region . The U.S. is expected to be able to block Vietnamese membership in the UN because it is the Security Council ( where the five permanent members , including Washington , have veto powers ) that determines questions of admission . Last year the U.S. successfully kept Hanoi out even though all other Security Council members ( except Costa Rica , which abstained ) voted for admission . The General Assembly voteu 123-to-0 , with eight abstentions , to ask the Security Council to reconsider . But the U.S. vote again kept Hanoi out , although by then even Costa Rica had joined those favoring admission . The announcement Sept. 14 by U.S. Ambassador to the UN William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , p for Vietnam dashed speculation-among , some experts that President Ford might seek better relations with Hanoi before the November presidential election at ' east in part to demonstrate to voters his foreign policy skills . One source close to the Vietnamese says Hanoi may have hoped that once Ronald Reagan 's anti-communist challenge to Mr. Ford 's nomination was defeated , his administration would move faster for compromise with Vietnam . In the wake of Ambassador Scranton 's announcement , Vietnam has unleashed a vigorous anti-America propaganda barrage . ? In a lengthy statement Sept. 13 the Vietnam Ministry of Foreign Affairs accused the U.S. of arrogantly blocking progress on the issues dividing the two countries while at the same time falsely blaming Hanoi for the impasse . Hanoi released information Sept. 6 about 12 Americans missing in action during the Vietnam war . But President Ford said Sept. 7 that Vietnam must provide a full accounting on other U.S. servicemen before relations can be normalized or American postwar aid considered . Monitor correspondent David Anable reports from the United Nations : The bitter residue of the Vietnam war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening of the 1976 General Assembly session . The conflicting statements and recriminations of the last few days indicate that the dif- ferences between the U.S. and Vietnamese positions remain wide more than three years after the signing of the Paris peace agreements . For instance , the U.S. had wanted to keep secret its contacts with the Hanoi government aimed at negotiations to eventually normalize relations . ( In particular , Washington had wished to resolve the highly emotional and politically sensitive issue of the 2.500 Americans still unaccounted for and presumed killed or missing in action during the war . ) But the Vietnamese publicly disclosed those contacts Sept. 13 . The Vietnamese insist that there should be no connection whatever between the missing in action ( MIA ) question and UN membership . The bargain they say openly that they would like to strike would be based on the Paris agreements : information on MIAs ( Article 8B ) in exchange for U.S. reconstruction aid ( Article 21 ) . The Vietnamese claim that then President Nixon promised them more than $3 billion in reconstruction aid . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the south , the Paris agreements " are dead . " There is no question of trading MIA information for aid , they say ; the one is a humanitarian issue the other a substantive matter for separate negotiation . However , while the Americans assert that there is no linkage between the MIA and aid issues , they do make a clear connection between the MIA and UN membership issues .                     