@@732870

txt SEVERAL YEARS before Glencoe resident Sarah Deutsch entered Yale University in 1973 , the all-male bastion had opened its doors to women . Now Miss Deutsch , a 21-year-old senior , has the opportunity to blaze a new academic trail for women as one of the first female winners of a prestigious Rhodes Scholarship . Thirteen women were among the 32 U.S. winners announced Sunday by the Rhodes Scholarship Trust . It was the first time since the fund was established in 1902 that women have been in the competition . ' Miss Deutsch sees her achievement as " part of the general expansion of the opportunities for women " but said that she was especially pleased that the selection process ' ' was very sex blind . There was no preference to one sex or the other . " " I 'm pleased they opened it up to women , " said Miss Deutsch , who has an academic grade point average of 3,9 out of a possible 4.0 . ? A HISTORY major , Miss Deutsch said her success results from " quite a bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get as much out of college as you can . " For her , that includes being editor-inchief of Yale 's literary magazine , The Lit ; working as a campus correspondent for Newsweek magazine ; serving as a research assistant for Time magazine while she spent part of her junior year studying in Faris ; teaching English composition to sixth graders in New Hayen , Conn. ; playing squash ; participating in Intramural sailing ; and having time to date , too . To become a Rhodes Scholar , Miss Deutsch and the other winners . had to endure a lengthy application and interview procedure . Sarah Deutsch The scholars receive an annual grant of $5,300 for two years ' study in any field offered at Oxford University in England . Miss Deutsch said she will continue her study of world exploration through the master 's degree she will seek at Oxford and a doctorate she hopes to earn when she returns to the United States . The scholarships were established in the will of Cecil Rhodes , a British phi. , lanthropist , who hoped that its beneficiaries would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aim , " - Another Chicago area winner and : nounced Sunday by the scholarship trust in Middletown , Corm. , was Andrew Rosenheim of Hyde Park , also a Yale student , Another woman winner was Doryl Koehn of . Concordia , Kan. , a student at the University of Chicago . Miss Dcutsch 's goal is to become a professor of history at a prestigious college , but even with the start she 's had , she is taking a practical view of the future . " The job market for history professors is so bad , you have to take a job where you can get It , " she said .                     