@@732986

txt Governor Carey vetoed the June primary election bill yesterday , delaying the political calendar and thoroughly scrambling the mayoral race in New York City . The Governor 's action , in effect , pushed back the primary date to September and changed the rules of the 1977 political game . The first revction came from the . Liberal Party , which last night voted to defer its decision on a mayoral candidate and referred the matter back to committee . The party 's delegate assembly had gathered earlier yesterday to designate State Senator Roy M. Goodman , a Manhattan Republican , as a " fusion " candidate for Mayor when a flurry of telephone calls in late afternoon from Albany disclosed the Governor 's veto of the Juneprimary bill . Mr. Carey said in his message that he was vetoing the June primary because there would not be time enough to get the election process under way , that upstate petition-gatherers would have to trudge through the remnants of - winter snow and that the city campaign would coincide with the New York City fiscal crisis . Veto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action  --  to keep the primary in September  --  would be politically helpful to Mr. Carey himself . The smoothly developing " fusion " effort by Mr. Goodman posed at least the possibility that a Republican would be in City Hall in New York when Mr. Carey comes up for re-election next year . The later primary hurts Mr. Goodman 's chances considerably . But the Governor paid a price for his veto . He further strained his relations with Mayor Beame  --  who had publicly urged a June primary only the day before and whose reaction to the veto was cool . And he created the need for still further action by the Legislature to shift the September vote from the Jewish holiday of Rosh ha-Shanah . " The Governor has pledged to veto any bill that does not contain a runoff provision , " Mr. Beanie said in a statement . " While this is commendable , it does not guarantee that this position will prevail . " The Impact in Nassau The runoff would have applied only to the three citywide elective offices in New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major impact in Nassau County , the scene of a bitter struggle for the Republican nomination for Nassau County executive . Joseph M. Margiotta , the Nassau County Republican chairman , had been a strong advocate of the June primary be-1 cause he wanted to end as soon as possible the three-way fight involving County Executive Ralph G. Caso , the Hempstead Town Presiding Supervisor ; Francis T. Purcell and State Senator John R. Dunne , which has spilt party ranks in the county . The Mayor 's advisers say that he is fearful that Republicans in the Legislature will try to eliminate the provision for a runoff between top two finishers if no one gets 40 percent of the vote the first time around , in exchange for their acquiescence in moving the vote away from Rosh ha-Shanah . When Governor Carey telephoned Mr. Beanie in his City Hall office to give him advance warning of the veto , which legislative leaders do not expect to be overridden , the Mayor replied that " the Democratic candidate must have a clear mandate . " Some politicians suggest that Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had emerged from a crowded field without a majority . Speculation about the Governor 's intentions had obsessed politicians all week , lending uncertainty to preparation for a June primary . Petitions were to have started circulating next Monday . Mr. Goodman had planned to announce his candidacy today , Representative Edward I. Koch , Democrat of Manhattan tomorrow and Mayor Beanie on Monday . When it turned out yesterday that the vote would be in September , there was renewed speculation as to who had been helped and hurt and comment from some of those affected , as follows : ( Mayor Beame . " I have stated on several occasions that , if I were a candidate , whether the primary date were June or September would not be of concern as long as there was a runoff . " One mayoral adviser suggested that September was better for the Mayor because the city financial crisis would have peaked long before then . Another said June was better because it would give " less time for opponents to crawl out of the woodwork . " ( Senator Goodman : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay the political calendar by three months . . . . Under the circumstances the deferral of action at tonight 's meeting by the Liberal Party is entirely appropriate . " Politicians , both friendly and unfriendly , suggested that delay would give thos in the Liberal Party who do not like him more time to find a Democrat 's alternative . And even if he eventually did get both the Republican and Liberal lines , he would not have much time to mount a successful campaign between September and November . ( Borough President Percy E. Sutton of Manhattan , the only declared candidate so far . " This is an anti-Percy Sutton effort that will fail . It strengthens me by 200,000 people , the number of new voters we 'll be able to register . " 4Mr . Koch . " I expect them to love me in September as they would have in June . " CRepresentative Herman Badillo , Bronx Democrat , who lost the runoff to Mr. Beame four years ago and whose 1977 mayoral candidacy stands somewhere between the possible and probable . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always wanted a September primary . " ( Former Representative Bella S. Abzug , who was on her way to a speaking date in Virginia when the veto news broke and who has been acting like a potential challenger to Mayor Beanie . There was no immediate comment from her and politicians suggested that the impact of a later primary upon her chances was mixed . The bill that was negotiated with great delicacy by legislative leaders and passed on Feb. 22 would have provided for an initial vote on June 7 and a runoff for the three citywide offices in New York City on June 21 . As the calendar stands after the veto , the vote would be on Sept. 13 , which is Rosh ha-Shauah , and the runoff would be Sept. 27 , the Jewish holiday of Succoth . But bills to change those dates will be put before the Legislature , although the proposed dates are not yet clear . Governor Carey kept a series of political dates of his own yesterday before belatedly upsetting the Liberal Party 's schedule for commencing a " fusion " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lindsay into City Hall in the 1965 election . While the Governor breakfasted in Albany with legislative leaders , lunched with 150 Chamber of Commerce members , attended the funeral of Daniel P. O'Connell , the Democratic leader of Albany , then met wtih aides , Liberal Party leaders gathered in Manhattan . They had a 4 P.M. date with the Governor . Instead , the Rev. Donald S. Harrigton , the Liberal Party chairman , got a telephone call from the Governor 's office telling of the veto plan . Mr. Carey 's staff was still working on the language of his veto message when he went to the Waldorf Towers to meet with the Liberals . He signed the veto message there at 6:12 P.M. It was a little after 7 when the Liberals emereed into a corridor to meet reporters . Dr. Harrington said he " welcomed the opportunity for further discussion " that the delay in the primary vote would provide . " Senator Goodman continues very high on our list , " he said . In negotiations with the Liberals , Mr. Carey and his emissaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Goodman . That would guarantee that , no matter what happened , there would be a Democrat In City Hall in 1978 when the state elections are scheduled , one reason , some politicians suggest , why the Governor is paying such careful attention to the 1977 election in the city . But the Liberals and the Republicans , with whom they would jointly endorse a mayoral candidate , had concocted tentative tickets while they awaited word of the Governor 's plan . Mr. Goodman , who represents the East Side of Manhattan in the Senate , would be their candidate for Mayor . Leaders of both parties spoke kindly of ' Cornelius Behan , a career policeman who is chief of personnel for the Police Department . for City Council President . He is a Democrat from Queens . The Liberals would designate Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin , a Bronx Democrat , for re-election . The Republicans leaned to their fellow party member , Assemblyman Christopher Mega , who would bring an Italian name and a Brooklyn address to the ticket , for Comptroller . But now those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are upset . Reactions varied . Stanley Steingut , the Speaker of the Democratic-controlled Assembly , and Warren M. Anderson , the majority leader of the Republican-controlled Senate , had cooperated to pass the June primary bill . After the vote by the Democratic Governor , Mr. Steingut noted that the June election would have been " consistent with . the traditional Democratic position . "                     