@@732351

txt The sparkling new yellow bus rolled to a stop this morning in front of Clark Elementary School , an old yellow-brick fortress surrounded by the Tudor- and Colonial-style houses of the middleand upper-middle-class white families of Northeast Detroit , where busing for integration is not exactly a popular cause . " Good morning ! How are you ? " boomed the jovial voice of George Parlato , the school 's white principal . " What 's the ' number of this bus ? " " One forty-nine , " chorused ' some of the 25 black children aboard . " I ca n't hear you . " " One forty-nine ! " " Good . Remember afternoon . " What tension there might have been was gone . Soon the children were seated in classrooms with the white youngsters who live nearby , ready for the second semester to start . r Busing had come peacefully Ito Detroit , making it the largest school district in the country to operate under a courtordered desegregation plan . True , attendance was off by a third , compared with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal first day of the second semester . In addition , only 15,000 of the 21,853 students who are supposed to be bused ( 60 percent of them black ) were scheduled to start the new semester today . Pupils in kindergarten through grade five made up the first group of bus riders . The second and final group , composed of sixth , seventh and eighth graders , will begin tomorrow , and there is some lingering concern about what might happen then . There are 21,853 students involved ' hi ' the busing plan , which compares with a similar number in Louisville and about 30,000 in Boston , But at least for the first day , the turmoil that has marred the start of ' busing in some other cities was absent here . There were no screaming parents . No hel- meted police with riot gear . No national guardsmen , in battle dress . Almost no school pickets anywhere in the city . And not one incident of violence was reported . " A piece of cake , " said Richard A. Salem , Midwest regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Justice , which has been involved in attempting to make things go smoothly . It takes a lot of looking , however , to find any enthusiasm for busing among white parents , and it appears to he none too overwhelming among blacks . Mrs. Leoclia Hall , a black woman , brought her 7-year-old daughter . Patricia , to the Clark school because she had missed the bus . " I do n't like it : " she said of busing . The new school is too far away from home . Patricia 's old school was only a block and a half away . Many white parents undoubtedly would agree with John Casey. who was out in the slushy snow this morning to see his 11-year-old son , Ronald , off on the bus . " I do n't like it , " he said , " but what can you do about it ? The kid 's got to go to school . " There is evidence that some white parents have put their children into private or parochial schools because of busing . The city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been very forceful or advocated drastic measures , called for parents to boycott the schools today . Attending Figures Given Arthur Jefferson , Superintendent of Schools , reported late in the day that 67.6 percent of students enrolled had attended . The lowest percentage was 43.7 in School Region 7 , on the Northeast Side where the Clark school is , and where both Mrs. Hall and Mr. Casey live . Mr. Jefferson and others surmised that some parents had joined the boycott ; that others had simply kept their children home at the outset to see what developed , and that bad weather had discouraged others . Heavy rains fell Sunday night , making the snowy streets treacherous today . Several reasons were advanced as to why busing seemed to have come to Detroit in such a relatively peaceful way . Michigan winters do not lend themselves to violent outdoor protest , it was suggested . Others theorized that since ' the race riot of 1967 , Detroiters had been " inoculated " psychologically against civil violence . Others noted that public figures , almost to a man , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it might he tendered . Still others pointed simply to the limited nature of the desegregation plan ordered by United States District Judge Robert E. DeMascio . It involves less than 10 per cent of the city 's 247,500 school children ( 23 per cent of them white ) , and leaves vast stretches of the predominantly black inner city virtually untouched . Further , it guarantees that no school that was predominantly white before yesterday is more than 50 ) er cent black today . Apparently , this was inended by Judge DeMascio to mike the plan more palatable 0 while parents and to conribute to the stability of Deroit 's remaining white neighorhoods . The judge has said hat one of his objectives was o deter the flight of whites from the city .                     