@@734214

txt MAYOR BYRNE fired ? three ward su ? perintendents Thursday , including a state legislator and a Democratic committeeman , as part of a ? widespread shakeup of the city 's sanitation operation . In a dramatic move apparently designed to spur greater productivity among the city 's sanitation workers , Mrs. Byrne also authorized Francis Degnan , commissioner of streets and sanitation , to suspend six other superintendents and begin dismissal proceedings against them . Among those dismissed outright were State Rep. Taylor Pouncey of the South Side 18th Ward , and William Carothers , a Democratic committeeman and sanitation boss of the West Side 28th Ward . Pouncey and Carothers lacked career formerly civil service status and therefore could be fired without a hearing of the city 's personnel board . Another superintendent , Tobie Greene of the South Side 6th Ward , also was dismissed outright . SIX SUPERINTENDENTS with career service status , including Willie Flowers , superintendent and Democratic committeeman of the South Side 29th Ward , were suspended for " inefficiency " and face dismissal in personnel board // Byrne fires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spokesman for the mayor said . Pouncey is an ally of State Rep. James C. Taylor , the powerful black committeeman of the 16th Ward who sponsored Pouncey for the ward superintendent 's Job . Carothers and Flowers are close to Ed Quigley , the powerful 27th Ward Democratic committeeman and the city 's sewers chief , as is William Ganey , who was temporarily replaced as the 27th Ward 's superintendent , Ganey was replaced by Charles Miceli , who was transferred from the neighboring 29th Ward . Miceli was temporarily replaced by Willie Hines . Ward superintendents are paid $22,000 to $30,000 annually , depending on their seniority . MOST OF the superintendents removed oversaw sanitation operations in the predominantly black wards , where Mrs. Byrne has said the public is receiving shoddy services . Commenting Thursday before the names and wards of the superintendents in question were released , Mrs. Byrne criticized those under fire for " letting the people down . " The mayor , who warned the city 's 50 ward superintendents April 17 to improve service in their communities , said the men singled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that warning . THE DISCIPLINARY action against Pouncey , a member of the Chicago Democratic delegation in the Illinois House , and Carothers and Flowers , who sit on the committee that govern the mayor 's party , are considered unprecedented . Pouncey , a regular Democrat who was elected to his South Side seat as an independent , said Thursday from Springfield that he does not know how his dismissal might affect his relationship with the mayor . " That remains to be seen , " he said " All I know is that I was elected as an independent to a House that 's divided 88 to 88 between the parties . I 've been a loyal Democrat , but I probably could have gotten rich going the other way . " POUNCEY WAS replaced as acting superintendent by Nicholas Kuzek . Carothers , who holds no other Job , . said he was " sure surprised " to learn of his firing but refrained from further comment . He was replaced by Jones . Flowers , who officially was suspended May 12 , has already filed an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a temporary basis by William Miller . Greene was replaced in the 6th Ward , a South Side area in which services were reportedly lagging badly during the mayor 's cleanup , by Roger McCall . OTHER WARDS and personnel changes are : ? The 17th Ward South Side where Leon Benford Sr. was suspended and temporarily replaced by Robert Quinlavin . ? The 26th Ward Near Northwest Side , where Anthony Piersanti was suspended and temporarily replaced by Frank Maratti . ? The 31st Ward ( Northwest Side , where Ernest Merck was suspended and temporarily replaced by Morris Kroan . ? The 37th Ward West Side ) , where Robert Constantine was suspended and temporarily replaced by William Cessa.                     