@@730885

txt Watergate events may slow somewhat if the Ervin committee turns to the courts to enforce its subpoenas for White House tapes . It could take weeks ? until some time this fall ? for the complicated constitutional issues involved to reach the U.S. Supreme Court , says David M. Dorsen , assistant chief counsel for the committee . President Nixon was given 48 hours , or until Thursday , to respond to two subpoenas from the Senate and another from special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox . Failing in that , the Senate has a variety of options , according to attorneys on Capitol Hill . Among them : ? Go to court to enforce the subpoenas. // *Court action would slow tempo of Watergate events // ? Find the President in contempt . Contempt action might come in either of two ways , says attorney Alfred M. Nittle , who is legislative counsel to the House Committee on Internal Security . Contempt action could be taken under the U.S code , which would mean the traditional process of grand-jury indictment , then trial Or it could mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be outside the traditional judicial processes . Whatever the decision , the Senate now has embarked on a path so complex and controversial that the next few months are filled with imponderables . Mr. Cox 's office is refusing comment on his subpoena , at least until the deadline for response from the President has passed . At the Senate committee , Mr. Dorsen says that if the Senate does turn to the courts , " I would imagine things would move pretty fast . " " Fast , Thowever , still means some ? week 's  --  for preparation of briefs and pertinent papers , presentment of the Senate and White House arguments before a district court , appeal to a higher court , and finally appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court . President Nixon himself might choose to throw the issue into the judicial system by responding to the subpoenas in such a way as to lead to a Supreme Court fight . Attorney Nittle observes that even if the Senate tried the President , the U S. Supreme Court would almost certainly become involved Writ Possible If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrest him , for example , the President could apply to the federal courts for a writ of habeas corpus on the grounds that his arrest would be unlawful Either way , it could be weeks , or even months , before the issues were settled legally Even if the President were found guilty , and that were upheld by the Supreme Court , Mr. Nittle observes , the President retains the power of pardon ? and in theory could pardon himself from any punishment meted out by the Senate or the courts As a result , Mr Nittle says , it could come down to the issue of whether the Congress is impelled to impeach the President . " I think their only avenue is impeachment " if they wish to punish the President , Mr Nittle says                     