@@733710

txt The tax debate in Washington is now out of focus , with the risk that the nation will end up with neither reform nor a rational tax cut . The confusion began last year when President Carter called for . a $50 tax rebate , a minor tax cut and major tax reform . Then he switched to a $25 billion cut and minor reform ; then a delayed $20 billion cut ; and now maybe less of a cut and no reform at all . Meanwhile , a drive in the opposite direction has sprung up in Congress , stirred by Representative William Steiger and his proposal fora sharp cut in the capital gains tax . Some of the confusion has arisen , inevitably , because of changes in the economy . Unemployment has turned out to be lower than expected and inflation higher . The investment boom that many economists hoped for has not materialized . It is too late for the Administration to continue in haphazard fashion ; Washington must redefine just what its proposed tax cut is meant to achieve . The objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep the economic recovery alive and to reduce inflation . If inflation is not brought back from its near-double-digit rate , the Federal Reserve Board will almost certainly force a recession . Therefore , it is not enough for tax policy merely to focus on economic stimulation . It must also deal with inflation . The question is how ? No one knows the whole answer , but some proposals under public discussion point in what seems to be the right direction ? and others do not . One that does not is the Administration 's plan to cut personal income taxes . It would boost economic activity , but do little to counter inflation . Rolling back Social Security taxes would be a better idea ; they push up both prices and wage demands . Some part of the tax cut might also be used for incentives to induce labor and business to hold down prices and wages . It 's an ex-. perimental idea , true , but one worth experimenting with . It focuses on both stimulation and inflation . With respect to corporate taxes , the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to both employment and price stability . In recent years , economists have been troubled by a slowdown in the growth of productivity . Some of the blame goes to environmental and health regulations that have forced companies to make investments that do not pay off in more output . And some blame goes to tax policy . The Administration has recognized the need to modify tax policy by offering its plan to devote a third of the tax cut to corporate taxes . The White House hopes this would encourage business investment and improved productivity . The Steiger bill , and others like it , would try to achieve those goals in another way : by cutting the capital gains tax . The immediate payoff would be to the very richest Americans . But the proponents claim that ripple effects would soon benefit the whole economy . The debate over these proposals is energetic but oversimplified . We oppose the Steiger bill and its exaggerated promises , though without further study it is impossible to say that some reduction in the capital gains tax might not have some benefits to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we still support an increased investment tax credit ? because it is targeted directly on investment and would not risk being dissipated in benefits only to the rich . To sketch out such solutions is to see how misdirected is the current economic debate in Washington . There are promising directions but most are not even being discussed . The nation is teetering again on the brink of double-digit inflation and the consequent threat of recession . It is not a time to pretend knowledge or promote simplistic remedies .                     