@@732510

txt Here , within the figurative shadow of the White House he hopes to occupy , former Georgia Gov . Jimmy Carter 's presidential drive suddenly faces a potential slowdown . Undecided voters and political leaders over the past 10 days have been coalescing around the last-minute candidacy of California Gov . Edmund G. ( Jerry ) Brown Jr . in the May 18 Maryland presidential primary : After having been well ahead in Maryland , according to a mid-April political poll , Governor Carter suddenly finds himself in a very tight race . By some accounts , including his own , he now trails Governor Brown slightly ? " by a few percentage points , " the Georgian says his private poll shows . Thus Governor Carter , anxious not to lose his winning momentum , is stepping up his Maryland campaign to counter the campaign blitz of his youthful California rival : ? Paid Carter workers are arriving at his storefront Baltimore headquarters from successful Carter campaigns in Pennsylvania and Washington , D.C. Originally Carter forces merely had planned to provide additional volunteers to aid their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them instead to add some 20 paid workers // *Brown has Carter running hard // ? Candidate Carter himself is planning more campaigning in Maryland , in an effort to reverse the Brown gains . He will campaign in the state three days this week ; . he spent parts of two days here last week . But the Georgian acknowledged last week that he has " one problem " in Maryland : " I 'm running all over the country " ? in 15 primaries during May alone . He also is making a major effort May 18 ? the day of the Maryland election ? in Michigan , where he is running another head-to-head contest , this time against Rep. Monis K. Udall ( D ) of Arizona . ? Carter forces now are increasing their radio-television campaign in Maryland . By one estimate , it now will be approximately the size of the Brown budget . Uncommitted swing Political observers attribute the rise in Brown strength largely to the decision of many previously uncommitted Maryland voters ? 34 percent by the April poll ? to support the Californian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But they insist the Brown support is " soft , " that it is based only on a blitz in the media and on personal appearances ? rather than a strong organization . ? - Additionally , an unknown amount of strength derives from endorsement of the Californian by numerous Maryland Democratic politicians , who are generally considered anxious to block the Carter bandwagon . But this support could be an Achilles ' heel for Governor Brown . Governor Carter tells Marylanders that voters are showing independence of the judgment of political leaders , as they did in Pennsylvania 's primary when Sen. Henry M. Jackson , won support from political leaders , but Mr. Carter won the primary . Carter counterattacks Governor Brown is the latest candidate " adopted by the political bosses , " Mr. Carter told a cheering crowd in front of the Revco discount drug center here . It is this attack on political bossism with which the Georgian hopes to reverse the Brown momentum in Maryland , attacking " political bosses , " but not Governor Brown , whom he called " a fine young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party unity . Governor Brown , in effect , accuses former Governor Carter of hypocrisy in Mr. Carter 's charge that Governor Brown is being used by Maryland political bosses who have endorsed him . Appearing Sunday on CBS 's " Face the Nation , " Governor Brown said that Governor Carter himself has sought similar endorsement from political leaders . " I welcome the support of everyone " in the Maryland primary , Governor Brown added . " Do n't be misled by the attractiveness " of Governor Brown , " he said . The real contest , he insisted , is not between the two candidates ? " the struggle is between the people choosing the president and having the president obligated to you , or the political bosses choosing the president , and having the president obligated to the political bosses . "                     