@@728837

txt The Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced the appointment of a three-man panel of foreign transit experts yesterday to try to improve New York 's subway system . Dr. William J. Ronan , chairman of the M.T.A. , said the panel would begin its study by the end of the month . It is believed to be the first time that those who run the city 's subways have gone out of the country for help . The three experts who are going to look into the city 's subway system 's equipment and operations are R. Michael Robbins , who is in charge of operations for the London subway system ; Olaf Kekonius , former technical director and deputy general manager of the Stockholm subway system , and W. Howard Paterson , general manager of subway construction for the Toronto Transit Commission . The New York subways have been plagued by recent accidents and equipment breakdowns that have resulted in criticism of the M.T.A. by political and civic leaders . Dr. Ronan said his action yesterday was in keeping with a recommendation by a Queens grand Jury , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be made safer following its investigation of an IND collision in May that killed two persons and injured 70 . In announcing the appointment of the panel , Dr. Ronan explained that the London system was in many respects close to the New York subways and that both the Stockholm and Toronto systems were comparatively new and had reputations for excellence . There was another development yesterday in connection with the city 's subways . District Attorney Eugene Gold of Brooklyn released a report say-1 ing the motorman of a subway train that had rammed another in that borough on July 17 had admitted that he was " a very poor judge of distance . " The report charged that the motorman , Clarence A. Berry , had never received a medical examination when he was appointed as a conductor in 1964 or when he was promoted to motorman in 1968 , although the Transit Authority 's rules require such an examination . It includes a test of depth perception . Hyman Feldman , executive officer for operations and maintenance for the Transit Authority , said in a statement issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quick check of the records " showed that Mr. Berry had been given examinations when he was first appointed and when he was promoted . Mr. Gold contended that this was not true and that his office ' had been given Mr. Berry 's ' records by Mr. Feldman 's assistant . Occurred During Rush The incident involved occurred during the evening rush hour near the Hoyt-Schermerhorn station of the IND . According to a report by a special panel set up by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority , this is what happened : A Manhattan-bound E train operated by Mr. Berry stopped at a red signal just past the Hoyt-Schermerhorn station . Operating under normal Transit Authority practice , Mr. Berry then proceeded slowly past the signal , accelerating until he was going about 15 or 20 miles an hour . Rounding a bend in the tracks a few seconds later , Mr. Berry saw the rear of an A train on the same track halted just before the Jay Street-Borough Hall station . By mistake , Mr. Berry pulled the throttle instead of the brake , and the train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into brake emergency , this was not enough to stop the train before it hit the halted A train . A few days after the accident , Dr. Ronan ordered the Transit Authority to change the rule ? allowmg a motorman to proceed through a red signal after stopping . All trains now must wait until the signal clears before moving . Cautioned 6 Times The investigation by Mr. Gold 's office also indicated that Mr. Berry had been cautioned six times by the Transit Authority and had been called for two departmental hearings for violations of regulations . The hearings resulted in one-day suspensions for each offense , the report said . The violations included citations for once taking his train along the wrong route and one for operating his train so fast that the emergency braking system had to be used to keep it from going past a station stop . Mr. Gold 's report recommended the immediate installation of speedometers in all subway cabs , so a motorman would not be forced to rely on his own judgment . The curve rounded by Mr. Berry 's train just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or speedtiming device , according to the Gold report . It recommended that automatic tripping devices that activate a train 's emergency brakes if it is going above the speed limit be installed before all blind curves . The report also urged the creation of a panel to evaluate the qualifications and personnel records of all Transit Authority operating employes                     