@@728720

txt COUNCIL IS CLOSE TO VOTING CHANGE IN RENT CONTROL The City Council headed early today toward approving a major revision of the city 's 27-year-old rent control law that Would raise rents Aug. 1 by 8 to 15 per cent for most families living in controlled apartments . The measure , reported out by the Housing Committee after two days of intensive sessions behind closed doors , would eventually link rents to landlords ' maintenance costs and profits in an effort to stem the decay of housing . And it would require the city 's Department of Rent and Housing Maintenance to inspect each owner 's books every three years and adjust his rents upward or downward accordingly . The bill would decontrol , upon vacancy , any apartment in an owner-occupied building containing six apartments or less . Full Council Called The full Council was called at 12:45 A.M. and the expectation it would give its approval to the rent plan apparently forestalled ' . a strike by 25,000 apartment house workers that had been threatened for midnight last night . Landlords had said that unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratify a 40 per cent wage increase for the workers agreed upon last week by negotiators for the real estate industry . A union spokesman said that owners of fewer . than 20 per cent of the 5,000 buildings in- , volved had signed the contract by last evening . But there were strong indications that the employes would stay on the job until midnight tonight to await the landlords ' reactions to the new rent program . Virtually the entire 37-member Council attended the unusual closed committee session , // Prior to that , on Aug. 1 , 1970 , rents would be raised as follows under the plan being considered last night : tenants on the 400,000 apartments that have not received a 15 per cent increase since 1953 would be raised 15 per cent . cThose 385,000 having received one such raise would be increased 8 per cent . Furthermore they may be raised up to 4 per cent if their landlords can certify that they have awarded wage increases . cThe remaining 515,000 with two or more increases since 1953 would not get increases Aug. 1 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent to recoup wage increases to their employes . Owners of buildings with fewer than 20 apartments could choose to substitute the 4 per cent wage pass-along with a 5 per cent across-theboard increase . cTo help small landlords , apartments renting for under $60 a month will be raised $10 where the apartment contains three rooms or less and $15 for apartments with more than four rooms . 11Apartments now on leases would be raised the appropriate amount when the leases expired . Beginning Jan. 1 , 1972 , rent ceilings would be set by computer to cover the amount each landlord is expected to need for operating and maintenance costs and taxes . Reproduced with permission of the In addition , the rent ceilings ) would be designed to provide the owners with an annual return of 8.5 per cent of his building 's equalized assessed valuation . From this return , the land-II lord is expected to draw both his profit and his mortgage payments . The power to change the 8.5 per cent figure  --  which Mayor Lindsay had asked be given to the Department of Rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Council . Rents would rise toward the new ceilings by no more than 7.5 per cent a year , in contrast with the 9.5 per cent annual increase allowed under the Lindsay plan . The ceilings themselves would be adjusted every two years as costs fluctuated . Tenants over 62 years of age would be exempt beginning Aug. 1 from paying more than one-third of their incomes for rent , providing their yearly earnings did not exceed $4,500 and their rents were $150 or less . However , the committee made no decision on Mayor Lindsay 's proposal that younger working families also be exempt from certain rent increases . Donald R. Manes , the Housing Committee chairman , said this question would be taken up probably during the next session of the State Legislature since action in Albany was believed necessary . Administration officials received one power that they did not want  --  the responsibility , beginning in 1974 , of auditing each landlord 's books to check that his actual operating expenditures equaled the amount that the computerized formula assumed he would need to maintain his building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spend the assumed amount , it would reduce rents ; if he had spent more than the formula provided , his rents would be raised . Administration officials , including Benjamin Altman , the Commissioner of Rent and Housing Maintenance , were said to have contended during the long hours of argument in the committee room that the agency would find it impossible to audit the books of 145,000 buildings . The regulation of a landlord 's profit and the computerization of rents , makes of private housing here a kind of public utility , in the view of some observers . The rent commission and the City Council would regulate rents in something of the same fashion that the Public Service Commission regulates telephone and electricity rates . Reform Democratic Councilmen , including Carter Burden of Manhattan , won some victories . They obtained a provision that would eliminate the ability of nonprofit institutions such as hospitals and colleges to evict tenants of rent : controlled buildings and substitute their own staff members . The institutions will now be treated just as private landlords arse with the capacity to evict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renovate it " eitensively . The Reformed Democrats also took credit for a requirement that each landlord , before qualifying for a rent increase , certify under the threat- of perjury penalties that he has spent 90 per cent of his allowed operating and - maintenance expenses for building upkeep . Administration officials have called this provision ' on , enforcable . Under the system of control , envisioned as a temporary measure when it was instituted by the Federal Government in 1943 , rents in buildings erected after 1947 may not be raised as long as a tenant remains in ? an apartment , except for small increases where a landlord makes improvements to the building or can prove that he has not earned a 6 per cent annual return on his assessed valuation , plus 2 per cent for depreciation . When a tenant moves out , the rent may rise by 15 per , cent . // which began yesterday morning at City Hall and continued , with scarcely a break , into the night . Weary housing officials waited in clusters outside the doors of the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ array of 72 technical amendments being proposed and heatedly debated . Occasionally , sounds of angry shouts could be heard through the doors . The measure under consideration would be the most significant change in rent control since regulation was imposed by the Federal Government in 1943 as a wartime emergency measure . About 1.3-million families now live in rent-controlled apartments . The new plan would make substantial cuts in the rent increases proposed May 12 by Mayor Lindsay , but it would retain the basic structure he requested  --  a computerized formula to calculate " economic rents " in each of the 145,000 buildings under control . That formula , under the Council bill , would take effect Jan. 1 , 1972 , rather than July 1 , 1971 , as Mr. Lindsay proposed .                     