@@732592

txt Ronald Reagan appeared . to , night to have swept 41 Montana and New Mexico delegate to the Republican National Convention . Early this morning , Presidert Ford won 17 of Minnesota's-18 at-large delegates , but the . effect of the voting at the thre : state conventions was to trim the President 's lead over his conservative challenger . Assuming no change in the clear trend that developed to-. night in New Mexico and Montana , Mr. Reagan trails Mr. Ford in The New York Times count by only 59 delegates . On the first of three votes in New Mexico , Mr. Reagan totIC all eight delegates , and Mrs Francine Neff , the Treasurer or the United States , who is a Ford leader , conceded that the President would lose subsequent tests . 14 on First Ballot On the first of two votesMontana , the former Californ'a Governor won all 14 delegates . and Norman E. Watts , one of Mr. Ford 's top national strategists , said it was certain that Mr. Reagan would score a sweep here . In Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national committeemen meeting there . Page 34 . Mr. Reagan 's supporters demonstrated their control in New Mexico and Montana as soon as the conventions there opened . In New Mexico , where 21 votes were at stake , Ford partisans counterattacked by demanding delegate posts for Senator Pete V. Domenici and Representative Manuel Lujan Jr. , both Ford backers . In Montana , where 20 votes were at stake , Ford partisans argued that they deserved some representation because the President won about 40 percent of the votes in the state 's nonbinding primary on June 1 . Parliamentary Warfare Intense parliamentary war fare broke out in both states . delaying the voting for as much as three hours . Here in Helena , Robert Rules of Order were debated far more strenuously than were the merits of the two Presidential rivals as Mr. Ford 's strategists fought for four delegate , slots . No lists of delegate candidates were available , so party officials chalked the names of . blackboards and carried the blackboards through the hall so all could see . In Albuquerque . N.M. , the proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Ford-dominated state central committee for a system of proportional representation was defeated on the floor . The disorganization was so great that one delegate pmposed that 21 pigs be brought into the auditorium from a fund-raising luau scheduled tor later tonight and allowed to run free . Each person who caught a pig , he suggested to general applause , would automatically be elected a delegate . Mr. Ford had never thought he could win in New Mexico and Montana , but he had hoped to avert a shutout . Mr. Reagan averted one In Minnesota , but only after a grueling and often bizarre . , ession in which delegates sang , played stickball , stumbled through a Japanese folk dance and listened to a reading from " The Teahouse of the August Moon " to keep awake . Not until 3:02 A.M. , after five hours of chaotic vote-counting , was the outcome known . The Ford forces had hoped for a sweep to offset , as nearly as possible , their setbacks in , Montana and New Mexico , and the Reagan camp had entertained hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly settled on a 17-to-1 split to put an end , to the predawn confusion . Mark Piepho , a 23-year-old activist from Mankato in southern Minnesota , was the only Reagan delegate elected as the President 's managers maintained effective discipline in their ranks . As things turned out , the bitter fight over convention rules in Minnesota did not matter . Over the protests of the Reagan forces , the convention voted to require a majority , rather than a plurality , for election as a delegate , in the belief that no Reagan bacjier could gain a majority . On the first ballot last night , however , 17 Ford supporters won majorities , and the 18thand 19th-place finishers , who would have been eligible for a runoff , were both Reagan supporters . Mr. Piepho , only seven votes short of the 955 needed for victory , was the firstrunner-up . Rather than prolong the struggle , the Ford and Reagan floor managers agreed to suspend the rules and elect Mr. Piepho by acclamation . More than 50 candidates sought the 18 Minnesota delegate slots , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates on paper ballots . Pending the final results in Montana and New Mexico , The New York Times national delegate tabulation gives Mr. Ford 1,040 delegates-90 short of nomination , which requires 1,130 votes . Mr. Reagan has 940 delegates , and 140 are listed as uncommitted . Reagan ' Wins 4 in Idaho MOSCOW , Idaho , June 26 ( UPI ) ? Ronald Reagan today won four more Republican delegates from Idaho , which had previously been allocated to him , to give him 17 of the state 's 21 votes at the Republican National Convention in Kansas City next August . President.Ford has the : our other delegates .                     