@@733318

txt Two women who ignored danger in campaigning for peace in Northern Ireland were today belatedly named winners of the 1976 Nobel Peace Prize . At /he same time , Amnesty International was named winner of the 1977 prize . The two Northern Ireland women , Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams , were awarded the 1976 prize jointly for organizing a broad-based movement to end the violence between Roman Catholics and Protestants in the British province . " Their initiative , " the Norwegian Nobel Committee said , " paved the way for the strong resistance against violence and misuse of power which was present in broad circles of the ' people . " Alfred Nobel 's wish was that the peace prize should be given to those who most actively worked for peace and brotherhood . Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams acted from a profound conviction that the individual can make a meaningful contribution ' to peace through constructive reconciliation . " Amnesty International , the Londonbased human-rights organization , was cited as a " bulwark " against increased brutality and the internationalization of violence and terrorism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dignity against violence and subjugation have proved that the basis for peace in the world must be justice for all human beings , " the committee said . Mrs. Williams , 34 years old , and Miss Corrigan , 33 , were understood to have been favored by . the . five-member selection committee last year but they could not be given the prize then because they had begun their peace- campaign several Months after the Feb. 1 deadline for nominations . However , so widespread was the sentiment for honoring them that 22 Norwegian newspapers raised $340,000 and awarded it to the women as a so-called " People 's Peace Prize . " They used the money to set up a trust fund to provide care for orphans , create jobs and begin // other community projects to ease the effects of the Ulster fighting . Mrs. Williams and Miss Corrigan , who will share a prize of $140,000 launched their peace movement after Mrs. Williams saw three children killed by the getaway car of fleeing Irish Republican Army guerrillas in Belfast . Miss Corrigan was an aunt of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern Ireland , where sectarian strife has claimed more than 1,700 lives since 1969 , and also attracted a tide of international sympathy . Not since 1946 , when Emily Balch , an American pacifist leader , shared it , has a woman won the Nobel Peace Prize . The prizes were established under the will of the Swedish chemist Alfred B. Nobel , the inventor of dynamite . This is the first time since the early 1960 's that two Peace Prizes have been announced at the same time . Dr. Linus C. Pauling was given the 1962 prize in 1963 , when the International Red Cross was also named . Today 's announcement was made in the old Nobel Institute , near the heart of Oslo , . by Aase Lionaes , chairman of the committee . She read the two brief citations in Norwegian , then a shortened English translation . Mrs. Lionaes said the award to Amnesty International was intended to mark 1977 as prisoner of conscience year . " In a world of increasing brutality , internationalization of violence , terrorism and torture , Amnesty International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the citation said . The award carries a $147,000 cash prize . Amnesty International , which was founded 16 years ago in London as a voluntary group to assure human rights around the world , now has 100,000 members in 33 countries who seek to promote human rights through public reports citing violations of those rights . A Nobel official , asked whether the committee had planned for over a year to give the 1976 award to Mrs. Williams and Miss Corrigan , said , " It 's easy to assume so . " The Peace Prize and the Prize in Literature have been the most controversial cf the five prizes awarded since 1901 . The award of a sixth , for economics , was begun in 1969 . In 1973 two members of Norway 's Parliament resigned in protest from the committee that selected Henry A. Kissinger and Le Duc Tho of North Vietnam . Parliament agreed then to study the possibility of reorganizing the peace prize committee , which until this year consisted mostly or entirely of members of Parliament . Mrs. Lionaes said today , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year the Norwegian Nobel Committee from the Nobel Committee of the Norwegian Parliament . " People have accepted the fact that the committee is absolutely independent of Parliament , " Mrs. Lionaes declared . Since the last announcement of a peace prize , to Andrei D. Sakharov in 1975 , two committee members have left Parliament , with the result that today 's winners were the first picked by a committee with no parliamentary members . All but Mrs. Lionaes are men . The presentation of the peace prizes will be in Oslo . All the other prizes will be presented in Stockholm on Dec. 10 , the anniversary of Nobel 's death in 1896.                     