@@732517

txt parent campaign of harassment following a reversal of charges that the cadet had violated the honor code , which states , " A cadet will not lie , steal or cheat , or tolerate those who do . " The cadet had been charged with lying last August when has said his parents had been injured in an automobile accident to explain tears outside a mess hall , A former marathon runner , the cadet explained later that he was near collapse after two days without food , a form of traditional hazing to " toughen " new cadets . Cadet Verr violated normal Continr , Jon Page 34 , Column 1 WEST POINT , N.Y ? Capt . Arthur Lincoln , an Army lawyer who has criticized the alleged abuse of the West Point 's honor code by officers and cadets , is being asked to leave the United States Military Academy . Captain Lincoln , a West Point graduate , confirmed last night that he received a phone call a few days ago from the Pentagon asking him to submit choices for reassignment , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year had been granted two months ago . He has defended a plebe , Ca. det Steven Verr , against an ap ? Last week , Captain Lincoln and nine other Army lawyers wrote to the Secretary of the Army , Martin R. Hoffmann . asking for an investigation into the manner in which West Point was handling a cheating scandal involving 49 second classmen. or juniors . Accused of collaborating on a take-home examination in March , many of the cadets have since charged that hundieds of others had been involved and that the Academy was seeking to downplay the incident to avoid adverse publicity and the ; decimation of the senior class next year . West Point spokesmen have denied that the investigation has been played down . They have also denied allegations of ; cadet jury tampering and bribeContinued From Page I , Col. 21 procedure at the 174-year-old , institution by " going public " ' last month with an account of ' , seven months in " transient bar-I racks " a form of modified solitary confinement , as he I awaited adjudication of his case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pum , meted and silenced , of having his mail and property stolen , of being permitted to fall at " assisted " gymnasium exercises and of undergoing sychiatric examinations that he I characterized as threatening . Captain Lincoln had sought to interest Academy officials in what he felt were abuses by Cadet William Andersen , chairman of the cadet honor committee , and others in the pursuit of Cadet Veir 's case , which has since attracted Congressional interest . ry , although a second classman has been officially charged : since then with " attempting to influence votes " on one of the : four cadet boards that heard the cases of 101 cadets originally suspected of cheating . Captain Lincoln , one of 22 lawyers teaching basic law as , well as serving the cadets legal requirements , said a few weeks ago that the honor code probably was necessary but that " it is frequently pursued with , out due process and it may he doing more to undermine honor than to uphold it . " The lawyer , who served in West Germany as a company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said last night : " Although my boss told me more than two months ago that an extension of my ! tour at the Point had been ! granted , I was sort of expecting to be transferred once all this : became public . He explained that the request Ito suggest reassignment choices ! had come from the " careers management " section of the ' Army and that " it would be a ! normal request under normal ' circumstances . " He added that ' even now " it 's no big deal . " " They will say it 's simply a ; routine transfer after the nor ! mai three-year hitch , but we all know why they 're doing it . IThey do n't like the truth point , ed out to them . " He said he " did not take the transfer personally . " , West Point spokesmen have ! downgraded or rebutted most of the allegations surrounding ' Cadet Verr as well as the cheatling scandal , including a charge ' by the cadet that much of his mail has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " According to an Academy spokesman , an investigation by the post 's Inspector General 's office disclosed that a mail clerk had returned Cadet Verr 's mail because he was proceeding under the " erroneous assumption " that Cadet Verr had been expelled in March . Gerald Verr , the cadet 's father , a Brookfield , Ill. , stockbroker , said that " 50 to 100 pieces of mail were returned to us beginning last October and we have a statement from the chief postal clerk here to prove it . Christmas vacation plans were disrupted , the cadet 's father said , when airline reservation changes failed to arrive at West Point . Cadet Verr said today that his mail got through now " although they photograph each piece ? I 've seen the copies  --  presumably to make sure that it does get through . " " I wonder if that is legal ? " he added . When Cadet Verr 's gymnasium locker was broken into a week ago , an Academy spokes. man ascribed it to " common pilferage . " The lock had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an unusual form of theft , according to the , military police . Cadet Verr has said that hel Chas undergone two psychiatric I examinations . In October , the ' commandant of cadets asked I the mental hygiene consultaition service to " conduct a PsYchiatric evaluation " to determine ? if Cadet Verr had " psychological problems that account for his allegation " that " he was denied full and sufficient meals in the cadet mess . " Lieut . Col. William G. Slaughter , chief of the consultation service , said on Nov. 3 that " there is no emotional disorder , mental disease or character defect " warranting further medical attention . " Specifically , Mr. Verr has no definitive psychological disorder that accounts for his allegation that he was denied full and sufficient meals . " A second'mental test was ordered for the 19-year-old cadet in April , after he had drawn widespread attention to-his situation . A different psychiatrist , Capt . Peter Ziabcwski , came to a similar conclusion , stating : ad " Cadet Verr appeared to be mildly anxious , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oriented to time , place and person : and itt demonstrated no deficit in memory , intellect or judgment . Reality testing Is not impaired . " Dr. Ziabcwski said he could find " no psychiatric diseases or severe psychological defect present to account for his actions and behaviors , " which Cadet Verr has since described as " trying to point out what they were doing to me . " " This individual , the psyichiatrist concluded , " is mentally responsible for his actions , has the ability to distinguish right from wrong and to adhere to what is right "                     