@@730052

txt Prime Minister Edward Heath of Britain today suspended home rule for Northern Ireland and said he did so in hope of giving the troubled province a completely fresh start . He made this statement in explaining his dramatic action ? an action which set aside Ulster 's Parliament and government for at least a year . " Now is your chance , " Heath said in an appeal to the 1.5 million people of Northern Ireland . " A chance for fairness , a chance for prosperity and , above all , a chance for peace , a chance at last to bring the bombings and killings to an end . " A British minister will run Ulster with help of an advisory commission and the British Parliament will make all laws for Ulster . Heath stressed that the British army " will stay in Northern Ireland so long as any faction seeks to terrorize and intimidate ordinary people . " He emphasized the word " any " in a warning to both Protestant and Catholic militants . " There will be no letup in the fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Parliament that the faster the terror dwindles and dies , the earlier the new British minister , William Whitelaw , will begin to release the almost 1,000 interned men and the earlier Whitelaw will start negotiations on the shape of the new Northern Ireland . He said the internees will be released when no undue risk to security is involved . All Possible Alternatives A government spokesman said tonight every possibility will be considered in the negotiations . These include a united Ireland , an independent Northern Ireland , an Ulster fully integrated into the United Kingdom , even reactivating the present legislature and government . The negotiations could last for several years and possibly end by confirming today 's " temporary " arrangements . Heath stressed in a speech in Parliament and in an address to the nation that the Ulster legislature and government are not abolished , only suspended . He said Britain stands by its repeated pledge that the UlsterIrish border will vanish only with approval of the majority in Ulster . An Ulster plebiscite on the border will be held " as soon as practicable " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wording suggested the vote will be held when Heath judges emotions have cooled and violence has sufficiently eased . The plebiscite will be repeated regularly after " a substantial period of years . " Heath handed Parliament a draft bill which would give the British government power to suspend the Ulster legislature and government for at least one year . The bill would transfer all their powers to the British Parliament and to the new minister for Northern Ireland . The measure also would provide for holding the plebiscites . Labor Party leader Harold Wilson pledged his party 's cooperation . The bill is expected to become law next Thursday and take effect immediately . Whitelaw has been leader of the House of Commons . He is already setting up his ministry in both London and Belfast , drawing key personnel from the British Home Ministry . Whitelaw flies to Ulster tomorrow . His first big job will be to appoint the advisory commission . He hopes to get " leading lights " from all sections of Ulster 's Catholic and Protestant communities . Membership will probably be a parttime job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should give to the Ulster civil service departments , which will remain intact , and to the security forces . It is hoped that the commission also will play a big part ' in organizing the discussions on the future of the province . Heath Goals Told - Heath hopes his action in leaving the future shape of Northern Ireland to the Ulster people will eliminate any visible target for terrorists , agitators , and hardline politicians . He is described as seeking to withdraw public support from the Irish Republican Army and to forestall a Protestant backlash . His offer to give everyone a hand in reshaping Northern Ireland is described as aimed at that goal . Whether the biggest changes in Northern Ireland since the island was divided 51 years ago would end the violence and start peaceful debate or set off a civil war was uncertain tonight . Five of the eight Ulster Conservative members of the British House of Commons flatly turned down a personal plea from Heath to help make the changes succeed . They declared they will vote against the bill and some said they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               