@@729410

txt Perhaps the most important message a visitor to China gets these days is that order and stability have returned to a society that was convulsed with the purges and factionalism of the Cultural Revolution bout two years ago . The country is back at work in a settled , regulated way , and the importance of this for a people as diligent , frugal and ingenious as the Chinese is enormous . Irrespective of political systems , progress is certain to be made . For the writer , who returned to mainland China after an absence of 25 years , the last four of them spent studying the country from the distance of Hong Kong , not only the extent to which control and discipline have been restored but also the seeming general acceptance of the present-day Maoist way of ' life appeared even more extensive than the evidence had indicated . There doubtless are deep dissatisfactions in sections of the population of 800 million , but the teeming , blue-clad throngs on the farms and in the cities II visited seemed cheerful and relatively at ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activists , including the youths singing and chanting as they did physical training marches through city streets and into the countryside , the workers and their families in busy suburban industrial communities , the omnipresent army // and militia men and the former poor peasant families now living as well as neighbors who used to live better . The Chinese people are still poor , their ill-fitting clothing patched and worn , their cities drab and gray , but nine years of good harvests and , in the last two years , improved industrial output have given them a little better livelihood , and stabilized conditions have doubtless contributed to the brighter outlook that seems to prevail . The stability has been achieved under a leadership that , one discovers , has most of the same faces as the old . " Less than 1 per cent of Communist patty members were purged permanently during the Cultural Revolution , " said a i Foreign Ministry official in Peking . Nonparty cadres also seemed to have survived to a great extent . In visiting small and large organizations from Canton through Shanghai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committees usually made up of people who held leading positions in the same or similar organizations before the Cultural Revolution of 1966-69 . Denunciation and Confession Many described vividly and with some embarrassment the denunciations to which they had been subjected by Maoist activists and the confessions they had had to make . Many were sent to the countryside or to factories for reindoctrination with hard labor . They professed to be changed men , but they were still around . There was a conspicuous new factor in the picture compared with former times  --  the presence of military men , either regulars or militiamen , in every organization to see that proper Maoist loyalties and policies were observed . Most of the same men and women who managed affairs before the Cultural Revolution were still doing so , but under the supervision of the military men through a new power structure of revolutionary committees and in conformity with refurbished Maoist policies . The Cultural Revolution still goes on , officials emphasized , in constant mutual self-criticism and study of the thought of Chairman Mao Tse-tung , but it was also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in home affairs as well as in foreign relations ? the latter evident in the admission of American table tennis players and reporters . The new stability and the new moderation apparently reflect a strengthening of the position of Premier Chou En-lai , whose close relationship with the chief of staff of the armed forces , Huang Yung-sheng , was remarked . Yet , observers noted , that did not necessarily represent a loss of power by the 78-year-old Chairman Mao and his deputy , Lin Piao . " Mao has relaxed pressures before , " a foreign diplomat observed . " He is quite capable of doing it again . On the other hand , he is really beginning to show his age now and is possibly able to participate only in the big decisions . " A visit to the People 's Republic of China also brings home the fact that a new generation is on the scene . Many oldsters may still be unhappy at the regimentation , drabness , leveling and conformity of life , the lack of intellectual freedom and the constant propagandizing , but members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take it all in stride . Ambitious youths find ways of getting ahead and making careers within the system . But one gets the feeling that ambition , at least materialistic ambition , is not as active a force in the new Maoist Communism as in Western societies . The constant group discussions , criticisms and self-examinations that are part of the Chinese system embody pressure from the less able and energetic against selfish aggrandizement , and that dampens ambition . Material Rewards Limited Moreover , the material rewards of getting ahead are not great . A senior worker in a factory , for example , makes about as much as a production manager , and a member of a revolutionary committee that runs a large rural commune gets nothing for committee duty , only the income from the regular job he continues to do ? often that of a laborer . Basic material security is as certain for the ordinary as the high-ranking -- possibly more so since the latter are vulnerable to political hazards . Those able to work are assured adequate food through the ration system , housing at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and clothing of the everyday kind , which even high officials wear , is cheap . Stable and somewhat more relaxed the present system may be , but one finds that it is still incomplete and uneven in application . The spokesman for a machine-building plant near Tientsin said its revolutionary committee was still experimentThe New York Times May 11,1971 ing with worker participation in management and had not ' finally settled the question of a fixed wage after eliminating bonuses for extra output paid before the Cultural Revolution but now condemned . Another big industrial establishment near Peking , the Shihchingshan Steel Plant did not have worker participation in management and had settled the bonus question by raising all wages 15 to 17 per cent . The new Maoist educational system , with its increased emphasis on work-study and brief ' er schooling , is still not generally in operation . Even some Government ministries are not permanently staffed partly because many eligible officials are off getting re-education through manual labor at rural cadre schools , some of them remote from Peking . Envoy in the Rice Fields Huang Hua @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have just returned from protracted work-study in Hunan , where they spent much of their time laboring in the rice fields . The assessment of what is going on in China presented here is based on a limited view of a vast country . The American and other newsmen admitted last month received no general backgrounding on domestic affairs from high officials and went as a group ? usually accompanied by one of the foreign table tennis teams that were in China  --  to selected factories , communes , schools and exhibitions for inspection and discussion . There was no opportunity for talking with Chinese outside those encountered at officially arranged meetings . As an American I was treated everywhere with consideration and cordiality . Occasionally I was introduced to worker groups as " an American friend who had been in Yenan , " the base for the Chinese Communists in northwestern China , which I visited in 1946 and 1947 . That always produced smiles and a crescendo of applause . The places visited were for the most part showplaces , most of which had been depicted as examples to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at similar establishments indicated that those inspected were not greatly different from others . At producing institutions ? communes and factories  --  workers and managers talked with candor and confidence , but at two places operated by highlevel intellectuals , the strain such people labor under in a thought-controlled society was evidenced by tension and reticence . At a Shanghai hospital that specializes in restoring severed hands and arms , the doctors were so effusive in giving all credit to the inspiration and leadership of Chairman Mao that they created the impression of protesting too much . At Tsinghua University in Peking , administrators , faculty members and Red Guards rushed through a presentation at which no questions were permitted , as if there was something to hide . To me the China that Communism has made seems headed for another settled phase , possibly more outward-looking , with greater attention to economic growth and a consequent need for relations with the outside world . A quotation from Mr. Mao seen these days in the hotels where foreigners stay says : " The Chinese people have high aspirations , they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced world levels in the not too distant future . "                     