@@730529

txt State 's Atty . Edward V. Hanrahan hinted strongly yesterday that he is ready to run for mayor in 1975 and expressed dissatisfaction with the Cook County Democratic organization . Hanrahan , who was defeated for reelection Tuesday , spoke at his first press conference since his defeat and told newsmen they have n't seen the last of Edward V. Hanrahan. that the only major election in 1975 is that of mayor , which Hanrahan could conceivably begin running for a year earlier . Mayor Daley and the Democratic organization , Hanrahan said , did not do their best in Tuesday 's election . Needs Reorganization " You do n't have to be a political genius to see that the Democratic organization needs some reorganization when you look at the ward and township results , " said Hanrahan . It was one of those rare press conferences for Hanraban where the controversial state 's attorney , who has been known to blow his stack at an unfriendly question , kept his cool . " I came from the West Side of Chicago and graduated from the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked how he reacted to a defeat he , , did n't expect . " There is nothing I hate more than defeat . But I will not roll over and cry . But as Gen. said , ' I shall return . ' " Could Daley have done more to help Hanrahan 's reelection ? " Sure , he could have helped carry those wards we did n't carry , " said Hanrahan . A few minutes after Hanrahan 's press conference , Daley was asked what he ' conjectured from Hanrahan 's statement of being around in 1974 and 1975 . " I hope he is , " said the mayor . " I wish him good health and good wishes . " Could Run for Clerk Will Hanrahan be a candidate for mayor ? Daley was asked . " A lot of things are up In 1975 , " he replied , and then just laughed when it was suggested Hanrahan could run for city clerk that year . Noting that he stated on Monday he would take up playing the piano if he lost the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced down my throat . . . . My first plans are to go home and put up the storm windows . " The 75 newsmen and cameramen who jammed Hanrahan 's Civic Center conference room wanted most importantly to know why Hanrahan thought he had lost . Twice he ' stated that it was simply because he was // " I 'll Be Around " " I believe in public service as the finest expression of a legal career , " Hanrahan said when asked if he would run for mayor of Chicago in 1975 . " I will be around in 1974 , and I certainly will be around in ? 1975 . " Political analysts observed behind in the votes , but later he said he had n't gotten across his record as state 's attorney . Hard to Answer Charges " Anyone who loses would come to conclude that what he did was not properly evaluated , " said Hanrahan . " It is extremely difficult to get adequate space to answer charges . in newspapers . " Hanrahan said he was proud of having convicted 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to make the black communities safer places in which to live . Jesse Not a Leader " Yet I could never get that message over to the black people , " said Hanrahan , who lost 12 of the city 's 15 black wards to Republican Bernard Carey . He said he does not view persons such as the Rev. Jesse . Jackson , who opposed him , as leaders of Chicago 's black community . 1 " They have never done anyIthing to help law enforcement , " he said . Hanrahan said his indictment in the Panther case may also have been significant to his . - loss . " There were people who were not in court and did not hear the verdict who have forgotten the evidence , " he said . That evidence , he said , showed that the Panthers fired the first shot during that infamous raid of December , 1969 . Was there anything symbolic about the fact he will leave office on the third anniversary of the raid ? Hanrahan was asked . Tragic Because of Deaths " It lthe raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " The incident was sym ! balic of the time . It was a time when violence . . . and the Black Panthers were rot manticized . " Hanrahan extended his good wishes to Carey and said he hoped Carey would continue , : the drug prevention program and other programs started by i the Hanrahan administration . ? The outgoing state 's attorney ( said he enjoyed his four years in office despite what he called " frequent criticism and countless obstacles . " And as he pre . pared to leave what he said was his last press conference as state 's attorney , Hanrahan smiled , gave a slight wave of the hand , and spoke these words : " Thank you . I go out with regret at leaving public office . I relish the experience . I wish we all could have understood each other better . "                     