@@733988

txt Ten years ago I visited a number of colleges and universities in Europe . Those were turbulent times . For the most part , the students were behaving most unacademically and the education authorities were behaving most defensively . Several times I was accosted by students as well as campus police , and at no time did I feel that sound education was taking place because of the constant fighting , shouting , blockading , and confusion . Although many of the same problems still exist , that is , many of the same " gripes " are still held by students , the climate is entirely different and it is the students who appear anxious and concerned and not the academicians . For the majority of European students , the overriding issue concerns what they will do after . they complete their university schooling . How will they find employment in the field in which they have studied ? How will the automotive engineers find jobs in the automotive industry ? ? How will research scholars find places at prestigious universities ? How will dramatists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The employment picture is clouded , and university students have little way of knowing whether the studies they are taking are the ones that will place them in the kind of job they will find fulfilling . This is particularly poignant in the field of education itself . Colleges and universities are already filled to capacity with young instructors , lecturers , tutors , and professors . There will be only a few places open each year to take newly trained educators . The statistics for England , Scotland , and Wales show less than 10 percent of the present academic staff at the univer ? sity level to be 55 years old or over . European academicians say this skewing of the age group is similar throughout the continent . // *After college , what ? // . No only that , senior positions are increasingly being held by younger and younger professors ensuring that there will be few promotions within institutions . And because the 18-year age group is declining , and every university has a young faculty , there is little movement between and among institutions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past it was quite usual for university tutors to consider moving from one British university to another freely , but that this is no longer the case . . Professors in Italy and Spain were quick to state that only the foolhardy or independently wealthy would think of leaving one institution today before being sure of an appointment elsewhere . And yet , each of these instructors has a full load of students , many of whom he is encouraging to continue his studies ? particularly in research ? when it is quite clear that there will be university appointments for only a fraction of those prepared . With this kind of concern " in the air , " I found that instead of students marching in the streets or holding rallies or demanding audiences with college authorities , they were going to classes , working long hours at research projects , and wherever they met holding serious discussions about major issues facing them personally as well as the larger questions they feel concern the whole world . One ca n't be long in a European university atmosphere and not hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the general business environment . Oh , yes , there are the- ater groiips performing light as well as serious plays and rock groups entertaining musicians eschewing the classicists . And the local " hangouts " are as full as usual with the fun-frivolous crowd . But both professors and students feel the pinch of place , and each is serious about what he is studying and why . Tutors do n't like to be asked about how they are counseling students who want to continue a university life when they complete their studies , nor do they want to admit that they spend a great deal of their own professional time worrying about hovs they can secure tenure ? if they have n't got it already . One " gripe " of 10 years ago concerned the older members of the faculty . Many tenured positions were held by men and women who were seldom at the university and at a time of exploding knowledge had not kept up in their own fields , much less in allied studies . The students I met 10 years ago in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that the politics of their universities were inexorably wound up in the larger national politics . This , for example , was considered rampant in Japan , Iran , Greece , Italy , Spain , and France . If anything , though , their demonstrations only served to replace older members of faculty with younger , hence ensuring that for an even longer time there.would not be a turnover . But just as this situation appeared near the breaking point , the demographers began sharing their data  --  the birthrate was receding . And suddenly colleges and universities began courting students . The tenured faculty , to retain their positions at all , need a student body . And so now there is considerable talk of luring more and more students to higher education at the same time that the employment picture shows an excess of academically prepared professionals . I asked academicians if the charge made about US universities that standards are dropping ? was true of their institutions . The message was consistent : standards are rising , not falling . With the turmoil subsided , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialize . At several institutions I was told that even though there was concern about dropping enrollment ? still some four or five years in the future ? there was even greater concern that students be given a sound academic base as well as be kept abreast of latest developments in specific fields . And for their part , the students are demanding to be taught the latest ? are asking that their professors be on the cutting edge of research , and not merely purveyors of " old " wisdom . There is , accordingly , more contact between industry and academicians . And at one British university , which offers a strong North American studies program , every student is en- eouraged to spend at least one year of study in North America , just as engineering and business students are encouraged to sandwich time between work and study assignments . In Barcelona , Spain , I learned that 91 students out of 300 studying in the philosophy department had opted for a special course in the phenomonology of religion , and that courses in comparative religious thought were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a prevalent belief among university students , but there was a growing interest in religious thought in general . Yet , when I queried British university sources about an interest ih scriptural studies , I was brushed off ; was told that there was less , not more , interest today in the study of religion . Several times I asked scholars where , in all the world , they would like to go to study or meet with fellow scholars , or pursue a specific academic interest . If they could study wherever they wanted , where would it be ? It was unanimous ? the United States . And where ? It all depended on the scholar 's interests and contacts , but all major academic centers were named , particularly those with several graduate schools and independent research institutions .                     