@@730247

txt Henry A. Kissinger , the President 's adviser on national security , will go to China next week for five days of talks with Premier Chou En-lai and other officials on a variety of issues , presumably including Vietnam . A joint announcement made here and in Peking today said that Mr. Kissinger , who will be making his fourth trip to the Chinese capital in less than a year , would be engaging in " concrete consultations with Chinese leaders to further the normalization of relations between the People 's Republic of China and the United States . " Any Topic Can Be Raised Ronald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , who made the announcement , would not confirm that Vietnam was on the agenda , but he noted that Mr. Kissinger did not intend to engage in discussion of " mu- , tine matters . " Mr. Ziegler added that he expected that many internationlel matters of consequence would be discussed and that each side was " free to raise any subject " it wished . Mr. Kissinger , who returned eariy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave for Peking tomorrow or Friday , to stop briefly in Hawaii and to leave there Sunday , with a refueling stop in Guam . He will arrive Shanghai on Monday afternoon , and return directly to Washington on Friday , June 23 . Mr. Ziegler , who. was asked to explain the mission , said that recent American bombing in North Vietnam near the Chinese border had " nothing to do with the timing of the visit or the visit itself . " Podgorny Going to Hanoi He also denied any relationship between Mr. Kissinger 's trip and the visit by the Soviet President , Nikolai V. Podgorny , to Hanoi . Mr. Podgorny , with whom Mr. Nixon conferred sevleral times during the Moscow meeting last month , is on his way to North Vietnam . The press secretary recalled that the joint communique issued in Shanghai near the end , of the President 's trip to China in February . provided for later visits by senior United States officials . He said the Kissinger , mission had been agreed upon in principle then and that final arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 . Privately , State Department ? officials said they saw at least two reasons why Vietnam might play a considerable role in the talks . First , while they agreed with Mr. Ziegler that the American bombing of North Vietnamese targets was probably not the primary motive for Mr. Kissinger 's trip at this time , they pointed out that the Chinese had sharply criticized the raids and that Mr. Kissinger would have an opportunity to ' vas , sure them that there was no ' 1 threat to their security . ! A second reason auggeSted was that genuine progress in Chinese-American relations that goes beyond the modest provernents since Mr. Nixon 's i.visit to China in February ? . could not occur until the Viet . inam war was settled . Following a 16-day trip to 4China in late April and early May , Mike Mansfield , the Sen , ate majority leader , reported ' publicly to his Senate col. leagues ? and privately to Mr. Nixon that the Chinese leaders had indicated that there could be no progress on other issues until the United States withdrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would be Mr. Nixon 's intense desire to arrange a peace settle ? merit this year and his hope ? that the Chinese , as much as the Russians , might be persuaded to nudge North Vietnam toward a settlement or at least to serious bargaining in Paris . The mere fact of the Kissinger visit , combined with Mr. Podgorny 's trip to Hanoi in the , wake of Mr. Nixon 's week of talks in Moscow , stirred speculation  --  and even some hope ? that a new effort to arrange a settlement was under way . Mr. Ziegler said that Mr. Kissinger fully informed Japanese leaders last week of his plans to go to Peking . That was in sharp contrast to the , situation last year , when Mr , Nixon shocked and dishearten ? ed the Japanese by failing to inform them of his plans to confer with the Chinese leaders . Asked about the possibility that Mr. Kissinger might also visit Hanoi , Mr. Ziegler said only that his schedule was as announced . Mr. Kissinger first visited Peking last July on a secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trip to arrange the agenda in October and accompanied the Presi'dent to Peking in February . Gradual Development Since then the development of relations has been gradual , perhaps the major accomplishment being the establishment of diplomatic contacts in Paris . Talks between the Ambassadors there , and between officials of lesser stature , have been occurring at roughly 10-day intervals since March 13 . According to public testimony , the talks have focused largely on economic issues and visitor exchanges , but sources in Paris do not exclude the possibility that the Vietnam question has also been raised . It was in Paris that the United States first assured the Chinese that air raids near the Chinese border were no threat to their security . On the economic front , officials here estimate that the United States has purchased some $5-million in Chinese products this year and that the figure may double shortly . The United States has sold the Chinese little so far , mainly a television satellite ground station in Shanghai costing $2.5-million , but the Boeing Aircraft Corporation is said to be in the advanced stage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aircraft and , possibly , a few 707 's . The Chinese are also interested in grains , fertilizers , chemicals and electronics . As for visitors , some 400 Americans , mainly scientists and academicians , have gone to China this year , but the Chinese seem in no rush to follow suit .                     