@@732920

txt Jimmy Carter , the man from Plains , Georgia , set a welcome theme of simplicity for his inaugural . Dressed in a business suit rather than formal attire and speaking in soft tones , Mr. Carter delivered one of the shorter inaugural addresses and one which consciously moved away from the grandiose . " I have no new dream to set forth today but rather urge a fresh faith in the old dream , " he said . He dramatized his theme by abandoning ms bulletproof limousine and walking hand-in-hand with his wife down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House . It was a conscious effort to recall and , insofar as possible , return to an earlier democratic era when a President could mingle freely with his fellow citizens . Mr. Carter 's symbolic walk may well usher in a period of normality . We hope it does . This is not to be confused with the " normalcy " of Warren Gamaliel Harding , that earlier President from America 's Main Street . Our new President calls for action that is vigorous but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He seeks a time when leaders and people alike will try to solve common problems and if we fail , as we sometimes shall , our failings will be within the normal human range , neither catastrophic nor criminal . In his tone and his approach , Mr. Carter recalled a President who could not walk at all but who did much to restore the national nerve . Franklin D. Roosevelt , the country squire from Hyde Park who made Warm Springs , Georgia , his second home , had a common-sense practicality , an indefatigable optimism , and a willingness to experiment , to fail , and to try again . Older Americans can remember the lift that Roosevelt 's leadership provided in the 1930 's before the lengthening shadow of Hitler brought a renewed sense of national danger . Despite the harsh backdrop of the Great Depression , there was then still a sense that individual lives and small dramas still mattered . Only with World- War II did the problems become bigger than life-sized and the Presidency begin to grow remote and imperial . In those days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to compete with any news emanating from Washington , concerned Bruno Richard Hauptmann 's trial ' and , ultimately , execution for the kidnapping and murder of the Lindbergh baby ; the shooting-down of John Dillinger ; the innocent drama of the Dionne quintuplets ; the lack of rain that turned the Great Plains into a dust bowl . Now it almost seems as if those old news stories are being recycled . Once again , though the name is Gilmore rather than Hauptmann , one man 's death by execution preoccupies the nation . The extraordinary adventures of Patty Hearst have occupied as much news space as Dillinger ever did . A youngster named Amy Carter gets almost as much coverage as did all five Dionne sisters . Even the weather is back on the front page as icy temperatures set new records . Maybe it is sentimental to see a reassuring similarity between the big news stories of recent weeks and those of 40 years ago before wars , death camps and nuclear terror . Yet we suspect we are not alone in welcoming the return of old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plenty of news from Washington . But if his inaugural was a reliable guide , it will not be all the news and it will not crowd out sensational crimes , madcap heiresses , interesting children or , even , the weather . And that we think will be a good thing for Mr. Carter and for all of us.                     