@@732738

txt President Fold is prepared to accept the resignation , of Earl L. Butz from his Cabinet if , as appears likely , the public controversy widens over racist remarks made by the Secretary of Agriculture , well-placed White House officials said today . " By early next week we should know how seriously this affects his ability to continue in the Cabinet , " a senior Presidential aide said of Mr. Butz . The President , who gave a " severe reprimand " to the Secretary yesterday for what the White House called " highly offensive " remarks , carefully . avoided comment on the controversy today . as Jimmy Carter , the Democratic Presidential nominee , and leading Republicans joined in sharp criticism of Mr. Butz . Sees No Place for Him For example , Representative John B. Anderson of Illinois , the chairman of the House Republican Conference , wrote the President that " anyone harboring such racist views should have no place " in the Administration . And four Republican Senators , Jacob K. Javits of New York , Lowell P. Weicker Jr . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edward W. Brooke , ' of Massachusetts , likewise urged that Mr. Ford take stronger action against Mr. Butz . In Buffalo , Senator James L. Buckley , Conservative-Republican of New York , said tonight that Mr. Butz 's comments about black voters " sounded ugly . " But Senator Buckley refused to comment on what action should be taken as a result of the statement . The public rebuke by the President , his second of Mr. Butz in two years , followed the identification of the Secretary in New Times magazine as the source of a reference to blacks as " coloreds " who wanted only three things in life . The things were listed by Mr. Butz , in order , in obscene , derogatory and scatological terms . The Agriculture Secretary acknowledged to the White House privately - on Wednesday that he had made the Om , ments , in reply to a serious question about how to attract black voters to the Republican Party , It was made to three I companions on an airplane flight to Cali ) fornia six weeks ago . One of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House legal counsel , quoted the remarks but did not identify their source in an article last month in Rolling Stone magazine . Mr. Ford , in an apparent attempt to deflect attention from the politically I embarrassing situation , attacked Mr. Carter today for having told a religious publication he favored taxation of church property not used for religious purposes . At a meeting with 55 Republican ethnic leaders in the State Dining Room at the White House , the President called the Democratic candidate 's position " very , very unfortunate and disturbi  --  g . " Mr. Ford 's aides arranged for reporters and television cameras to record the remarks but refused to let them approach the President to question him about Mr. Butz 's future in the Administration . A senior White House official said privately , however , that the prevalent attitude among Mr. Ford 's aides was that Secretary Butz could probably not remain in the Cabinet much longer . Mr. Butz scrapped plans to campaign for Mr. Ford tomorrow in Toledo , Ohio , and Monday in ' Upper Sandusky , Ohio , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at their rallies . Several other campaign stops scheduled for tomorrow and Monday . all in rural areas of Ohio , remained on his schedule . One official , who said he had discussed the matter with both the President and Mr. Butz , described Mr. Ford as irate and the Secretary as " very shaken " by the incident . Depending on Reaction " I do n't know if anybody has sat down and spelled it out for him , " the official said of Mr. Butz , " but he knows that if there is a tidal wave of reaction it would probably not be possible to keep him in the Cabinet . " He did not specify what might constitute a " tidal wave , " but criticism of the Secretary and demands for his dismissal came from Republicans as well as Democrats today . Senator Robert J. Dole , the Republican nominee for Vice President , called Mr. Butz 's remarks " stupid " and " ill-conceived , " but sought to salve their political effect by comparing them to Mr. Carter 's use of the sexual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other Republicans were more forceful . In Hartford , Senator Weicker said of Mr. Butz : " Just about once a year that . big mouth sounds off . And it seems to me that once a year we have to ask for his resignation and nothing happens . " The ranking Republican on the House Agriculture Committee , Representative Paul Findley of Illinois , hailed Mr. Butz 's policies but said , " The racial slur which he voiced is so revolting that Secretary Butz would render a great service to the President if he would offer to , resign . " Mr. Carter told reporters at a news Iconference in Pittsburgh that the remarks I were " disgraceful , " that he would never tolerate such conduct from a subordinate if he were President and that it was merely one of many reasons " to fire Mr. Butz . " Senator Walter F. Mondale , Mr. Carter 's running mate , said in Manchester , N. H. , that Mr. Butz ought to resign and that President Ford ought to ask for his resignation if he did not offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despicable racist slurs , " Mr. Mondale said in response to a question at an airport rrews conference , " it 's like poison , cancer in the society . " He said there are ' ' certain thing that decency acid humanity require and one is respect for people of different races and background . " White House officials described Mr. Ford as wining to wait a few days to see , as one aide stated it , " how the dust settles , " but to prefer Mr. Butz 's resignation , if necessary , rather than his dismissal . One Presidential assistant noted that Mr. Ford had told an interviewer recently that his " greatest shortcoming " in the White House was his reluctance to deal forcefully with subordinates who had incurred his displeasure . ' 74 Incident Recalled Mr. Ford rebuked Mr. Butz in November 1974 , but kept him in the Cabinet , following public criticism of the Secretary for having told , in a mock Italian accent , the following joke about an Italian woman 's reaction to the opposition of Pope Paul VI to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he no make da rules . " The President also publicly reprimanded Gen. George S. Brown , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , the same month , for having said that Israel had undue influence in Congress , and that Jews controlled the newspapers and banks in this country . In each of the two previous instances , the Administration officials were allowed to remain after making public apologies for their remarks . But neither case arose in the context of a presumably close Presidential election nor was Mr. Ford 's personal chagrin described in such vivid terms as in the current matter . One official said today that a statement issued last night , expressing Mr. Ford 's view that the Butz remarks were " highly offensive " to the President , was tempered from an even more harshly worded earlier draft . Nonetheless , there were indications that the White House preferred to ride out the controversy without taking further action . One senior aide said he had read the unattributed comments in Rolling Stone two weeks ago , had guessed that Mr. Butz was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter to the President 's attention . Did n't Tell Immediately Moreover , Mr. Butz did not tell Richard B. Cheney , the White House chief of stall , that he was the Cabinet officer in question until " midweek , " by one aide 's account , and Mr. Cheney did not inform the President of the matter until late Thursday , by which time it was clear that New Times was set to identify Mr.Butz and other media organizations were learning of the impending magazine article . Although the President reprimanded Mr. Butz yesterday morning , Ron Nessen , the White House press secretary , made no mention of the rebuke at a news briefing later in the day . Demand by Farm Leader In Columbus , Ohio , Oren Lee Staley , president of the National Farmers Organization , said Mr. Butz should be dismissed immediately . ' " It 's reflective of the cynical attitude he has toward people , " Mr. Staley said . " He 's been known to make remarks before , only this time he got caught . " In New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish Committee , said , " The American Jewish Committee is shocked , as must be all right-thinking Americans , at the latest verbal transgression of Agriculture Secretary Earl Butz . Such manifeftations of ethnic and racial insensitivity can not be tolerated in a democratic America . " The President made no reference to Mr. Butz in his remarks to the Republican ethnic leaders , none of whom were black . But , at the prompting of Senator Pete V. Domenici , Republican of New Mexico , Mr. Ford took issue with remarks Mr. Carter made in an interview published in the October issue of Liberty magazine , a journal of the Seventh Day Adventist Church . Asked his views on taxation of " the church building and subsidiary things such ? as publishing houses , church institutions , et cetera , " Mr. Carter . replied , " I would favor the taxation of church properties other than the church building itself . " Mr. Ford told the applauding Republicans that " nothing could be worse " than to impose taxes on " church-operated schools , hospitals and orphanages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet . " White House spokesmen had called attention to the tax subject earlier when asked for comment on Mr. Butz 's future . Carter Answers Ford Mr. Carter answered the Ford statement with one of his own within a few hours , after he spoke to representatives of women 's groups in Chevy Chase , Md . He said Mr. Ford 's interpretation of his comment on the taxation of church property represented a " conscious , willful , disgraceful effort at misinterpreting " his position . He said he had always favored tax exemption for church-owned properties that are used for any genuine religious , cultural , educational or charitable purpose and specifically included church-run hospitals as well as schools under this heading . To bolster his assertion that he had been misrepresented , he noted that as Governor of Georgia he had advocated exempting nonprofit hospitals and nursing homes from the sales tax . They were already exempt from property taxes . As for churches , he said the only way they should be taxed was on the profits from any actual business that they owned . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court , he noted . Mr. Carter charged that Mr. Ford and his running mate , Senator Dole , continually misrepresented his position on tax matters because they were trying to draw the public 's attention away from " their support of the present , disgraceful tax system . "                     