@@733971

txt The quaint charade of the past week about whether Uncle Sam was giving the Shah of Iran a weekend holiday , an extended vacation or an indefinite leave of absence betrayed again a dangerous tendency in the American psyche . No matter how compelling the case for recognizing the downfall of a friend , the truth had to be denied because other friends might judge us unfaithful . No matter how urgent the need to forge ties with the Shah 's successful opponents , it seemed even more important to demonstrate American constancy to the world beyond Iran than to protect American interests inside Iran . As an unnamed White House official remarked , , " The goal now is to bend over backward to reassure a lot of jittery allies that we are prepared , if necessary , to go up in flames with the Shah . " As so often before , a major crisis abroad was being treated as a test of our will as well as our wit . ? This impulse to demonstrate a suicidal devotion is understandable but perilous . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American foreign policy , but their most sophisticated calculations : American influence and interests around the world can not be protected by our power alone ; they require allies and friends whose survival often depends on our political and military aid . And the less we are willing to fight and spend abroad , the more we depend on others to serve our purposes . When one of those friends runs into trouble we must appear ready to defend him as we would defend ourselves . For when others judge us to be only fair-weather friends , they in turn become unreliable partners ; our weakness becomes their weakness and theirs ours . To a point , this is the golden rule of all political conduct . It serves not only to reassure friends but to give caution to adversaries . It is why the United States has tried so hard to assure the continued independence of Taiwan even as we abandon a formal commitment to its defense . It is why for too long we took a battering in Africa as the ally of Portuguese colonials . It is why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is also , however , why we fought in Vietnam for more years than sane men could understand . And why we were foolishly tempted to fight covertly beside South Africa in Angola . And why some Americans would have gone to the grave to redeem the failure at the Bay of Pigs or to encourage rebellion in Eastern Europe . The desire to demonstrate devotion to allies and friends drifts all too easily into a claim that every challenge to them is an even greater challenge to us and that defeats or setbacks , if acknowledged , reproduce themselves like clones . Odd as it sounds , there arc serious American strategists who contend that unless we fight even an irrational conventional war every now and then the Russians will come to doubt our readiness to use nuclear weapons to defend our most vital allies and interests . ? These theories of , constancy are seductive because , in moderation , they work . Power in slightly neurotic hands can be intimidating . A trigger-happy diplomacy can cow an adversary . But sooner or later such theories blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of the United States everywhere are deemed to depend on illusory demonstrations of courage and endurance anywhere , then our nation 's real power and responsibility in various situations can not be measured and the calculation of policy . goals , costs , risks and benefits becomes impossible . And as Vietnam and similar ventures should have taught us ; a foreign policy devoid of such calculation that seeks primarily to advertise our constancy is sure eventually to fail at home and add to the trepidation of al lies abroad . It was the Shah who failed in Iran , not the United States . His policies caused an entire nation to unite against him . And the greedy pricing of his oil reduced the dependence of all Iranians on American wealth and power . To that extent our position has been diminished and it would indeed be suicidal to ignore the reality or to blame it on Soviet meddling . The loss of the Shah and what he represented for American diplomacy is a serious setback . Wisely confronted , it may not be a calamity . And shrewdly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see frightened partners , it may even prove to . be a timely warning of other storms . In the sad days of the Shah 's decline , we have in fact demonstrated that we are respectful friends in foul weather as well as fair . The greater calamity would be to believe or pretend that we control the weather .                     