@@730013

txt Policy changes designed to reform Illinois ' lax screening and supervision of unlicensed physicians employed by state institutions will he ordered by Gov . Ogilvie this week . The tough new orders will be a swift response to TRIBUNE disclosures that Ricardo Munoz-Velez , a man who app a r e n t l y never completed medical school , slipped thru the state 's so-called screening process and onto the wards of Elgin State Ifospital . Once there , his bizarre treatments went virtually unchecked for 18 months and prompted one doctor to warn that the " lives of patients he treats were in jeopardy . " The governor hopes the stringent reforms will prevent similar misadventures and insure that only qualified and competent medical school graduates are permitted to treat the state 's 50,000 mental patients . The governor will order immediate implementation of the reforms at a meeting this week with William G. Robinson , director of the Department of Registration and Education EDREL which distributes hospital permits for unlicensed doctors , and Dr. Albert Glass , director of the Mental Health Department ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlicensed doctors . The reforms will include at least the following four changes : e The DEE will verify the academic credentials and references of all 385 hospital permit holders currently on file and all future applicants by direct communication with the universities they attended and with references they list . ID Hospital permits will not be given in the future unless the applicant has been fully licensed in another state or has at least passed the test of the Educational Council of Foreign Medical School Graduates , given worldwide and now required in all states for a foreign graduate to obtain an internship in an approved hospital . A peer review of licensed physicians will meet at least four times a year to evaluate the performance of the hospital permit doctors , and their conclusions will be considered in determining whether a doctor is competent to remain in state employment . O Licensed physicians will strictly supervise patient treatments by hospital permit doctors , and if they choose to trust the ability of these doctors , they - will bear the burden " of any mismanagement that occurs in the licensed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosed , the DRE gave out the permits once the applicants supplied them with a diploma , transcript , proof of internship , and two letters of reference from licensed doctors . They never communicated with the references or universities to verify the authenticity of the documents because . as one employe put it , " we have n't the time . " If necessary , the DRE will work thru the Swiss Embassy to contact schools in countries with which the United States has no diplomatic relations . It will also have to check with the American Medical Association on the status and whereabouts of licensed physicians who write letters of reference for hospital permit applicants . Munoz was accepted with a 1958 diploma from the University of Havana Medical School and a transcript showing he had attended classes there from 1953 thru 1951 . Task Force reporters were told by five former professors at the school that the university was shut down thruout 1958 and part of 1957 , when Fidel Castro 's revolution was creating turmoil in the streets of Havana . Munoz also presented a letter from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living in Coral Gables , Fla. , to verify his internship from 1958 to 1960 at the University Hospital in Havana . Not His Usual Signature Dr. Tejera said he could not remember Munoz and noted the signature on the letter was irregular because it lacked the middle initial he customarily uses . It also was certified by a notary public he did not know , he said , noting that he always used the notary at St. Joseph 's Hospital , where he worked . The new policy will also vastly improve present standards , which do not require any testing before a hospital permit is given . The Educational Council test is accepted as the best rule of thumb in determining if a foreign medical school graduate has knowledge equivalent to that of an American graduate and is qualified to work as an intern . Munoz flunked that test seven times and the Illinois licensing test four times , Treatment Was Unorthodox Disclosures of Munoz 's unorthodox treatment of Elgin patients has prompted an investigation by the Kane County state 's attorney , William R. Ketcham . Ketcham is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of patient cases , which has been labeled unsound , incompetent and irrational by a medical investigator , Dr. George Leroy of the University of Chicago . The investigation of Munoz 's activities showed that for months he ordered inappropriate drugs and dosages , homespun cures of boiled potatoes and bananas for choking patients , and archaic treatments . It was only after his unsupervised orders provoked a flood of complaints from the nursing staff that licensed physicians began reviewing his unorthodox orders and in most cases canceling them . Their efforts apparently averted disaster , Dr. Leroy reported . Dr. Leroy said the orders showed " substantial evidence " of bad judgment " attributable to medical incompetency which I consider unacceptable in a physician employed at an institution like Elgin State Hospital . " It was also learned that state investigators are scrutinizing the activities of Dr. Alexander Kaluzny , the $28,000-ayear administrative physician for MHD . He failed to make the most routine check of Munoz 's job record before highly recommending him to a new post as chief pathologist at Elgin . Past employers would have told Kaluzny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technician because they did not believe he was a physician . Kaluzny was also unaware that Munoz was fired by the Chicago Board of Health before he was hired by the state . Investigators are studying letters which indicate that Kaluzny , who has flunked the state 's licensing test 10 times , maneuvered in Munoz 's behalf to have Elgin keep Munoz on in 1969 after the superintendent wanted to fire him . The firing was sought because Munoz had performed dismally as a pathologist in handling corpses . But he was merely transferred to the infirmary to treat live patients , apparently thru Kaluzny 's efforts .                     