@@729637

txt Queen Juliana of the Netherlands arrived in Indonesia today , becoming the first ruling sovereign of the House of Orange to set foot on the archipelago , the crown jewel of the Dutch colonial empire for 343 years . Among those who waved greetings , there were some people whose eyes were misty as the Queen , who is 62 years old , emerged from a DC-8 jetliner of KLM Airlines , wearing a light green suit-dress . She greeted President Suharto not as her subject but as an equal and , in the Indonesian view , that is the great significance of the Queen 's 10-day state visit . Indonesia claimed independence in 1945 , though the Netherlands did not relinquish claims of sovereignty until 1949 , when Queen Juliana signed the official document . After her arrival here from Bangkok , Thailand , with her husband , Prince Bernhard , she told President Suharto in an after-dinner speech , " I consider it a privilege to make the acquaintance of this great and fascinating country for the first time at the highly appreciated invitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Mr. Suharto said , " are entering a new era , with fervor and also with new relations . The Indonesian people are now building their future . We are . thankful for the understanding and help of the Dutch people toward our efforts to develop ourselves in accordance with our concepts and aspirations . " The Old Ways Cling Now , after 26 years of fierce nationalism that Soedjatmoko , a former Ambassador to the United States , once said was " rooted in the need for selfdefinition in the face of the colonial power , " many Indonesians still can not even take naps without sausage-shaped pillows called Dutch wives . And despite dozens of speeches during the lifetime of President Sukarno , the Indonesian independence leader , on the equality if not the superiority of the Indonesian people , most Indonesians still automatically address a white man as ' ' Tuan , " which means master , or lord . Villagers throughout Indonesia make no distinctions between white foreigners . They are all called " Orang Belanda , ' or " Dutchman . " Adam Malik @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for independence , still smokes only Dutch cigars . His rationalization in the old days , was that the tobacco came from Indonesia . If the Queen 's visit marks the " end of the colonial syndrome on both sides , " as one Dutch official put it , it also illustrates Indonesia 's continuing dependency on and influence by foreigners . " We ca n't afford not to love her , " said one Indonesian official today . The Netherlands is the largest European investor in Indonesia . The same statement might be expanded to include a dozen other nations upon which President Suharto 's " new order " rests . Since he assumed power in 1965 , he has quietly and , many observers say , brilliantly led Indonesia slowly toward the time when independence might be total . How Aid Is Dispensed Foreign aid , averaging $600-million a year , is dispensed by a consortium of Western aidgranting nations , including the Netherlands , and international monetary agencies . Internal economic decisions are not made without the consultation and in many cases the consent of watchdog agencies such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intergovernmental Group on Indonesia ; and the World Bank . President Suharto 's economic brain trust is made up largely of Berkeley and Harvard alumni . One adviser , Mohamed SadIi , reputedly makes the best spaghetti dinner in town . The Indonesian Army , the cord of power in the country , is stocked with thousands of officers who were trained in the United States . The golf courses are full of them on weekends . President Sukarno , who was ousted in 1965 and died last year , tried in his efforts to achieve a national identity , to close off what he considered the corrupting influences of Western culture . He banned short skirts , dancing and even kissing in the movies . When Mr. Suharto assumed power in 1965 after an attempted Communist takeover , he turned to the West and the priorities of development , and eased the old bans . " It was as if we were all set free , " said a student . Minis and Bell-Bottoms Indonesia is now being bombarded by the influences of Western culture , not all of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all this , but in the cities , where hundreds of thousands of villagers migrate yearly , there are miniskirts and eye-shadow , bell-bottoms and even hot pants . There is pornography and there is also a budding business sense . There are the beginnings of hustle , efficiency and technical expertise . Traditions and customs are being strained enough to make many Indonesians ask , " What price development ? " But many observers believe that changes for the worse have been fairly mild thus far .                     