@@729671

txt Reactions from families of slain hostages to reports that they had died of bullet wounds and not by the knives of prisoners ranged today from angry disbelief to an accusation that authorities had recklessly risked the hostages lives in ordering the assault at the state prison . The accusation came from the family of Carl W. Valone , a 44-year-old guard who was killed , according to an autopsy performed yesterday in nearby Batavia , by a bullet in his side .. ? " We feel that Carl was killed not by the prisoners but by a bullet that had the name Rockefeller written on it , " declared a close relative who asked not to be named because he holds a government job but said he spoke for the whole family . The relative said he had personally viewed the body after the autopsy . " There was no slashing , " he said . " He was not even touched . " The solution for the impasse at the prison that preceded the assault , he said , was " talk , only talk . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Rockefeller urging him to put in an appearance at the prison . The autopsy on Mr. Valone , a Batavia resident , was the only one not conducted at the Monroe County medical examiner 's office . It was performed at the Genesee Memorial Hospital by Dr. Muhtesem Veznedaroglu , a pathologist from the Genesee Laboratory Company . The Valones were the first family to learn that their relative had been killed by bullet , rather than knife wounds . The other families , which were told yesterday that their loved ones had been slashed to death by the prisoners , found the Monroe County medical examiner's. findings had to acept . " Bull ! " was the reaction of a brother-in-law of John G. Montelone , a slain hostage , The brother-in-law , who declined to give his name , said he broke down emotionally and quit his job at the prison as a guard yesterday morning after the last hostage was freed . A burly man with the build of a football lineman , his eyes were watery as he said : " I do n't want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Oswalds , the Dunbars and the niggers . " Russell G. Oswald and Walter Dunbar are the two top officials in the Corrections Department whose reformist policies are seen by many of the townspeople here as the basic cause of the rebellion at the prison , James Hardie , a Main Street insurance man whose father , Elmer G. Hardie , was one of the dead hostages , was also angry about the autopsy findings in Rochester , especially the medical examiner 's statement that he had found no evidence of mutilation . Mr. Hardie said he was at the prison when the bodies Assoc , ctl Pres , Carl W. Valone were removed after the carnage in the prison yard and he saw wounds that he was sure could not have been caused by bullets . The reaction of disbelief was widespread and strongly felt in this all-white town of 2,800 , whose major industry is a maximum-security prison with a population of inmates that is 85 per cent nonwhite or Spanish-speaking . Second-guessing about tactics used yesterday tended to take the form of assertions that the assault came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was not until the second day that the hostages were dressed by their captors in prison garb , which made it hard for the assaulting force yesterday to distinguish them from inmates , Funeral Homes to Be Busy To signify support for authority  --  and resentment over its breakdown at the prison last week ? merchants belonging to the Lions ' Club flew the American flag at full staff today from their shops , which gave the town a holiday appearance that seemed strangely out of key with its prevailing mood of mourning and anger . There will be funerals in the area in the next three days for prison personnel killed here . Five of the dead hostages will be buried from the Marley Funeral Home in Attica on Friday , the most hectic day there , a funeral director said , since last April when services were held for three children who had been slain by their mother . William Quinn , a guard who ; died Saturday night from injuries suffered at the start of the prisoners ' revolt , will be buried tomorrow . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday . All the rest will be conducted on Friday . There was no information about funeral arrangements for the 31 prisoners killed in the assault . Authorities have yet to release the names of 15 of the ; dead inmates .                     