@@729904

txt The Soviet Government ordered the expulsion of Representative James H. Scheuer of the Bronx today , accusing him of " improper activities . " The United States promptly termed the action a " grave step not helpful to relations . " The expulsion , believed to be the first involving an elected American official , followed the brief detention of Mr. Scheuer by the Moscow police two days ago while he was visiting a Jewish family that had been refused emigration to Israel . In a telephone call from Leningrad , shortly after having learned of the Soviet order , the Congressman said : " I understand I am being expelled for encouraging Soviet citizens to emigrate . I did have social contacts with some who want to leave , but they had made up their minds long before I arrived . " Soviet Report Expected The controlled Soviet news media did not immediately report the expulsion , but Soviet sources said an article on the subject might be published , possibly in Izvestia , the Government newspaper . Mr , Scheuer , who is 51 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Congressional study group for a two-week tour of educational institutions . He stayed on in a private capacity after the official tour ended Wednesday . In talking with newsmen before today 's expulsion order , Mr. Scheuer said that as a Jewish Congressman from a heavily Jewish district , the 22d Congressional District in the Bronx , he had naturally wanted to inform himself about the controversial issue of Jews in the Soviet Union . The United States Embassy , in announcing the Soviet action declined to speculate on its long-range effects . The Soviet Union and the United States have been seeking to improve relations in preparation for President Nixon 's planned visit to Moscow next May . An Embassy spokesman said that Thompson R. Buchanan , po- litical counselor , had been summoned to the Foreign Ministry , where Georgi M. Korniyenko , chief of the United States secion , had demanded that Representative Scheuer leave the Soviet Union immediately . He plans to fly from Leningrad to Stockholm tomorrow . Mr. Buchanan expressed regret that the Soviet authorities should have taken such a " grave step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relations " between the two countries , the spokesman said . He then added : " The political counselor pointed out that insofar as the Embassy is aware , Congressman Scheuer did nothing more than visit certain Jews here whose addresses had been given him in the United States . To the American Embassy 's knowledge , there was no . Soviet law prohibiting such visits . " According td the spokesman , Mr. Korniyenko held a sheaf of documents and indicated that they represented materials harmful to the Soviet Union , that had been distributed by Mr. Scheuer . The American dip-1 lomat was not given an opportunity to examine the papers , ' the embassy said . There have been unconfirmed reports that literature dealing with the position of Jews in the Soviet Union as well as religious publications such as Bibles had been brought to the Soviet Union by a member of the Congressional study group , Mr. Scheuer has denied carrying such material , The Soviet authorities are highly sensitive about the distribution by foreign visitors of publications judged harmful to Soviet interests , arid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office of the State . Department instructs prospective travelers to the Soviet Union as a matter of routine about the " do 's " and " don'ts " during visits to this country . They are advised not to attempt to bring in " religious objects , except for your personal use , anti-Soviet publications or pornography . " It could not be established here whether members of the Congressional study tour , headed by Representative John Brademos , Democrat of Indiana , had been specifically instructed about travel regulations . In addition to visiting a number of Soviet Jews whose ad- , dresses had been given him in New York , Mr. Scheuer also had a three-hour conversation with Aleksandr B. Chakovsky , a nov , blist and editor of the weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta , who is one of two Jewish members of the Communist party 's Central Committee .                     