@@732553

txt President Ford called in members of his Cabinet today to press . for action that the White House said would severely limit courtordered busing to achieve racial desegregation of schools . He disclosed that he was studying draft legislation that would limit court-ordered segregation remedies to specific areas within a community or , r , , school system where such segregation existed . In an interview yesterday with reporters from Ohio , the text of which was released this morning , Mr. Ford said that legislation prepared by Attorney General Edward Levi would keep the courts from " taking over a whole school system , as the courts did in the Boston case and several others . " In California , Ronald Reagan assailed Federal courts for ordering busing to desegregate schools and said that if he became President he would order Federal agencies to " get off the back " of local school boards . Page 29 . Official Action is Key Ron Nessen , the White House press secretary , also disclosed today that the legislation would prevent court-ordered busing in cases where school segregation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Answering questions at the regular White House news briefing , Mr. Nessen said that the draft law prepared by Mr. Levi was designed " to use busing as a remedy to correct those cases of segregation brought about by the official action of a school board or governmental body and to prevent busing as a remedy to correct racial imbalance brought about by events other than official governmental actions . " Mr. Nessen said later , that housing patterns , zoning laws , and economic conditons were examples of conditions that led to segregation , but were not created by governmental action . The legislation being drafted // by the Attorney General would try to achieve the same goals as would the review of court cases that is being sought by the President , according to a knowledgeable White House official . Attorney General Levi announced on Saurday that Ile had decided against seeking a rconsideration of the Boston busing case , but wou ? d continue to look for another suitable case for review . The White House official said that the President and Mi . Levi were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cases where segregation had been created by an official governmental act . At today 's meeting , however , it was evident that there were differing views as to what constituted an official government act , according to this participant in the meeting . The participant indicated that the President was leaning toward a narrow definition of a government act as one in which a school board or school officials took actions that segregated or had segregative intent . Broader Definition Other participants in the meeting reportedly argued for a somewhat broader definition of officially caused segregation , including such things as actions by housing authorities that created racial segregation . Mr. Ford is reportedly also studying with interest a pro . posal by Dr. F. David Mathews , Secretary of Health . Education and Welfare , for the creation of local community boards to develop school desegregation programs without resort to busing . Dr. Mathews , Mr. Levi and the Secretary of Labor , W. J. Usery Jr. , met with the President today to discuss plan ; for what the President said in rha interview yesterday would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time , achieve better educational opportunities : " Mr. Nessen said today that Mr. Usery was included in meeting because the Labor Department was Involved in educational programs , particularly for migrant workers . But other White Houle sources said that Mr. Usery was asked to be a participant because he was the Administration 's chief expert on mediation technique and could give advice on establishing and operating the community boards proposed by Dr. Mathews . " Usery is a tremendous guy to make peace on both sides of an issue , " was the way one White House official put it . Mr. Nessen said today that other drafts of the proposed legislation would be prepared at the Justice Department before the President made a decision . Mr. Nessen also said that members of Congress and civil rights leaders would be consulted before the proposed law was sent to Capitol Hill . The argument that busing should be limited to ending segregation produced by official governmental acts was one that the Justice Department was prepared to use if Mr. Levi had decided to ask the Supreme Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit , hearing an appeal from the Boston decision , decided early this year that constitutional rights would not be protected if court-ordered desegregation were limited to cases where segregation had been caused by governmental action . Court Ruling Quoted In its decision , the court said that " to require a district court to preserve intact every scrap of segregated education that somehow can be separated from governmental causation is to involve the Federal courts in planning continued segregation and in perpetuating the community and administrative attitudes and psychological effects which desegregation should assuage . " In several interviews over the last two days , the President reiterated that he opposed school segregation , but that he was against court-ordered busing . He said that in the Equal Education Act of 1974 , also called the Esch Amendment , there were six other approaches to desegregation that could bed taken by a court before it ordered busing.                     