@@731131

txt President Nixon , accusing the Senate Watergate commit tee of an unconstitutional " overt attempt " to usurp the power of the executive branch , today refused to turn over hundreds of tapes and documents ' subpeneed by the committee . " To produce the material you how seek would unquestionably destroy any vestige of confidentiality of Presidential communications , " Nixon told Sen. Sam Ervin ID. , N.C.1 in a letter released by the Western White House . Such release would " irreparably impair the constitutional functions of the office of the Presidency , " Nixon said . Ervin , reached at his home in Morganton , N.C. , charged that Nixon has no constitutional right to refuse to comply with the subpenas and that his committee will take the matter to court . INFORMED OF Nixon 's letter , Ervin said : " My reaction is this . There is nothing in the Constitution that gives the President any power to withhold from an au ? thorized congressional committee evidence relating to ? cam . paign activities or evidence 01 criminal wrongdoing by his aides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received in confidence from anybody for the purpose of performing in a lawful manner his constitution . al duties . " ASKED IF he would sue Nixon to force him to comply , Ervin replied : " Yes . " As the White House was releasing Nixon 's letter , it also announced that the President is juggling his legal staff , with James D. St. Clair , 53 , a Boston attorney , becoming Nixon 's principal defense attorney to handle charges stemming from the Watergate scandal . In his strongly worded letter to Ervin , chairman of the Watergate committee , Nixon charged that " neither the judiciary nor the Congress could survive a similar power asserted by the executive branch to rummage thru their files and confidential processes . " NIXON REMINDED Ervin that six months ago his committee concluded that recordings of five conversations were necessary , for their determination . " Now , in one subpena alone , you list , with widely varying precision , some 492 personal and telephone conversations of the President ranging from mid-1971 to late 1973 , " he complained . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ categories of documents and materials , including one for a copy of the President 's daily diary each day from Jan. 1 , 1970 to Dec. 19 , 1973 . The President told Ervin that to produce such massive materials " could seriously impair the ability of the office of . the special prosecutor to complete its investigations and successfully prosecute the criminal cases which may arise from the grand juries . " Besides impairing the work of the special prosecutor , compliance with the subpenas would " serve no legislative purpose which I can discern , " Nixon said . HE SAID he recognized that " in the current environment , " there would be attempts ; made to distort his position as only an effort to withhold information . " But I take this position to protect the office of the President against incursions by another branch , which I be- , lieve , as have my predecessors in office , is of utmost constitutional Importance . " " I must and do respectfully decline to produce the materials called for in your subpenas , " Nixon concluded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's Watergate defense came after Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said several weeks ago that the legal staff had made some mistakes , implying criticism of J. Fred Buzhardt , who was in charge of Nixon 's Watergate defenses until today . Buzhardt was named counsel to the President today  --  a post unfilled since John Dean , the President 's chief accuser , was fired last spring . LEONARD GARMENT , who has been serving as acting counsel , was named an assistant to the President . A former law partner of Nixon 's before Nixon was elected President , Garment has been working with Buzhardt on Watergaterelated matters for nearly a year . Gerald W arr en , deputy White House press secretary , said that Garment and Buzhardt will help St. Clair during his initial days at the White House , but will not be working on Watergate matters after that .                     