@@729579

txt The top leaders of all the Soviet-bloc countries except Rumania held a one-day meeting today and issued a communique denouncing deviations from Moscow 's line and expressing " grave alarm " over the antiCommunist campaign in the Sudan . Diplomatic sources here believed that the meeting , attended by Leonid 1 . Brezhnev , the Soviet Communist party leader , was called at Soviet initiative to discuss primarily the latest developments in China 's relations with the United States , and to agree on a joint position . It was believed that the Rumanian President , Nicolae Ceausescu , who recently visited China , boycotted the session since alone of Russia 's allies in the Warsaw Pact organization , Rumania strongly supports the moves to improve Chinese - American relations . The gathering was held somewhere in the Crimea , the smithern area of European Russia adjacent to the Black Sea . It was the first time Rumania has been absent from one of the Warsaw Pact 's top-level meetings since 1968 when Mr. Ceausescu refused to join in the anti-Czechoslovak actions being planned by the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dubcek . The communique itself did not mention China and was limited to affirmation of well-known Soviet positions . But to Communists , the wording was clearly anti-Chinese in nature and could also be interpreted as critical of Rumania . The declaration highly praised the meeting of world Communist parties held in Moscow in June , 1969 , which in Soviet analyses has consistently been interpreted as having attacked Peking 's policies , a point of view disputed by Rumania . " Experience bears out the historic significance of the conference for further strengthening the unity of the world Communist and workers ' class movement on the basis of MarxismLeninism and the struggle against right-wing and left-wing opportunism and for rallying all progressive and national liberation forces in the anti-imperialist struggle , " it said . In Soviet parlance , " leftwing opportunism " generally refers to the policies of China . On occasion , " right-wing opportunism " can refer to Rumania or to Yugoslavia , which is not a member of the Warsaw Pact . Another Communist country not a member of the pact , Mongolia , was represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a further indication that China was a major subject of discussion , since Mongolia plays a strategic role in Soviet military preparations along the Chinese border . To avoid drawing attention to Rumania 's absence , Tass , the Soviet press agency , described the gathering as " a friendly meeting " of leaders " now spending their vacation in the Soviet Union . " But ' Fodor Zhivkov , the Bulgarian leader , only yesterday was presiding at a meeting in Bulgaria marking the 80th anniversary of the Bulgarian party , and thus had to travel to the Crimea to participate . The Soviet Union was represented at the meeting by President Nikolai V. Podgorny as well as Mr. Brezhnev . Two days ago , Mr. Brezhnev and Mr. Podgorny were reported to have met with the Hungarian leader , Janos Kadar , who was also present today . Others listed as attending were Erich Honecker of East Germany , Edward Gierek of Poland and Gustav Husak of Czechoslovakia . Presumably , Mr. Brezhnev explained the Soviet position on the new turn in ChineseUnited States relations . That position , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful study of the developing situation , without direct attack on China and the United States so long as their improved relations are not directed against the Soviet Union . Regarding the situation in the Sudan , the participants in the meeting " expressed grave alarm in connection with the ruthless terror unleashed against the Communist party and other democratic organizations . " " They strongly condemn the lawlessness and arbitrariness , perpetrated by the Sudanese authorities , which is exploited by the forces of imperialism ' and reaction against the interests of the Sudanese people , " the communiqu ? said . But the seven countries gave continued backing to the Arab side in the Middle Eastern crisis , as well as to the Indochinese Communists . The communiqu ? said the participants " stressed the particular importance of the efforts to strengthen the unity and cohesion of the Socialist community , the international working class and Communist movement " as part of the effort to insure " new victories of the working class and of the cause of Socialism . " In the Soviet interpretation , improving the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Soviet policies .                     