@@729864

txt President Nixon was pronounced in excellent health today , but his physician said the Chief Executive is overworked and needs more exercise and relaxation . Nixon , in turn , pronounced the nation 's health better this Christmas than last . As he left the Naval Hospital at Bethesda , Md. , after a three-hour Christmas Eve checkup , the President told newsmen , " The economy is healthier . . . chances of peace in the world are better " than a year ago . Dr. Walter Tkach , an Mr Force brigadier general and the President 's personal physician , said full results of the tests will not be available until next Wednesday . But he said X-rays , an electrocardiogram , and other tests disclosed Nixon is , " in excellent health . " Nixon is 58 . " He has not missed a day 's work , he has not missed a single event . . . in his Presidency , " Tkach said . " The thing I 'm concerned about , he is actually devoting less time to recreation " than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressing on him . " Works Even in Car I When asked whether the President was overworked , Tkach responded , " I think he is , yes . " He said Nixon works even when riding in a car and helicopter , and even when he is at his boachfront homes in Florida and California . " Any individual who constantly works and does n't take a break is likely to have some untoward event , " Tkach said . Pressed for elaboration , he said , " I think you would think in terms like an ulcer , some coronary event . " " I am particularly concerned about stress situations , " the physician said . But , in response to a question , he said : " I think he takes to stress like an athlete takes to a Saturday afternoon football game . " Nixon jogs in place often and bowls about once every two weeks , Tkach said , but needs more exercise than this provides . Weighs 173 Polinds The President 's weight is 173 pounds and his blood pressure is 115-72 , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon flew by helicopter to the medical center in suburban Maryland , explaining he took the day before Christmas for the checkup because " everybody is off work at the White House . " Asked about the attempt by his friend ; cbinedia ; lBob Hope , to obtain the release of Viet Nam war prisoners , Nixon replied , " I can only soy that the efforts he makes , that anybody makes , are deeply appreciated . Nixon planned to spend a quiet Christmas with his family at the White House . He told repe ! ; : rs he expected to arise early Christmas morning because " I like to get up and see the expressions " as his daughters open their presents around the tree .                     