@@734378

txt The board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority voted yesterday to begin work on replacing defective undercarriages on the entire fleet of 754 subway cars purchased from the Pullman Standard Company in 1972 . The M.T.A. decided to sign a contract with a different supplier to begin design work fo ; the new undercarriages , or trucks . They ' will be the standard model used since 1950 on almost 6,000 city subway cars . The Transit Authority estimates that the bill for the 1,548 undercarriages ? two per car and 90 spares ? will total about $50 million . The vote yesterday represented a reversal of the position adopted by the authority last spring . John G. deRoos , then senior executive officer of the Transit Authority , urged the city at that time to accept a repair offer extended by Pullman and the Rockwell International Corporation , which produced the trucks on a subcontract . Koch Ordered Lawsuit Instead However , after reports that the repair ? in the view of authority engineers ? would actually make the cars less safe , Mayor Koch ordered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer . He also named Steven K. Kauffman , then head of the subway system , to replace Mr. deRoos . Mr. Kauffman , an engineer , had urged Mr. deRoos to reject the repair offer . In proceeding now to replace the underpinnings of the entire fleet of cars , the board voted to spend $250,000 to have the Buckeye Steel Castings Company of Ohio first prepare a pattern for the mold for the castings . Transit officials said yesterday that the mold would cost about $1 million and that Buckeye would then produce the new castings . Arthur G. Perfall , public , affairs director for the M.T.A. , said the entire replacement process would take between two and three years . The estimated total cost of $50 million represents nearly a quarter of the original cost of the Pullman cars . The initial expenditure will come from operating funds , but the city will seek reimburse- ' pent from the Federal Government . Buckeye is licensed under an exclusive arrangement to use the design developed by General Steel Industries , which previously manufactured the standard undercarriage for New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industries has transferred ownership of its pattern to Buckeye for use in casting replacements for the cracked Rockwell trucks and will provide engineering assistance . Because of the authority 's desire to return to the " successful " model already in use , officials said , competitive bids are not being sought . As of last week , 1,246 cracks had been discovered on 697 undercarriages on the model R-46 cars , according to documents obtained by The New York Times . The total includes new cracks discovered this summer in the R-46 undercarriages , which are a type not used here before the Pullman order . An internal report written last week by the authority 's chief engineer , George Ziegler , says that the cracks are in " seven locations on the lom transom arm , a critical structure which supports the traction motor . " Mr. Ziegler also said in the report that " severe vibrations have led to handbrake assembly problems and other truckmounted equipment problems . " He explained that operating the R-46 cars with defective trucks has meant a " tremendous cost in money and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and inspection program , " he said , " while insuring the safe operation of the R-46 cars , places a tremendous burden on the already strained facilities " of car repair shops . " This has resulted and will continue to result in our diminshing ability to maintain other cars in the fleet , " he said , adding that " the incidence of cracking will increase with time " and that to swiftly deal with the problem the city should sign with Buckeye . Pullman Renewed Offer offer did not provide either a " shortterm , not to mention a long-term solution . " He said the offer would be turned down . Debate on the Buckeye contract at an M.T.A. meeting yesterday focused on the cost of the mold and on the question ? posed by Mr. Fisher ? of trying a new type " fabricated " undercarriage that he said had been used with success in Paris and London . Unlike , the standard truck , which - is cast in one piece , and the Rockwell truck , which is cast in two pieces , the fabricated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been tried in New York before . In replying to the suggestion , Mr. Kauffman urged vehemently that the city should learn from the experience of the R-46 not to buy " experimental " equipment in large numbers , without at least one year 's testing here first . " I think it 's imprudent to do the same thing again , " Mr. Kauffman said . " And we do n't have the time to make sure it works . " ' Harold L. Fisher , chairman of the M.T.A. board , yesterday said that Pullman and Rockwell had renewed their offer to attempt to repair the defective trucks ? despite the lawsuits that the city and the companies have filed against each other . Allen G. Schwartz , the city 's Corporation Counsel , said that the city had accepted the " unanimous opinion " of transit engineers and consultants that the                     