@@733094

txt THE SMILING : no-longer-innocent faces of little children look up from the pages of more than 260 pornographic magazines sold in America  --  children engaged in almost every known sexual perversion . The book racks in America 's smut shops contain volumes that advise child molesters how to pick up children from school playgrounds ; tell parents how to have incest with their children ; and describe the joys of sexual gratification that come from beating the young . For sale also are horror movies such as Hollywood never conceived . The horror is in the celluloid portrayal of children from 3 to about 15 years old  --  some smiling , some bewildered  --  participating in a variety of sexual perversions with adults and each other . In Chicago and other cities , adult perverts run boy prostitution rings , luring fuzzy-cheeked youths into street-walking , sending them on cross-country trips to serve a network of customers and selling their young flesh at auction to the highest bidder . CHILD PORNOGRAPHY and child prostitution , once confined to the darker shadows of American life , have blazed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last 18 months . They have become highly organized , multimillion-dollar industries , operating on a scale that few Americans have begun to comprehend . These industries involve films made in private apartments , shipped to Europe , and sent back into the United States on the pretext they are European-made ; children lured into sexual misconduct by drugs , alcohol , money , and expensive guts ; and adult exploiters who range from the dregs of society to prominent men , including several millionaires and at least one clergyman . They involve " adult " bookshops , many controlled by organized crime , that openly sell child pornography or , where they have begun to feel the heat from police , keep it under the counter for sale to regular customers . DR . JUDIANNE Densen-Gerber of New York , who heads a national movement to prevent child abuse and neglect , believes the use of children in pornography and prostitution is equivalent to murder . " They are destroyed by these experiences . They are emotionally and spiritually murdered , " she said . No one knows exactly how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 100,000 . " We are ruining young lives in record numbers , " says Kenneth L. Gillis , deputy state 's attorney for Cook County , who has been participating in an investigation started by the state 's attorney 's office earlier this year . WHY HAVE N'T THE law-enforcement agencies stamped out the rackets ? A three-month , nationwide investigation by The Chicago Tribune has shown that this is not as easy as it might first appear . The pornographers , operating out of private residences , have used a maze of post office box addresses , clandestine // A national malady Child porno : Sickness for sale ? Young-8 to 17 years old ? Underachievers In school or at home ? Usually no previous homosexual activifr ? Underdeveloped and no secondary sex characteristics ? From a low-income background In West and East coast areas ; from average background in Midwest ? Parents absent physically or psychologically ? No strong moral or religious affiliations . ? No previous delinquency ? Poor sociological development ? Warm personality Profile of a Profile of . the : predator of boys boy victims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure ? Intelligent , often holds a college degree ? Married ? Acts considerate of victims ? Usually nonviolent , passive ? Prides sett in cleanliness ? Often works with youth services , likes children ? Associates with other ' boy lovers ' ? Often considered a ' good citizen ' ? Generally takes pictures of victims and swaps them with pale ; the younger the subject the better Source , : Los Angeles Police Depart/len ! , Inteivlows with pornographer ! for a " church " later identified as a front for their operations . ALTHOUGH THE various pornography and child prostitution operations extend across the nation , police say there is no single organization running them . But the adults involved maintain contact through newsletters and exchanges of children . " It seems to be like spider webs strung out all over the nation , " said Mason Spong , a New Orleans juvenile division detective involved in the investigation of the Boy Scout operation there . " It seems like spider webs strung out all over the nation . " Child pornography as a big business began with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . The child magazines and films quickly became big sellers in adult bookshops and American pornographers , alert to a good business opportunity , rushed into the market . The child victims are typically runaways , who come to a city with only enough money to sustain them for two or three days , or boys from broken homes . ADULT EXPLOITERS pick up the runaways at bus stations , hamburger stands , and amusement arcades , and offer them money and gifts in exchange for sexual favors . Frequently they show . the children pornography to arouse is // printing operations and elaborate shipping routes to make detection extremely difficult . The sale of child pornography went on for months before most agenices even became aware of lt , and many have been slow to react . Only four cities ? Chicago , Los Angeles , New Orleans , and Houston have special police units to deal with it . THE TRIBUNE investigation has established that child sex rackets operate on a national and international scale involving thousands-of adult perverts often working with one another and exchanging child victims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a nationwide ring trafficking in young boys ? " chickens , " in the argot of the streets ? and placing them in various " homes " to serve male customers , or " chicken hawks . " Although federal law makes it a crime to transport a female under 18 years of age across state lines for immoral purposes , there is no such protection for boys . So extensive are these nationwide dealings that The Tribune was able to obtain a list of 5,000 names and addresses of the ring 's clients living in every part of the country . ? A newsletter for the " boy love " trade is published clandestinely in the Chicago area by a group of men police say includes an employe of a church-run college . The newsletter serves as a na0. ? ? ? " They are destroyed by these experiences . They are emotionally and spiritually murdered . " tionwide conduit through which pedophiles ' ? adults whose sexual preference is for children ? can buy films , contact boys and establish liaison with one another . ? In Los @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America , police estimate as many as 90,000 children are involved , including Mexican youngsters smuggled into the country in specially constructed automobiles . Los Angeles police are investigating the murder of several Mexican children to determine if they might have been among the smuggled cargo . ? Some children are sold into prostitution and pornography by their parents . Los Angeles police recently found a 3-year-old girl , a 5-year-old girl and a 10-year-old boy , all children of prostitutes , whose mothers had sold them into pornography . ? Police who smashed a pornographic film operation in New York last month and seized 4,000 copies of films involving children 8 to 12 years old , said much of the material was destined for buyers in Chicago . them sexually , and give them drugs and alcohol to lower their inhibitions . With small children , Los Angeles police say , dolls and candy are used . And in one Chicago case , " the kids were so young that pizza and Coca-Cola were sufficient , " said Gillis , the deputy state 's attorney . According to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and financially secure men who can afford to give elaborate gifts , including automobiles and motorcycles , to their victims . " EXPERTS SAY MANY of the children are attracted to adult exploiters because they receive from them something else they never had in the broken homes from which they came  --  approval and affection. , " A lot of these children are told for the first time that they are worthwhile , Unfortunately , they are not complimented because of good grades or because they are good at basketball , but because they have been sodomized , " said Frank Osanka , 41 , a sociologist at Lewis University in Glen Ellyn . Osanka teaches the only course in the United States on child abuse and neglect , and numbers several law-enforcement officials among his students . THE COSTS OF sexually exploitingchildren are minimal and the profits enormous . In Los Angeles , where most of the material is produced , police estimate a pornographic publication that retails for $7.50 to $12.50 per copy can be produced for 35 to 50 cents . A cheap home-movie camera can be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to $5o each . Children can earn up to $150 a day posing for pictures or movies , and in Los Angeles police found one 12-year-old boy who was making up to $1,000 a day ' as a prostitute , Often the money winds up in the hands of pimps , police say , but the pimps spend generously on food , clothing and eetertainment for the children , STEPHEN F. HUTCHINSON , legal counsel of Dr. Denten-Gerber 's Odyssey Institute , said most child pornographic material now on the market is produced in the United States , shipped to Scandinavia , and then shipped back to America to give the impression it was made in Europe . " We have evidence of companies producing this filth in Arizona and California and one such operation going 24 hours a day , seven days a week , in New York , " he said . Tennessee police said they have evidence that films taken at the Boys Farm orgies were shipped to Europe and back to the United States . THE PORNOGRAPHY business has flourished amid a welter of legal confusion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states as unconstitutional and pros : enters groping for other means of attack , It is extremely difficult to catch pornographers in the act of filming children , because this normally is done in private apartments or homes . In cases where pornographers are apprehended , their child victims often are unwilling to testify against them , out of loyalty for the favors and attention they have received . If they are willing to testify , judges and juries sometimes will not believe their stories or will consider them too young to be key witnesses in a criminal prosecution . PROSECUTING THE sellers of pornography also presents other problems . Obscenity laws can not be used in Illinois and other states where they have been declared unconstitutional because of vague terminology , although a number of bills aimed at overcoming these objections are pending in the Illinois legislature . And when obscenity convictions are obtained , they often are successfully challenged on grounds that any prosecution involving printed or film matter infringes on the rights of free expression guaranteed under the 1st Amendment . Child abuse laws are a weapon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide sufficient penalties . In California , the maximum sentence for child abuse is only two years , and in 40 arrest cases in Los Angeles since September authorities have obtained just one conviction . SGT . LLOYD MARTIN , a Los Angeles policeman who heads a special unit dealing with child abuse , does n't pretend to have the answer , but he rates child pornography as a crime worse than murder . " A homicide , once committed , is over , " he said in an interview . " But a crime against a child is never over . It has ruined a life . " Psychiatrists and sociologists agree that the social cost from this wholesale exploitation of one of America 's most precious resources  --  its children  --  may be staggering . SEXUALLY ABUSED children frequently grow up to enter a life of drugs and prostitution , they say , because they can find no place in normal society . The experts say premature sex can leave children with genital damage and even lead to cervical cancer in girls . Psychologically , the victims often become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sexual fulfillment as adults . " Intercourse can become painful for them for the rest of their lives , " said Dr. Nehmen Greenberg , associate professor of psychiatry at the University of Illinois School of Medicine and . an expert on child sexual abuse . LOS ANGELES police say some sadistic adults torture children who do not follow orders , or threaten to disfigure them . Robin M. Lloyd , author of " For Money or Love , " a study of juvenile male prostitution generally considered the most authoritative work on the subject , suggests that America 's children comprise one of the most disadvantaged minorities . " They are too young to vote ; too young to have consumer spending power ; too young to have lobbyists speak for them , " he said . WHAT KIND of people are the men who exploit them ? " The pedophile is a well-known type , " said Dr. Greenberg . " His kind of interest in children is probably extremely narcissistic . He seeks sexual gratification out of a projection of himself . " He does n't look for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a very fine , elegant boy , who represents for him the symbol and height of what he would like to have been himself . " The pedophile believes he is adoring , indulging , gratifying the boy a theme that runs through " boy love " publications . He also hates this boy . He envies him , has contempt for him . It 's purely jealousy ; the boy represents what he would like to have been . " GREENBERG SAID the large market for child pornography does not mean there are more pedophiles today than in past times . " The market has n't been present because the law has been more restrictive , " he said . " Many people who before were less likely to chance buying it child pornography and producing it are now more inclined to . " It 's doing a great disservice . Any civilization to exist has to maintain certain kinds of civilizing behavior and restraint of urges , instinctual trends which may get twisted into areas of perversion . " MONDAY : Child pornography a n d child prostitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? In New Orleans , police say , a group of adult perverts established a Boy Scout troop in 1974 for the purpose of using boys ranging from 11 to 15 years old for homosexual purposes . Nineteen men have been charged with multiple counts of crimes against nature , which carries a maximum penalty of 15 years on each count . Among them are two Boston-area millionaires and a California millionaire alleged to have flown to New Orleans to have sex with the boys . Police Investigation of the case extended into 34 states . ? An Episcopal priest in Tennessee , the Rev. Claudius Bud Vermilye Jr. , is awaiting trial on charges he took in runaway and neglected children at his Boys Farm , encouraged them to engage in homosexual orgies , secretly filmed the orgies and allowed adult " sponsors " to abuse the boys . The Tribune investigation disclosed that a half-dozen Illinois men had bought films from the priest . Vermilye was indicted on 16 charges , including 3 counts of crimes against nature , 0 counts of aiding and abetting crimes against nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I count of using minors in the production of pornographic materials . ? Pornographers in at least five states  --  Michigan , New Jersey , Tennessee , Louisiana , and Florida  --  have used or have attempted to use federal , state and county funds to establish foster homes and child care camps for their operations , and some have used foster children in pornographic movies . In at least one instance , pornographers obtained a federal income tax exemption                     