@@733954

txt Letters The Social Security Spenders Mandatory Voting : The Wrong Approach To the Editor : I am one of the growing number of senior citizens who stubbornly refuse to die at their appointed times and , in the words of Joseph A. Califano Jr. , Secretary of Health , Education and welfare , " increasingly take a larger bite of the Federal budget . " His charge is false . The bite we take is from the Social Security Trust Fund , no more related . to Federal spending than the operations of similar funds in the private sector . Social Security figures were kept independently of the Federal budget for more than 25 years . They were included in the figures of the Federal budget only when President Johnson sought to use the surplus in Social Security operations to reduce , but only on paper , his growing deficit . He could not use a dime of Social Security funds to pay Pentagon bills for the Vietnam War or defray Great Society welfare costs . Obviously , Congress can change Social Security operations or abolish them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the funds of other Federal trusts , have no bearing whatever on Federal spending or budgetary deficits . The Secretary also says that Social Security operations are " the largest income redistribution in our nation 's history . " Nonsense . The free-enterprise marketplace is a center where all consumers redistribute their incomes among the entrepreneurs who Reddy Lives ! To the Editor : While the thrust of Peter Passell 's Jan. 2 Editorial Notebook article and his conclusions are most important , I would like to set the record straight regarding the headline , " Paying for Reddi-Kilowatt , " and his lead paragraph , in which he states , " ... you may remember Reddi-Kilowatt , the cartoon character who peddled electric stoves and the All-Electric Home . Reddi is long gone . . .. " Reddy ( not " Reddi " ) Kilowatt is not long gone . A federally registered trademark and service mark licensed to over 150 U.S. utilities as a communication symbol , he is in vigorous use in the promotion of energy conservation and safety . All that is " long gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. COLLINS JR . Pres. , Reddy Communications Inc . Greenwich , Conn . Jan. 4 , 1979 Frank at Work To the Editor : Your Jan 1 . editorial " Advortisments " refers to the campaign button " Put Barney Frank to Work for Ward 5 . " It is likely that your readers do not know who Barney Frank is . They should . A former Harvard faculty member , a leader of A.D.A . and aide to Boston Mayor Kevin White , Frank is now Massachusetts assemblyman from Tip O'Neill 's Boston district . Political cognoscenti know him as one of the most effective and practical original minds in American politics today ? and as one of our best political wits . EUGENE H. ZAGAT JR . New York , Jan. 2 , 1979 function there . In theor , y consumers receive value for their money , but that is not the way my missus tells it . And I remember the friend who bought a new auto one day , lost his job the next and discovered that his new car had depreciated a third overnight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checks for our livelihood , redistribute our income in the marketplace as wisely as we know how ; like setting our heat-pump thermostat at 63 degrees because we can not afford 70 degrees . ( Between November 1976 and November 1978 our kilowatt-hour rate increased 130 percent . ) Despite Federal good intentions , we are always a bit worse off each year after redistributing our checks , whereas we judge that the recipients of our money are a bit better off , or maybe much better off . In a real sense one could say that those who provide funds that Social Security redistributes get the funds back with monthly regularity , directly as businessmen , indirectly but just as certainly as workers who are em polyed by business . Even Uncle Sam shares in our redistribution of the Secretary 's redistribution , through increased tax receipts . I am sorry that we elderly seem malign by living so long . But the problems we impose would affect everyone even if there were no Federal pension trust fund . FRANK A. SIEVERMAN JR . Fayette , Ala. , Jan. 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points to be made with regard to your recent editorial concerning the rape of wives . You supported the proposition that intramarital sexual intercourse against the will of the wife should constitute rape within the meaning of our penal code . The first point is that for the crime of rape to be committed there has to be either an assault or a threat against the victim . Such acts in themselves are crimes , either as assault or attempted assault . Charges against a husband for these crimes can now be brought in this state . I believe similar statutes exist in almost all other states in this nation . The crux of this point , then , is that the wife can charge her husband with the alternative acts of assault , and if this had been done in the recent case in Oregon , I am quite certain that the defendant would have been convicted . The second consideration is the punTo the Editor : The criminal justice system is a widely discussed topic during elections but seems to fade in importance as soon as the voting booths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system are Ignored by the average citizen until he , too , knows what it is like to have his life threatened and his wallet ripped from his pocket . And that is only the beginning . The victim becomes victimized again andagain once he decides to get involved and press charges . Perhaps that is why most people choose not to prosecute . I was mugged one Saturday evening in May of 1977 . Since then I have made five court appearances and endured indifference from the D.A . and constant stalling from the defense attorney , while the mugger roams free and laughs at the " criminal justice " system . His defense attorney first refuses to agree to a definite trial date and then asks the state to drop the case - because of its failure to prosecute . Such hypocrisy is only a small part of the serious rupture of our court system . A society that is unable to deal with the criminals in its midst is unable to To the Editor : Paul K. Perry of the Gallup organization supports mandatory voting ( letter Jan. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already been tried extensively in dictatorship after dictatorship , with ambiguous results . It produces impressive statistics , but no great democracy . Paradoxically , the bad showing of our voluntary system reflects its strength . The 38 percent of eligibles who voted in the last election were those who cared enough to take the trouble ? no gun was pointed at their heads . What they had in common was not necessarily education , wisdom or even partisanship but concern , interest : the stuff of public opinion , what elections are all about . To dilute their votes with the 62 percent who simply could not be bothered would be to wipe out each real choice with two tosses of a coin . It would diminish democracy , not strengthen it . The cure for indifference is in the hands of the politicians , not the police . Real issues , credible candidates , a public conviction that the political process matters , that there is a difference ' twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee , that campaign promises may for once be fulfilled : these will attract voters more effectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MILLHAUSER Bridgeport , Conn. , Jan. 6 , 1979 ishment that is meted out for the crimes of rape and assault . In such cases , the entire psychological and traumatic effect has to be taken into account . In the usual rape case , where it is a stranger who accosts a woman , not only is there physical abuse but the psychological effect constitutes a tremendous traumatic experience . In a situation where a husband compels a wife to have sexual intercourse against her will , there can not be the same traumatic experience . There may be resentment or injured feelings , but the overall effect can not be compared to rape by a stranger . In many states rape requires a mandatory sentence of 10 to 30 years . Assault can bring a sentence of anywhere from one to three years . The existing laws are sufficient to punish violence , and the punishment should fit the crime and not satisfy the outcries of women 's lib . GEORGE NoDELmAN New York , Jan. 4 , 1979 safeguard the well-being of its lawabiding citizens , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " BARRY S. HANTMAN Whitestone , N.Y. , Jan. 3 , 1979 The Anti-Hegemonists To the Editor : William Satire 's contrived criticism of President Carter 's policy of normalization of ties with the People 's Republic of China ( column Dec. 28 ) contains a fundamental error that undermines the credibility of the argument . Satire argues that Carter agreed to an anti-hegemony clause aimed at the Soviet Union in the joint communiqu ? announcing recognition which the United States had - carefully avoided " in the 1972 Shanghai joint statement . If Mr. Satire returns to the Shanghai Communiqu ? he will find that both the United States and the P.R.C. were opposed to " efforts by any other country or group of countries to establish hegemony " in the Asia-Pacific region . He should now look elsewhere for the source of Soviet displeasure . MELVIN A. GOODMAN Bethesda , Md. , Dec. 29 , 1978 If a Husband Rapes His Wife Our Criminal Justice System 's ' Hypocrisy ' Of Landlord New York City , Tenants and the Courts To the Editor : It was with great interest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Landlord . " As the administrative judge of the Civil Court of the City of New York , which includes the Housing Part , I am always concerned that landlords and tenants have a forum to resolve their disputes . Since New York City 's role as a landlord has increased on a large scale , it is understandable that the city would also experience on a large scale the problems of being a landlord . This is an administrative challenge which the city must successfully meet if its role as landlord is to be viable . Being an optimist , I am confident that the city will . I would make two observations , however . Internal and external surveys of the Housing Part indicate that . there has been a considerable reduction of delay during the last two years . Of course , we always strive to do better . I find that many times complaints of delay are the result of misperception by people who are not trained in the law and are unfamiliar with courtroom procedure . Tins is to be expected . Sonic delays are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court has found conditions clanger. ous to the health . and safety of residents of a building and has ordered the commencement of a repair program , the satisfactory completion of which is a necessary preliminary to the judge 's final disposition . Certainly there are " rent strikes " in which embattled litigants rely on delay in order to support a more successful negotiation or disposition . Also there are time-consuming repair programs under the supervision of the Housing Part , which has continuing jurisdiction in matters pertaining to code enforcement . The reduction of delay in the Housing Trial Parts is a tribute to the performance and expertise of 16 Housing judges working in tandem with the Civil Court judges presiding in the calendar parts . My second observation concerns " allowing " tenants to withhold rent without requiting the money to be deposited with the court . Generally , pretrial rent deposits have been found by Federal courts to be violative of due process . If the Legislature is able to fashion legislation that will survive constitutional challenge , then the judges of the Housing Part will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pro , ceeding . It should be noted , however , that in 1977 tenants were directed to pay into the court the sum of $2.5 million in cases where , after a hearing , the court found that building conditions were dangerous to life , health and safety . Such funds are released to the landlord only after the serious violations have been satisfactorily corrected . FRANCIS X. SMITH New York , Jan. 3 , 1979                     