@@734255

txt President Carter 's pre-summit state visit to Japan is a celebration , not a negotiating session between two heads of government . Energy is , of course , a preoccupying subject for the five other participants in the Tokyo summit June 28 and 29 , as it is for the United States and Japan . The plight of Vietnamese refugees bobbing helplessly up and down in the swells of the South China Sea is another . A call for an international conference on the whole question of Indo-Chinese refugees may well come out of the Tokyo summit , which is being chaired by Japanese Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira and which includes President Giscard d'Estaing of France , Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of West Germany , and Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher of Britain , Joe Clark of Canada , and Giulio Andreotti of Italy . But the Carter visit to Japan , while providing ample time for these and other knotty subjects , basically celebrates a transpacific relationship that has become increasingly more diverse and many-stranded during the century and a quarter since Commodore Matthew Perry 's " black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then called Yedo ) . It is unfortunate that the people of Japan will have little opportunity to savor the full fla *Please turn to Page 12 vor of the occasion . Blue-helmeted , plastic-visored police are everywhere ? 26,000 in downtown Tokyo and along the route to the airport , including 2,000 at Haneda Airport itself . President Carter 's plane touched down on June 24 , a hot , hazy afternoon . Within minutes the President was whisked to the American Embassy in downtown Tokyo . People who happened to be on the roadside saw Mr. Carter 's cavalcade sweep past them ? the presidential car bravely fluttering the Stars and Stripes . But the strictness of the security precautions , heightened by rumors that left-wing terrorists plan to attack and by incidents such as the temporary cutting of telephone links between Haneda Airport and planes coming in to land , does not obscure the warmth of the public 's welcome for the second incumbent American president to visit Japan . " I ca n't tell you why I like President Carter , " said a young taxi driver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I just feel good about him . " The opportunity Mr. Carter will have to meet the people will be at a " town meeting " being organized for him in Shimoda , along the lines of his successful meetings in New England ( and last year in West Berlin ) . The whole concept of a town meeting with participation by concerned citizens is alien to Japan . But the Shimoda authorities seem to have gotten into the spirit of the occasion . Each year they sponsor a " black ships festival " to commemorate Commodore Perry 's arrival and the opening of feudal Japan to the bracing crosscurrents of the Western world . Mr. Carter will have two lengthy sessions with Mr. Ohira , one at the Prime Minister 's gloomy office ; the other at Oiso , the seaside villa of the late Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida , who signed both the San Francisco peace treaty of 1951 and the US-Japan security treaty that accompanied it . Mr. Carter told Japanese reporters in Washington just before coming out here that , compared with the wide range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Japan , friction over Japan 's trade surplus with the United States is a minor matter . Minor it may be , but as long as Congress remains exercised about Japan 's allegedly unfair trading practices , it is not a problem that will go away easily . The energy crisis has spurred sales of Japanese cars in the United States , and the yen 's decline form its high point of nearly 176 to the dollar last October to its present level of nearly 220 to the dollar also makes it easier for Japan to export its products . Only if Japan continues its efforts to obtain economic growth that does not rely on exports and to spur domestic demand sufficient to pull in imports of manufactured goods can the trade balance with the United States begin to approach equilibrium . A plus for both countries is the cordiality of the relationship between Messrs . Carter and Ohira . Taciturn Mr. Ohira , with his broad bulldog face , apparently found a kindred spirit when he visited Washington last month . In contrast to his public persona of vague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been frank , decisive , and direct in his talks with Mr. Carter , and to have subsequently proved that he could deliver on his promises .                     