@@728624

txt The quickening staccato of political bombirgs is about to ignite a sharp counterattack from Congress . Legislation clamping stricter controls on explosives and stiffer penalties on violators now appears virtually certain this session , with the first committee hearings opening this week . Action comes , ironically , on an anniversary of the forerunner of modern political bombers , Guy Fawkes , who planted 36 barrels of gunpowder in the cellar of the British Parliament . He was born exactly 400 years ago . The continued availability of explosives in the United States today probably would surprise even Mr. Fawkes . " Frankly , " asserted Sen. Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) of Connecticut , the battler trots , " it is more difficult in to own and license a dog than it is to pur- chase a deadly package of explosives and explosive devices . " Fully 32 states , including several of the most populous , lack general statutory restrictions on the sale of explosives , a recent survey by the Library of Congress disclosed . ? In most cities , an American may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? In most states , a person may purchase dynamite by only producing identification and completing a form for the fire marshal . The ghastly consequence : Bomb incidents that killed three persons in a Greenwich Village " bomb factory " and two associates of black militant H. ( Rap ) Brown in a car near Bel Air , Md . At the peak earlier this spring , bombings in California averaged one per week . Besides national alarm , the bombings gen- erated a presidential message and some 20 congressional bills . All of the major bills marshal the weight of federal law behind certain offenses ? such as possessing fire bombs or many common components of home-made bombs , and making phony bombing threats . The differences arise in approach . The Nixon administration 's bills crack down hardest on violators . The maximum penalties for false bomb threats and illegal interstate transportation of explosives  --  now one year in prison and/or a $1,000 fine  --  would be increased by a factor of 5 for bomb threats and by a factor of 10 for interstate transportation . If an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stringent of all , if a fatality resulted , a convicted bomber could be sentenced to life imprisonment or death . Controversy is likely to swirl around this provision , which many lawmakers feel goes too far . Mandatory sentences added The administration bills are offered by the ranking Republicans on the judiciary committees of each house , Sen. Roman L. Hruska of Nebraska and Rep. William M. McCulloch of Ohio . The chief Democratic proposals , on the other hand , stress closer regulation of explosives . " Deterrent oriented , rather than punitively oriented , " as a committee aide put it , perhaps ungenerously . These bills also strenghten penalties -- with an added stinger : mandatory minimum prison sentences . Explosives felonies would draw minimum five-year terms for repeaters under the bill of Rep. Emanuel Celler of New York , and 10-year terms for all offenders under Senator Dodd 's bill . But the heart of these measures is an effort to regulate explosives much like firearms . Both seller and buyer would be " licensed . " Manufacturers and dealers would need permits from the Secretary of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to tell the Secretary of the Treasury why he wanted explosives and why he was qualified to receive them . Another bill , commanding substantial support , would bring explosives under the additional scrutiny of tax collectors by imposing a nominal " nuisance tax . " The sponsor is Rep. Charles A. Vanik ( D ) of Ohio . Opposition identified Fresh public memories of bombings make tighter controls on explosives an awkward idea to oppose . The only certain opposition so far comes from firearms interests , such as the National Rifle Association ( NRA ) and muzzle-loading-rifle groups . They object to clamping federal regulations on black powder , smokeless powder , and timers  --  items used by some sportsmen with hand-loading firearms . " We think there should be some kind of control on high explosives , " explained an NRA spokesman . ' ' Our main concern is that these hand-loading components , which are propellants , not be lumped with the explosives . " The administration bills , he indicated , may be modified to exclude such items . With public concern running so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not whether Congress will act , but which committee can produce a bill first . The Senate Judiciary Committee has a head start with its ' Juvenile-delinquency subcommittee hearings this week on Senator Dodd 's bill . But since the judiciary committees in both houses face crowded calendars . the House Ways and Means Committee , with Mr. Vanik 's bill , may move fastest . The footrace is on .                     