@@729364

txt Contrary to what most observers expected , the Soviet military lost ground at the recent 24th Communist Party Congress . ine snare of military men among the full members of the Central Committee has remained unchanged , but the proportion of military men among the nonvoting-candidate members of the committee has dropped sharply . There were 17 military men among the 83 candidate members of the Central Committee of 1966 . The new Central Committee with its 155 candidate members includes only 11 representatives of the armed forces . General Secretary Leonid I. Brezhnev , who has come out on top , at the congress , was closely connected with the armed forces during most of his career . His popularity with the high brass was supposed to be one of his political assets . At the vast Niemen maneuvers in the summer of 1968 , Mr. Brezhnev was the Kremlin 's sole representative . In an unpublished speech at the end of the maneuvers , he is supposed to have gone all out in support of the demands of the armed forces . Still , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reduced status of the military in the new Central Committee may be the result of high policy discussions shortly before the congress in the course of which Mr. Brezhnev decided consumer goods had to be boosted , if necessary , at the expense of armaments production . The General Secretary is above all a shrewd politician who has his ear to the ground ; he may well have come to the conclusion a consumer policy , or at least the plausible announcement of such a policy . would strengthen the regime . Premier Alexei N. Kosygin , on the other hand , is an administrator rather than a politician and less flexible than the General Secretary in his report on the new five-year plan . Mr. Kosygin retained the old concept that " heavy industry was and is the foundation of the country 's economic power . . . and that it guarantees the defense potential of the Soviet state . " In other passages of his report , the Premier also is in favor of " increasing our fatherland 's defense potential . " While Mr. Brezhnev in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also spoke of heavy industry as " the foundation of the economic power of the country , " he added that heavy industry was at the same time " the basis for the further rise of the well-being of the people . " Comparison of the two reports has led seasoned Soviet analysts to conclude the Premier rather than the Genera Secretary came out in favor of the armament industries . // *Military 's Kremlin hold ebbs as consumer goods boosted // Whether this was Mr. Kosygin 's political conviction or whether he preferred to stick to an older , more rigid version of his fiveyear-plan report is anybody 's guess . The fact is that the Premier 's report did not arouse much interest . On-the-spot observers have reported that during the delivery of Mr. Kosygin 's report Mr. Brezhnev attended to his correspondence , while the Ukrainian First Secretary , Politburo member Pyotr Y. Shelest , was engrossed in a magazine and the president of the academy . Mr. Mstislav V. Keldysh licked his thumb with an expression of complete boredom . The influence of the armed forces apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Setback seen The military seems to have lost ground also on two other occasions . The new commander of the Kiev military district , General Salmanon , though made a member of the Ukrainian Central Committee , was not given a seat on the Ukrainian Politburo . Another setback for the military is the fact the First Deputy Premier Kirill T. Mazurov remained a nonvoting-candidate member of the Politburo . Mr. Mazurov , who was expected to become a full member of the Politburo , made his career in Belorussia in the orbit of the military and is known as a radical hard-line ideologist . The main power in the new Soviet setup on which Mr. Brezhnev leans seems to be indeed the middle-of-the-road party apparatus , which has triumphed at the congress . Compared with the party apparatus . not only the military , but also the managers and " technocrats " hold second place , experienced observers believe . Nikolai V. Podgorny 's rise to second rank in the new Politburo may be connected with the General Secretary 's emphasis on enhanced activity on the international scene . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his official title , Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet , Mr. Podgorny may appear to be more qualified to act as the Soviet Union 's authoritative spokesman than the Premier , especially in relations with the United States . Also in favor of Mr. Podgorny may be the fact that he is an Ukrainian . There now are four Ukrainians in the 15-member Politburo . The political significance of the rise of the Ukrainians is difficult to assess . Whether it has anything to do with the fact that the Ukraine proportionally is the most developed and the most highly industrialized of the 15 Soviet republics is doubtful , although this might pass as a Marxist explanation . It is more likely that in the Soviet party , as in all political bodies all over the world , more or less durable cliques are formed by people with similar background and aspirations .                     