@@728691

txt Contingent ' of graduates walk out of commencement exercises for Uni. ; versity of Illinois Chicago Circle campus in Chicago Stadium . Students were protesting Viet Nam ; war . Douglas Snubbed Anti-war demonstrations were staged yesterday at the commencement exercises of boththe University of Illinois Circle campus and De Paul university . Seventy students and faculty walked out of ceremonies being held in the Chicago stadium to protest the conferring of an honorary doctor of laws degree on former Democratic Sen. Paul Douglas , whose views on the war they oppose . In the Auditorium theater , eight graduating De Paul seniors attempted unsuccessfully to speak to the audience about peace . Drowned Out by Boos The Very Rev. John Cortelyou , university president , announced that a spokesman for the group would be allowed to speak for five minutes , but when the student , Miss Virginia Jagla , reached the microphone , she could not be heard over the booing of the audience . The University of Illinois walkout occurred shortly after Chancellor Norman A. Parker announced that the administration had been informed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither " the sanction nor restriction " of the university . The exit of the demonstrators was met by mixed applause and boos from the audience of 10,000 attending the commencement . Opposes Mass Withdrawal T h e demonstrators agreed that the walkout was not planned to insult the former senator , but was done as a " general protest against the war and the unresponsiveness of the administration to the concerns of students . " Douglas , who heads the Citizen 's Committee for Peace with freedom in Viet Nam , has s t a ted that unilateral withdrawal from southeast Asia would be a " dangerous move . " The commencement speaker , John Kenneth Galbraith , Harvard university economist , announced that he also would be attending an " alternate commencement " which the demonstrators planned to hold later in the day on the Circle campus . At the De Paul exercises , the eight students were escorted off the stage saying their effort was made to protest the administration 's failure to grant their request for the presentation of an honorary " doctor of peace " degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , assistant secretary for the United States department of health , education , and welfare , said , " I honor the spirit of dissent . I honor the participation of our students . . . who feel so strongly about the issues ; and who are not content to sit and talk , but insist on action . " To the 1,180 graduating students Farmer said , " What is happening today is that those who are excluded from decision-making4e they students , blacks , or Mexican-Americans ? are demanding to be heard . What they want is participatory democracy . "                     