@@732003

txt THE WARREN COMMISSION may have been denied crucial information about the assassination of John F. Kennedy by two aides of the slain President who were advised by high officials of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to withhold certain data . That is the thrust of preliminary information furnished Congressional leaders by a Central Intelligence Agency liaison man in advance of two Capitol Hill investigations of CIA activity . According to the material , Presidential aides Kenneth O'Donnell and David Powers are reported to have told investigators soon after the Kennedy assassination in Dallas on Nov. 22 , 1963 , that they thought they had observed what might have been shots coming from a location other than the Texas School Book Depository from which Lee Harvey Oswald is accused of having gunned down the President . BUT SOMETIME before O'Donnell and Powers submitted their eye witness accounts to the Warren Commission by deposition and affidavit , either J. Edgar Hoover , the late FBI Director , or his top aides prevailed on the men not to disclose their suspicions to the commission . If true , the reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the request , for there is no indication that either ever publicly espoused such contradictory Information . " The story is an absolute lie , " O'Donnell declared in a phone interview , " I 'm not accusing the reporter , but whoever gave that story is lying . It 's an absolute , outright lie , " In the data given effect could lead to a possible international incident and inflame public passions fed by other secret information then known by the FBI . Federal investigators had determined that Oswald had visited Mexico City eight weeks before the Kennedy assassination , contacting both the Cuban and Soviet embassies there . They also were aware of alleged CIA contracts with Chicago Mafia boss Salvatore Morro Giancana and mobster John Rosselli toassassinate Castro in 1961 . If these facts were to have emerged together , they would have spawned suspicions that the Kennedy killing had been carried out in retaliation for the reputed plots on Castro 's life and that the Soviet Union might also be dragged into such speculation because of Oswald 's residence there from 1059 until 1962 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FBI is alleged to have told the two aides , it would be better if they made no mention of their suspicions to the Warren Commission . Such information , they were told , might cause people to surmise that Oswald had been part of a band of conspirators instead of the lone and per-h a p s demented gunman portrayed eventually in the Warren report . IN ITS REPORT , the Warren Commission concluded that three shots had been fired from a rifle held by Oswald on the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository , two of which had killed Kennedy and wounded John Connally , then governor of Texas . The third was believed to have missed . That agrees with the personal accounts of O'Donnell and Powers In their book on their years with the late President , entitled " Johnny , We Hardly Knew Ye . " In that account , both men declare they heard only three shots , two of them close together and a third five seconds later . At the time-12:30 p.m.  --  the aides were riding on jump seats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bearing the President , his wife , and Gov. and Mrs. Connally . BOTH RECALLED they were accurately aware of the exact time of the shooting because Powers checked his watch and determined the caravan was only five minutes behind schedule as it rounded the plaza in front of the Book Depository . There is no mention of their alleged suspicions that some John F. Kennedy of the three shots might have come from somewhere other than the Book Depository . In fact , there is no speculation on the direction of the firing at all . " I spent four hours before the commission and my testimony is quite clear , " O'Donnell said In the phone interview . " I told them exactly what I saw . I was in charge of the whole operation so I know what happened . I arranged the whole trip . " I testified under oath and I stand by it . " O'DONNELL recalled he told the Warren Commission he heard two shots , the first of which he initially thought was a firecracker . Both came from behind , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Presidential appointments secretary and one of Kennedy 's trusted advisers . Powers ' title was White House receptionist , and he was valued by Kennedy for his wit and political know-how . THERE IS nothing to indicate why the CIA elected to inform Congress of the Kennedy assassination allegations since the Warren Commission suggested no complicity in the death by the agency . The fact the reputed CIA arrangements with the Mafia to kill Castro figured iu the ac-. count may have prompted the disclosure to Congress .                     