@@732626

txt An apparent and surprising readiness on the part of right-wing Lebanese leaders to admit they are receiving major arms supplies from Israel raises some intriguing , and disturbing , questions about the future of the Lebanese war . If , as appears likely , these reports are not only correct but being freely confirmed by rightist leaders , their publication must either soon challenge Syria , and other Arab regimes currently acquiescing in Syria 's subduing of Lebanon 's Palestinians , to a new definition of their attitude toward Israel , or lead to some rearrangement of supply for the right in Lebanon . These reported right-wing admissions of Israeli military aid could be unguarded revelations proceeding from the current spirit of defiant victory pervading the Christian right wing , or the controlled result of recognition that such a secret could not be kept long . But in any case , they stand to be most immediately // * Israeli aid issue // embarrassing for Syria , whose navy is said to be still blockading the Lebanese coast and whose Army continues to complement the right-wing push @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing for right-wing Lebanon in Sunday 's London Observer , cites Lebanese Christian politicians , Mediterranean ship captains , Palestinian intelligence , and American and other Western diplomats as sources confirming substantial Israeli supply of arms to the right ? including large consignments of Soviet-made arms captured by Israel in the Arab-Israeli wars of 1967 and 1973 . Reports suggest ships bringing arms from Israel to right-wing Christian Lebanon often arrive without having called at other ports , and that the supplies have given the rightists profoundly increased military flexibility in recent successful pushes against Palestinians and leftists in north , east , and central Lebanon . This reporter , also visiting right-wing Lebanon during the past week , was told by one usually reliable though unofficial source , while overlooking the busy right-wing port of Jounieh : " In the early months we did n't know where our next bullet was coming from . Now a number of countries are giving us all the arms we want for free . Every night the boats come in . " When asked why the Israelis were participating in this provision of arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear . The Is realis are delighted . We 're doing their work for them . " This was a reference to the right 's specifically anti-Palestinian pushes . While it seems unlikely that any of the Arab countries involved could condone any military alliance with Israel , however unofficial , it seems also unlikely at the present time that they would want the militant Palestinian and leftist parties in the Lebanese war to regain the upper hand . Arab position ambiguous The depth of Arab committment to the anti-Palestinian bent of the Lebanese war is indicated by independent reports during the past week , originating both from right-wing Lebanese and from Jordanian sources , which sugge.st that right-wing phalangist militiamen received training under the direction of , and possibly even in , Jordan . Some sources place the beginning of significant joint Phalangist-Jordanian planning against Palestinian militancy as early as 1970 , immediately after Jordan 's " black September " war , in which all armed Palestinians were driven out of Jordan ? an action which left Lebanon as the only base of free operation for militant Palestinians in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who believe major and unconcealable Israeli military provision of the rightists could have effects ( possibly foreseen by the right-wing , the Israelis , or both ) more complicating and dramatic than a simple " cutting down to size " of the Palestinian resistance . If the Israeli supply becomes widely publicized in the Arab world then , according to one speculative scenario , some form of violent Arab reaction in Lebanon would be followed by some form of dramatic Israeli intervention . Observers who believe that continuing disruption in Lebanon is desired by Israel ? because it would forestall any substantive negotiation for Israeli-held land ? point out that , while the Syrian regime says it seeks to control some ultimate balance of power in Lebanon , it is at present unclear whether the pouring in of arms , gratis , from Israel leaves Syria in control of the levels of local firepower .                     