@@732596

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Of Terrorists , Hostages and an Israeli Commando Raid To the Editor : Now the time has come to ask : How was it possible for at least four armed terrorists to board the airplane in Athens on July 27 ? Nobody can pass the check points at Cincinnati or Chicago airports with even a few coins in his purse or keys in his pocket without being stopped . But this is also the occasion to lay aside queries about the " industry " or the " authorities " in general and to direct the above question to AirFrance as well as the Greek Government , to ask specifically , " What did you do to protect the safety of your patrons or visitors , and how do measures taken by you compare with those of the most responsible airlines and authorities ? " Prospective travelers with Air France or to Greece expect answers . The absence of satisfactory answers will be a stimulus to the public to provide its own answers . Some may be gravely incriminating . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : The time is long overdue to deal with terrorists decisively . A knife held to the throat of an innocent , bystander , or hostage , in order to force any government to free other terrorist killers must now be answered by placing the target government 's knife at the throat of the terrorists ' " comrade , " so showing that damage to any innocent life will result in the death of terrorists rather than release of same . This is the only language left for reaching the warped minds of terrorists . In the end , all blackmail comes to this . The first payment is always the first installment . The final payment is the victim 's effectual suicide and a public declaration of moral bankruptcy . Governments permitting terrorists the mercy of mere prison sentences To the Editor : France did n't do it . The United States did n't do it . The United Nations did n't do it . Microscopic Israel did it . Even if you 're an Arab , you 've got to take your hat off to those Israelis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out . Because lives mean something to them  --  they care . Breathtaking ! Beautiful ! Admirable ! ? CHARLOTTE SHAPIRO Mamaroneck , N.Y. , July 3 , 1976 To the Editor : The comment of Secretary General Waldheim on the Israeli raid of the Entebbe airport displays the myopic scope of the Secretary and of the United Nations in its failure to deal with the problem of skyjacking . If there is to be an end to air piracy , the United Nations General Assembly must resolve that skyjackers will have no refuge in the territory of member nations and will be treated as international criminals . As long as sanctuary is given to terrorists , skyjacking will continue . Such a precedent for dealing with the problem exists . When seafaring nations banned pirate ships from their harbors and no longer granted them havens , piracy on the high seas declined . Let the Secretary General and the United Nations consider not the territorial invasion of Uganda for the rescue of human lives , let them deliberate on the hypocrisy of treating skyjackers , who violate international law as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captives for ransom . MALCOLM THOMSON Greenwich , Conn. , July 6 , 1976 ? To the Editor : As much as I am opposed to the terrorism of Palestinian liberation groups , I must object to the raid conducted by Israel on the hijacked Air France jet in Uganda . The lives of the 100-plus hostages remaining on board the plane were ' needlessly placed in jeopardy by this act , which seems to have been conducted more for national pride than for , releasing the hostages . What I fins appalling is the apparent lack of regard for the safety of these innocent people , which should have been the one and only consideration . While your editorials heaped praise on Israel for carrying out this raid , I noticed not one word of regret for the three hostages who lost their lives . It is only by sheer luck that more were not killed . If the pattern holds true , Israel may expect bloody reprisals for its action . If other countries decide to react to hijackers as Israel has , no international airline passenger will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ANITA DAJNOWSKI Flushing , N.Y. , July 6 , 1976 have now lived to reap a bitter harvest to reward their indulgence . They now face their own moment of truth . Let the terrorists beg for mercy  --  or , in the end , let the governments surrender their own sovereignty . Who will surrender , civilization or anarchy ? Peace and order may not be had by cowards and the weak at heart . It is only for those with the courage to refuse , at any price , bullying and blackmail . Even God is of no help to the coward except to confront him with successive " moments of truth . " If he lives that long . aLuuN L. ZUESSE Washington , July 2 , 1976 To the Editor : The dramatic rescue by Israeli commandos of the victims of proPalestinian hijackers at Entebbe air ? port added an unexpected dimension to the celebrations of our Day of Independence . Admiration and praise for the feat poured out of radio , TV and individual Americans . I too was grateful that the senseless plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had returned to the safety and love of their homes and that a most daring act had been carried out successfully  --  but with all this , my heart refused to rejoice and my mind was filled with ominous forebodings for the future for I could not help but ask : ( 1 ) Has the 1967 " victory " ? viewed ten years later  --  been a source of joy to Israel ? Has it brought her peace , love and acceptance in the community of nations ? Will the " Entebbe Victory " be any more successful in achieving these goals ? ( 2 ) The Times reports that the key to the raid 's success was " strategic and tactical surprise , achieved through deception . " If Israel 's avowed aim is indeed a negotiated peace with her adversaries , does this combination of tactics make her a trusted negotiator ? ( 3 ) Although the dastardly Entebbe act was today aborted , the roots of the violence survive in the hearts of other pro-Palestinian guerrillas , the very people Israel has dispossessed . Unless Israel acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , and again , and possibly another time not give Israel time or a chance to be " brave , " " daring " or " deceptive . " MARJORIE SA'ADAI I New Haven , July 5 , 1976 ? To the Editor : I think that Israel should fully recognize Idi Amin 's right to retaliate : Any time a handful of terrorists kidnaps a plane with mainly Ugandans on board , and receives hospitality and support at an Israeli airport , President Idi Amin should be entitled to stage a raid on Israel to free his subjects . FAY HAUSSMAN New York , July 6 , 1976 Gina Freschet The World 's Biggest Block Party ' To the Editor : Incredible ! The Bicentennial celebration was actually festive , thanks not so much to the agents who sold it to us but to all of us who shared it in the streets and elevators and buses . who for one day at least stopped being strangers and became sponsors like everyone else . Take the big ships . " Operation Sail " was sold better than Santa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the really impressive display was not the international armada in the water but the very American parade lining the shore , a procession as diverse as the phone book , and just as peaceful , too . So it the Bicentennial rang truest in the cash register , and if sober reflection was disturbed by illicit firecrackers ( making the city sound like a besieged Beirut )  --  the birthday was still meaningful because we were all outside taking part in the world 's biggest block party . Some neighborhood , huh ? ALLAN RIPP New York , July 5 , 1976 ? To the Editor : As magnificent as the Fourth of July celebrations have been , perhaps their most noteworthy feature was not an event that happened but one that did not happen , i. e. , the display of our military might . I know of no other nation which does not feel the need to show off its military power on its independence day . There can hardly be any more impressive proof of a mightly nation 's sense of strength and unity than the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have questioned our genuine quest for peace , the collective joy and innocent exuberance which were so beautifully covered by our media should be reassuring . To those who have doubted our ability to defend peace , the absence of a martial display of our awsome military power should be revealing ; for only a giant of strength can afford to celebrate a 200th birthday without feeling the need to flex his muscles . BENJAMIN ROBERT PAYN New York , July 6 , 1976 ? To the Editor : Our local Bicentennial committee certainly came up with the perfect solution to the issue of one-upmanship ethnic parades whose unending line is now taxing the sanity and municipal resources of this great city throughout the year : One gala united American parade every July 4 . It could feature all the finest cultural backgrounds that now have found a home in New York City . Against an annual backdrop as provided by yesterday 's setting of heritage food and entertainment festivals in nonresidential lower , historic Manhattan closed to vehicular traffic , we could enjoy a yearly holiday  --  even a weekend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all kinds of people enriching each other 's lives by living and working together . Sincerest thanks are due all those whose great effort culminating yesterday provided unforgettable pleasure to those of us fortunate enough to attend New York City 's own Bicentennial events . BRUCE GRAHAM Brooklyn , July 5 , 1976 Toward Coalition Rule To the Editor : Although I support the two-party system in politics I am convinced that the exigencies of our national and global situation demand a coalition government . It seems rather insane to me that the best brains and sterling characters of the defeated party should be excluded from the Administration for several years . Perhaps the victor in the 1976 Presi-. dential race would consider selecting three or four cabinet members from the opposition . This would achieve two goals . First , the unity of the nation would be enhanced , and secondly , the Administration would be enriched . One of the most successful ambassadors ever to serve in London was the Republican John Winant , in office under the Democratic Roosevelt during World War II . We are approaching a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gifted leaders , regardless of party , will find solutions . ABRAHAM ISAAC CARMEL New York , July 2 , 1976 ? On the Limits of Power To the Editor : The thoughts of Dr. Frederick Saunders ( letter July 4 ) are an example of the misperceptions of American power which led us to the war in Vietnam . The belief that , owing to our immense economic power , we are somehow entitled to the role of economic leader and protector of the entire world has proved quite dangerous . Unilateral political escapades based on this belief in our divine right ( Chile , Vietnam , Bay of Pigs ) have won us neither significant economic benefits nor the comfort of loyal allies . Similarly , Soviet and French " disregard for world public opinion " in pursuit of their interests has yielded few benefits  --  the most recent example is the fractionalization evident in the treatise issued by the East Berlin conference last week . In the long run , as the underdeveloped nations progress and grow richer , they will look toward the nation which not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a conscience . It is evident and unfortunate that there are still some Americans , such as Dr. Saunders , who never learned the lessons of Vietnam  --  that restraint , a clear perception of our political and economic interests and a solid knowledge of the limits of power provide long-term benefits for both the industrialized and the underdeveloped nations . LAURIE J. TRACY Washington , July 5 , 1976                     