@@730394

txt Argentina once had a long head start over the rest of South America on the road to becoming a modern industrial nation . These days , with confusion and considerable bitterness , the country is searching for the internal harmony and national will necessary to make a fresh start . While other South American countries organize efforts to overcome poverty and backwardness , there is a feeling among Argentines , generally the richest , best-fed and bestclodied people on the continent , that their country has lost its way . So political institutions , the economic efforts of a whole generation , even the way society works and why ? everything is under question . Hun-. dreds of politicians , authors , ideologue , workingmen and housewives assert they have the best single solution , and they all seem to be talking at once . " We need someone to take the hard economic decisions , now , today , and to make them work , " says Rogelio Frigerio , araeconomist and politician , p " We ought to take the peole who have been running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worker , tilting his yellow hard hat against a thin winter drizzle in Buenos Aires . ' We need to know what 's going to happen tomorrow , " says Luis Alberto Agostini , standing in his cool family winery in the vineyards around the provincial city of Mendoza , But there is no national agreement on what should happen tomorrow . As a result , Argentines are leaving their country ? at the average rate of almost 4,000 a month in the last decade ? and taking their capital with them or sending it ahead . A former president of the Central Bank estimated that $8-billion had left the country . in the last three years . Among the 24 million people who have t stayed , there is almost daily violence . Strikes and , demonstrations flare . Urban guerrillas strike their blows for socialist revolution with bombings , shootings and robberies . ' A police apparatus that is rarely out of sight fights back . World 's Worst Inflation " Torture , ' sir , has become a daily occurrence , a penal institution as common and ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " a lawyer recently wrote to the editor of the biweekly magazine Cleve , published in Mendoza . Since 1969 , the three largest cities outside of Buenos Aires have each erupted once in , serious street fighting , the people against troops and the police , over economic issues . Argentina this year has the highest inflation ' rate in the world ? 60 per cent in the last 12 months , The country has never completed the leap that began 40 years ' ago from a rich ranching land to a well-to-do industrial and farming nation ' . There have been good years and bad , elected governments , a strong populist leader and military dictators . But this year , under military - guidance , the nation is being forced to take stock of its economic stagnation and political uncertainty and to hammer out some new design , The process is obviously painful and the outcome is still uncertain . Politically and socially , Argentina split 17 years ago into two almost equal parts : the followers of Juan D. Perth , the former army officer who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until 1955 , and his enemies , led by --  the armed forces ' officer corps , which overthrew hint that year and forced him into exile . Negotiated Peace Sought The armed forces , which are eager to withdraw after six years of rule , hope for a negotiated peace between the two hostile groups . The negotiations are over political power and political forms , because the social divisions of Mr. Peren 's time in power largely disappeared after his years of social reform . " We are 24 million Argentines and we all dress like this , " said an economist , turning out the lapels of his wellcut suit . Although shantytowns ring the big cities , he appears almost entirely right , The elevator operator in a bank building wears a suit , tie and embroidered shirt on the job and factory workers drive their own cars to work . The nation 's accounts show , however , that Argentina has been living beyond her means , like a middle-class family keeping up appearances with a credit card . The country owes $4-billion to foreign banks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If exports continue at their present rate , there will not be nearly enough money to pay the debt after Argentines get through importing raw materials for industry and foreignmade gadgets and luxury goods . To avoid political trouble , the- military government has been trying to keep wages ahead of prices by printing money and pumping it into the economy . The result is what economists call " galloping inflation . " Some people talk of socialist revolution , Cuban style , as the way out . Others talk of complicated deals among civilian political parties , or of yet another military government with a frankly populist bent . And some talk of a plebiscite to decide just what form of goverment Argentines really want . However , the immediate future is tied closely to the outcome of a struggle of wills between two strongmen , who are enemies and rivals . Here in Buenos Aires there is Lieut . Gen. Alejandro A. Lanusse , President by appointment of the commanders of the three armed services , who has called a halt to six years of military rule and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy next March 25 . General Lanusse is trying to dictate terms for the military 's withdrawal from power , although that withdrawal is happening under intense popular pressure . He controls the army , navy , air force and the police . The Other Contender Across the Atlantic in Madrid there is Juan D. Pecan , the 76-year-old former dictator . He still commands the loyalty of the labor movement , probably the most powerful single force in Argentine civilian politics . and , his following has expanded in the last five years so that it now reaches from the nationalist right across to the student movement and the violent underground left , anxious for a socialist Argentina . The almost mystical memory of Mr. Peren 's leadership keeps these antagonistic forces to gather under his long-distance command . That unity gives to him , or to whatever candidate he indicates , about 60 per cent of the national vote , according to political scientists . President Lanusse 's idea , announced shortly after . he came to power last year , has been to commit the armed forces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic aims for Argentina . What the Military Wants The armed forces , remembering Mr. Peran 's last government ; want a pledge that freedom of the press and all political opinions will be respected . They , also want agreement that Argentina will not become as socialist country . Above alli , theyWant the police and intelligence ntelligence apparatus and its legal basis , a military decree , to survive untouched . The politicians , other than Mr. Peron and his followers , want the promised elections to be held and any new government to be supported , not overthrown , by the military . Mr. ** aims have not always been clear . He has been named the presidential candidate of his Justicialist party but he has kept his followers away from Government-sponsored meetings of all political parties called to agree on basic economic aims , on political freedoms and also on the survival , unchanged , of the military 's antisubversive police apparatus , including special courts for terrorists . A stalemate over the limits that the new government should observe , complicated by the wish of both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , both men , while abusing each other in statements across the Atlantic , agree on the need for economic reform and rebuilding to get Argentina moving again toward what they call her destiny of leadership in Latin America . Although President Lanusse has apparently given up an ambition to run for president next March , end some of Mr. , Peren 's ranking followers here say privately that their aging leader might not want to be President again himself , both men talk seriously of the nation 's loss of faith in itself and its leadership . That loss of faith is nowhere so apparent as in Buenos Aires , the cosmopolitan capital where 10 million people live in surroundings reminiscent sometimes of Paris and sometimes of London or Milan . Here , more than in other parts of the country , Argentines from political scientists to taxi drivers show a tendency to talk their country down with the detached , sometimes sardonic concern of friendly visitors . Immigration a Factor " There are no roots , " said a political scientist , " Ninety per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooted to the country . " Immigrants from Italy , Germany and the British Isles changed the face and the character of the country beginning in the last century , making Argentina the most European and eventually the most socially homogenous country in South America . In times of trial , Argentines tend to think of themselves as descendants of the rough , proud hero of their national epic poem , " The Gaucho Martin Fierro , " published by Jose Hernandez in 1872 , when the free-roaming gaucho was already almost gone : I 'm a gaucho and understand me , as I use my tongue to explain . For me , the world 's too small and could be twice as big again . The best-known of Argentina 's modern authors is Jorge Luis Borges , one of whose short stories is aptly titled " Labyrinth . " And Julio Cortezar , another internationally known Argentine writer , lives ' in Paris writing novels packed with dense , seemingly endless internal dialogue and anguished urban characters . " There 's no way out for the country , " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything . If four Argentines meet , you get five opinions and no decision . " The confused , defeated national mood is bewildering to South Americans visiting from other countries , where they can daily see the scars of hunger , disease and ignorance . Although prices have doubled in less than a year , visitors know that Argentines can still buy a quart of good wine for 40 cents and a one-pound steak for 95 cents . Argentina 's beef , wheat , wool and farming riches have helped her earn the highest annual per capita income in Latin . America , about $900 . The Story of Mendoza What has happened to Argentina in the last generation is perhaps best seen in a provincial city like Mendoza . Thirty years ago in Mendoza , the old-timers say , 23 families ran the city and the rich surrounding countryside , covered with vineyards irrigated by snow runoff from the Andes . The stores , filled with goods from Europe , served only those clients they wanted , and the daily tea dances , after the siesta , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now the Coign , for all its marble facing , is fading and slightly dingy . The young people , boys in Italian-cut blazers and girls in miniskirts , boots and sweaters , gather on another corner at the Cafe Bahia , a gleaming coffee bar with silent espresso machines reflecting the red and white plastic panels of the walls , During the two presidencies of Juan D. Perlin , the light inalustries that sprang up in the country under his prodding ate away at some of the vineyards around Mendoza .. Now there is an oil refinery and factories that make bottles and electrical appliances . The redistribution of income fostered by Mr , Perlin and pushed by his ambitious second wife , Evita Duarte , spread the money around . Mendoza is a rich city , whose . 300,000 inhabitants pride themselves on living and eating well . But the city is not content , perhaps because investment did not go deep enough and further growth is frustrated . " I was in jail lots of times under Perlin , " Leopoldo Suerez , a politician from Mendoza who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1966 , recalled the other , day . " But that 's a professional risk and I do n't hold it against him . What I do hold against him is that when the country had the money , after the war , he used it for showy , quick facaories making consumer goods land missed the chance to build a lasting industrial base . " Inflation Spurs Rioting Now the bite of inflation is lbeing felt in Mendoza , and last April a rate increase for electric power was enough to set off three days of rioting in the streets lined with poplars . It began when the police under army orders charged into 10 , - 000 demonstrators marching under the banner , " Do n't pay your light bill . " In the succeeding days of rioting and military occupation , four people were shot dead , the shiny stores of Avenida San Martin were looted and 136 cars and buses were burned . President Lanusse himself retracted the electricity rate inorease and today army officers and noncoms do not walk the streets of Mendoza in uniform . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political parties that had been banned since 1966 have come back into existence this year under rules laid down by the military and are maneuvering for next year 's elections , Some days they say they believe the military will hold elections . Some days they say they do n't . Back in Buenos Aires , the man in charge of putting together a national political agreement in time for presidential and congressional elections , has sometimes recently been expected to resign in frustration . He is a veteran politician named Arturo Mar Roig who was president of the Chamber of Deputies when it was closed by the military six years ago . He has returned to politics as President Lanusse 's Minister of the Interior . Does he believe that agreement on elections can be reached ? " I must believe it , " Mr. Mar Roig said in an interview . " Otherwise I would not be here . "                     