@@731452

txt An Israeli commission that investigated the killing of students at Maalot on May 15 said today that the Cabinet had not been able to debate the Arab guerillas ' precise demands because it did not get them . It suggested that Moshe Dayan , then Defense Minister , and Lieut . Gen. Mordechai Gur , the chief of staff , who were at the scene , had been responsible for this breakdown in commu- , tlicaticPur ? " ' The commission said the Cabinet . then headed hy premier Golda Meir , bad had only incomplete and inaccurate infor- , matiOn on which to act . As a ' result , the report said , the Government chose the " unrealistic option ' : of negotiating with the three guerrillas through much of the day and then found itself " left with only the military option . " The day ended with Israeli forces storming the school at Maalot , where the gunmen were . holding 65 Israeli hostages . ' Twenty were , killed or fatally wounded and dozens were wounded before the Arabs themselves were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were re ports that letters containing the precise guerrilla , demands had been carried out of the school , by two hostages who were ' freed , but that the texts themselves had never reached the Israeli Cabinet The ministers , were said to have received only the gist of the demands , and there appeared to be much confusion over what they were . Yitzhak Rabin , who succeeded Mrs. Meir as Premier , told Parliament today that he had asked Mr. Dayan and General Gur about the matter and that they had said they regarded the contents of the latter as identical to what the terrorists were saying through loud-speakers , The oral demands seemed more relevant , the two men told Mr. Rabin , The Premier said Mr. Dayan had said that he had not actually been shown a copy of the letter . The commission held that if the letter or its precise content had been before the Cabinet early that day , " the Government would have had a firsthand impression of the terrorists ' terms for the release of the pupils and should have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Letters Not Delivered Subordinates , had told both men that they had received photo copies of a letter in Hebrew addressed to the Israeli commanders in the area . English versions of the letter , addressed to the French " and Rumanian ambassadors and the representative of the International Red Cross , were also brought out of the school , and these apparently did not reach their addressees either. , The cabinet at the time Was reportedly perplexed by conflicting reports about where OR Arabs proposed to free the hostages . In exchanges through loudspeakers , the guerrillas reportedly-said they would take the students to Damascus and free them there . The Rumanian ambassador , who was to have been a go-between , reportedly conveyed a message indicating that some of the students would have to go abroad with , their captors . However , the commission said the letter set forth the Arab terms plainly . It said that the Arabs wanted a number of guerrillas serving prison sentences in Israel be flown to Damascus . Upon their arrival , according to the letter , their organization would give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Tel Aviv . Students Would Be Freed The diplomats in Israel would communicate the message to the guerrillas in Maalot . The guerrillas would . then allow themselves to be taken to a civilian airport with the students , ' the diplomats and the Red Cross representative . The students would be released Eft the airport , but the diplomats would accompany the guerrillas to Damascus . The letter , the commission found , made it clear that there could be no negotiations before the coded , message was received . The guerrillas reportedly threatened to shoot the French ambassador if he tried to approach them without , the password . Mr. Dayan had recommended in the morning that his forces raid the school and free the hostages . The Cabinet , meeting while the Defense Minister was in Maalot , decided to prepare for the possibility of military action , but also to negotiate with the guerrillas . The Cabinet wanted the simultaneous release of the imprisoned guerrillas and the Israeli hostages . Otherwise , it was felt , the gunmen in Maalot could hold the students for further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiate unrealistic end based on inaccurate information . The commission , quoting what it said were the minutes of the Cabinet meeting , said the ministers had regarded the 6 P.M. deadline set by the guerrillas as " abstract . ' No orders for assembling the prisoners to be freed or arranging transportation were discussed , the commission said . In early afternoon , it was regarded as impossible to meet the deadline because it would have taken at least five hours to round up the prisoners , bring them to the airport , fly them to Damascus , check their identities there and transmit the coded messages through the French Ambassador . The three-member commission , headed by Gen. Amos Horev , president of the TechMon  --  Israel Institute of Technology , was named on May 20 . The other members were Moshe Unna , a former Member of Parliament , and Irwin Shimron , a lawyer . Censored copies of the commission 's report were circulated in Parliament as a debate began . Participating in the debate as a member of Parliament , Mr. Dayan expressed regret that parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said the former Government had never decided to yield to the Arab demands . He said the Government had been prepared to exchange the students for 20 convicted Arabs and for the three gunmen at Maalot , but had not accepted the gunmen 's terms . " What they wanted , " he said , " was that we first send their prisoners to Damascus and then rely on their word of honor that the children would be free . "                     