@@732427

txt The opposition party 's most recent presidential candidate and 10 other critics of South Korea 's leadership have been arrested and charged with agitating to overthrow the Government of President Park Chung Flee . The formal charges against the 11 , led by Kim Dae Jung , who was the 1971 presidential candidate of the New Democratic Party , were made by the Government today . Nine other persons , among them former President Yun Po Sun , were listed as under Investigation and may he charged later , The charges followed the reading of an anti-Government statement at the Myongdong Roman Catholic Cathedral here on March 1 calling for the resignation of President Park and for the restoration of free expression , parliamentary democracy and an independent judiciary . " It is the Government 's interpretation , " an official spokesman said tonight , " that calling for the President 's resignation is the same as calling for the Government 's overthrow . " The next step in this case is the indictment of the accused , and officials said their trial was likely to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they face indefinite imprisonment . Since there is no bail in South Korea . they are expected to remain ; in jail through their trial . The official spokesman said the anti Government declara- , tion was a violation of the Constitution because it advocated a change of government ! other than through elections . He said also that because a , church had been used for a , political statement , those re- ; sponsible had violated the constitutional provision that separates church from politics . The charges were necessary , the spokesman added , because " the Government must maintain constitutional order to build democratic institutions . " With this case South Korea is beginning what is believed to be the first prosecution on charges of agitating to overthrow the Government since the adoption of the 1972 Constitution , which gives President Park virtually unlmited powers . First Report of Charges Today 's announcements were the first of charges against the accused since a round-up of dissidents began after the declaration was read in the cathedral March 1 . The New Democratic Party held a caucus to discuss the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of having " chosen to create a great controversy within and without the Nation . " " We urge the Government to restore cool reason at this important phase and to stop committing acts that will destroy the prestige of the nation . " The party 's leader , Kim Young Sam , predicted in an interview that the nation would eventually revolt unless the President agreed to revise the ; Constitution . " I do n't want revolution , " ; Mr. Kim said . " I want peaceful ! change . Under this Constitu- : tion , however , we can not ex pect a peaceful transition of power . " That 's why I think the Pres-. ident himself should take the initiative in revising the Consti-I tution . Otherwise we will have ! a revolution . " The anti-Government declaration , which had 12 signers , was read during a mass by Lee Woo Jung , a civil-rights leader . It charged that the Park Government was dictatorial and used national security as a pretext to curb freedom of religion and expression . It also accused the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it resign . A total of 28 persons have reportedly been arrested since the document was read . Three were released this morning without charges . They were the Rev. Yang Hon , a Roman Catholic priest , Mrs. Yun Po Sun , wife of the former president , and Mrs. Kim Dae ; Jung , whose husband was one of the declaration 's signers. 8 Days of Questioning Mr. Yun , whose presidency ; was ended after eight months ' by the 1961 coup d'etat by which Mr. Park came to power , ; said his wife stumbled into their house this morning exhausted , after eight days of questioning by the Korean Central Intelligence Agency . The 78-year-old Mr. Yun , who was questioned for seven hours at his home Monday , said that during his wife 's detention she had been under 24-hour surveillance . The interrogations seemed to center on who had written certain passages of the declaration and why . Mr. Yun said in a interview today that his questioners sought to draw him into a prolonged debate on virtually every assertion in the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife , who had refused food during her 46-hour detention , ate a snack while aides and bodyguards hovered about . " They wanted to know my involvement in the declaration , " she said wringing her , hands , " and if I knew the statement would be read aloud and if the group intended to overthrow the Government . I replied , ' no. ' "                     