@@729127

txt There was n't much Christmas spirit left among the passengers on the Illinois Central 's Panama Limited when it limped into 12th Street Station at 6:45 last night  --  about nine hours overdue . " Sometimes there was kind of a lynch mob mood , but there was no one to lynch , " said Daniel Grassman , 23 , a teacher who like many of the passengers had boarded the train 27 hours earlier in New Orleans . There were times when Grassman and his fellow travelers must have believed they would not make it to Chicago in time for New Year 's Eve , let alone Christmas . Hits Tractor Truck Shortly after leaving New Orleans , the Panama struck a tractor-trailer which was stuck on the trade at Arcola , La . It took workmen 90 minutes to cut off the front end of the heavily damaged locomotive . A freight engine was commandeered and pulled the train into McComb , Miss. , where another diesel locomotive was added . Near Brookhaven , Miss. , the engine 's steam heat generator broke down and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panama crawled into Grenada , Miss. , where it took on water . By now It was running three hours behind . Shortly after leaving Grenada , the generators broke down again . The Panama was 7 hours and 40 minutes late when workmen in Memphis finished repairs . Pulling out of town , the train hit a garbage truck , causing a 30-minute delay . Kentucky Is Uneventful Passengers brightened when the Panama slipped thru Kentucky without incident . Grassman said it was the high point of the trip . But approaching the small town of Moine , Ill. , the train developed trouble in its airpressure system , and the brakes were automatically applied , bringing it to a 45-minute halt in the middle of nowhere . In Carbondale , another diesel was added to increase the battered engine 's pulling . power . The Panama then was delayed only by a freight train blocking the crossing near Odin , " Today of all days , we had hoped to get our passengers to their destination on time , " said an I. C. spokesman , adding that delays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tho given free meals aboard and profuse apologies , the passengers who ended , their journey at 12th Street were not so philosophic about the situation . Some of their comments were decidedly not in the Yuletide spirit .                     