@@730330

txt A7TICA  --  A " state of emergency , " the wife copy said . In the plane , in the rented car , the words echoed in a reporter 's mind . A " state of emergency " at the Attica Correctional Facility just 10 months since the revolt that had been broken at a cost of 43 lives .. Images of lest September : Prisoners , mostly black , in white turbans converting a captured exercise yard into their private turf . Guards , bound and blindfolded , hostages . Outside , armed and ready , sheriff 's deputies , New York State troopers , National Guardsmen . The crackling of walkie-talkies snapping out descriptions of assaults and forays  --  and of the dead . And now , once again one stands before the gray concrete walls . Those walls are just as forbidding , The guard towers are occupied . The off-duty guards still talk about their " nigger sticks " and about how the next time if hostages ' are taken " there wo n't be any telephone calls to Albany . We 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Inside the walls , there is the " state of emergency . " But this time , the inmates , are not yelling or rioting or threatening or rebelling . They 've just refused to leave their cells to eat or work . They sit , adamant . The 1,200 prisoners  --  half the number here a year ago  --  are pressing for what they consider basic reforms . During the revolt last September , they presented Authorities with a list of 28 demands  --  including such things as an end to physical brutality , psychological harassment and bad food ; the setting up of grievance procedures and an ombudsman program ; better recreational facilities and rehabilitation programs . They won promises that most of those demands would be met . But , the prisoners say , , the promises have remained only promises , and they feel that authorities have little intention of ever fulfilling them . After the revolt , the prisOners.elected an Inmate Liaison Committee which they Tegarded as a negotiating body .. Bat , the .. Attica Defense Committee lawyers say , - the new superintendent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February ? seems to regard the committee as ? a " glorified complaint box . " The priSoners also charge that the state Correctional Services Commissioner , Russell ' G. Oswald , refuses to regard their drafted constitution with seriousness. ? And they are upset because a nurse whom they liked , Mary Kingsley , was fired by prison authorities . Thus , last Monday , because Mary Kingsley was fired ; because most of the prisoners were wearing clothing that they were issued before last year 's rebellion ; because they said their diets had not improved , 900 inmates sat down in their cells . By ' Wednesday evening , it was over . The state said that there had been a budgetary lapse and a clerical error , that it would rehire Mary Kingsley ; that those new uniforms were being marked and would soon be distributed ; that reforms were just around the Omer . The committee said it would go back to prison routine , and at supper that night most of the inmates sat down to eat . Nobody . really thinks it 's over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scene of protest  --  violent or non-violent . Said Ronald Wert , a guard And head of the local Corrections Officers Union : " Let 's face it . Who cares about prison ? You ca n't help but get the feeling that even the state Is trying to side-step us . We 've become a touchy problem and no one wants to dirty his pretty hands . " Children in Attica now play in swimming pools where troopers bivouacked . The streets are quiet , the traffic in the shops is desultory . Inside the prison , many a guard still regards the inmates as members of a lower order to be caged . The inmates regard the guards as oppressors . Change comes slowly in Attica. - FRED FERRETTI                     