@@734391

txt Ronald Reagan remains the clear favorite for president among GOP voters , but Republican leaders , both in Washington and around the United States , are raising a serious question : Could Mr. Reagan beat Sen. Edward M. Kennedy ? Responding to a Monitor questionnaire , Republican and Democratic congressmen say they have found exceedingly heavy Republican support for Mr. Reagan in their districts . At the same time , Monitor checks with GOP leaders indicate a growing feeling that while Mr. Reagan might do very well against President Carter , he may be the wrong candidate to take on the Massachusetts Senator . These leaders now anticipate that a Kennedy candidacy ? even if it falls short of winning the nomination ? will raise the Reagan age question , a question they think could be very damaging to the former California governor . " No doubt about it , " says one GOP leader , " Kennedy looks particularly young and vital . He might pick up all the youth vote if he runs against Reagan ? and he might win a lot of votes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively youthful Kennedy be president rather than take their chances that Reagan might be slowing down . " These leaders in increasing numbers are saying that the best possible GOP opponent against Senator Kennedy would be a younger person who also presents an image of experience and who is " clean " ethically . The name that comes up most often among these leaders as most closely matching these criteria is former Texas congressman George Bush . Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr . of Tennessee also is mentioned . Yet congressmen recently back from talking to their constituents found very little voter support for either Mr. Bush or Mr. Baker . Former Texas Gov . John B. Connally , although well back , ran second in popularity to Mr. Reagan among the questionnaire replies . // From page 1 Reagan retains lead , but GOP voters uneasy Statistically , the Monitor questionnaire drew this response : Eighty-four Republican congressmen answered the questionnaire . Forty said Mr. Reagan was the candidate Republicans in their district favored for president . Fifteen said they found that Mr. Connally was the favorite . Five said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There also was a scattering of one or two votes for Sen. Robert Dole of Kansas , Reps . Philip M. Crane and John B. Anderson of Illinois , and a number of " undecideds . " Ninety Democrats answered the questionnaire . Twenty-nine said Mr. Reagan was the choice for president among the Republicans in their district ; 18 said Mr. Connally , 6 said Mr. Ford ; 5 said Mr. Baker , 2 said Mr. Bush , 1 said Mr. Anderson , and the remainder were " undecided " about what GOP candidate was out in front . Many GOP leaders are saying that a " centrist " candidate would do better than a con- servative candidate against the clearly liberal Senator Kennedy . The thesis being expressed is that really almost any of the potential Republican candidates could beat the vulnerable Mr. Carter regardless of their political philosophy - whether right-wing or moderate . But now , so the emerging argument goes . it will be necessary that a " centrist " candidate ? like Mr. Bush or Mr. Baker ? be pitted against Mr. Kennedy in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The right-wingers will support a moderate centrist this time , " one leader says . " For one thing , even a centrist Republican will have a relatively conservative approach to issues . Even John Anderson , our most liberal candidate , is really quite conservative on fiscal matters . " But also , conservative Republicans will come out in droves for a centrist candidate if - it means that it 's the only way to defeat Teddy Kennedy . "                     