@@733536

txt Jimmy Carter needs a victory . A virtual consensus has developed among foreign policy experts in Washington that President Carter 's authority , both at home and abroad , is being undercut by the lack of some visible accomplishments in foreign affairs . This has become the conventional wisdom among much of the press in Washington . But it is shared to a surprising extent by administration experts as well . Officials talk freely about Mr. Carter 's " image problem , " and some seem eager to use it to bolster their arguments in favor of ratification of the Panama Canal treaties . Mr. Carter must win the treaty votes , they say , or his credibility will be permanently damaged both here and abroad . " The impression has begun to sink in that we ca n't get our act together , " said one well-placed administration expert on foreign affairs . " We need a victory . " The impression is reinforced by fears that President Carter could lose the first major vote on the Panama Canal treaties . that he is powerless to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the SALT ( strategic arms ) negotiations with the Soviets are snarled , and that he can not " deliver " Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin 's acquiescence in what the U.S. would consider to be a reasonable Middle East peace settlement . Then there is the impact of the President 's record on economic issues . Diplomats report that Mr. Carter 's failure to produce an energy bill , as well as the weakening of the U.S. dollar , have contributed to a decline in the President 's credibility overseas . From page 1 Even his aides say Carter needs a win ' What some administration officials consider to be most at stake in all this is something which Richard E. Neustadt pointed to in his classic work on American presidential power . It is " the power to persuade . " If the President is seen as a " loser , " that power is greatly diminished , and congressmen as well as foreign leaders will be less and less reluctant to oppose him . If he is seen as a " winner , " his " power to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to put all this in perspective by arguing that no president would have an easy time handling any of the problems with which the President is grappling  --  and never has Mr. Carter faced such a succession of problems as he does now . The officials further stress that much of what has happened recently , in the Middle East and on the Horn of Africa , for instance , is beyond America 's control . And never before , they say , has the Congress been more assertive in foreign affairs . " You 've got more than 400 secretaries of state over there on Capitol Hill , " complained a high-ranking State Department official . Administration analysts do not expect President Carter to gain greatly in authority and prestige if he wins the crucial Panama Canal treaty vote , which is scheduled for March 16 . It is. after all , a treaty which was negotiated to a great extent by Mr. Carter 's predecessors . But , they say , if his loses the vote , the impact could be disastrous . " If he loses , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House for the rest of his term , because he wo n't be back for another one , " said one State Department analyst who keeps an eye on public opinion . Another problem for President Carter is that this is not only a post-Watergate and post-Vietnam era . It is also a post-Kissinger era . Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger provided the U.S. with a sense of tremendous control over foreign affairs . The Carter administration operates under a " collegial system " of foreign policymaking , with no single spokesman to defend the administration 's performance . " In a collegial system what you do n't have is Henry out there dazzling folks , " said a high-ranking State Department official . What the administration has had out there ? in broad daylight ? in recent weeks has been : ( 1 ) a national security adviser went further than President Carter would have liked in warning the Soviets that their actions on the Horn of Africa could affect the SALT talks ; ( 2 ) Andrew Young , U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations , made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was almost immediately withdrawn ; ( 3 ) with much publicity , the President 's liaison man for Jewish groups resigned . At a recent press conference , President Carter managed adroitly to back away from the warning which had been delivered by National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski linking SALT and the African Horn . And Ambassador Young generally is credited with having done a good job , in an NBC television interview , of explaining what he meant about British attitudes toward Rhodesia . But many people were left , nonetheless , with an impression of disarray .                     