@@732813

txt The congregation of President-elect Carter 's home-town church voted Sunday to open its doors to all worshippers and struck down an 11-year ban against Negroes and civil-rights agitators . " I was proud of my church , God 's church , " said Carter as he and Mrs. Carter emerged from the three-hour closed meeting in the Plains Baptist Church . Besides voting 120 to 68 to strike down the racial ban , the Baptist congregation also voted to keep its pastor , the Rev. Bruce Edwards , an opponent of the race ban , and to establish a " a watch care committee " to screen new members . Both Carter and his cousin , state Sen. Hugh Carter , clerk of the church , insisted that the new committee not be used as a barrier to black membership . " THE UNDERSTANDING Is that it will not be based on race , " said the President - elect in describing the criteria for membership that the new committee will employ . Carter said the unit will interview prospective members to determine the sincerity of the requests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will make the final decision . Clennon King , a self-styled pastor from nearby Albany , Ga. , who triggered the controversy by trying to worship in the Plains Baptist Church two weeks ago ? the Sunday before the presidential election  --  said ? he is satisfied with the church vote and will return later to apply for membership . Last Sunday , King also unsuccessfully tried to attend services at the church . king waited along with several hundred persons , including two sheet-clad. members of the Ku Klux Klan , in the rain for more than three hours for the result of the meeting . The Associated Press reported that one of the KKK members in the crowd was Bill Wilkinson , the Imperial Wizard of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan . He said he had been invited by members of the congregation ? he would not name them ? and that five deacons welcomed his presence . Deacons who were asked about this said they had no idea Wilkinson was in the crowd , the Al ' reported . HUGH CARTER stood on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote to ignore the church deacons ' call for the Rev. Mr. Edwards ' resignation ? after h ( .1 supported King 's efforts two weeks ago ? was 107 to 84 . Edwards said he will remain as pastor " for the ? time being . " The vote to establish the watch care committee of three deacons and the pastor was unanimous , according to Hugh Carter . All votes were by secret ballot , he said , except the voice vote on establishing the committee . Before Sunday Carter had explained that members were accepted into the church by the congregation after the prospective members walked down the aisle and stood at the altar . Insisting that the more complicated method was not aimed at discouraging black members , or screening them , Carter said other Baptist churches have had such committees for years . The President-elect flashed his famous smile as he walked out into the rainy weather after the session . " We have opened our doors to any person who wants to worship Jesus Christ , " he said . IIE SAID HE spoke In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ robed on Carter said Sunday 's actions reversed the resolution adopted In 11365 that had banned " Negroes and civil-rights agitators . " Carter said that although he had opposed the closing of the church to blacks , he could only persuade five others at that time to join him ? four of them members of his own family . " The pastor is pleased , and the church congregation has spoken very clearly , " said Carter . The President-elect telephoned a number of church members during the last few days urging them to support his stand to open the church , his aides said . Asked Sunday if he had much influence on the vote , Carter smiled broadly and said , " I was just one of the members , and they all know it . " United Press International , however , quoted Hugh Carter 's wife , Ruth , as saying the President-elect had a " calming and soothing effect " on the congregation . " Jimmy was more the peacemaker , " she said . Carter also was reported to have raid he realized that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the church played into his hands by keeping him out . But he said he still felt the church should open its doors to everyone . In the past , visiting blacks were generally allowed to enter the church to worship but were banned from membership . Since the King incident , however , blacks were banned from worship , and there was some concern among Carter 's security force about how the congregation would react to Robert Coates , a black Secret Service agent who was shift leader on Carter 's daytime protection detail . Church leaders were warned that Coates would be accompanying Carter , but made no efforts to liar him from the church . The black agent sat next to the President-elect in the church sanctuary as the congregation debated whether to admit Negroes . TWO BLACKS , Roger Sessoms Jr. , 29 , a city employe from Selma , Ng. , and Secret Service agent Charles Maddox attended services at the church unday night . Sessoms entered the service 25 minutes late and walked to the front of the church , where he sat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter greeted Sessoms after the serv . Ice . " Thank you for coming . I 'm glad you came tonight , " Carter said . Sessoms said he had been traveling through Georgia and had been outside the church earlier in the day . " I think they did a beautiful thing . " he said of the congregation . Of King , he said , " I think he 's a dingbat . " IN HIS SERMON Sunday night , Edwards called on the church to " pull together " and to give " love and support " to the deacons who had asked him to resign . " Our deacons acted in good faith , " he said . They were doing what they believed God wanted them to do . " There was no explanation of why the decision took so long , but everyone questioned about the meeting insisted there was no bitterness in making it . Late Sunday , the Rev. Mr. King was jubilant , saying , " The sun is shining in the South again . " In Nashville , Southern Baptist leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ban against blacks , but several said they considered the issue political rather than racial . " Tim image conveyed was that this is racist church , and I just do n't think that 's true , " said Dr. A. R. Fagan , executive director of the stewardship commission of the Southern Baptist Convention . - rifts MAN who wanted to be admitted lthe Rev. Mr , Magi is from another city and he 's pastor of a congregation of another faith . Why would he even consider this ? " In Washington , black Rep. Andrew Young ID. , Ga. , one of Carter 's closest political ' allies , accused members of Carter 's family of being racists . He said in a television interview that racal ord. utice among members of the Carter family and among the congregation in his church posed a " very deep personal " problem , which Carter will have to come to grips with soon .                     