@@732706

txt Congressional supporters of Israel , over strong White House protest , seem likely to write into law stiff penalties against United States firms conforming to the Arab boycott of Israel . So damaging does the White , Mouse consider the legislation  --  " Jeopardizing our efforts at peace in the Middle East , " said a senior offi cial ? that President Ford almost certainly would veto the Measure , if it stood alone . i But the legislation , sponsored by Sen. Abraham Ribicoff ( D ) of Connecticut , is embedded in the vast tax-reform bill , which the President is expected to sign . President Ford and congressional leaders agree on the need to protect American Jewish citizens , or U.S. firms controlled by Jews , from discrimination in American-Arabian business deals . Mr. Ford has issued directives forbidding federal agencies from conforming to Arab boycott terms that might exclude American Jews from sharing in a contract . But the Ribicoff proposal goes further . It would strip an American firm of three major tax advantages if the company agreed , among other things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says Assistant U.S. Treasury Secretary Gerald L. Parsky , " is an effort to use the U.S. tax code to achieve a foreign policy objective . " // From page 1 *Boycott of Israel a campaign issue ? " Clearly . " said another senior administration official , " the intent of the Ribicoff amendment is to be disruptive of U.S.-Arab relations . " Mr. . Parsky , after a top-level White House conference , was chosen by President Ford to urge Congress to delete the Ribicoff amendment from the tax-reform bill . He failed and , for his efforts , was publicly called " a flack for the Arabs " by Senator Ribicoff . " This , " said the Senator , " is a campaign issue and I 'm making it a campaign issue . " Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Carter , in a Sept. 8 speech before B'nai B'rith in Washington , said he specifically approves legislation ? i.e. , the Ribicoff proposal ? denying some tax benefits to U.S. firms submitting to the boycott . If elected , said Mr. Carter , he would " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourage compliance with the Arab boycott of Israel . Another piece of pending antiboycott legislation , sponsored by Senators Adlai E. Stevenson III ( D ) of Illinois and Harrison A. Williams ( D ) . of . New Jersey , ? would outlaw discrimination against American Jews , but would not penalize an ? American ; firm for refusing ? at Arab request ? to do business with Israel . The Stevenson-Williams bill , said an aide to Senator Stevenson , " Tries to carve out the uniquely domestic effects of the boycott , " but stops short of intruding on foreign policy . Language of the Ribicoff proposal was broadened in Senate-House conference on the tax-reform bill to delete the names Israel and Arab and apply to all international boycotts . But , said an aide to Senator Ribicoff , the target clearly remains the Arab boycott of Israel . The whole boycott issue is delicate , for the U.S. itself engages in economic boycotts against five nations ? North Vietnam , North Korea , Cuba , Albania , and partially against Rhodesia . Tax benefits which an offending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign tax credit , the right to defer taxes on unrepatriated foreign profits , and the right to defer taxes indefinitely on half of export profits . These benefits would be denied only on transactions involving compliance with the Arab boycott , not on all overseas business conducted by the offending firm . ? The Ribicoff proposal , " said Mr. Parsky , " will not bring an end to the boycott , complicates the tax code , uses tax policy , in ways other than to raise revenue , and jeopardizes our peace efforts in the Middle East . "                     