@@729984

txt ' Senator Walter P. Mondale , saying that a two-year inquiry ' by a select Senate committee had pointed up the need fort continuing school desegrega-1 tion , made an impassioned plea to the Senate today to avoid " standing in the schoolhouse door " on the emotional issue of busing . The Minnesota Democrat said that as a result of the two-year study by the Select Committee on Equal Education Opportunity , which he heads , " I am left with a deep conviction  --  that American education is failing children who are born black , brown or simply poor . " Further , he said , the inquiry convinced him that integrated education is essential to ending the Inequity . " The country is at a crossroads , " Mr. Mondale said . " School desegregation in the South is largely completed . But we from the North are now beginning to feel the pressure , which our colleagues from the Excerpts from the Mondale speech are on Page 20 . South felt for so many years , to abandon the course set by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued , " we will deal a blow to public education , in the North and in the South , from which it may never recover . " Mr. Mondale summarized in a Senate speech the findings of the select committee , appointed in 1970 to make a thorough study of the school desegregation controversy . The committee has ended hearings and is preparing a final report . The Senator 's speech sought to set the stage for a defense against a flood of antibusing legislation that is scheduled for Senate action within a few days . " Busing is the means  --  and at times the only means ? by ' which segregation in public education can be reduced , " Mr. Mondale saki . " If we bar the use of reasonable transportation as one tool for achieving desegregation , we will set in concrete much school segregation which is the clear and direct product of intentional government policy . " Two years ago , so open an advocacy for integration from a Northern liberal would not have been unusual ; today , such talk is scarce . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from President Nixon on down denounced forced busing to achieve racial balance . Senator Mondale agreed that court orders requiring extensive busing to achieve integration " have at times been arbitrary " and that some Federal administrators " have been overbearing and rigid . " Busing Where Necessary " Like the President , I do not support ' unnecessary transpor ? tation to achieve an arbitrary , racial balance , ' " Mr. Mondale said . " None of the hundreds of educators with whom I have talked in the past two years supports this kind of effort . And the Supreme Court has made it crystal clear that busing will be required only where it is reasonable and does not place undue burdens on school children . " " Nor do I believe that educationally advantagetd students should be bused to schools where they will be overwhelmed by a majority of students from the poorest and most disadvantaged backgrounds , " he said . " All the evidence we have collected indicate that this kind of ' desegregation ' helps no one at all . " He said that contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busing or engaged in indiscriminate balancing . Recent government studies , he said , show that aggregate bus-1 ing has not increased as a result of desegregation . " And in the South 's 25 larg , est school districsts this year , 33 per cent of the total black enrollment attend virtually all black schools , " he said . " This hardly indicates over-zealous ' racial balancing . ' " Mr. Mondale said that Congress had the following choice to make : " We can assume our share of the burden . We can begin to ask the right question  --  not UnlOod Preis Inlornallon ? I Senator Walter F. Mondale whether we should resist school desegregation , but how we can best work to assure that school integration is conducted in a sensible , educationally beneficial manner . What Is ' Morally Right ' " Or we can stand in the schoolhouse door . We can resist the rulings of the Supreme Court and the advice of educators . We can abandon all the efforts of the past 17 years to eliminate discrimination and end racism ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution requires and what each of us knows to be morally right . " Mr. Mondale indicated that the Senate may be on the verge of standing in the schoolhouse door next week when it votes on amendments to a House-passed higher education bill . He said that antibusing amendments voted by the House " represent the Federal abandonment of every desegregating school district in the country in mid-career . " Southern Senators , led by Sam J. Ervin Jr. , Democrat of North Carolina , introduced an additional amendment today that would prohibit any school ' system from tranporting stutients to achieve racial integration and make it unlawful to deny admission to students to schools nearest their homes . A number of Senators are sponsoring antibusing amendments to the Constitution . In the House , the Judiciary Committee announced that it would begin hearings Feb. 28 , rather , than March 1 as previously announced , on some 50 constitu tional amendments pending in that body . The Mondale Committee on Educational Opportunity has compiled 19 volumes of testimony and studies . It has not yet decided what recommendation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the study that the nation should remain committed to integrated education                     