@@729266

txt While President Thieu warns of a possible invasion of North Vietnam , attention here is still riveted firmly on southern Laos , where the fighting has resulted in the worst week of casualties for Saigon 's Army since the 1968 Tet offensive . The Thieu statement threatening Hanoi probably created more interest abroad than it did in South Vietnam itself . In Saigon , Mr. Thieu 's warnings are seen as part of a war of nerves and a bluffing game with Hanoi . Mr. Thieu may have hoped , through his warnings , to divert attention away from the losses being taken in Laos and to bolster morale on the home front . But usually complacent Saigonese , now waking up to the ferocity of the fighting going on in Laos , are much more preoccupied with the outcome of that confrontation than they are with statements about North Vietnam . The Saigon command expects the heavy fighting in Laos to continue , and many officers seem to feel the next few weeks could be " decisive " ones in terms of the final outcome of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battles , the South Vietnamese have begun moving marines into southern Laos for the first time . And the North Vietnamese , for the first time , are moving heavy Soviet-built T-54 tanks into the battle area to back up their infantrymen . American air strikes , military sources say , have knocked out about 40 of the much lighter PT76 tanks which the North Vietnamese have been using to date . The Saigon command acknowledged the loss of 898 men killed last week , most of the fatalities attributed to the fighting in Laos and Cambodia . But the South Vietnamese command still seems firmly convinced that its own losses are " bearable " in view of the much heavier losses being taken by the North Vietnamese . In the course of a trip to the provinces Wednesday , President Thieu warned the North Vietnamese not to " put us in a situation which forces us to attack them right in their own territory . " " If the Communist North Vietnamese want to avoid that course of action , then they had better stop being stubborn , they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their troops back to the North , " Mr. Thieu said . Attack capability touted " The North Vietnamese , " he said , " should realize that we have the capability to attack them anywhere . " What the South Vietnamese President neglected to say is that any invasion of North Vietnam , perhaps to an even greater extent than the current invasion of southern Laos , would require heavy American air and logistical support . Thus , the final say on an invasion of North Vietnam lies with President Nixon rather than with President Thieu , just as it did with the Laos invasion , which was given the go-ahead once President Nixon decided he was willing to commit the necessary air and logistical power . As part of an understandable effort to keep Hanoi guessing , Mr. Nixon is not going to rule out an invasion of North Vietnam . He sidestepped a question on the subject at a press conference on Feb. 17 . But there is no indication among American officials here that any serious thought is being given to such an invasion at this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation near KomPorla Rasing Cambodian villager makes way for Saigon 's armor *DMZ drive by Thieu doubted at this time // Therefore , Mr. Thieu 's statement is also viewed as part of the effort to keep Hanoi guessing and , if possible , tying down its reserve troops in defensive positions north of the demilitarized zone and away from the South Vietnamese forces fighting in 1.4106 . An estimated three North Vietnamese divisions are stationed just above the DMZ , and both Washington and Saigon would like to keep them there . The current almost daily " protective reaction " strikes by U.S. fighter-bomberg against North Vietnam must be viewed in the same context . " We are advising the North that we are going to be unpredictable  --  that they ca n't anticipate what we 're going to do , " said a U.S. source in answer to a question about the air strikes . Some observers think President Thieu 's statement may be the signal for greatly stepped-up U.S. air strikes in the extremity of North Vietnam , but so far this thinking does not go beyond speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on North Vietnam would be virtually impossible before the end of the current Laos campaign . This is because the Saigon command has already committed most of its crack strategic reserve  --  including paratroops and now a good number of marines  --  to the Laos operation . In addition to the estimated 18,000 troops now in Laos , Saigon has more than 20,000 troops in Cambodia , where the fighting has intensified in the past month . For the moment , the South Vietnamese have got their hands full in Laos , and so has the U.S. Air Force .                     