@@729460

txt Led by Mayor Daley 's regu- . Jars , Democrats in the Senate tonight defeated the bill which would have removed the Chicago City Council 's control over all public housing sites . Sponsored by Sen. Richard Newhouse Chicago , an independent black Democrat , the measure would have removed all . obstacles to immediate implementation of the Chicago Housing Authority 's court-ordered plan to build public housing in white neighborhoods thruout the city . Because of its racial connotations , the plan was a major issue in Daley 's victory over Republican Richard Friedman last April . Most of the Senate Republicans supported the Newhouse measure on the grounds that the Dale y-dominated City Council was ruining Chicago with its housing policies and that Chicago was the only city in the state which was allowed to have City Council control over site selection . Because the Senate is divided evenly between the two parties , Republicans have been seeking Newhouse 's cooperation as a swing vote on important bills . Nine Votes Short The vote on his measure tonight was 21 for the bill and 26 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans backed the Newhouse bill ; three G. 0 . P. members defected to the Democrats . When Newhouse 's turn to vote came , he asked and received permission to make another attempt at some future date . Because of the overwhelming vote against him , however , his bill was considered dead for the rest of the session . In almost three hours of debate on the measure , Newhouse complained that the Democrats were supposed to be the party of liberalism , but each of the Democratic senators , Including three blacks , were supporting the backlash side of the issue . Source of Problems He charged that nearly every vestige of crime , poverty and racial friction in Chicago was directly attributable to the City Council 's handling of public housing since the special law was enacted in 1047 . The most destructive policy was that of crowding thousands of tho poor into high density high rise projects such as Cabrini Green , all of which was done out of political considerations , ho said . " As a consequence of this history , little children are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deplorable conditions in slum neighborhoods . " Chicago now has one of the highest infant mortality rates in the Western World . " Blast on Segregation Republicans backing Newhouse said that the Democrats had made Chicago the most segregated major city in the country . More than a dozen Democrats rose to defend their position , with Majority Leader Cecil Partee ID. , Chicago , also black , saying that Newhouse 's bill was unnecessary because Daley will be announcing several hundred new CHA housing sites this week . Ho said that , tho conditions in high rise projects may be bad , they were built with good intentions . ' " They are not a pleasurable sight , but they are more pleasurable than the sight of huts and hovels in which people used to live , " he said .                     