@@732185

txt Maurice H. Nadjari , the special state prosecutor , asserted yesterday that some judges had made " outright payment " as well as contributions to political parties to obtain nomination to the Queens judiciary . The assertion was made in court papers filed yesterday in the Appellate Division , Second Department of State Supreme Court to support a subpoena seeking the financial records of the Queens Republican County Committee . No judges ' names appeared in the document . The Queens Republican party has gone to court to oppose the subpoena , and a five-man court must now decide the issue . In a four-page affidavit , Mr. Nadjari outlined the following charges of political influence and payoffs : ( IA special state grand jury in Queens , he said , had received allegations from informants that " contributions to political parties have been exacted from nominees and candidates as the price for their selection . " ( IA special grand jury has received direct evidence of " outright payment for nomination to judicial office , as well as contributions to obtain such office . " IlThe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiracy " by some public of , party . were " voluminous " and could Ificials in Queens to allow only those persons who make payoffs to achieve office in the " criminal-justice system . " The criminal-justice system includes the judiciary , the Police Department and the Queens District Attorney 's office . ilThe grand jury has been unable to obtain party financial statements that were supposed to be filed with the New York City Board of Elections and the New York State Board of Elections because the Queens Republican County Committee has apparently violated the Election Law and failed to file its financial statements . Earlier Statement The affidavit said Mr. Nadjari 's office had been investigating " corruption in the selection of judges and other public servants " in the city " for a substantial period of time . " Mr. Nadjari said in an interview 13 months ago that he had been trying to pin down allegations that the political parties relied on judicial " revenue " to finance activities on the district level .. For more than a year , Mr. Nadjarhs office has investigated allegations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgeships through either direct political payments or through Often , members from both ( political parties meet to select ( the judicial nominees they will ( place before the Judicial Convention . The convention delegates then usually accept the names for Civil or Supreme Court benches presented to them . However , this year in Queens , the candidates for Civil and Supreme Court judgeships are running on separate slates . A spokesman for Mr. Nadjari would not say yesterday whether Mr. Nadjari 's investigation into judicial corruption extended to all the city 's five counties . But it appeared that the document filed in court yesterday was the first action taken by a special grand jury here to determine the source of a political committee 's funds and how those funds were expended . " Each and every item requested in the subpoena is thus relevant to the investigation by the grand jury , " the affidavit says . George Washington Herz , counsel to the committee , disagrees . He argued in motion papers to quash the subpoena on the ground that it was " unreasonably broad , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In addition . Mr. Herz wrote not be transported without disrupting the work of the committee ; " particularly in this month preceding elections . " Mr. Nadjari said in the affidavit that he would be willing to amend the subpoena to exclude 1975 , but added that the committee " can not plausibly complain about the production of records for the years 1972 through 1974 on the ' grounds of disruption . of the election this November . " According . to Court records , the items requested by Mr. Nadjari , from the executive committee of the organization as well as from the committee itself , include : Alt bank statements , check books , payroll accounts , dinner accounts , general ledgers , vouchers , records of contributions , including card files , copies of audits and disbursements from petty cash or miscellaneous funds . Efforts were not immediately successful to obtain comment from Melvin Klein , the current county Republican chairman .                     