@@729570

txt Anatoli Fedoseyev , the Russian scientist who was given asylum in Britain last month , was responsible for developing the device which enabled the Russians to shoot down the American 11-2 spy plane in May , 1960 : This has emerged from conversations I have had with Fedoseyev in the last two weeks . The U-2 , flown by the American pilot Francis Gary Powers , was shot down at a height of 68,000 feet during a reconnaissance mission over Russia . At the time the Americans were surprised to find that the Russians had missiles capable of hitting a target at such a height . Led to Heated Exchange Marshal Andrei Grechko , now Soviet defense minister , boasted at the time that the spy plane had been brought down by the first shot fired by a " wonderful rocket " . He said Premier Nildta Khrusehev had himself given the order for the rocket to be fired . The incident led to heated exchanges between the Russians and Americans and the breakdown of the summit conference between Russia and the Western powers due to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960 , and sentenced to 10 years ' dentention but was exchanged in 1962 for Col. Rudolf Abel , the Soviet agent in America . It was Fedoseyev 's research in the field of electronics and radar which enabled the Russians to develop a guided missile capable of hitting a target at a height of 13 miles . The missile guidance system was designed by men who had worked under him at his , institute . Won Lenin Prize It was , significantly , in 1960 that Fedoseyev was awarded the Lenin Prize , tho the award was kept secret . He received it primarily , he says , for devising ways of defeating the " jamming " devices on the 11-2 plane . " I do n't want to give the impression that I am the man who actually shot the plane down . Many other people wore involved in it , of course , " Fedoseyev said . But he agreed that without the electronic devices he developed it would have been impossible to - bring the 11-2 down . The Americans believed their planes wore well beyond the reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now like to do Anatoli Fedoseyev Marshal Andrei Greehko further work on finding ways of defeating the jamming Of broadcasts from the West ' to the Communist world . He is convinced that it is possible to get thru the wall of jammers on which the Communist governments spend enormous sums of money . " It would of course cost a good deal of money , and I am not sure that Western governments are ready to devote resources to this purpose . But they should , because . it will . in the , long run , have more effect if we can get honest information thru the Iron Curtain than if ? we spend money on missiles , " Fedoseyev said . Ho is hoping soon to take up a university appointment in Britain . He defected whom , he arrived in Paris from Russia to attendthe Paris Air Show .                     