@@733235

txt The meeting in London this coming weekend of the C.S. , British , and South African foreign ministers is a chess game in which the stakes are very high : whether or not a brake can be applied to the gathering momentum toward race war in southern Africa . Of immediate concern to U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and British Foreign Secretary David Owen , who will be meeting South African Foreign Minister Roelof F. Botha , is the effort to . move both Rhodesia and Namibia ( South-West Africa ) to internationally recogniKed independence under black majority rule . But it is increasingly clear it will be difficult to divorce what happens in these two territories from the tensions and uncertainties in South Africa itself . Ilenry Kissinger , during his last year as U.S. secretary of state , secured the cooperation of South African Prime Minister John Vorster ina search for independence for both Rhodesia and Namibia under black governments likely to win international recognition . But Mr. Vorster clearly understood that in return for his cooperation , the United States would not put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in favor of blacks in South Africa itself . The arrival of the new Carter administration in Washington , with a new line on southern Africa ? more particularly on South Africa ? has roused in Mr. Vorster all the bitterness , doubt , and suspicion that can overwhelm a man who believes he is the victim of a broken bargain . These feelings were apparent in interviews this writer has had in the past 10 days with Mr. Vorster and two of his Cabinet ministers . ? The depth of Mr. Vorster 's feeling came even more strikingly to the surfacg ? and in public ? in a speech the Prime Minister delivered in Pretoria Aug. 5 . The result of American pressure , he said , " would be exactly the same as if southern Africa were subverted by Marxism . // From page 1 Southern African chess After some further pointed remarks on President Carter 's Africa policy ? including a reference to the influence on it ( as Mr. Vorster sees it ) of the black vote in last year 's presidential election ? the Prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africa to play its role in the free world . " The urge for backing Implicit in those words were the South African Government 's longing for the West 's closer identification of its interests with those of white South Africa and its reluctance to help the West toward settlements in Rhodesia and Namibia if those settlements are simply the prelude to turning the heat on South Africa itself . In both Rhodesia and Namibia guerrilla forces are operating and demanding a dominant role , if not an exclusive monopoly , in the transfer of political power to blacks . In Rhodesia it is the Patriotic Front of Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe , in Namibia the South-West Africa People 's Organization ( SWAPO ) of Sam Nujoma . ( In Rhodesia , the guerrillas have been stepping up their campaign this week , presumably to make a point when the three foreign ministers meet in London . ) In Rhodesia , white Prime Minister Ian Smith would resist to the last any handing of the country to the Patriotit Front " on a plate . " In Namibia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of World War I , Prime Minister Vorster can be expected equally to resist a straightforward handover to SWAPO . But in their respective territories , both the Patriotic Front and SWAPO are likely to be reluctant to agree to completely free elections on a one-man , one-vote basis , including the African populations , because neither can be completely sure it would win . To lose would mean , for either , forfeiting the considerable advantage each enjoys as the endorsed candidate of the Organization of African Unity , and , in the case of SWAPO , of the United Nations . To avoid such humiliation , each might argue that the present security arrangements ? the South African Army in Namibia and the white-controlled security forces in Rhodesia ? make free elections impossible and ? then announce that any proposed elections will be boycotted . Both Mr. Vorster and even more , Mr. Smith , view with concern the British-U.S. contacts with the guerrilla organizations . The Western powers have this week been talking with SWAP() leader Nujoma at United Nations headquarters in New York . Joshua Nkomo was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter part of July . Mr. Nkomo has since been visiting Cuba and English-speaking countries in the Caribbean . And there is some speculation that he might get red carpet treatment in Washington before he returns to this side of the Atlantic . Both Britain and Washington are concerned to keep their lines out to the guerrillas , initially to try to involve them in negotiated settlements in both Rhodesia and Namibia , but if that fails to ensure that the guerrillas are left with a place to turn to besides the Soviet Union . In Rhodesia , Prime Minister Smith is completely uncreceptive to this line of thinking and is intent on trying to work out a settlement with black moderates which excludes the Patriotic Front  --  in his eyes a Communist terrorist organization . To achieve this , he needs the cooperation of Bishop Abel Muzorewa , who enjoys considerable support among Africans inside Rhodesia and has traveled to London to be there during the foreign ministers ' meeting . It is doubtful whether Mr. Smith would offer terms the bishop could accept without sacrificing his African following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overlooked during the foreign ministers ' deliberations . Whatever the United States and British Governments might propose for Namibia and Rhodesia , they will need the cooperation  --  or at least the acquiescence  --  of South Africa for any hope of its successful implementation . South Africa , in turn  --  and for all its current pique  --  needs continued association with the United States and Britain if its isolation is not to be sharpened . The challenge is to fit all the pieces together .                     