@@729893

txt In a clear signal that he is ready to fight for a state income tax this year , Gov . William T. Cahill will ask the Legislature tomorrow to approve a reshaping of what he described as New Jersey 's unfair and outmoded tax system , which relies on local property levies . " Do we want a restructured tax system based more truly on an ability to pay and linked with the ? redistribution of the heavy burden now borne by our property taxpayers ? " the Governor 's second annual legislative message asks . " The opportunity is near at hand , " it asserts . Although Mr. Cahill has not announced his support of the graduated state income tax , he has said privately he will fight for one this year despite the adverse political impact it may have on his chances for reelection next year . Opening Session The Governor 's 62-page message is to be delivered tomorrow at the opening session of the 195th Legislature , which was elected last November . Since the message is not a budget , it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any cost figures for any specific programs . Mr. Cahill has already said he would support the recommendations next month of the Tax Policy Study Committee he appointed last year . The committee 's chairman , Harry J. Sears , the Senate Republican majority leader who did not seek re-election , said today that the committee might recommend a graduated state income tax tied to . a statewide property tax that would produce about $800-million a year . , New Jersey is the only major urban state without a state income tax . The Connecticut Legislature approved an income tax last year , but opposition caused its repeal shortly afterward . Home Rule Dominant Essentially , New Jersey is dominated by the politically powerful concept of home rule in its 567 communities . The state has the nation 's third highest and , in the opinion of fiscal experts , one of the most lopsided local property tax systems in the country , with most of its revenue going to support local schools . Since school costs are generally greater than the amount the average family contributes in local school property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enable them to exclude poorer families that can- not afford expensive homes that produce high property taxes . As a result , according to members of the Governor 's Tax Policy Study Committee , there is probably no other state where the over-all tax load is apportioned with so little regard for anyone 's ability to pay , or for the public benefit involved . The inevitable consequences , they say , are disparities in the availability and equality of essential services for New Jersey 's poorer citizens . In his message , the Republican Governor says that " the second half of my term holds the clear potential to be the most significant period in New Jersey history . " And in the opinion of Republicans and Democrats in the state , the legislative session promises to be one of the most stormy ever held here . " It is no exaggeration , " the Governor said , ' ' that the deci-1 sions that we make over the next two years will shape the destiny of New Jersey for the next 25 years . . . determining whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education , penal reform , transportation , the challenges of the environment and the removal of regressive , unjust and antiquated forms of taxation , or whether we will retrogress into a position of mediocrity . " The state 's current budget is $1.8-billion . One of the over-all goals of the tax committee and the Governor is to have the state assume a larger role in a restructured education system that would no longer depend on local property taxes for most of its funds . Along with tax reform Mr. Cahill made the following recommendations : ' IA limited no-fault automobile insurance program modeled in part after the Massachusetts system that would reduce premium costs by about 15 per cent by authorizing that certain claims be paid directly from the insurance company to the policy holders no matter who was at fault in an accident , provided that medical bills did not exceed $100 . ( IThe establishment of a clean waters authority and a new pollution control authority that would finance state sewer systems and lend money at low interest rates for the purchase of pollution control equipment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living conditions , health and education at the three state prisons , including recommendations for a full-time state parole board and a commission to study reform of county jails . 41IA new juvenile code dealing with delinquency and experimentation with community group foster homes as an alternative to placing youths into correctional institutions , and an extension of a summer recreation program for children from poor families . ' In other areas , the Governor proposed a study to determine whether school children were actually being taught to read in city schools , and pilot programs for a 12-month school year ; the creation of a commission to study offtrack betting ; legislation to enable communities to create bond issuing industrial development authorities ; a new municipal corruption unit within the office of the State Attorney General , and regionalization of a number of local health activities . In addition , Mr. Cahill proposed a statewide conflict of interest law to cover alt state and local elected officials ; a merger of the county courts into the State Superior Court system ; specific plans for a revitalization of the Hudson County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable the state to regulate construction in flood plain areas . During his first two years in office , Mr. Cahill had 3-to-1 Republican majorities in both houses . But in the November elections the Republicans lost their overwhelming majorities . Although they kept a 24-to-16 lead in the Senate , the Assembly elections were a virtual standoff . The Democrats won 40 seats and the Republicans 39 . Since a majority of 41 is required to organize majority leadership , balance of power in the Assembly might rest with Anthony J. Imperiale , the white militant leader from Newark , who won election as an independent . Although Mr. Imperiale has indicated that he plans to vote with the Democrats , Hudson County Democratic Assemblymen are expected to balk at voting with the Democrats in retaliation for being denied a leadership post . As a result , tomorrow 's opening Assembly session is expected to result in a deadlock , with Democrats unable to organize . To hear the Governor , Democratic and Republican Assembly leaders were working on r temporary agreement today : icier which the Assembly clerk would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately resolved , the Governor 's tax reform proposals will face tough opposition . A number of Democrats have said they planned to attack the proposals , and a number of Republicans have already taken pledges to oppose an income tax . In 1966 , Richard J. Hughes , the Democratic Governor , came within one vote in the Senate of getting final legislative approval for an income tax , when both houses were 2-to-1 . Democratic . Instead , Mr. Hughes had to settle for a state sales tax . With that In mind , Governor Cahill asked the Legislature to have the courage " to make decisions whose impact will be felt in this state for many generations ! ' " Together , " he said , " we must face up to the questions that will test the willingness of this government to deal aggressively and positively with the urgent problems affecting millions of our people . " He then posed the following questions and provided his own answers : " Do we want clean and safe cities ? We can have them . " Do we want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is attainable , " Do we want to help all our citizens by developing a prison system that returns men and women to useful , productive lives rather than the treadmill of continued crime ? We have this opportunity for national leadership . " Do we want institutions that offer more than sterile and stark minimums of custodial care ? We can and should do more for our physically and mentally ill . " Will we insist on quality education at all levels and in all jurisdictions ? The opportunity is at hand . " " Our decisions , " he said , " can signal hope , justice and equality to millions of our fellow citizens or , conversely , they can signal continued injustice , despair and disillusionment to those who trusted us to act courageously and wisely in their interest . "                     