@@730040

txt King Hussein has reportedly proposed to the Big Four powers a plan for rejoining the Israeli-held west bank with the east bank of Jordan in a - federal system to be called the United Arab Kingdom instead of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan . Informed . Arab diplomatic sources said that an outline of the plan was submitted by the Jordanian King to the Ambassadors of the United States , Britain , France and the Soviet Union yesterday . The Arab governments have also been informed , the sources said . On the west bank , Palestinier/ leaders wore thrown into confusion by reports of the Hussein plan . The Israeli Foreign Ministry denied ? that any agreement had been reached between Israel and Jordan . In Washington , Icing Hussein 's plan was viewed as an effort to shore up his position in the Arab world . Pages 6 and 7 . ' Serbia Repercussions ' Baghdad radio , monitored here , broke into a newscast this afternoon to broadcast news of the reported proposals by King Hussein . The Iraqi radio asserted that the plan " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole and on the Palestine question in particular . " The proposed plan , the statecontrolled radio said , " envisions a political settlement between Jordan and the Zionist state . " It would not be possible to carry out such a plan without Israel 's agreement to give up the west bank area of the Jordan River . Israeli Agreement Needed Arab diplomatic sources say that King Hussein insists that the proposed new state should have the same boundaries as those of Jordan before the 1967 Middle Eastern war . This would mean that Israel should give up all the territory she seized from Jordan , , including the Old City of Jerusalem . Diplomats consider Israel unlikely to agree . On the other hand , there have been persistent reports recently of contacts between Jordan and Israel for a settlement . There is some speculation that King Hussein may have proposed the plan at this time to forestall the municipal elections that the Israeli authorities have ordered for next month on the west bank area . King Hussein and other Arab leaders are said to believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership of certain Palestinians who may , in the future , be prepared to negotiate a final settlement with Israel , independent of Jordan , other Arab regimes and the Palestinian liberation movement . A highly placed Jordanian source who arrived here yesterday said that King Hussein might also want to offer proposals that might be the basis for " proximity negotiations " between his Government and Israel 's . There has been no official statement yet by Amman on the subject , But King Hussein has scheduled a news conference at his palace in the Jordanian capital tomorrow to make what a palace source termed " a major announcement . " King Sees Officials The 36-year-old King met tonight with the 60 members of , the Jordanian House of Representatives , apparently to tell them about the reported plan . He had met earlier - with prominent Jordan leaders , including a number of Palestinians , informed sources said . Among those whom the King saw were two former premiers ; Bahjat al-Talhouni and Abdel Monem Rifai . The King also received four men who were once members of the executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the main Palestinian guerrilla groups . Whether these leaders have given their approval of the reported plan is not known . In Beirut , the proguerrilla newspaper Al Moharrer reported last week that King Hussein had reached an agreement with Israel whereby Israel would give up the west bank but would keep Jerusalem united as part of Israel . It added that the Jordanians would be allowed to administer the Al Aksa Mosque ? Islam 's third holiest site  --  under the Jordanian flag . According to the Baghdad radio , the proposed Hussein plan ' calls for establishment of autonomous states on the west and east banks of the Jordan River with each state having its own government and parliament . They would , however , be joined in a federal government and parliament with headquarters in Amman . The Gaza Strip , also under Israeli occupation since ? 1967 , would be part of the westbank state . There are 400,000 people in Gaza , about half of them Arab refugees , and 700 , - 000 people on the west bank . The . Strip  --  about 25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mediterranean  --  was designated Arab territory in , United Nations 1947 Palesine partition plan . The Strip , which was a part of southwestern Palestine , was seized by Egypt in the 1948 war and administered but never annexed by her . The Iraqi radio added that under the plan Mr. Talhouni , a 66-year-old veteran Jordanian politician , would head the first federal government . ? Mr. Talhounl had been a close adviser to the King until the King cracked clown on the guerrillas in Jordan in September , 1970 , because of their threat to his autonomy . Mr. Talhouni retired from political life , reportedly in official disapproval , and this won him favor in the eyes of the guerrillas , or fedayeen , and the Arab regimes that support them . Informed quarters believe that Xing ' Hussein may have Sent  --  a copy of his proposals to three Arab heads ' of state who have been meeting in Cairo . President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt , President Harez al-Assad Of Syria and Premier Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya were attending , sessions of the presidential council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their countries . The news of the plan has hit Arab public opinion . like a bombshell . Some Arab leaders feel that the proposals mean that the King has taken it upon himself to bring about . ; . a unilateral settlement of the Palestinequestion , which has been a major source of the Middle Eastern unrest for the last quarter of a century . The Palestine question is the term for the conflict over the former British mandatory territory that , following the ArabIsraeli war of 1948 , became Israel and the west bank , under Jordanian rule . The displaced Palestinians assert national claims on this territory , and the Palestinian liberation movement seeks the dissolution of the State of Israel and the repatriation of the approximate . ly one million Palestinians now living in refugee camps and elsewhere in the Arab Middle East . Arab . Governments are not expected to react publicly until the Xing himself announces the proposals . Dr. George Habash , leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , the radical fedayeen organization , said at a news conference today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was on the verge of a " deal with Israel . " Dr. Habash , who spoke before the reports of the Jordanian plan , said- that the King " is as much the enemy as Israel itself . " ' He warned west bank residents against cooperating with the Israelis in the elections or with King Hussein in any arrangements wit ! IS-1                     