@@728432

txt Israelis are growing uneasy over the decision of several European airliners to cut off cargo and mail traffic to Israel . So far , seven European airlines have stopped these services as a precautionary measure following the midair explosion of a Swiss airliner on route to Israel Feb. 21 . In the air disaster , 47 persons of various nationalities , including 15 Israelis , lost their lives . It is generally assumed that Arab terrorists are responsible for the explosion . " We fully understand and share the concern of those airways for the security of their passengers , " exclaimed a high official of the Israeli Transport Ministry . " However , these methods can not discourage Arab terrorism in Europe but rather invite it . " Israelis are particularly irked that West Germany 's Lufthansa is among those commercial aviation companies that have stopped accepting cargo stamped for Israel . " Even if this is considered only a temporary halt , " commented a high official , " it goes against the grain of the Germans who need to cultivate a special attitude toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this action comes only a few days after an Arab terrorist attack against El Al in Munich airport , where a number of persons were wounded and one killed , and on the heels of the burning down of an old-age home for Jews in the same city . " The restrictive steps taken by some European airlines were ridiculed by Israeli 's leading satirist , Ephraim Kishon : " The world is asking , how can we have normal relations with a country whose postal parcels are blown up every Monday and Thursday ? " " One should understand the new airmail restrictions , " Mr. Kishon writes . " Since Israel is accident prone , she is a troublemaker . Therefore one should not wonder if the world punishes her and even completely shuts off all passenger services to Israel . And , what is more , cable and telephone lines , too . " Not so with the Arab states , " Mr. Kishon continues . " Since air travel to and from Arab countries continues without disturbance , they are an example of good international behavior , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all points on the globe all the time . " Envoys summoned Therefore , the Arabs should be rewarded , and as to the Israelis , Mr. Kishon expresses the " hope " that " diplomatic relations with Israel will also be broken , and economic sanctions imposed by the UN Security Council . " Meanwhile , Premier Golda Meir met ambassadors and other chiefs of missions from 19 countries in her Jerusalem office on Feb. 23 . She asked them to transmit to their governments Israel 's request for " urgent and efficient international action " against Arab air terror . Referring to restriction on air cargo to Israel , Mrs. Meir said : " This is like punishing the victim and rewarding the murderer . " Israelis welcomed the Swiss Government 's decision of Feb. 23 to call for a global conference which would deal with problems of air piracy . Stricter Swiss measures announced for the control of potential . Arab attackers were also commented on here as " a sober and realistic step . " Restrictions on airmail by seven European airlines are felt by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pbst Ministry spokesman , Israel receives 14 tons of airmail and 25 tons of air cargo on the average every month . Half of this quantity is from Europe and thus affected by the recent decision . Israeli postal authorities notified post offices throughout Europe that they are held responsible for forwarding air dispatches to Israel . The Israelis requested immediate action aimed at organizing alternative air-transport facilities for mail . El Al , the Israeli airline , has already expressed readiness to take any quantity of mail from Europe . At the same time , ever louder voices here are pressing for retaliatory Israeli action against Arab air terror . " It is high time that Israel take off her velvet gloves and start hitting back at the air terrorists , " wrote the military correspondent of the popular , Yediot Aharonot.                     