@@734211

txt After 34 years of Communist rule , much of Eastern Europe wears the Soviet brand of MarxismLeninism like an ill-fitting mask , covering a broad distaste for the Soviet system . Uncomfortable with the ideology and contemptuous of Soviet life , many East Europeans suggest in contacts with Westerners that they find themselves caught between the Military and economic imperatives that draw tkem toward the East , and the cultural and philosophical differences that pull them toward the West . While the East European governments maintain an official correctness toward the Soviet Union , East Europeans say that Soviet society itself holds little attraction . The images it evokes are almost wholly negative , even for some party members who say they think of Soviet life as materially deprived , politically oppressive , insulated from the outside world and intellectually stifling , So strong are the feelings that even fine Soviet films play to nearly empty theaters in Prague , for example , while anythingAmerican draws crowds . A leading newspaper editor in one East European capital who is barred from printing criticism of the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet leader . In Budapest , a Hungarian student chuckles , remembering instructions she received during summer work on a state farm : the biggest peaches into the basket for the West , the middle-sized ones for Eastern Europe and the smallest for the Soviet Union . A Prague high school student recalls a teacher walking into his classroom about six months ago to ask whether anyone wanted to study next year in Moscow . " Nobody did , " he said . " The teacher was laughing . " " I was hi Moscow in ' 70 , " said a Government press aide in Warsaw , grinning . " And I have no desire to go back . " I spent a week in Leningrad once , " a Budapest taxi driver said . " Whew . Awful . " Much of the aversion to Soviet styles and principles is expressed not in anger but in sarcasm , not in heavy declarations of outrage but in quips and jokes and sardonic smiles , even in a certain nonchalance , a shrug of acceptance and disdain . Only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops in 1968 , do emotions often approach bitterness . And only in Bulgaria , which still celebrates its liberation from the Turks by czarist troops a century ago , are Russians held in genuine affection . Jokes About Soviet Shortages The reputation of the Soviet Union generally suffers from its economic ills , especially since most East Europeans live better than Soviet citizens . In Moscow . the Polish , Hungarian and Czechoslovak embassies operate special stores for their resident citizens , stocked with clothing , foods and liquors they are used to at home . Relatives in Budapest or Warsaw send packages of consumer goods unavailable in Moscow , and tell jokes about the shortages . Onejoke in Budapest described a Soviet factory preparing for a ' visit by President Carter . Party officials warned the workers that the President would ask about their living standards and instructed them to say that they all had cars and big houses . The day came , and Mr. Carter stopped on the assembly line to talk with a work : er , who duly told the President all about his house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " Mr. Carter asked . " A pair of shoes , " said the worker . Russians are also laughed at when they shop in Eastern Europe . " You should see the Russians in our stores , " said a woman in Warsaw . " Their faces get red with excitement , they shake with greed . They 're so uncultured . They 're peasants , really . All the intellectuals were killed in the revolution . I feel pity for them " . The word " pity " echoes through Many remarks . " I do n't hate them , " said Andrzej Kijowski , a Polish writer , " I have so much pity for them . They have been corrupted for 200 years . They have never been free . " " We do n't hate them , we pity them , " a Prague resident said . " They do n't know anything different . " Visitors See Tragic Life " People come back from visiting the Soviet Union and say how tragic that such a great country lives with shortcomings that for us would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It 's not anger , not hostility , but sadness , pity . " East Europeans have also found that Russian xenophobia does not give way easily , even to political allies . Those who visit or work in the Soviet Union are made to feel as alien as Americans , quite unlike the " socialist brothers " of the propaganda posters . Travel for East Europeans in the Soviet Union is restricted , as it is for Westerners , and they are subject to much of the same wiretapping , surveillance and suspicion . A Polish diplomat driving with his wife through Soviet Moldavia one recent summer pulled over to check a wobbling tire , a relative recalled . In minutes , policemen descended on him , rudely demanded his documents and then shouted , " You are spies ! Get out of this area immediately ! " Another East European family felt uncomfortable in both Washington and Moscow . In the United States , 10 years ago , a daughter was taunted as a " Red Commie " by schoolmates , and once received a zero on a geography @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Red China . " In the Soviet Union , the problem is isolation ; Russian classmates will not allow themselves to become close friends . " We are just as much outsiders as you are , " the mother told an American . Gaps Between Professionals exert in protessional matters the gaps exist . " Polish sociologists do n't want to go to Moscow , " said a Warsaw resident whose wife is in the field , " because Soviet sociologists are scared to talk to therm " Soviet tourists who go to Eastern Europe are apparently watched carefully by their security agents , as if they were in the enemy camp . A Polish official was astonished one evening , during a dinner at his apartment for . four Soviet acquaintances visiting Warsaw with a group , when the tour leader telephoned from the hotel , read the host the four names and asked him to confirm their presence , apparently to make sure that they were where they said they would be . These strains turn the shared SovietEast European ideology and political structure into an empty harmony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that many of their editors and reporters do not believe in , and the Communist youth organizations enlist members who freely admit their lack of interest in Communism . No Criticism of Soviet Allowed But the taboo on criticism of the Soviet Union is so complete that some East European journalists in Moscow get into arguments with their editors about it , pushing in vain for more latitude to report negatively on Soviet life . Poland 's censorship rules , for example , explicitly ban descriptions of lowquality imported Soviet goods , according to a former employee of the Cracow censor 's office who has emigrated . Nor is any mention permitted of the Soviet role in the Katyn massacre of 1940 , when about 14,000 Polish officers were shot in a forest by the Red Army . One of the few constants among the six East European allies is the refusal to teach children honestly about Stalin . None has resisted the Kremlin 's imposition of silence on Stalin 's terror ; as in Soviet classrooms , the paranoia , the purges , the arrests , the executions are reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personality cult . " Eastern Europe , then , can not quite escape the vibrations emanating from Moscow . Despite a distaste for things Soviet , the ambitious do well to study there . either for technical training unavailable at home , or for political orientation invaluable to advancement in party work . Periodic study in Moscow and vacations in the Crimea are considered advisable also for adults in certain fields , such as newspaper editors who take shod courses in propaganda and fraternize with Soviet colleagues . Thus the Russians leave their imprint on the surface of East European societies , creating an elite attuned to Soviet thinking , one that knows instinctively what will sound discordant to Moscow 's ear . " To be successful , a young Communist must study in Moscow , " Mr. Kijowski , the Polish writer , said . " Like a young priest studying in Rome . " This guarantees that the ebb and flow of oppression and tolerance inside the Soviet Union will be felt in the periphery to some extent . In the last decade , the ideological loosening that Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even magnified in much of Eastern Europe . Rumanians : Slays or Romans ? In Stalin 's time , the Rumanians used to pretend that they were Slays . " Who would have dared to say to Stalin that we were not Slays ? " said Vlad Georgescu , a dissident historian . " Now we are Romans . " Rumania is reportedly the only Warsaw Pact country to stop sending students to Moscow 's Higher Komsomol School , a training center for leaders of the Young Communist League . And official history , having dropped the fictitious Slavic heritage , also practically ignores the influence of Lenin and of the Bolshevik Revolution on Rumania 's Communism , which is portrayed as a purely national movement . Similarly , the rising hypocrisy of Soviet political life has proved a viable export to Eastern Europe . As the postwar political fervor generated during Stalin 's rule dwindled among Russians , it has positively disappeared elsewhere in the bloc . Ideological belief has waned and careerism has grown as a motivation for young people to join the party . Party Is Key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an elite status essential for advancement into the upper ranks of most humanitarian and political fields , much as it is in the Soviet Union . Yet admiration for the party seems to reach less deeply into most of these societies , just as the Russian language is spoken poorly by most of the people , despite the requirement in all the countries except Rumania that it be taught in school . Party life and discipline , Soviet-style , have also been poorly absorbed , as if they were odd appendages grafted onto foreign organisms . ? In Czechoslovakia , virtually all young people are expected to belong to the Communist youth organization , but as one high school student put it : " We do n't do anything . We never have any meetings or activities . Every week the chairman of our committee writes a paper saying that we had a meeting , that we had 100 percent attendance , that we acted on this , discussed that . But it never happens in reality . " False Reports on Meetings The student head of the Young Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote false reports . While the entire cell was supposed to convene a meeting to approve recommendations of individual members looking for jobs after graduation , for instance , the documents were really written by the candidates themselves , or by their friends . " I brought a stack of them home , " the chairman said , " and wrote on each one that the cell approved it on March 20 , and signed it . Everybody does the same thing . " She plans to join the party , to which her father also belongs , because it will help her get a job . Party membership has little appeal for many others Of 20 students encountered in a Polish high school class , not one was a member of the youth organization . In Hungary , youth league rosters contain only about 40percent of those eligible , despite what some say is strong parental pressure to join . " It does n't mean anything to be a member , " said a teen-age girl in Budapest as her teacher winced . " We do n't do , anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's " slump , " as one boy put it , in terms of Hungary 's relative prosperity and stability , which have erased the sense of struggle inherent in Communist principles , eroding the basis for political activism . " People live well and have everything , " one girl said . " Perhaps we have problems , but we do n't know about them . " Hungary Eases Party Dominance Hungary leads in having opened many ' influential positions to nonparty people , especially in the economic sphere . Significantly , such limits on party influence are cited as virtues by some party members themselves , who also note with approval the extent to which the injustices of political power are being examined in films that go far beyond anything permitted in the Soviet Union . " Angi Vera , " a Hungarian movie set in the Stalinist postwar years , is the story of a young girl taken off to a party school after she criticizes a hospital director ? an indictment of the school and of that period of oppression , which led to the Hungarian revolt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ screen . " Without Anesthesia , " directed by Andrzej Wajda , is a searing tale of the destruction of a popular and honorable journalist ? professionally by jealous conservatives in the Central Committee , and personally by a Young Communist activist who lures away the journalist 's wife and breaks up his marriage . Such attacks on the party 's intolerance ? are by implication attacks on the imperious Soviet notion of party invincibility . And paradoxically , they are made possible today by Moscow 's relative permissiveness , by its loss of the Stalinist zeal for driving the rigid party view into every crevice and corner of culture and society . This has given the East Europeans ' dislike of the Soviet model freer play , creating in Poland and Hungary , especially , economic and political styles that vary considerably from Moscow 's . It has also done away with single-mindedness , introducing a certain irreverence for the ideals the Russians hold dear . In Budapest , university students in economics courses sometimes go so far as to express their admiration for capitalism as a more rational system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hungary 's economic planners , while stressing that " we make sure there is no capitalism in Hungary , " could not resist answering an American 's question about the coming of Communism by telling an old joke . " Khrushchev used to say that Communism was just over the horizon , " the planner . said with a whimsical grin . " You know the definition of the horizon : an imaginary line that recedes as you approach it . "                     