@@734513

txt BETHLEHEM .. Israeli-Occupied West . Bank UPI-The Latin patriach. of Je ? usalem celebrated mass in Jesus Christ 's birthplace early Tuesday and Mayor Elias Freij appealed to Iran to free the U.S. hostages as " a Christmas present to the American people . " In a joyous'Climax to Christmas eve ' celebrations in the Holy Land , thousands of pilgrims gathered for midnight mass under the watchful eyes of hundreds of Israeli troops as Christmas carols sung by ' 12 choirs rippled through Manger Square Earlier , Freij , ? the Palestinian mayor i of Bethlehem , injected politics into the celebrations by expressing the hope that could be achieved between the peace Palestinian Arabs and the Israelis by providing the Palestinians with a state of their own . " WE HOPE TO be free and independent in the next year and peace will be established between the Palestinian Arabs and Israelis , " Freij said . Di a Christmas appeal to Iran , Freij beseeched Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to let the 50 American hostages go " as a Christmas present to the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watched the service in Manger Square on closed circuit television . ' Hundreds of Israeli troops guarded against terrorist attacks as Msgr . Giacomo Beltritti , the Latin patriarch of Jerusalem , celebrated midnight mass . LIMITED SPACE inside the 19th Century Roman Catholic Church of St. Catherines , which adjoins the 4th Century Basilica of the Nativity , permitted only 1,000 dignitaries , including Freij ; to attend the ancient rites . The ceremony at the white-and-gold marble columned church centered on a plaster statue of the Christ child known by the Italian name " Il Bambino , " which was carried down to the Grotto of the Nativity by the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem . The choirs , singing Christmas carols , performed from a wooden platform set along.the outer wall of the hulking basilica . The troupes included singers from Australia , Belgium ; Canada , France , West Germany , andtthe United States . PILGRIMS FROM around the world mingled in the square under glowing . red , orange , and green lights . . . . Town clerk Jamal Salman estimated there were some 10,000 celebrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using metal detectors cleared new arrivals through booths set up near the church gate . The Israeli soldiers , armed with machine guns ; maintained tight security in the Bethlehem , area to ensure that the 13th Christmas under Israeli rule would not be bloodied . by an attack on holy // Joy of Bethlehem coupled with plea for U.S. hostages // shrines similar to the strike aganist the Grand Mosque in Mecca last month . , " They found they could attack the hollest site of the Moslems so there 's no reason terrorists should not try to attack the holiest site of the Christians as well , " a West Bank military source said . " THEIR METHODS are getting more and more sophisticated , so we always have to keep five steps ahead of them , " he said . The soldiers stood guard everywhere . some singly and some clustered in threes and fours . They mingled in the crowds , stood on roofs and hilltops , patroled the roads leading to Bethlehem . and searched tourists in the paved souare . " We 'd like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do n't have to go throuhg all these inspections , ' said Florence Gilman , 59 , of New York City . A bomb apparently planted by Palestinian terrorists exploded near Manger Square two years ago but caused neither casualties nor damage . HEADING INTO Christmas Eve this year , the sun shone through high clouds and temperatures hovered in the 60s , promising a balmier Christmas than in most North American climes . But the mercury dipped when the sun dropped behind Bethlehem 's rounded , rocky bills . Prime Minister Menachem Begin sent greetings to Israeli Christians and expressed hope for " peace and understanding " in the Middle East during the corning year ..                     