@@728362

txt Washington , Jan. 19-President Nixon has wrapped up a balanced budget for the 1971 fiscal year , has achieved his objective of final , last-minute spending cuts amounting to at least a billion dollars , and will not propose new excise taxes , the White House said today . The President decided last Tuesday to order additional substantial reductions during a cabinet meeting called to review what was to have ? been the final version of the federal budget for the fiscal year starting next July 1 . He spent the next three days in seclusion at Camp David in Maryland concentrating on the eleventhhour revisions . Completion Is Reported Ronald . L. Ziegler , White House press secretary , announced today that the new budget had been completed and probably will be sent to Congress Jan. 30 . Ziegler said " the President has achieved his objective of substantial cuts , " but declined to give a specific total . He commented , however , that Nixon " thinks in terms of a billion dollars or more " as a definition of the term " substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered the additional cuts last week , the supposedly-final budget stood at 203 billion dollars . The budget total is still thought to be at an all-time high of more than 200 billion dollars . Slowdown Is Expected It is believed that the President will propose extension of federal excise taxes on new automobiles and telephone service at their present rates and recommend a speed-up in collection of corporation income , estate , and gift taxes . It is also believed that Nixon decided on additional budget cuts to offset an anticipated shrinkage in revenue caused by a slowdown in the national economy in the months ahead . The press secretary described the 1971 budget now completed as " solid . .. a budget soundly balanced and one that does have some surplus . " He said the President 's " overriding objective " in the new budget was a sound fiscal program and the stopping of inflation Ulm reduced federal spending .                     