@@732080

txt Navy Seal commandos have received special training . for possible , assignment to American embassies in countries ' plagued by guerrilla terrorism , according to Navy sources here . The Seals  --  the name is derived from sea-air-land , . denoting the scope of their operations  --  would monitor guerrilla and revolutionary activity and give counsel to the foreign governments on counterinsurgency tactics , while at the same time reinforcing security for the lives and property of Americans . Assignment of these specialists  --  trained in such , counterinsurgency tactics as hit-andrun abductions of enemy military and political leaders  --  to embassies in perhaps a dozen countries was said by a Navy informant to have been under consideration at the . Pentagon and State Department for some time . Discussion of the proposal has been accelerated , he said , by the recent deterioration of the American military position in the Mediterranean , rising // anti-Americanism in some African countries and anxiety over events in Korea , the Philippines and other Asian areas . ? Seizure by Japanese terrorists last week of a part of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of hostages , was believed likely to spur the discussions . Navy sources stressed that ' the Seals , some 2,500 of whom , have been trained here and at ' Little Creek , Va. , over the last 13 years , would be assigned only to embassies in " friendly countries . " Most Are Vietnam Veterans The countries under consideration were not identified here , but one informed source said they included capitals in Europe , the Middle East , Africa , the western Pacific and , possibly , South America . Selected groups of the Navy commandos , totaling 75 or 80 men out of a current force of about 300 , were said to have been given the special training to equip them for possible embassy duty , including language and political courses . They would be accredited as embassy naval attaches and assistants . Almost all are veterans of Vietnam combat . Seal units of two to six men each are already stationed at American military bases overseas , in both the Pacific and Atlantic , and others are attached to military assistance missions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An officer of the ' specialized warfare command in charge of Seal training at the Navy 's Coronado amphibious base here said that if the commandos were attached to embassy staffs their role would be largely advisory . But he added that " actual field operations using the skills they employed so successfully in Vietnam could not be ruled out , should emergencies arise . " A former officer of the Coronado specialized warfare command said it was " reasonable to assume " that any Seal units assigned to American embassies would work closely with agents of the Central Intelligency Agency , who are listed by many embassies as cultural and commercial attaches . Used in Phnom Penh A Navy spokesman in Washington acknowledged that in one instance , Navy Seals had been assigned to embassy duty . After the withdrawal of American troops from Cambodia and until shortly before the Communist takeover of the country , he said , Seals were assigned to the American embassy in Phnom Penh as Navy attaches and assistant attaches . Five Seal officers served there between 1973 and 1975 . Military sources acquainted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the counterinsurgency specialists to American embassies began in January , 1972 . That was a month after the last Seal units were withdrawn from Vietnam , leaving behind a few advisers to the Vietnamese Navy 's Seal-type force they had trained , the Lieu Doi Nguoi Ngay , or " underwater soldiers . " Comdr . Daniel Hendrickson , commander of Seal Team 1 for 18 months until March , 1972 , when he moved up to the Coronado training base 's operational command , said that after Vietnam , the Seal training was shifted " from unconventional warfare techniques , largely in jungle environments to a worldwide capability on a stand-by basis . " Commander Hendrickson said the Navy foresaw a need for " a Seal force that could handle a variety of unconventional warfare missions in other countries , helping foreign governments detect potential guerrilla activities without upsetting sensitive diplomatic balances . " Describing the shift in training , Commander Hendrickson said it was anticipated that the Seals would ultimately be serving abroad on embassy attache duty or with military advisory groups . Although the Seal teams were ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time of the Cuban missile crisis ? it was not until late in 1966 that the Navy acknowledged their existence . Their exploits in Vietnam were not disclosed officially.until Seal Team 1 from Coronado received a Presidential citation in November , 1968 , for " extraordinary heroism in action " between July , 1966 , and August 1967 . Seal Team 1 here and Seal Team 2 at'Little Creek are each reported to have about 120 men on a stand-by basis at present . Last January , a second Presidential citation for Seal Team 1 said that , in more than 350 commando raids behind the lines between January , 1970 , and December , 1971 , the team captured 227 Viet Cong , killed 240 and rescued 67 allied prisoners of war . The citation also said that , in intelligence sorties , the Seals kidnapped Communist military and political leaders . Seal training is carried out here on Coronado 's oceanfront base and in a desolate 25-mile-square area of the Cuyamaca Mountains east of here , named Camp Billy Marken for the first Seal killed in Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              