@@734268

txt The Supreme Court , ruling today that " members of the public have no constitutional right under the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments to attend criminal trials , " granted trial judges broad discretion to order courtrooms closed to the press and nuhl i r The 5-to-4 decision affirmed a ruling of the New York State Court of Appeals , which had upheld the power of a trial Excerpts from opinions , page A8. judge to close a pretrial hearing if he found a " reasonable probability " that pretrial publicity would hurt the defendant 's chance for a fair trial . Today 's majority opinions appear to go considerably further . Although sometimes limiting discussion to pretrial proceedings , the majority at several key points extends the analysis to actual trials , thereby suggesting that they as well can be closed upon agreement by the defendant , the judge and the prosecution . No Reason Required Also , there is no requirement in Associate Justice Potter Stewart 's majority opinion that a judge , before barring the public from the courtroom , make a preliminary finding that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , as Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist observed in a concurring opinion : " It necessarily follows that if the parties agree on a closed proceeding , the trial court is not required by the Sixth Amendment to advance any reason whatsoever for declining to open a pretrial hearing or trial to the public . " The Sixth Amendment provides , " In all criminal prosecutions , the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial . " The 14th Amendment made this provision binding on the states . The decision aroused immediate strong criticism from both the press and the legal profession . Page A8 . In addition to Justices Stewart and Rehnquist , the majority opinion was joined by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Associate Justices Lewis F. Powell // Jr . and John Paul Stevens . Justice Powell also filed a separate concurring opinion in which he said that before closing a courtroom the trial judge should be required to balance the defendant 's interests against the First Amendment rights of the press to report on the proceedings . The four other members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a First Amendment right to attend trials . Justice Powell said that a judge , when presented with a request to close a hearing , should first decide " whether there are alternative means reasonably available by which the fairness of the trial might be preserved without interfering substantially with the public 's interest in prompt access to information concerning the administration of justice . " The judge in this case had properly considered the issue before closing the hearing , Justice Powell said . Associate Justice Harry A. Blackmun wrote a dissenting opinion and took the unusual step of reading excerpts from the bench this morning . The 44-page dissent , joined by Associate Justices William J.Brennan Jr. , Byron R. White and Thurgood Marshall , accused the majority of surrendering " to the temptation to overstate and overcolor the actual nature " of the case and producing a " wooden approach " that they said " is without support either in legal history or in the intendment of the Sixth Amendment . " No ' Sensational Journalism ' The dissenters said that the pretrial publicity in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved the disappearance and apparent murder of a former policeman in a Rochester , N.Y. , suburb , had been " placid , routine , and innocuous , " containing " nothing that a fair-minded person could describe as sensational journalism . " There was no publicity for 90 days before the start of a hearing on whether the two defendants ' confessions should be admitted at trial . The trial judge granted the defense attorneys ' request to , close the hearing , a decision that was eventually upheld by the state 's highest court . The majority opinion today held that the Sixth Amendment 's guarantee of a right to a public trial belongs only to the defendant himself . " There is not the slightest suggestion " in earlier cases , Justice Stewart wrote , " that there is any correlative rights in members of the public to insist upon a public trial . " The framers of the Constitution , he said , did not intend " to create a constitutional right in strangers to attend a pretrial proceeding . " The dissenters argued that the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of English common law that preceded the drafting of the Constitution , protects the interest of the general public in the integrity of the criminal justice system as well as a defendant 's personal interest in a fair trial . " Open trials , " Justice Blackmun wrote , " enable the public to scrutinize the performance of police and prosecutors in the conduct of public judicial business . " He continued : " Secret hearings ? though they be scrupulously fair ? are suspect by nature . " Justice Blackmun ' , observed that in New York , as in most other states , some 90 percent of all criminal cases are disposed of before trial , leaving pretrial proceedings as " the only opportunity the public has to learn about police and prosecutorial conduct , and about allegations that those responsible to the public for the enforcement of laws themselves are breaking it . " Rulings in Earlier Conflicts The public 's interest in open trials , he concluded , is so " fundamental " that it can not be waived by the individual parties to a trial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing to show that he would be harmed by open proceedings , that less drastic alternatives would not adequately protect him and that " there is a substantial probability that closure will be effective in protecting against the perceived harm . " A majority of the Supreme Court had in fact adopted such an approach in earlier cases involving conflicts between the rights of the defendant to a fair trial and of the press to report on the proceedings . The earlier cases had held that while closing the courtroom was a step a judge might have to take as a last resort , First Amendment interests require that less drastic alternatives first be considered and found to be inadequate . That such an approach did not command a majority today will undoubtedly lend support to the view of press lawyers and others who believe that the Court 's commitment to the First Amendment has eroded over the last few years . Justice Blackmun today quoted a dissenting opinion from a 1965 Supreme Court decision that held that the presence of television cameras had deprived Billie Sol Estes of a fair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public 's right to know what goes on in courts causes me deep concern , " the dissenting Justice wrote in that case . The dissenter was Justice Stewart , the author of today 's majority opinion .                     