@@732739

txt Agriculture Secretary Earl L. Butz announced his resignation Monday as " the price I pay for a gross indiscretion in a private conversation . " Butz said he and his wife spent the weekend considering ' whether to back out of the Ford administration , and " at no time " received pressure from the White House to quit . His eyes watering , Butz said after a meeting with President Ford : " I have just submitted my letter of resignation and the President has accepted it . " PRESIDENTIAL PRESS Secretary Ron Nessen said Ford has not yet chosen a successor for Butz . Agriculture Undersecretary John Knebel said Ford has asked him to serve as acting secretary . The agriculture secretary ended his five-year tenure after a story by John Dean in Rolling Stone magazine quoted a Cabinet level official as making a racist remark . New Times magazine subsequently identified the official as Butz . Butz asked for a private meeting with President Ford early Monday morning and disclosed his decision shortly afterward . " BY TAKING - this action , I hope to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ford campaign , " he said as he read his statement emotionally to reporters . " President Ford is a decent man , with high moral values , who insists that every American be treated equally and with dignity . " Half an hour later , Ford called his acceptance of Butz 's resignation " one of the saddest decisons of my , presideicy . " He referredlo Blitz as " a close personal friend . " " Yet , Earl Butz is also wise enough and courageous enough to recognize that no single individual , no matter how distinguished his past public service , should cast a shadow over the integrity and good will of American government by his comment . " In the secretary 's letter to Ford , he said , he " sincerely apologized " for any Sett . Robert Dole , Republican candidate for Vice President , called the resignation of Agriculture Secretary Earl Butz the " right decision , " but a Midwest farm leader predicted it will cost President Ford crucial votes . Page 18. . offense that had been caused by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the slur in no way reflected his real attitude about blacks , BUTZ WAS quoted as saying that the reason " coloreds " did not generally vote Republican Is that they are only interested in three things  --  good sex , loose shoes , and a warm place to defecate . He phrased his remarks in obscene and vulgar terms . Criticism of Butz mounted late last week and over the weekend when the chief U.S. delegate to the United Nations , William Scranton , said the racial slur was " revolting " and could damage this country 's relationships with African nations . UNSMILING and obviously sbaken . Butz said he considered his decision " carefully and prayerfully , " Although reporters were warned in advance Butz would not answer questions , the secretary took time to say his resignation is effective immediately and that his plan for the future is to " campaign for the President . " When Butz ' racial remark first became public , it created a campaign uproar and caught the Ford campaign in a dilemma . Although Butz ' remark was hurting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dumping the administration 's chief farm official ? four weeks away from an election . Ford 's first reaction was to reprimand Butz . Then , as the criticism swelled over the weekend , it became apparent to the White House that riding out the storm would be difficult . In Denver , Jimmy Carter , the Democratic presidential candidate , said that " Butz should have been fired a long time ago . " He charged that Ford showed a continuing lack of leadership when he ' refused t oflre Butz immediately .                     