@@732280

txt Army commandos fought their way into two luxury hotels and advanced toward a third Tuesday in the Lebanese government 's first major attempt to separate Christian and Moslem militiamen battling for control of this Arab capital . Christian Phalangists counterattacked against Moslem forces during the day and recaptured the Jewish quarter in the second day of hand-to-hand street fighting that has left 230 known dead . " We pushed them out completely , and we now control the entire area , " a Pitalangist spokesman said . Several hundred Jews had lived in the district under Christian protection , but most have fled to mountain villages during the eightmonth-old civil war . LEBANESE SOLDIERS , who had uet been committed to security control earlier because of Moslem fears that the army is pro-Christian , moved Into the smoldering Phoenicia Intercontinental Hotel at daybreak and the Holiday Inn after nightfall . They were unopposed by Christian Phalangists inside the hotels , but came under rocket bombardment from encircling Moslems directed by Palestinian guerrillas . The soldiers returned the fire with machine guns . Near midnight army commandos were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Hotel in Beirut looks for a target along the waterfront Tuesday . The large building at left in background is the Holiday Inn , which government troops took over from Christian Phalangists Tuesday . Troops seize 2 Beirut hotels ; war toll rises seen moving toward the seaside St. George Hotel , occupied by Nasserite Moslems of the Ambushers Militia . An army spokesman would say only that the troops were " engaged in clashes with armed elements . " ONE SOLDIER was killed and five wounded at the Phoenicia when a rocket-grenade hit an armored personnel carrier . Another armored vehicle was hit by a rocket near the Tel Zaatar Palestinian refugee camp , and troops came under fire in the downtown commercial center , where they were guarding Parliament House and a row of banks . Government announcements indicated that more soldiers are being committed to the downtown area to establish a buffer zone between the rival militiamen . Witnesses said as many as 850 army commandos are involved in the operation . Political efforts to end the fighting collapsed when Moslems boycotted a new peace conference and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christians . The army was called in by rightist Interior Minister Camille Chamoun to protect holds . banks , and other major a commercial premises , some of which hate sintered heavy damage in ea-changes of rocket , mortar , and automatic weapons fire . THE MINISTER 'S move is potentially explosive , because leftist Moslems have long claimed that army commanders have a rightist Christian bias . Nearly 4.800 persons have been killed and more than 10,200 wounded in fighting for control of the divided nation of 2.9 million . A fleet of power boats and pleasure craft moored m a marina in front of the sprawling St. George went up in flames as the seaside fighting raged . In the fighting for the Jewish quarter , a Moslem militia leader said his forces pulled out ' ' to regroup . " " Once there is a lull in the fighting we are going to take the Jewish families to a more secure area and even try and accommodate them in mountain hotels If they wish , " a Christian spokesman said . FIGHTING IN several other areas of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face each other , generally conformed to the usual pattern of Lebanese warfare . The gunmen sat tight in their own districts and lobbed rockets and mortar shells into rival territory . Gunmen ordered people off the streets at a busy crossroads in Moslem western Beirut after five rockets landed there . It was not immediately known whether there were casualties .                     