@@728977

txt What may well be the unearthings of a major political scandal is wracking the Illinois Democratic . Party on the eve of the Nov. 3 elections . It is also sending fresh ripples . of hope throughout Republican ranks . The immediate question is what effect , if any , the investigations into assessment practices of the Cook County assessor 's office ( now occupied by a longtime Democratic incumbent ) will have on the election hopes of Adlai E. Stevenson III . Mr. Stevenson is waging a major campaign to unseat Republican first-term Sen. Ralph Tyler Smith . But of even more importance , many political analysts are wondering if the investigations may not be pointing to an end of the tight political control so long exercised over Cook County politics by Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley . A special committee of the Illinois Senate begins full-scale public hearings in Chicago later this week . At issue is whether County Assessor P. J. Cullerton gave special favors to top Democratic campaign contributors by underassessing certain buildings at tax rates lower than those required by the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings include a score of major downtown office buildings and high-rise apartments , many of them well-known Chicago landmarks . Mr. Cullerton , vigorously denying that there is any wrongdoing on his part , insists that talk of a scandal is a Republican Party " election smear . " At this stage , few observers believe that Mr. Stevenson , now believed to be comfortably ahead of Mr. Smith in the Senate contest , will be injured by the almost daily press and radio-television preoccupation with the assessor 's office practices . Mr. Stevenson , like college instructor . Michael Bakalis , who is running for the post of state superintendent of public instruction on the Democratic ticket , is widely known throughout Illinois as a dissident Democrat who in the past has been critical of Mayor Daley 's tight rein over Illinois Democratic Party matters . For Mayor Daley , who has been quietly preparing for his fifth election campaign early next year , the investigations are more crucial , however . The Daley leadership has come under increasing attack during the past several years . // *Investigation causes tremors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculate that the powerful Mayor , whose handling of student demonstrators during the 1968 Democratic convention drew widespread criticism , might even pull back from making another try at his coveted office if there is any possibility of major Democratic loss this year . Until the assessment issue blew up last week , it appeared that most of the Cook County Democratic ticket ? Mayor Daley 's ticket , in fact ? would sweep into office no matter what happened at the state level . Now this has changed altogether . Areas of independence Actually , the cracks have been widening in the party apparatus during the past several years . Some feel that any scandal at this point , which would probably go into the courts for long-running litigation , might be the final straw , toppling the whole party structure . ? In March of 1968 , two candidates supported by a coalition of dissident Democrats and reform Republicans were elected to the City Council despite stiff opposition by the regular Democratic faction . At least 13 city aldermen now are considered independent of Mayor Daley . ? In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Statehouse while carrying the state for GOP presidential candidate Richard M. Nixon . For the Democratic organization , this meant a marked loss of control over state and federal funds into the city and county . ? In late 1969 , dissident Democrats gobbled up 15 seats for the state constitutional convention in a special election . ? A predawn raid last December by the state 's attorney police ( given the green light by Democratic state 's attorney Edward V. Hanrahan ) in which two top Black Panther leaders were killed in an intense gun battle , promped widespread public anger and questioning . Outcries came from within the city 's one million-plus black community and white communities as well . ? Republicans stand a chance of picking up the Cook County board president post this November  --  naxt to Mayor Daley 's office the second most important political post in northern Illinois . For Democrats , who now control the post , this would be a grim double loss . The post means power and jobs . Moreover , it is , now occupied by George W. Dunne , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daley someday . Law and order ' Nonetheless , Mr. Daley has much going for him at this point . Were he to go before the voters this year , instead of early next year , he would , no doubt , be easily reelected . In a city where concern over " law and order " runs deep , Mayor Daley remains highly popular , particularly with the city 's large ethnic-bloc communities . So far , moreover , there has been no pub- lished evidence of any link between Mayor Daley 's office and the assessor 's office in the current investigations . Mayor Daley also has won widespread approval for the city 's bullish industrial growth . Since he first assumed office back in the mid-1950 's , say defenders , the city has seen unprecedented business and industrial expansion . The local skyline is dotted with new office buildings and there has been computerization of the police department . Mayor Daley has also been credited with development of the giant O'Hare International Airport , one of the world 's largest transportation complexes . More than fiction Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assessor 's office . A long-standing probe they feel , whether in fact proving wrongdoing or not , can only injure their ticket this year . And just perhaps , some say , bring about a major and far-reaching political alteration of Chicago politics in next year 's mayoral election . In a city where " the Last Hurrah " has long been more than just fictionalized politics . that would be something indeed !                     