@@734186

txt LOS ANGELIS I All  --  Actor John Wayne , survivor of two cancer operations , is facing still another bout with the disease , hospital officials said Friday . " The tissue removed fin an operation Wednesday certainly did have cancer throughout it , " said UCLA Medical Center Administrator Bernard Strohm . He would not discuss the 71-year-old actor 's chances of survival . Asked if Wayne or his family have been told how long the actor may live . Strohm said , " It has not come to that . " Wayne was reported in stable condilion after spending a comfortable night while recovering from Wednesday 's operation to remove an intestinal obstruction . His children were with him . " I suspect he feels right now like he fell off a horse , " Strohm said. , WAYNE 'S STOMACH was removed at UCLA Jan. 12 when , during a routine gall-bladder operation , it was found to be cancerous . The operation to remove the cancer lasted hours . Ile lost a lung to cancer 15 years ago . Strohm said the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted Tuesday after complaining of abdominal pains . No cancer had been found in Wayne 's intestines during the earlier surgery , but Strohm told reporters . " The possibility of cancer throughout his body is a subject that must he broached by physician . " No doctors attended the news conference Friday . Strohm said a physician will discuss the case with reporters next week . Wayne , whose birthday is May 26 , td // ten portrays tough . wise cowboys or miliitary heroes . He won an Academy Award in 1970 for his role as Rooster Coeburn in " True Grit . " his . last film was " The Shootist , " made in 1977 . It is about a gunman dying of cancer . HIS LAST PUBLIC appearance came during the Academy Awards ceremony April 9 . He told an enthusiastic audience that he and Oscar are " a little weather-beaten , but we 're still here and plan to be around a whole lot longer . " Strohm said Wayne agreed to participate ht an experimental cancer-treatment program , and " we anticipate he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Strohm said he does not know exactly what therapy Wayne will undergo . He said the hospital uses chemotherapy , Immunitherapy , radiation treatment , and " literally any combination thereof , " The movie star was moved out of the intensive care unit Thursday and has spent two restful nights since Wednesday 's surgery , hospital spokesman Al Hicks said earlier . WAYNE 'S CHILDREN have been at the hospital at various times during the last two days , officials said . It is the third time since January that the actor has been hospitalized . Wayne was admitted to Hoag Memorial Hospital in Newport Beach with bronchitis in April , following an appearance at the Academy Awards . Fifteen years ago , Wayne bragged that he had " beaten the ' Big C ' " when his cancerous left lung was removed . Last year , he underwent open-heart surgery .                     