@@729462

txt As angry city Democrats charged Governor Rockefeller and Republican legislative leaders with double-dealing , the State Legislature gave final approval tonight to a bill that would end rent control on apartments in New York City when present tenants voluntarily vacated them . This provision , termed vacancy decontrol , was combined with a proposal to continue existing rent control provisions upstate for two years . This strategy by the Republican leadership of combining what were two separate bills succeeded in blunting opposition to the decontrol plan . The Assembly vote was 78 to 62 ; in the Senate it was 29 to 25 . The Governor , who initiated the decontrol measure , is considered certain to sign it . The bill left upstate law // makers , who favored the bill 's two-year extension of the existing rent control law in their areas , less open to the complaints of city lawmakers about decontrol . The Assembly vote was along party lines with Republicans in favor , except for John G. Lopresto of Queens , and Democrats against , except for Stephen R. Greco of Buffalo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are landlords were six Democrats : Arthur 0 . Eve of Buffalo , Thomas R. Fortune of Brooklyn , Irwin J. Landes of Nassau , Harvey L. Strelzin of Brooklyn , Eli Wager of Nassau and Calvin Williams of Brooklyn . The Senate vote was along similar party lines . However , three New York City Republicans  --  John D. Calandra of the Bronx , Roy M. Goodman of Manhattan and John J. Marchi of Staten Island  --  crossed party lines to vote with the Democrats . Two upstate Democrats ? Frank J. Glinski and John J. LaFalce , both of Buffalo  --  joined Republicans in supporting the bill . The bill was presented in the lower house by Assemblyman John G. McCarthy , Republican of Suffolk County , who is the Housing Committee chairman , as a " moderate " attempt to deal with the thorny rent-control problem . ' Salve ' for Cancer What was a good program in the World War II soured , Mr. McCarthy said , and turned into a " cancer ' ' that has driven the new housing industry from New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with some sort of salve , " he added , asserting that city legislators and the New York City Council had become " political captives " of the issue and had thus been frozen into inaction . The fight against the measure was led by the deputy minority leader , Albert H. Blumenthal of Manhattan . He glared across the aisle at the State Commissioner of Housing and Community Renewal , Charles J. Urstadt , who was sitting at Mr. McCarthy 's elbow . Mr. Blumenthal emphasized the dual nature of the bill , which the Commissioner helped to draft , by referring to Mr. Urstadt as " Two-Gun Charlie . " Mr. Urstadt smilingly held open his suit jacket at one point to show he was unarmed . " I wish it were funny , " said Mr. Blumenthal who failed in an attempt to introduce an amendment that would have divided the bill into the two issues . " We 're sitting in this chamber and presiding at the destruction of my district and others in New York City . " When Mr. McCarthy protested that Commissioner Urstadt could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since he chose to be in the chamber " he should take ' the fruits of what he has wrought on the people of New York City . " The Democrats contended that vacancy decontrol was a device to bypass home rule for New York City and obviate the city 's new rent control law . It would force middle-income families from the city because vacated apartment rents would skyrocket , they argued , while elderly people would be forced to hang on to large , rent-controlled apartments in fear of higher rents elsewhere . But Mr. McCarthy said that on average a rent-controlled tenant paid only 7.5 per cent of his income for housing while most other people paid the 25 per cent or more that is the general rule of thumb . " Banks , builders , investors have all been demoralized , " he declared . They find too small a profit to renew the housing stock so that the city currently loses 20,000 units a year , he said . Rosemary R. Gunning , Republican - Conservative of Queens , said the vacancy decontrol would protect tenants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It will save our city , " she declared . Earlier in the day , the Assembly passed a measure offered by Miss Gunning as part of the Governor 's program that would provide for gradual decontrol over a two-year period in communities where 5 per cent or more of the apartments are vacant . New York City 's rate is less than 1 per cent . The rent control dispute consumed most of the session today . There were these other developments : QUEENS JUDGESHIPS Chief Judge Stanley H. Fuld of the Court of Appeals said today that he would ask Governor Rockefeller to veto a bill creating five Supreme Court judgeships in Queens . The measure , the result of a bipartisan agreement , has passed both houses of the Legislature . Judge Fuld said he was " violently opposed " to the bill because there had been " no assessment of the needs of the court system " in Queens . " It 's completely wrong in principle , " said Judge Fuld . ADJOURNMENT DELAYED The Legislature appeared likely to extend into next week as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off . Republican leaders in the Assembly talked of bringing several major bills out on ' the floor " next week . " CAPITAL PROJECT Without debate the Senate gave final legislative approval to a bill opposed by Mayor Lindsay requiring the approval of both the Board of , Estimate and the City Council before the city could authorize expenditures for capital construction . At present , the Mayor has the power to do this on his own . The bill was introduced by John J. Marchi , Staten Island Republican , and supported by Controller Abraham D. Beame . NOISE POLLUTION The Senate also gave final legislative approval to a measure giving State Environmental Henry L. Diamond power to establish standards for maximum noise emissions from any source . It added the word " noise " to a section of the state law dealing with air contaminants . Mr. Diamond said the bill could permit the banning of supersonic jets in this state , but that it was.not drawn for that purpose . BRONX JUDICIAL DISTRICT The Senate approved an amendment to the State Constitution providing for the establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now part of the First Judicial District with Manhattan . The measure must be approved by the Legislature again in 1973 and by the voters in a November referendum that year before it becomes effective . HOMOSEXUAL RIGHTS , A bill was defeated in the Assembly that would have hibited discrimination in hiring and housing accommodations against a person because of his " sexual orientation . " The bill , aimed at protecting homosexuals , was sponsored by Assemblyman William F. Passannante , Manhattan Democrat .                     