@@732089

txt Secretary of State Henry Kissinger warned the Soviet Union Thursday against aiding the Portuguese Communist Party in its struggle to seize newer in Lisbon . He said any Russian involvement in Portugal 's troubled affairs would violate the newly-signed Helsinki agreement on European security . Kissinger made his remarks in an address to a Southern farm group . Later , at a news conference , Kissinger said he would not send American personnel to supervise an interim Middle East peace agreement without prior Congressional endorsement . KISSINGER SAID , " We would ask Congress to vote before proceeding in using Americans to operate an early warning electronic system in the Sinai Peninsula . " Kissinger ruled out the use of the military at the strategic Gidi or Mitla passes , saying he would use " only small numbers of volunteer unarmed civilians for technical assistance . " The use of Americans in either of the passes is considered crucial to any Israeli agreement to abandon those strategic areas . He did not agree that legislators would have a veto over any interim agreement between Israel and Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill to the Idea of Americans in the Sinai . In his speech , Kissinger said that detente with the Soviet Union has never given the Russians the right " to relax tensions selectively or as a cover for the pursuit of unilateral advantage . ' . ' Neither should Moscow assume , he continued , " that it has the option , either directly or indirectly , to influence events contrary to the right of the Portuguese people to determine their own future . " WHEN PRESSED at his press conference to explain what the Russians had done to interfere , Kissinger was vague . Actually , he indicated he was talking primarily about the future . " The situation is reaching the point where temptations may be rising , " he said . In any event , he added that there was little the United States could do directly to prevent Soviet interference . He did acknowldge that the prime problems in Portugal arise from the troubled history of that country , that any weakened Western role is the result of self-infliced wounds . STILL , HOWEVER , Kissinger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Portugal . Without making any direct threat , Kissinger nevertheless said pointedly that " the involvement of external powers for this purpose .. . . is inconsistent with any principle of European security . " This was a reference to an agreement signed by the Soviet Union , the United States and 33 other governments earlier this month in Finland establishing principles of European security and cooperation . IF MOSCOW DOES try to subvert a democratic movement in Portugal , Kissinger said , " we will oppose and speak out " against it . Kissinger was in Birmingham to speak to the Southern Commodity Producers Conference , at the invitation of Sen. John Sparkmnn ED. , Ala. ) , chairman of the ' Senate Foreign , Relations Committee . The secretary has been making increasing numbers of trips into the country in an effort to offset increasing congressional opposition to his policies . AS IN'THOSE previous kips , Kissing . er 's one-day stay in Birmingham was designed to go past Congress to the people and to cultivate the good will of Sparkman as well . The over-all thrust of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a unified American foreign policy , one supported by the people , as providing the strength necessary to fight off challenges by the Soviet Union and other adversaries . Kissinger indicated that his critics were counter-productive ; their arguments ? actually weakening the United States and eliminating the necessary public support .                     