@@733970

txt Scientific acoustical evidence establishes a high probability that two gunmen fired at President John F. Kennedy . . . . ( He was probably assassinated as a result of a conspiracy . With the first of these sentences from its summary report , the House Assassinations Committee makes what may turn out to be a genuine contribution to public understanding of Nov. 22 , 1963 . But the second sentence suggests that the committee is , after all , more interested in inflaming than informing . That detracts from its recent reputation for careful work and needlessly jabs a national nerve . The committee developed its acoustical evidence conscientiously . It came from a Dallas police radio tape . A motorcycle officer in the Kennedy motorcade had his " transmit " button down so no one else could use the channel , a fact that conspiracy theorists consider highly suspicious . Committee staffers located the tape in July and concluded that the channel had been kept open innocently . Then they realized something else : the open mike and tape would have picked up the gunshot sounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conclusion that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone ; he fired three shots . What if there were more ? Quickly , a re-enactment in Dallas was arranged to create a comparison tape and a reputable acoustic expert concluded that there was a 50-50 chance of a fourth shot . For further authentication , the committee went to two other acoustic experts . They concluded ? now with 95 percent certainty ? that there had been a fourth shot . Sound patterns seemed to show that it came from a grassy knoll , and that it could not have been an accidental discharge but was fired toward the motorcade . Was there a second gunman ? No clear judgment is po : ; ! - ; ible for weeks , until the committee publishes its detailed supporting material . Some credence is lent to the acoustical evidence by spectators interviewed by the Warren Commission who said they heard shots ? one saw a puff of smoke ? from the direction of the grassy knoll . But many more spectators , including policemen , testified that they did not . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult task of weighing the new acoustical material against the testimony of eyewitnesses . Still , for the moment , it appears that the committee has developed evidence seriously suggesting a second gunman and that it did so in a responsible way . ? What , then , is so troubling about the committee 's assertion of probable conspiracy ? The problem is the word . It is technically correct . If there were two gunmen , then either two independent assassins pulled their triggers in the self-same second , an incredible coincidence , or there was , indeed , a " conspiracy . " But as students of assassination learn quickly , " conspiracy " means much more to the lay public . The word is freighted with dark connotations of malevolence perpetrated by enemies , foreign or political . Yet " two maniacs instead of one " might be more like it . That may , in fact , be closer to what the committee believes . The committee does not doubt that it was Oswald 's shots that killed President Kennedy . And the summary report pointedly denies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not the Cubans , not the anti-Castro Cuban groups , not the mob , not Federal agents . Implicitly , . the report dilutes the word " conspiracy . " But one should not%have to be a close or sophisticated reader to understand that . It is not hard to find language that suggests , say , " two maniacs " rather than " massive plot . " Considering how open the subject is to suspicion and exploitation , we wish the committee had found it .                     