@@732316

txt The recruiting and training in this country of American veterans for mercenary operations in Angola have come to an abrupt halt , according to sources close to the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency . This is the apparent result of publication of an article in this newspaper late last week detailing these covert activities . The article received wide publicity and is believed to have prompted an urgent , high-level reassessment and clampdown . After initial White House denials ? later modified ? this newspaper returned to its sources , who again confirmed last week 's account . The main thrust of recruitment now has moved to the other side of the Atlantic , these sources say , where certain African embassies in West European capitals are quietly recruiting Europeans , using American and other funds . But the clampdown is not thought to have halted the operations of the 300 or so American mercenaries already in Angola , Their functions include direct combat , advice , and training of local indigenous forces , House committee acts Other new developments : ? Monitor Washington correspondent Robert P. Hey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has probed past CIA activities , has responded to allegations in the Monitor article by calling the CIA in for questioning by committee staff behind closed doors this week . " We 'll look into " all the allegations of increased CIA and U.S. involvement in the Angola war , says a key staff source . The committee representatives plan to grill the CIA in detail on the extent of its role ? direct or indirect . If this questioning yields " something earthshaking , " then the committee can be expected to hold public hearings later this month . Otherwise information gleaned is likely to be released in a public report . The committee plans to concentrate on two broad issues , correspondent Hey reports : ? In making any grants of money or weaponry to nations or By Albert J. Forbes , staff artist Mercenaries in Angola ? recruitment clampdown ? groups which oppose the Soviet-backed MPLA ( Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola ) in Angola , could the CIA or the U.S. reasonably be expected to have known that this money would be used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Some congressional sources have indicated the CIA has led them to believe it was not involved in the Angolan war . If this committee finds the CIA knew ? or ought to have known ? that its aid would be used in Angola , then the committee and possibly the full Congress may feel itself deceived by the CIA . ? Has the U.S. been helping train mercenaries in either , of two ways : by giving them instruction at American training facilities , or by sending American training specialists to foreign military bases or even to private property to conduct training there ? ? The recruitment in the United States of American citizens for service in a foreign army is illegal under Title 18 of the United States code . It is known that the FBI and Justice Department are investigating a variety of alleged cases involving the recruitment of Americans for service in southern Africa . ? Sources close to Sen. John V. Tunney ( D ) of California , who was associated last month with Sen. Dick Clark ( D ) of Iowa in the fight against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " very , very concerned " at the Monitor report . They said that the Senator believes it raises the basic question of how the CIA can be reined in . Senator Tunney is described as planning two approaches to this issue : One , to take a very hard look at every appropriations bill from now on in which funds might be hidden for covert use , starting with the foreign military assistance bill which comes onto the Senate floor soon . Two , to seek further support for the resolution he introduced in the past session which would require members of Congress given secret briefings by the CIA to pass that information along to all those on their own congressional committees . The article in last Friday 's Monitor said that , according to senior mercenary officers close to the Central Intelligence Agency , the CIA was , indirectly , recruiting American ex-servicemen , training them , dispatching them to southern Africa , contributing toward their pay , and providing them and the indigenous pro-Western forces in Angola with light and heavy weaponry . Administration backs off Monitor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be reliable , we have total confidence in our correspondent , and we stand by the Monitor story completely . " After an initial sharp reaction to the article , in which the CIA branded it as " nonsense " and the White House termed it as " without foundation , " the administration later appeared to back off somewhat and began to issue far more qualified denials . In answer to reporters ' questions Friday , presidential spokesman Ron Nessen said : " No agency of the United States Government is using American mercenaries in Angola nor is any United States Government agency recruiting , hiring , or training mercenaries . " But when asked whether any private company or contractor might be doing so ( a traditional covert method of CIA operation ) , Mr. Nessen said not " as far as I know . " Queried about U.S. funds being used for such purposes by foreign governments , Mr. Nessen said : " It is no secret that the American Government is giving modest amounts of assistance to some African countries ; but I think it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of knowing precisely how every last penny is spent of that assistance . " The presidential spokesman was asked about the possibility of any U.S. agency hiring non-American mercenaries . He declined to answer , saying he could not add to his first statement . // *U.S. halts training for Angola // Later , in an interview Saturday with NBC , President Ford denied that the United States was training foreign mercenaries in Angola . He said , " We do expend some federal funds or United States funds in trying to be helpful ; but we are not training foreign mercenaries . " The United States , said Mr. Ford , is " working with other countries that feel they have an interest in giving the Angolans an opportunity to make the decision for themselves , and I think this is a proper responsibility of the federal government . " In an effort to clarify these official statements , The Christian Science Monitor subsequently posed three specific questions to the White House ' : 1 . Can you state categorically that there are no American mercenaries in Angola ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or foreign government or faction or group either recruiting or hiring or training U.S. mercenaries for Angola ? 3 . The President said in his interview with NBC that the U.S. is not training foreign mercenaries in Angola ? is the United States training either foreign or U.S. mercenaries anywhere else in the world for Angola ? Mr. Nessen , in reply , said once again that he could not go beyond his previous answers given on Friday nor beyond what President Ford said Saturday to NBC . The whole issue of American involvement in Angola is highly sensitive at this moment , both domestically and internationally . The U.S. Congress is expected to take up the whole question of U.S. covert assistance to the pro-West factions in Angola when it returns from its current recess . African nations to meet On the international front , the Organization of African Unity is scheduled to meet late this week in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia , first at foreign minister level , then at summit level . At least 16 of the OAU 's 47 members have recognized the government set up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition of the MPLA by OAU members is expected to divide the Addis Ababa meeting with the dispute possibly centering on whether or not to offer the MPLA membership in the OAU . The heavy Soviet and Cuban involvement on the MPLA side is more than offset in some black African eyes by the much less evident South African , and to a degree American , . involvement on the side of two liberation movements fighting against the MPLA ? the FNLA ( National Front ) and UNITA ( National Union ) . According to Monitor sources , the 300 or so Americans who last week had been poised to go to Angola as soon as the CIA could obtain the necessary funds , were virtually all former servicemen with combat experience in Indo-China . These sources say that about half of this group underwent training on the sprawling Ft . Benning , Georgia , military area , during Christmas week . Ft . Benning Ft . Benning is the headquarters of the 197th Infantry Brigade , of the U.S. Army Infantry School , and of the 36th Engineers , Training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including all elements of parachute jumping . The vast training area is described by a U.S. military source as having the right terrain for Africa . It has been used in the past for training foreign military personnel . The same military source , describing the many big farms surrounding the area and the pro-military sentiments of the local population , stated that it was entirely possible for a group of mercenaries to train in the area with only minimal contact with the fort itself . A public-affairs officer for the fort insisted at the weekend that there was no training whatsoever at the fort for mercenaries , foreign nationals , or retired or ex-U.S. personnel . Reports of recruiting A number of reports have appeared in recent days and weeks about several different recruiting operations within the United States . For instance , two members of the U.S. Cuban community in Florida claim to have 360 Cubans signed up and ready to go to Angola . But although a number of Cubans are known to be eager to join mercenary groups in Angola if they could , well-informed sources within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular operation , believing it to be a " ripoff . " Other reports have referred to the recruiting of black American ex-servicemen being carried out by the Congress of Racial Equality ( CORE ) . But CORE spokesmen insist that their aim is simply to put together a group of medical volunteers for Angola and that their program is purely humanitarian .                     