@@732518

txt The State Assembly tonight passed a bill to allow savings banks to offer free checking accounts , after defeating a handful of attempts to amend the bill with require ! ments that the banks also inI vest more in poor neighborIhoods and in the state . The vote , taken at 10:30 P.M. , was 91 to 45 , with seven abstentions . The measure now goes to the Senate , where its chances of passage are considered very good since it is devoid of the mandates that the banks establish a mortgage pool for housing in poor and marginal communities that a handful of liberal Democrats had sought to append to it . The bill , sponsored by Assemblyman George Cincotta , Democrat of Brooklyn , and the Assembly Banking Committee , allows the savings banks to open checking accounts and permits overdraft privileges up to $1,000 . The checking accounts must be free , under the bill , but the banks are specifically left free to impose minimum balance requirements . In the Senate , the same bill is sponsored by Senator William T. Conklin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader . Because of the strong objections by several liberal Assemblymen to giving the lucrative checking account business to the savings banks without requiring " social " concessions on mortgages ' and investment policies in return , the savings bank checking account issue has become one of the most difficult and controversial measures acted in the Legislature this year . The sense of urgency surrounding the measure in its several guises was added to in recent weeks by the approaching May 31 deadline , imposed by the State Court of Appeals , // for the closing down of some 165,000 so-called NOW accounts , for Negotiable Order of Withdrawal . These accounts were opened by the savings banks before the courts ruled they had not been legally authorized by the Legislature . Tonight 's vote was a complete victory for the savings banks , which used a strong public lobbying effort to push the bill through without any amendments mandating how the new money should be invested . In doing so , the savings bankers made common ccuse with the Republican-dominated Senate , which served notice on the Assembly that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was also a victory for the Assembly 's Democratic leadership under Speaker Stanley Steingut . His efforts three weeks ago to pass a " naked " bill , devoid of amendments , was frustrated by an unexpected alliance of liberals pushing for the mortgage amendments and conservatives who feared the acquisition of the lucrative checking account business by the savings banks would harm small upstate commercial banks . Mr. Steingut and his staff labored hard today to extract agreements from the liberal Assemblymen to oppose the amendments that were expected to be offered . So when the voting began , the Assembly saw , for example , Assemblyman Arthur 0 . Eve , Democrat of Buffalo , who sponsored a bill including stiff mortgage-investment requirements that passed two weeks ago , vote against similar amendments this time and to vote far the Cincotta bill . The Senate leadership has already made it plain to the Assembly that it would not allow the Eve bill to pass , a stance that angered many liberals but that evidently persuaded the majority that the " naked " Cincotta bill was their only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end , the Assembly membership was persuaded by two main arguments in favor of the measure . One was that the savings banks needed more business ? their profits have suffered in recent years ; the other , that it would foster competition between the two banking systems , ultimately to the benefit of the consumers . Other legislative actions today included the following : EXEMPTIONS FOR AGED The Assembly unanimously passed a bill adopting a sliding scale of income levels by persons over 65 that may be exempted from local taxes . It would replace the current law , which allows a 50 percent exemption for persons with incomes up to $6,500 . The bill 's sponsors argued that since this ceiling had been raised almost annually by the Legislature , it had reached the point where the poorest aged persons received a smaller benefit than those at or near the ceiling . The bill , which must still pass the Senate , would impose a range of in ! comes and exemptions from a 100 percent exemption for persons making less than $2,000 annually to a 25 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . POLICE RADIO BAN DEFEATED The Assembly defeated a bill that would have made the simple possession of a radio capable of monitoring pace radio calls in a car a misdemeanor . The current law prohibits the installation of such a radio , but the bill 's sponsors , supported by police groups charging that burglars were using the radios to stay a step ahead of the law , argued that portable radios working on batteries did not have to be " installed " and therefore were not adequately covered by the law . ISRAEL BONDS The Assembly passed a banking law amendment to allow savings banks to sell State of Israel bonds  --  something cornercial banks may already do . " The measure passed after being hailed as a gesture of " solidarity " with Israel , and after a proposed amendment to include Irish Republic bonds was defeated .                     