@@733482

txt Letters JERE W. LORI ) JR. , M.D. New York , Feb. 2 , 1978ALICE HERRINGTONABRAHAM D. BEAME ... Letters On Obtaining First-Rate Surgical Care To the Editor : The report of the New York State Assembly 's Medical Practice Task Force , described in The Times on Feb. 1 , raises some Interesting questions which the public , the potential pool of future surgical patients , must consider carefully . The report states that " the Medical Society of the County of New York restated its position that medical ethics require the surgeon to obtain the informed consent of a patient before permitting a resident to operate I , . . . . The problem with that proposal is that the majority of private patients might accept only the attending surgeon to be the primary operator . Under these conditions , residents in training will have minimal operative experience and following completion of their residencies will be forced to obtain their training on private patients without supervision . In the foreseeable future there would be few qualified surgeons available to care for patients , both private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon by qualified residents in a surgical program wherein graduated responsibility is the norm fare poorly compared to those operated . upon by experienced attending surgeons ? Dr. Steinhardt is quoted as saying , " Those who argue that surgery done this way is good for the patient have to prove it . " In 1931 Dr. George J. Heuer initiated one of the great residencies of this century at the newly opened New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center . Dr. Heuer received his surgical training at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in a seven-year residency under the illustrious Dr. William Stewart Halsted . There were two resident services , each with a chief resident , seven assistant residents and four interns . To accommodate the former professor of surgery and his associates from the old New York Hospital , a separate surgical service was created with rotation of admissions to the hospital through the three services , It should be noted that many of the attending surgeons from the old hospital were outstanding in their field and some were nationally renowned . From 1931 through 1935 data were meticulously collected concerning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services . The results were astonishingly clear that the patients fared far better on the two residency services than on the privately conducted service . These data held true for every category of major surgery . With the remarkable advances in surgical knowledge and technique , this method of education is even more valid today . As a result of this four-year study the third surgical service was incorporated into Dr. Heuer 's residency program . The excellence of this service continued through Dr. Heuer 's tenure and those of his successors , notably Dr , Frank Glenn , to the present . From the residents graduated from this program , there are more than 10 professors of surgery and countless others who perform well as teachers and practicing surgeons . I believe the evidence Is overwhelming that the current method of training residents is not only in the best interest of all patients ' health , but also is the only way to insure first-rate surgical care for the coming generation of patients . JERE W. LORD JR. , M.D. New York , Feb. 2 , 1978 The writer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Medicine , and chief of vascular surgery , Cabrini Health Care Center , Columbus Hospital Division . Seal Kill : To Thwart the Witnesses Grass-Root Support For New York City To the Editor : Your endorsement of the seal kill , based on the words of selected spokesmen for the Canadian Government , ignores vital data : The Canadian Government has passed a law which effectively prohibits the presence at the slaughter of those who object to the kill of seals . This law , if it were enacted in the U.S. , would be a violation of the First Amendment . The Canadian law prohibits all helicopters ? except those of the Government ? from landing on the ice in the vicinity of the seals . This insures that only carefully controlled clubbing of the baby seals is viewed . We challenge The Times : We will pay the rental cost of helicopters for your reporters and those of other papers and media ( as we have done in the past ) to cover this year 's kill  --  if you can obtain permission from the Canadian Government for us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without disturbing the seals  --  and for Brian Davies to join the group as leader . Brian Davies , the chief world spokesman in this protest , To the Editor : We were very discouraged by the reasoning which led you to endorse Bella Abzug over Bill Green editorial Feb. 8 . By definition , a new challenger tor a Congressional seat lacks specific Congressional experience and the personal relationships with other Congressmen which can be helpful in passing controversial legislation . However , in the broader sense of the term , Mr. Green is more experienced than his Democratic opponent : He has proven legislative ability  --  he was widely praised for his work in the New York State Assembly in the 1960 's  --  as well as significant Federal executive branch experience relevant to New York City 's problems ( which you recognized in your editorial ) . He has the kind of low-keyed yet knowledgeable and firm approach to problems that should quickly make a respected voice for progressive urban policies with both parties . Bill Green gives voters in the 18th Congressional District a chance to send @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard . DANIEL C. COCFIRAN , L. SCOTT MILLER New York , Feb. 8 , 1978 The writers are , respectively , president and a governing board rnember of the Ripon Society of New York . ? To the Editor : We wish to take exception to your Feb. 8 editorial on the special election for Congress in the 21st Congressional District in the Bronx . To describe the four-way contest as a " struggle for leadership in the Puerto Rican community , " is inaccurate and misleading . While it may be true that the largest ethnic group in the community is Hispanic , there are a considerable number of blacks , Jews , Irish and Italians in the district . Describing the race as a " contest primarily between Mr. Garcia and Mr. Velez " is equally erroneous and in addition , unfair . The registration figure 's provided by the New York City Board of Elections reveal that the Democratic enrollees outnumber all others by a margin of 20-1 . Assemblyman Louis Nine is the candidate of the Democratic Party . As colleagues of Mr. Nine In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his devotion and dedication to his constituency . In recognition of the outstanding leadership qualities he has demonstrated , his fellow Democrats have elected him to the prestigious post of chairman of the Democratic Conference . For the foregoing reasons we sin . cerely believe that Assemblyman Nine is the most qualified and best equipped candidate to represent every seemeni of the ** C. DEARIE Etil ELLA 13 . Diens , Geom .. FRIEDMAN STAN P. WAr Su Albany , Fel ) . 8 , 1978 has been specifically forbidden by the Canadian Government to attend the kill . The above policy Is what suddenly makes the kill of baby seals " humane . " ALICE HERRINGTON President , Friends of Animals New York , Jan. 31 , 1978 To the Editor : Your editorial of Feb. 8 ignores the one candidate in the 18th Congressional District not committed to urban austerity on the Felix Rohatyn model : the Labor Party 's Paul Gallagher . While Mrs. Abzug and Mr. Green debate what proportion of our city 's municipal decay should be shipped to Washington for salvage and what should lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities , unleashing nuclear power to improve our Northeast power grid , and reversing the declining intellectual powers of school-age children through a focus on scientific education and ending drug trafficking ( including marijuana ) . Mr. Gallagher has organized support for the N.A.A.C.P. 's call for nuclear energy development among trade unions and other groups , while debunking the British-inspired environmentalists ' smear campaign against the N.A.A.C.P. He is a major spokesman for his party 's program for massive expansion of the Export-Import Bank , which would stimulate our capital goods sector , provide jobs , case our balance-of-payments crisis and rescue our beleaguered dollar . CHARLES TATE U.S. Labor Party Press Staff New York , Feb. 10 , 1978 Regular Sigh To the Editor : If Russell Baker wants to know where the " regular " people are ( column Jan. 31 ) , I can tell him . They 're in theaters everywhere sitting behind the " long people " and straining to see the show ! Believe me I know  --  I 'm a " regular " fan of his . RUTH SI TAPIRO New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like to call your attention to a very major national action which took place in Washington last week and which should convince Congress and the Administration that the people of our country want New York City to he helped . I refer to the White House Conference on Balanced National Growth and Economic Development , in which I participated and which lasted for five days  --  Jan. 29 to Feb. 2 . This conference was set up pursuant to a law passed by Congress . It was a grassroots gathering of about 500 people from all our states and territories ? representatives of state and local government , labor , industry , academicians , and the public generally . The conference dealt with six major national themes which affect the growth and economic development of our country . Each of these themes was discussed in four round-table workshops of about 20 participants . Thus a total of about 80 participants , from all around the country , dealt with each of the six major themes . In the theme " Government and Budget : The Fiscal Dimensions of Growth and Change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the four workshops on this theme agreed and recommended that the Federal Government has a responsibility to assist local governments in their debt problems when it is clear that such local government has no access to the private credit market and that its default or bankruptcy would have a regional or national impact with which the state could not cope . Of course , appropriate guidelines and supervision would be required . I have been Informed that In the fourth workshop this subject of Federal assistance for local borrowing did not come up for discussion at all . Consequently there was no action . It is clear that Congress has now heard from about 75 percent of the grass-roots participants , from across our country , saying that New York City or any other city in similar circumstances must be given the borrowing support it needs . Congress must listen to their voices and respond affirmatively . ABRAHAM D. BEAM ! ' New York , Feb. 6 , 1978 Pan American Bottleneck To the Editor : Subject : The Panama Canal Treaty ratification . Why the fuss ? Given a world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not . Given enemy satellite surveillance and probable missile guidance : Would it not be of considerable value to the enemy to know that at least some portion of our forces will be exactly where they are expected to be  --  either in or rushing to get in line to get into the Panama Canal , where a very unsophisticated placement of dynamite can keep them bottled up for weeks while atomic missiles take care of the stragglers waitine in the Pacific or the Gulf of Mexico ? WYMAN HOLM ES North Reading , Mass. , Feb. 4 , 1978 On New York 's Special Election                     