@@728694

txt Jerris Leonard , Justice Department civil rights chief , pledged today prompt Federal action next fall against supposedly desegregated Southern schools that , in fact , discriminate internally against black students . Mr. Leonard acknowledged , ' in an interview that ? the department had not acted fully on some instances of such inschool segregation occurring ' late in the last school year . But , he said , if next fall there is " any attempt to segregate children within a school , we 'll move on it as quickly as it comes to our attention . We 'll bring school boards back to court for contempt action . " Mr. Leonard spoke at a time of increasing expressions of bitterness at in-school segregation , described by some observers as so severe that . for some black students , newly de- segregated schools have become " hostile jungles . " New accounts of such veiled segregation were offered today at an unusual Senate hearing . Five Southern black students testified before a special committee looking into desegregation and educational opportunity . The students , their passionate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hands to hear , described extensive discrimination , expulsions and even prosecutions against black students . Tells of ' Hostile Jungle ' They said black students in the South were through " taking low " ? accepting such discrimination without protest Lowanda Lovette , who was expelled from high school in Rocky Mount , N.C. , for participating in a protest , said that when black students questioned discriminatory school rules , " you are called a Communist or a black militant . It 's like being in a hostile jungle . You ca n't learn in that kind of environment . " Teachers , she said , felt black students ' complaints were to tally unjustified . " After all , they had allowed us to come to their nice white school , " Miss Lovette said sarcastically . Anita Kleinpeter , who will be a senior in the Lake Providence , La. , high school , said black children could not vote for school officers , were put in separate classes on a separate schedule and had a different lunch hour . Back Seats on Bus White students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join , Miss Kleinpeter said , " and then we were told we could n't use the instruments . They said the uniforms were at the cleaners . " Tyrone Thomas , a Mobile , Ala. , high school student , said in his school black football players were allowed " to take the ball 99 yards downfield and then the coach calls in whitey to score the touchdown and get all the credit . " In some cases , he said , he and other black students were required to sit in the back of the school bus . Five Senators , an unusually large number , appeared at the hearing , which Senator Walter F. Mondale , Democrat of Minnesota , described as unusual in the history of the Senate . " We 're always listening to the experts , " he said . " Now we have a chance to listen to the consumers . " In an interview after the hearing , Mr. Leonard ' acknowledged the presence of in-school segregation at schools that desegregated late in the last school year . The practices , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice Department , which had not appealed because of what he described as the need to use legal resources on a broader basis . His reference was to " the basic job of establishing the principle of desegregation " throughout the South . He cited the Federal projection that 97 per cent of black children in 11 Southern states would attend schools in desegregated school districts next fall . " We'retalking about 97 per cent on paper " Mr. Leonard said , the figure deriving from what school districts have been ordered to do by courts or have contracted to do in negotiations with the Federal Government . Next fall , however , virtually all school districts must be and will be desegregated , he said , and when that task is accomplished , the Justice Department will turn to problems like inschool segregation . Mr. Leonard said some sporadic disorders arising from widespread desegregation might occur next fall . But , he added , recent reports from the field have somewhat allayed his concern . " In any event , we 'll be alert , " he said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as quickly as humanly possible . " Monitoring to see whether school districts comply with court orders or desegregation agreements , he said , will be the responsibility of the civil rights office of the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . Compliance , Mr. Leonard said , includes nondiscriminatory treatment of black principals and teachers . Officials of the National Education Association reported this week to the Mondale committee that there had been extensive discriminatory dismissals and demotions of black staff members as schools have been ; desegregated . Mr. Leonard described two complaints of such discriminto tion made to the Justice Department , in Georgia and Louisiana , and said the depart , - ment had taken legal action in response .                     