@@729068

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor The Poor Need Railroads To the Editor : It seems the height of hypocrisy for U. S. Transportation Secretary John A. Volpe to herald the rescue of passenger train service through the newly formed Rail Passenger Corporation , while he allows such major commuter rail facilities as the Jersey Central to go down the drain of bankruptcy and dissolution . Editorial Dec. 6 . Meanwhile national studies and statistics highlight the acute crisis , of the cities , aggravated by growing unemployment , attributable in large part to the unavailability of mass rail transportation to carry ghetto residents ? to distant points of employment with new industries relocated in suburban and rural areas .. The pressing need is not to rescue the long-distance passenger rail lines , but to consolidate and utilize the disorganized criss-crossing network of unused rails near urban centers , to create rapid transit trackage at or near the highway lanes connecting the urban hubs with the new residential and industrial suburban periphery ; and to make it possible for the millions of the work force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , safely and with a minimum of frustrating disorganization . Instead , our . Federal and state governments are preoccupied with huge , multibillion dollar highway construction projects that attract more and more automobiles , destroy our countryside , cause ever more insoluble congestion problems , and create an everincreasing haze of poisonous atmosphere pollution . Regional planning groups have repeatedly demonstrated that the investment in efficient , modern , rapid rail transit , of a fraction of the billions now spent on roadways , would in time not only save huge sums needlessly wasted on highways , but would also achieve preservation of our vanishing greenlands , our ecology , and our urban culture . When will we put such programs to work ? SOLOMON GOLAT Newark , Dec. 2 , 1970 ? Harlem Without Reality To the Editor : As I was once connected with " The Storefront , " I read with interest Ned O'Gorman 's Nov. 25 Op-Ed article " Harlem : Beauty , Dreams , Children . " Repeatedly , one senses that Mr. O'Gorman is describing not Harlem and its children , but rather Ned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harlem seems to be the mirror before which Mr. O'Gorman , " writer and poet , " preens . His paean to the underprivileged brings to mind the many colonialists who , since the time of Columbus , have been offering samples of the " noble savage " to the white world . Reading Mr. O'Gorman 's luminescent prose , one begins to understand the raison d'etre of black separatism . SAM SHEA New York , Nov. 30 , 1970 0 With Overkill on Our Side To the Editor : The uproar over our tragic refusal of asylum to the Lithuanian sailor may drown out its most serious lesson ? that the position and honest intentions of an entire nation can suddenly be distorted by the error of a very small number of people acting under confusion and pressure . When and if we ? and Russians , Englishmen , Frenchmen , and Chinese ? come to even small crises loaded with nuclear missiles , bombers and submarines , with tactical nuclear bombs and with chemical and biological weapons , the decisions will be made by fallible , real people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened to some extent in this way by the deployment of our own weapons . Human behavior in crises must be given much greater weight in resisting the pressure to build up more and more overkill . PETER DEMOS Belmont , Mass. , Dec. 4 , 1970 ? Up the SST To the Editor : Your sarcastic attitude in your Dec. 2 editorial " Downwind from the SST " indicates that although you are neither scientist nor economist you have the privilege of misinterpreting inadequate data to your own advantage . Your scientists who claim that water vapor in the stratosphere will end the climate as we know it are most likely the same people who said the Westford space needles program would also pollute the stratosphere " forever . " Why not suggest some controlled experiments ? Or why not accept the launch of the early Saturns , which carried water loads and emptied them into the stratosphere ? As for the noise , I 'm sure that engineers will develop a system that will make the noise no worse than existing jets . Research and development is still the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your airlines will not buy French , English or even Russian SST 's if the competition warrants ? Will you stop them from landing in this country ? Why not train your editorial prowess on the big ? ? business and the public utilities that pollute the rivers and air and get a Federal law passed with heavy fines and jail terms for the corporation heads . That would stop the mercury poisoning rapidly . A law to stop the soap companies and only allow use of bio-degradable products would also help . ALAN S. GROSS ? Lakewood , N. J. , Dec. 7 , 1970 The writer is deputy technical director of the U.S. Satellite Communications Agency . ? Meo Resistance in Laos To the Editor : Most Americans who have been involved in any way in U.S. programs in Laos will reject as unfounded Prof. Jonathan Mirsky 's characterization ( letter Nov. 24 ) of the Meo tribesmen as " mercenaries . " As he says , quoting Edgar Buell , the Meo people of Northeast Laos have paid an enormous price in blood in this war . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ? a resistance movement motivated by hatred and mistrust of the North Vietnamese invaders.of their lands on the part of a people who have always before managed to live free of foreign domination in their rugged hills . To agree with this view it is not also necessary to agree that the U.S. has been correct in helping the Meo to resist , although I believe it was . Right or wrong , the U.S. provides the help and the Meo have more than lived up to their side of the bargain at enormous cost to themselves . It defies common sense to maintain that courage and self-sacrifice of this description , involving a whole people , are available on the marketplace in Laos and reflect nothing more than greed on the part of Gen. Vang Pao and his tribesmen . What many Americans forget or perhaps never knew is that the Meo , Deterring New York To . the Editor : The letter from Prof. M. Ethan Katsh . ( Nov. 25 ) , which questions the enforcement provisions of the proposed new air pollution code now before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's content . Professor Katsh criticized the proposed fines as being too small to deter a major polluter , but fines and penalties are only one of several enforcement tools included ? by the Environmental Protection Administration ( E.P.A. ) in its draft . Other provisions that we feel will make it possible for E.P.A . to mount a more STEINBECK 'S MONTEREY The scenic bus disgorges us at a posh motel across a freeway on the edge of town . Somewhere in the fog lies Steinbeck 's Monterey ; unschooled philosophers and sardine smacks keep calling ma . I creep through ghostly streets , rhomboids of glass-eyed bins and used car lots , to a bristle of haloed masts floating on a black harbor unmoving as a valley swamp . Gulls melt in mist ; the wharf drowses in the smell of deep-fried fish . Yawning the gift shop woman wraps up my abalone shell . " All dead , " she says . The fish are gone . The cannery is a rotting , rusty shed , a trap forfools whom a writer hooked with pipe dreams in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out . This murky night is meant to sleep away ; defeated and damp , I ride a taxi back . JACK LURIA or at least a large number of them , lived briefly under Communist rule in the late 1950 's and early ' 60 's . They found the harsh exactions of the Pathet Lao Government , supported by North Vietnamese advisers and troops , so little to their liking that a large portion of the tribe welcomed an oppore tunity to fight for their freedom to live in their traditional untrammeled style . Their costly and brave stand in this cause is one to be honored rather than deprecated and dismissed . DOUGLAS S. BLAUFARR Washington , Nov. 25 , 1970 The author served as First Secretary in the U.S. Embassy in Laos , 1964-66 . ? Puerto Ricans in Education To the Editor : Great strides are , at ? long last , be= ing made in post-secondary education of Puerto Rican ? youth on the mainland . The number who entered ? four . year colleges this fall is estimated by Aspira of America to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the earliest year for which figures are available . While this increase is not . exactly something to cheer about in view of the fact that in New York City alone there are 250,000 Puerto Rican public school students , it is a significant . change and a hopeful one for the Puerto Rican community . Unfortunately , this new infusion of highly motivated , professional young people back into a community system desperately needful of just their kind of skills and leadership capabilities is being thwarted in the field of educe. tion , one of the key areas ' of social development . In contrast to law , health care , social work and government , the public school establishment in New York seems determined to continue its policy of no-room-at-the-top for Puerto Ricans . Recent administrative appointments show no clear improvement over the March 1969 picture when there were only fourteen Puerto Ricans , most of them " acting , " among the school system 's 3,008 principals and assistant principals . Chancellor Harvey Scribner of the Board of Education ' has courageously pointed out how present arbitrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action and responsibility for school improvement . These practices , which require city as well as state certification , have an even broader and more pernicious effect  --  they discourage the young from entering the system at all . The sixties was a decade of deterioration of the school system . More money , new curricula and any other such changes will come to nothing If the teachers , principals and administrators continue to force the future Into a pattern set rigidly in the past . Chancellor Scribner deserves widely based support In his progressive effort to make room at the top and all along the line for committed , creative , skilled people . Louis NUNEZ President , Aspire of America , Inc . New York , Nov. 28 , 1970 City Air Polluters effective enforcement campaign than ever before include the power : To seal any equipment that is operating in violation of the code ; To order installation of control apparatus or the repair or cleaning of equipment In violation of the code ; To step in and repair or clean equipment or to install control apparatus in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an order of the Environmental Control Board and to charge the costs to the owner of the installa-tion ; To require a performance bond or other security in an amount judged large enough to insure correction of . ; a violation within the prescribed time . , As for fines , the actual theoretical maximum penalty for one year is $1.8 million , based on $5,000 a day , not $41,500 as Professor Katsh suggests . Professor Katsh extolls the virtues of prison terms for executives respon- ? sible for pollution , apparently under the impression that the code contains no such provisions . In actuality , the criminal penalties section of the code includes prison terms ranging as high as sixty days , although I know of no case in which a judge has imprisoned an executive for a ' pollution violation . That is why I feel the enforcement steps outlined above will be much ' more effective in encouraging rapid compliance . In short , I agree with Mayor Lind- ; - say 's assessment that we are proposing , one of the " toughest and most comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the City Council gives us the tools we are . seeking , I pledge that my agency will use them to the utmost to clean up the air we breathe In New York City . JEROME KRETCHM ER Environmental Protection Administrator New York , Nov. 25 , 1970                     