@@733720

txt Letters MORGAN F. MURPHYDIANA BROWNE ( Rev . ) WILLIAM D. EDDYWILLIAM S. WEISSWINTHROP M .... Letters Electronic Surveillance : The ' Spurious ' Issues Cold Type and The Times To the Editor : The June 26 column by William Safire regarding the proposed Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act contained a number of inaccuracies which unfortunately cloud the legitimate issues involved . Mr. Safire wrote that H.R. 7308 authorizes electronic surveillance without a court order " provided the Executive Branch reports the action to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees . " It is unclear to what Mr. Safire refers because H.R. 7308 contains no such authorization . Generally , H.R. 7308 requires a prior judicial warrant for foreign intelligence surveillances . Perhaps he refers inaccurately to the " emergency " exception to the warrant requirement . This " emergency " exception is not unique to H.R. 7308 ; a similar exception exists in the statute governing law-enforcement surveillances and has not been abused . Or perhaps he refers , also inaccurately , to an exception to the warrant requirement added to the bill by the To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times was that the black dividing line between articles was darker than usual , which caused me to grimace with the assumption that my hands and clothing would soon reflect my contact with the newspaper . The second thing I noticed was that , much to my surprise , the ink was not smearing half as badly as usual , although appearing blacker . Happily , the last thing I noticed in that issue was your article on The Times 's conversion to electronic printing . Ah , the joys of progress . I have worked with terminal typesetting and printing , and it is a delight . Being able to print a thousand lines per minute , and replacing 129 clumsy linotype machines , must be a great thrill to Times people . But eliminating " middlemen , " who may unintentionally hurt stories , and giving reporters more time for research , concentration and thought on a given subject must be two of the greatest accomplishments in the news world . That , and , of course , not getting " inky " from reading the paper . DIANA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Editor : As an amateur printer , here 's my reaction to what happened yesterday , inevitable as it had to be . 5A11 11 KeeosAKe Of New YORK CITY for the July , I c ) 78 Wayzgoosc CIMGS hOr , CTIDE two 's Mold 11110 eternal rot 1143,1478 glumly pruned on the dull by itoclf by W. 0 . eddy . A.P.A . - 17 ( 1 I trust you know what a wayzgoose is ? it 's William Morris 's word ? but I 'd hate to think how the English poet , artist and type founder would feel about this new technology . The 1880 change depressed him ! ( Rev. ) WILLIAM D. Enna ' arrytown , N.Y. , July 4,1978 House Intelligence Committee . This exception can only be utilized where a surveillance is solely directed at official foreign government installations , and even then only where it is solely directed at certain restricted activities , which do not involve Americans . If any of these warrantless surveillances should ever intercept an American , the bill requires that all conversations must be destroyed and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Violations of these restrictions are made criminal . Mr. Safire also notes an exception to the warrant requirement for testing of surveillance equipment and training of personnel . He fails to note , however , the strict limitations on this exception . Such surveillances may not be targeted against anyone , and any communications intercepted can not be disseminated and must be destroyed . Finally , Mr. Safire suggests that H.R. 7308 would radically change the relationship between the Government and telephone companies by requiring To the Editor : As an ex-newspaper editor , I can readily appreciate the grim economic realities that caused The Times ( at long last ! ) to complete its transition to the cold-type era . And as an ex-newspaper editor , I also pity those new generations of newspeople whose contact with the world of composition will be limited to the cold , green glare of a Scanset instead of the bubbling warmth of a hotmetal pot . I grieve that the bland stickiness of wax takes the place of pica rules , nonpareils and the other tools of a nearly lost art . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editors and handmen as they struggled , with creativity , humor and the skills of a lifetime of craftsmanship , to squeeze or stretch galleys of type into the unyielding borders of a chase . Messrs . Genge , Maloney and Ferrali. stand with you . Ludlow ! WiLLIANi S. WEISS Summit , N.J. , July 3,1978 Anti-Nuclear Thoughts To the Editor : Andrew Cherlin 's contention that the antinuclear movement is nothing more than a selfish " me movement " ( Op-Ed June 22 ) is discouragingly ignorant of the facts . While it is true that most of us who have come to oppose nuclear power are concerned about potential threats to our own health , the essential and energizing disaffection behind the anti-nuclear movement is hardly a narrowly defined or personal One . Nuclear power is a glaring example of misdirected priorities , which , as was so often the case in the 1960 's , would have us believe that the end justifies the means . Blind to the numerous potentially hazardous consequences of nuclear development , and impatient with more thoughtful alternatives , proponents recognize only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level the anti-nuclear movement challenges such myopia by rejecting a technology which disregards so much . Far from being self-centered , it considers such diverse and crucial viewpoints as economics , the environment and international security in finding nuclear power an inappropriate technology for all humanity . Mr. Cherlin may call us wrong if he wishes , but selfish is unfair . The prospects of continued nuclear development are both vast and awesome . WINTHROP M. SweNsoN Boston , June 23,1978 the companies to provide " all information , facilities , or technical assistance necessary to acomplish the electronic surveillance . " This language , however , changes nothing . For eight years , existing law has contained identical language with respect to law-enforcement surveillances . It is a matter of record that this authority has not been used to have the phone company install taps or do any of the other activities which Mr. Safire suggests H.R. 7308 authorizes . While H.R. 7308 raises important and controversial issues that should be fully considered , issues upon which we as members of the House Intelligence Committee do not see eye to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no one 's interests because it ignores the real issues and raises spurious ones in their place . MORGAN F. MURPHY Member of Congress , 2d Dist. , Ill . ROBERT MCCLORY Member of Congress , 13th Dist. , Ill . Washington , June 30,1978 Beaumont Theater : The Better Idea To the Editor : In the June 20 news article " Committee to Seek Beaumont Troupe " Richard F. Shepard reports on plans by Lincoln Center to reopen the longdarkened Vivian Beaumont Theater with a new institutional repertory company . Apparently the representatives of Lincoln Center did not mention to Mr. Shepard that the suggestion has been made that the theater be demolished and replaced by an income-producing , highrise apartment house , a project similar to the one now under way at the Museum of Modern Art . Mr. Shepard refers to the problem of acoustics at the Beaumont , which apparently can not be solved . It is respectfully suggested that it would make no sense to spend a lot of money and make a great effort to establish a new institutional repertory company , only to function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specifically designed for the purpose , could be located on the first floor of the proposed new building . This all means that the Metropolitan Opera Association , the operator of the largest facility in Lincoln Center , in effect would bear the bulk of the cost of a repertory theater in the Beaumont , when the Metropolitan can hardly sustain itself now . Does the board of directors of Lincoln Center believe that it has the right to do this ? The plan proposed would convert the Beaumont from a financial catastrophe to a source of financial support for everything else in Lincoln Center , possibly including an institutional repertory company . A. CHAUNCEY NEWI , IN New York , June 29 1978 One-Sided Reportage ' To the Editor : As a consistent reader of The Times , I can not agree that you have engaged in " fair and full reporting on Soviet society , " as intimated in a June 29 editorial . Upon reading almost daily lengthy accounts of Soviet dissident views , I have often felt frustrated at not having access to the other side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I believe that fair-minded Americans would want to arrive at an objective view of Soviet life . Your one-sided reportage of Soviet affairs makes this impossible . It also damages your credibility as a newspaper . CECELIA POLLACK Bronx , June 29,1978 On Strengthening the Hand of the ' Doves ' of Moscow To the Editor : Critics of President Carter 's recent pronouncements regarding Soviet foreign policy appear to once again have fallen into the habit of mirror-imaging . It was this tendency , ironically enough , which characterized American thinking during the cold war era and which these same critics now see as returning . The logic of their position was exemplified by Mr. Woodhouse 's letter to The Times on June 29 . Granted that Presidential policies and , more particularly , foreign policy in the United States emerge as the result of the pulling and hauling of bureaucratic politics . Granted also that out of this competition of competing views , evaluations and interests something resembling a satisfactory foreign policy usually emerges . Why , then , should the " hardliners , " a label affixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council , necessarily be adjudged more " wrong " than the advocates of caution and incremental diplomacy who favor the position apparently taken by Mr. Vance and his colleagues at State ? The argument usually runs that the position of Mr. Vance is to be preferred , if for no other reason than that it strengthens the hands of Soviet " doves . " Whether such " doves " actually exist or whether they are merely a projection ( wish fulfillment ? ) derived from our reading of the situation remains difficult for even specialists on the Soviet Union to demonstrate convincingly . And do these moderates in any sense resemble their American counterparts ? To affix such labels to positions and individuals in the Politburo is to fall automatically into the trap of a mistaken kind of ethnocentrism . It requires that we ignore the fact that Soviet decision-makers of whatever persuasion operate out of a fundamentally different concept of politics and within an operational code which , as Nathan Leites accurately demonstrated some years ago , looks very different from the American nojon that political " truth , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a free conflict of ideas and interests . If , indeed , Soviet policy in Africa is the result of some pulling and hauling , then for the moment it seems that the views of the Soviet " hawks " have indeed prevailed . From this it surely does not follow that American concessions which demonstrate that the hardliner strategy on the Soviet side can be a winning one will automatically strengthen the hand of Soviet moderates . In fact , the opposite is more likely to occur . By the same token , a convincing demonstration by our national leadership that such a game plan is fundamentally unacceptible to us ? in short , an American policy which is belligerent , innovative and relatively stable ? may be more likely to produce the desired results . If President Carter can be faulted at all , it is for his failure to convince the Soviet leadership ( shades of Kennedy at Vienna ! ) that we , like they , have a bottom line in our national interests which is ultimately non-neeotiatable . STEPHEN STERNHEIMER Associate , Russian Research Center Harvard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  