@@729996

txt Mayor Daley presided over a two-hour meeting of ward committeemen and Democratic Party leaders yesterday reportedly to deal with a threatened primary upset in the state 's atter'ney race by incumbent Edward V. Hanrahan . During the meeting , the 30 suburban township committeemen , three of whom are publicly pledged to maverick Donald Page Moore , were excused from the meeting at the Sherman House . On hand were the major candidates , including Raymond K. Berg , who replaced State 's Atty . Hanrahan on the slate Dec. 20 , and those most vocal in demanding the dumping ? Lt. Gov . Paul Simon slate candidate for governor , and U. S. Rep. Roman Pucinski , slate candidate for , the Senate . Polls " Not Reliable " Mayor Daley reportedly told the leaders again yesterday that Hanrahan was dumped because his appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court in the Black Panther case was " beatable " rather than " unbeatable . " The official line adopted regarding various private polls showing Hanrahan leading is that polls are unreliable for primary elections . Some polls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J u d s o n Miner , campaign manager for Wore , visited newsmen crowded in the hallway outside Daley 's session and said his polls show Hanrahan leading , with Moore second and moving up . Machine in Panic " The Democratic machine is in , a political panic because their candidate , Berg , is running a por third , " Miner said . " They can not get him off the ground because of the forgery on nominating petitions and Traffic Court scandals , as well as his failure to debate . " Their only hope is to induce panic based on the idea that Hanrahan might win . The new party line goes , ' A vote for Moore is a vote for Hanrahan . ' That 's how they- hope to split votes away from Moore . " Mayor Daley alluded to trouble over the Simon candidacy in introducing the candidate who is opposed March 21 by Dan Walker : " Consternation was felt by many , including me , by some things Paul Simon said about the state income tax , " Mayor Daley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would increase the state income tax in order to reduce property taxes and to take the sales tax off food . Simon said he could not describe . the increase before the March 21 primary . Walker , who held a press conference on the same floor of the Sherman House while his adversaries staged their closed meeting , said the Simon plan could triple the state income tax . " The Simon formula could remove $1.9 billion from state and local tax yields , " Walker said .                     