@@729194

txt A new push of 20,000 Saigon troops backed by 9,000 Americans has reached the border of Laos and is poised for a possible thrust into the neighboring kingdom . The troops have run into only scant resistance from North Vietnamese forces . The drive shaped up into one of the biggest of the war and was made under a news blackout which blanketed the northwest corner of South Viet Nam for six days . This was lifted today . The offensive was part of a two-pronged sweep of nearly 50,000 allied troops advancing under an umbrella of American and Vietnamese bombers and helicopter gunships . To the south , a second push by close to 20,000 South Vietnamese troops has driven deeper into Cambodia . They ran into minor opposition . Penetration Denied The Saigon military command denied that the South Vietnamese force massed in the nation 's northwest corner had penetrated into Laos , despite invasion charges trumpeted in Communist capitals and elsewhere . Saigon refused to say whether such a thrust would be made . United States leaders insist no American ground forces will go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power would be available . The Communist-led Pathet Lao insisted that U. S. and South Vietnamese troops had invaded southern Laos . Aim of Push The aim of the push into , eastern Cambodia is to prevent the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong from returning to sanctuary bases from which they were driven by allied forces last May and June . The northern offensive along a 75-mile strip of the Loatian frontier was aimed at smashing a reported new enemy buildup . It also was designed to plug the outlets of the Ho Chi Minh Trail thru which enemy troops and material funnel into South Viet Nam . U. S. spokesmen said about half a dozen North Vietnamese were killed in scattered skirmishes . For the most part , enemy action was limited too small-arms fire against U. S. helicopters and rocket attacks on two U. S. bases in the northern sector . Move Into Key Bases The 20,000 South Vietnamese troops deployed on the Laotian frontier were supported by a bout 9,000 Americans who moved into key frontier bases such as Khe Sanh and Lang Vei , both scenes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no ARVN Army of Republic of Viet Nam troops in Laos , " said Saigon 's chief military spokesman . He said , the South Vietnamese units closest to , the Laotian frontier were deployed at Khe Sanh , where U. S. Army engineers reopened the airstrip unused since U. S. Marines abandoned the base in 1968 . Route 9 Opened Army engineers also opened Route 9 to the Laotian border today and posted a sign about 600 feet from the frontier which read : " Warning . No U. S. personnel beyond this point. ? U. S. officials said the northwest sector operation was undertaken to help insure the safety of American forces being pulled out of Viet Nam and leave the way secure for continued withdrawal . Some observers also saw the push as an effort to keep the North Vietnamese from mounting dry season offensives , by blocking the Ho Chi Minh Trail and thus preventing troops and supply buildups in South Viet Nam and Cambodia .                     