@@729219

txt The list of dead in yesterus.y 's major earthquake rose to 51 today as the Los Angeles area began pulling itself together . At least 10 other persons were buried in the wreckage of a Veterans Administration hospital in Sylmar and were given little chance to survive . Thirtythree of the known dead , including four staff members . were crushed under tons of rubble when two wings of the htspItal collapsed under the force of the quake , the worst to hit the region in 3S years . I Meanwhile , about 80,000 persons were still being kept away ( from their homes as a precautionary measure . A dam holding in the huge Van Norman Reservoir in the hills above the San Fernando Valley was seriously weakened by the tremor , and officials wanted to make sure that the area was safe before they allowed people to return to the 20-square-mile area they had evacuated yesterday . Stress on Dam Eased Enough water had been pumped out of the reservoir to ease the stress on the earthen darn , but the possibility remained that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallons pouring down into the valley . Late this afternoon , the police and city officials decided to extend the evacuation ordcr for 48 hours more , only minutes before another aftershock rolled through the city , shaking windows . The original quake measured 6.6 on the Richter scale , and a series of aftershocks last night and today reached as high as 5 . Little new damage was done , except to nervous stomachs . However , a gas main that ruptured yesterday exploded today , injuring six people in a Westwood restaurant . Most of the damage was in the western end of the San Fernando Valley , a sprawling suburban area of homes and shopping centers . Vice President Agnew arrived today and joined Gov . Ronald Reagan and Mayor Sam Yorty in a helicopter inspection tour . Statistics Hard to Get President Nixon proclaimed Los Angeles a disaster area yesterday , thus making it eligible for a wide variety of Federal help , including low-cost loans from the Small Business Administration . After his tour , Mr. Agnew said , " Every effort will be made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates were hard to come by . The police reported 880 injured , 39 seriously . But one hospital treated perhaps 200 patients yesterday before structural damage to the buildings forced everyone to leave , and those records were not available . Last night , county ? officials said that property damage would eventually exceed S1-billion . Estimates today were already running into the hundreds of millions and were expected to grow . The Olive View Medical Center . run by the county , cost $23-million and had just opened . It was directly in the path of the quake and was considered a total loss . Deputy Mayor Joseph Quinn reported that at least 675 privately owned homes had suffered major structural damage . and that 119 had been declared unsafe for occupancy . Most of the damage was not covered by insurance . Earthquake insurance is very expensive and usually has a .5 per cent deductible clause and almost no one buys it . Vital services such as telephones , power and water , which had been interrupted yesterday , were restored in most places today , but not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The 17,000 residents of the town of San Fernando , for instance , were totally without water . Large trucks dispensed meager supplies in one-gallon allotments , and 200 portable toilets were carted in . The Golden State and San Diego freeways were still blocked by torn pavement and the debris from falling overpasses . The police had no estimate of when service might be resumed on those roads northwest of the city . The intertie that brings power to Los Angeles from the Northwest was badly damaged , and one estimate said that it would take 18 months to repair it . That means that Los Angeles may suffer power shortages next summer when the heat taxes air conditioners and other appliances . Many Offer Help Probably the most noticeable aspect of the reaction to the quake was the lack of panic . The people of Southern California are inured to natural disaster . Two years ago it was massive floods and earth slides . Last fall it was brush fires . Agencies helping quake victims were overwhelmed with offers of help . " They 've been remarkable , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteers coming out of of our ears . We had to turn thousands of people away . They 're willing to do anything ? physical labor , lend their homes , give supplies , you name it . " Along with the lack of panic has gone a remarkable ability to absorb the tragedy and disruption and keep going . In many areas of the city today it was impossible to find signs of the earthquake . People ' lounged on the beach , played golf , filled the parks . The same traffic crammed onto the same freeways and created the same smog as always . Life churned ahead  --  minus a few dishes , a , filing cabinet , a roof here and jthere . In the minds of many lingered some big questions : What caused the quake , and what possibility is there of a recurrence ? In answer to the first queslion . Dr. Clarence Allen of the , California Institute of Technology said : " It 's all very confusing . and I do n't pretend to understand it yet . " He said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east of the town of Newhall , but little movement of the earth was visible in the area . The cause of the tremor , he said , was the Soledad Canyon fault , an obscure crack in the earth that does not even appear on most maps . Some Day ... ' Yesterday 's tremor was a " big earthquake but not a great one , " according to one scientist . Rather ominously , the famous San Andreas fault , which runs from Mexico to north of San Francisco , remained undisturbed . " Some day , " said Dr. Allen , " the San Andreas fault will break in a major quake . It could happen tomorrow . 10 or 30 years from now , but most of us feel that a period of 100 to 200 years is more likely . " But some officials today were not willing to rely on the scientist 's hunches . Even though most of Los Angeles ' new sky- ! , scrapers survived the quake in excellent condition , Dr. Charles F. Richter , one of the nation 's leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceed 30 stories . One now under construction reaches 52 stories . The tall buildings , Dr. Richter said , are too vulnerable to quakes and cause too much congestion at a time of danger . School officials noted that hundreds of school buildings that do not conform to modern safety codes are still in use here . At least seven of them suffered serious damage yesterday . " I 'm not interested in alarming people . " said Al Kempton of the State Bureau of School Buildings , but if the quake had occurred several hours later than 6 A.M. , " we would be compiling the figures of injured or dead children right now . "                     