@@730005

txt President Nixon announced in a message to Congress today that he had directed the Department of Health , Education and Welfare " to recommend ' to me as soon as possible a plan for ' developing a safe , fast and efficient nationwide blood collection and distribution system . " Federahhealth officials indicated that studies were under way on options that would range from complete Federal control of blood banking , to maintaining the present patchwork system that has come ' under increasing criticism as being unresponsive to the everincreasing national demand for blood . The rise in the national demand , for health services coupled with the increasing sophistication of medical techniques , such as open heart surgery , has doubled the demand for blood in the last decade . This , in turn , has strained traditional methods of collection and forced many hospitals to rely on commercial sources . As a result , prices have been driven up , to as much as $25 a pint in some areas , but more importantly it has led to the increasing donation of blood by drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dramatic rise in the spread of hepatitis through blood transfusions . " The problem has been that there is no national system , " Elliot L. Richardson , Secretary of H.E.W. , told a news briefing . He said that there was a national need for " developing a reporting system to identify supplies and needs " that would be " integrated with a coin- ; puter data hank . " How the system would cooperate has not been decided ; but Dr. Ian A. Mitchell , a special assistant at KEW , who heads the blood bank project , said , " We are leaving . no option unconsidered . " Dr. Mitchell said that the project was having problems " because of the great collection of nonsystems " operating In the blood banking area , but that the final proposal would be made this spring . Included in the measures under consideration is a bill calling for the creation within the Department of Health , Education and Welfare of a new organization that would ? oversee and regulate all blood banks in the country . At present 18 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven states license blood banks and only five inspect them The bill was introduced last year by Representative Victor V. Veysey , Republican of California , who has attracted 55 co-sponsors of the bipartisan measure . Critic of Present System In the last several years Mr. Veysey has been a relentless , critic of the national blood banking system and has sought to drive commercial collection systems out of business . Commercial blood banks have been the targets of repeated investigations because . they often accept blood from such donors as derelicts who may be the transmitters of such diseases as hepatitis , syphilis and malaria . , " I want to eliminate the paid donors and develop a public relations program to encourage unpaid donors , " Mr. Veysey said . His bill would allocate $9-million in the first year to KEW . to set up a structure for the supervision of blood collection , inspection services and testing . Mr. Veysey said that the nation should " rely on a system of volunteer , private blood banks . " He noted that the Red Cross , the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent ' of noncommercial donations . Hearings Planned Representative Paul G. Rogers , Democrat of Florida , one of the leading spokesmen for health affairs in Congress , said that he would hold hearings on Mr. Veysey 's bill and other proposals " within a month . " Mr. Rogers , chairman of the Health and Environmental Subcommittee of the House Commerce Committee , said that " the hearings will be going into all aspects of the blood problem , " The Administration 's involvement with the problems of blood banking was initiated last year by the White House Office of Science and Technology , which is seeking to exploit existing technology to improve deficiencies in the national health care system . About eight million pints of blood will be collected in the United States this year , with roughly 7.5 million of them being used for transfusions . A national survey in 1970 estimated that 30,000 Americans contract hepatitis each year through transfusions of contaminated blood , with 1,500 of them dying from the effects of the disease . Various medical authorities have estimated that a person receiving a transfusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 to 70 times the risk of developing , hepatitis as the risk from a pint of blood that had not been donated for ' profit . 100,000 Commercial Donors The increase in the demand for blood has created a corps of 100,000 people who sell blood for money , an unknown percentage of whom are carriers of hepatitis , syphilis or malaria . The problem is compounded by the relative . difficulty of detecting in the donated blood either the bacteria or protozoa that causes the dis-eases , As Mr. Nixon said in his message : " Blood is a unique national resource " that is vitally needed to save lives . ' " Yet we do not have a nationwide system to meet this need and we need to draw upon the skills of modern management and technology to develop one , " he went on . In other areas of the message , which was made public at the Florida White House in Key Biscayne , the President said that he had directed Mr. Richardson " to plan a series of projects to demonstrate the feasibility of developing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most of the 14-page message was a reiteration of health proposals made last year by the President . These include legis7 lation for national health insurance , health . maintenance organizations and reforms in Medicare and Medicaid . As Mr. Richardson put it : " The message was a plea to Congress to get on with it and enact the proposals . "                     