@@731597

txt President Ford Monday vetoed legislation forcing an Immediate cutoff of military aid to Turkey ? thereby setting up his first confrontation with Congress since taking office . The House , which last week refused to accept a compromise on the Turkey Issue , scheduled a vote for Tuesday on overriding the veto . The vote delayed Congress ' preelection recess , whic h was scheduled to have started last Friday . Ford has vetoed five previous measures but Tuesday 's vote will be Congress ' first attempt to override his veto . FORD , IN a message to the House announcing his action , said , " I take this step with great reluctance , but in the belief that I have no other choice . " He said an arms cutoff to Turkey would help neither Greece nor the Greek Cypriots " who have suffered so tragically " in recent months . In vetoing the bill , he said , " I do so because , should this measure become law , it would be impossible for the United States to continue to play any meaningful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " WE WOULD inevitably be forced to withdraw from the negotiations because the Congress would have taken the tools we need to affect the outcome , " The amendment calling for the Turkish arms ban is attached to a resolution providing funds for departments and agencies that have not yet received regular appropriations for fiscal 1975 . Without the resolution , programs and ' payrolls would stop at the Departments of Health , Education , and Welfare ; Labor ; and Agriculture . IF CONGRESS fails to override the veto , it will have to remain in session to pass appropriations . Ford has said that ending military assistance to Turkey ? already required by law because of the use of American arms in the Turkish invasion of Cyprus  --  would only complicate efforts to initiate new peace talks between Turkey and Greece on Cyprus . The United States is currently reported to be supplying Turkey with ammunition , spare parts , and other materiel valued at about $6 million . THE WHITE . House has favored a temporary waiving of the law to avoid making the Ankara government think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , urged on by a group of critics headed by Rep. John Brademas ED. , Ind. and including other representatives of Greek descent , Friday rejected , 187 to 171 , a Senate-passed compromise to suspend the obligatory cutoff until Dec. 15 . Efforts by the House and Senate leadership to reach a last-minute compromise which would have waived the cutoff provisions until Nov. 30 , instead of Dec. 15 , failed in midafternoon on Friday ? thus f o r c in g Congress and the White House into the current veto confrontation . If Ford 's veto is sustained , the legislators will have to rewrite the money measure to provide funds tor the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare and other agencies in the absence of their regular budget appropriations.                     