@@728992

txt American urban guerrillas are borrowing the tactics of revolutionaries in the third world . Experts see no one guiding hand behind the recent wave of terrorist bombings on campuses and federal buildings , and sniping at policemen . But Weathermen , Black Panthers , and individual theorists and activists lean heavily on well-publicized guerrilla techniques from Latin America and elsewhere . Che Guevara , the Palestinian hijackers , the Tupamaros of Uruguay who kidnapped and killed U.S. aid official Dan Mitrione ( accused in the U.S. underground press of being a CIA agent training Uruguayan police in counterinsurgency tactics ) are all extolled as heroes in radical publications , Random examples over the past month include : ? An article on " the urban guerrilla of Brazil " in the October issue of Ramparts magazine , interviewing four members of a group of Brazilian political prisoners freed in exchange for the release of the kidnapped West German Ambassador to Brazil . They discuss kidnapping as a tactic , the meaning of bank robberies , why they do not use bombs , and other tactical and ideological questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the old Left publication , the Guardian , writes on the technique of the Tupamaros , and prints a personal account of a Palestinian skyjacking . ? Perhaps the best-known urban guerrilla guide , " The Minimanual of Urban Guerrilla Warfare , " by longtime Brazilian revolutionary Carlos Marighella who was killed by police in 1969 , was serialized in the . Los Angeles Free Press , one of the largest underground newspapers , with a circulation of 90,000. // *Third world showed terrorists how // It also ran recently in the Berkeley Tribe and in a oneshot Washington , D.C. , underground called the Red Earth . Manual quoted Says the manual , an urban guerrilla " systematically inflicts damage on the authorities . . . . " He moves in small groups and has " no established base except in the rudimentary sense of an arms factory within a house . " It goes on : " Money , arms , ammunition , explosives , and automobiles as well , must be expropriated . And the urban guerrilla must rob banks and armories and seize explosives and ammunition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the bank robbery in Boston allegedly committed by five students , three of them ex-convicts , who robbed an armory for their weapons and killed a policeman during the hold-up . ( No one knows , of course , if the bank robbers read Marighella . ) The police became " enemies of the people , without supporters , . .. in many cases properly punished . " Kidnapping is " used to exchange or liberate imprisoned revolutionary comrades . " Change seen in 1969 While radicals have long looked with interest to the Cuban and Chinese revolutions , a clear identity of third-world ideology and tactics with the more violence-prone segment of radical activists was clearly established at the SDS national convention in 1969 . During the preceding year a debate had gone on in the SDS newspaper New Left Notes as to whether the revolutionary struggle was between ruling class and working class ( the line of the more doctrinaire Marxists ) or U.S. imperialism against the colonized nations of the world . To the Revolutionary Youth Movement faction of SDS , many of whom later became Weathermen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Amerikan monster " and the third world . Nonwhite people in the U.S. were considered part of the third world ? " colonies in the mother country . " The duty of white radicals was to help in their liberation , while accepting the vanguard role of black revolutionaries . Incredibly different ' Bernardine Dohrn , currently leader of the Weathermen , and newly named to the FBI 's 10 most-wanted list , shouted to her supporters in the dinghy Chicago stadium in 1969 : " Things are incredibly different from a year ago . We now recognize we are part of an international movement . We ca n't just talk about revolution now ; we have to act . " One of the first actions of the Weathermen was to split into small bands known as " affinity groups , " which would protect each other during confrontations with the police . By early 1970 most Weathermen had gone underground into radical communes . This breakdown paralleled a trend among the most radical segment of activists . Formally organized political activity fell out of favor ; more anarchistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activists from Berkeley wrote in a September issue of New Left Notes , the SDS publication , as early as 1968 , " With the change in . . . forms of action have come the new forms of organization : the cells , the affinity groups , the commune . " Many of the recent bombings have been attributed to " tribes " or communes like the " New Year 's Gang " which took credit for the explosion at the University of Wisconsin . Mao metaphor recalled One of the primary needs for guerrilla survival , according to the legendary metaphor of Mao Tse-tung , is " sympathetic water in which the guerrilla fish can swim "  --  or hide . The existence of an unstructured network of political ? and nonpolitical ? collectives located in cities and countryside provides this water . Networks of friendship and contacts from past membership in SDS , the civil-rights movement , and other " movement " organizations provide the basic links between communes . One former SDS member who quit in 1969 because he did n't want to be involved in Weatherman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subscription list for New Left Notes in any city and he can find food , money , and shelter . " While the actual number of violent collectives may not be great , many are located in areas populated by a tolerant youth culture which provides cover . Tom Hayden , perhaps the leading radical theoretician of the movement , labels white youth " ghetto communities " like Berkeley , Haight-Ashbury in San Francisco ; Isla Vista , Madison , Wisc. ; Ann Arbor , Mich. ; the East Village in New York City as " liberated zones " from which radical change will emerge . By a staff photographer Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Message from the ' third world ' Signs like this on American campuses derive their inspiration from revolutionary movements in developing nations . Radical activists in the United States are patterning their tactics after " third-world " urban guerrillas .                     