@@731401

txt President Nixon was welcomed to this oil-rich desert kingdom with a warm embrace and a blunt warning from King Faisal that there will he no lasting peace in the Middle East while Israel occupies Arab lands . In the toughest talk Nixon has heard since he began his Middle East tour four days ago , Faisal told the President : " There will never be a real and lasting peace unless Jerusalem is liberated and returned to Arab sovereignty , unless liberation of all the occupied Arab territories is achieved , and unless Arab peoples of Palestine regain their rights to return to their homes . " THE BEARDED , whiterobed ruler lectured Nixon during a lavish banquet here in his honor . His words echoed a theme which Egyptian President Anwar Sadat had sounded several times during Nixon 's triumphant visit there , but the Saudi monarch 's language was much stronger . In response to the king 's remarks , Nixon avoided any direct response  --  as he did with Sadat  --  and said only that the United States wants to play a " positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon will visit Syria tomorrow and will later visit Israel and Jordan . FAISAL praised the efforts of Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to bring peace to the Middle East . " We hope the United States of America will continue her effort , " he added . Nixon 's public reception here was much more restrained and routine than the emotional and massive welcome he received in Cairo . Earlier today , Nixon and Sadat cemented their close new relationship with a broad cooperation agreement featuring United States nuclear fuel and technology for Egypt and a $2 billion trade program . After a morning of sightseeing at the Great Pyramid at Giza , and a final meeting with Sadat , Nixon flew here for talks with Faisal which will center on technological help in the use of this country 's $20 billion annual oil income . PRIMARILY , the U. S. Interest here is to induce the Saudis to increase their oil production to a level the consuming nations are expected to need by 1980 . The chief Inducement is helping the Saudis find ways of Investing most wisely their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Faisal approved the oil boycott against the United States ( luring last October 's ! diddle East war . Commenting on the low-key welcome here for Nixon , U. S. aides noted that in Egypt , the government was celebrating a dramatic new relationship with America while the Saudi-Americon friendship is old and stable . THE NIKONS were met at the Jidda Airport by King Faisal , then whizzed thru the dusty streets of this capital for a reception and state dinner . Despite the new nuclear and trade program announced with Cairo , there was little evidence of movement during Nixon 's Egypt visit on the complex political problems plaguing the Middle East . These , according to a long statement of principle agreed to in Cairo , can be solved " only thru a process of continuing negotiation . within the framework of the Geneva Middle East peace conferonce. "                     