@@731020

txt Secretary of State Henry Kissinger left for Moscow early today for  --  urgent talks with  --  the Soviet leadership on the Middle East . Kissinger was sent to Moscow at the request of the Soviet government to help negotiate a settlement to the Middle East war , the White House announced . Kissinger , accompanied by Soviet Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin and nine American officials , took off from Andrews Air Force Base at 1:45 a. m . He is due in Moscow at noon , Chicago time . The text of the White House announcement : " At the request of the Soviet . government , the President has agreed to send Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger to visit Moscow for direct discussions with the Soviet leadership on means to end the hostilities in the Middle East . " Since the outbreak of hostilities in. the Middle East the President and General Secretary Brezhnev have maintained close contact thru diplomatic channels : ' Kissinger 's par t y included Assistant Secretary of State Joseph J. Sisco and Ambassador Robert J. McCloskey . KISSINGER had planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials bef ore flying on to Peking to hold discussions with Chinese Prime Minister Chou En-lai . The White House said Kissinger was expected to be in Moscow for a few days . Then he is to return to Washington to report to the President on his talks with Soviet leaders . A new date for his visit to Tokyo and Peking would then be set . Recent successes of Israeli troops west of the Suez Canal were believed to have injected a new sense of urgency in or delicate negotiations revived between the superpowers in the last few days . ? WHILE BOTH the , United States and the Soviet Union have an intense interest in preserving their delicate detente , neither side has been willing , to allow the other to exploit it . - The Soviet Union has the largest naval farce in the Mediterranean that it has had since it first entered the sea in the late 1960s , and the United States has reinforced its 6th Fleet . ? On Tuesday , Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin flew secretly to Cairo to confer with Egyptian President Anwar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat later than expected . UNTIL NOW the United States and the Soviet Union reportedly shared the view that ' a cease-fire " in place " may be the best way to end hostilities because the military situation is indecisive . : However , yesterday Israelis reinforced an armored unit which crossed the Suez Canal on rafts and established a widening wedge thru the Egyptian lines . Israeli sources here said yesterday they would . consider a cease-fire only when the bulk of the Egyptian military machine had been destroyed . " We have good chances to knock them out in the Sinai , " one Israeli source said . " This would create a kind of dilemma we want for the Soviets , Syrians , and Egyptians . " The sources said the efforts by the United States and Soviet Union to end the fighting have been too uncoordinated to be effective . THE U. S. has taken a general position that the Russians and Americans should call for a cease-fire jointly with negotiations to follow later . This would allow the war to end without a winner and loser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued . But the Soviets have been more specific . They reportedly have called for phased withdrawals by the Israelis from territory occupied during the 1967 war . ISRAELI SOURCES said massive resupply of the Syrian army by the Soviet Union would put a new face on the military and diplomatic situation . They said any Israeli willingness to negotiate depended on the Syrian army remaining an ineffective force .                     