@@731896

txt When Congress returns today from the Easter recess , it will again be preoccupied with the three E 's ? economics , energy and ecology . In its first ten weeks , the 94th Congress got off to an unusually fast start . It has already approved the tax reduction bill , a measure providing financial help to the bankrupt Northeast rail roads , a farm bill and a bill to regulate strip mining , although the latter two have yet to be put in final form by House-Senate conference committees . I. Economics The economy is the foremost concern of returning members . It is also the subject to which Congress can most readily react because it involves politically popular moves such as tax reduction and enactment of ' jobcreating programs . The House has already passed the Emergency Employment Appropriations bill , an omnibus measure making available $5.93 billion to create 900,000 public service jobs . The House Public Works Committee is at work on a companion bill to authorize $5 billion for 100 per cent grants to local governments for small public works projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and P.W.A. of the Great Depression . The first is geared to putting people to work quickly , the other would be slower in its effect . The real problem for Congress is how to accommodate these programs in an over-all design for Federal spending that will keep the already huge deficit for fiscal 1976 from reaching astronomic heights . Congressional capacity to exercise budgetary control will be tested by the realism of the priorities its new budget committees establish on all such programs . The tax bill provided additional unemployment compensation payments for the long-term jobless . Congress may finally put through a complete reform of unemployment compensation , which would be one of the wisest antirecession measures it could adopt . II . Energy More than 500 bills have been Introduced in this Congress concerning one aspect or another of the energy problem . Congressional Democrats are virtually unanimous in rejecting President Ford 's thirteen-point energy program which would attempt to depress energy consumption by raising prices . But the Democrats have had substantial difficulty in reaching consensus on their own alternative program . Chairman Ullman of the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including such controversial items as import quotas on petroleum and refined products and a levy of seven cents per gallon on gasoline , rising gradually to 37 cents by 1980 . This plan is caught In a crossfire between conservatives following the lead of President Ford , who do not like a gasoline tax or import quotas , and liberal Democrats who regard a gasoline tax as economically depressing and regressive . Congress is likely to approve an excise tax on new cars that penalizes the overweight gas guzzlers . There is also support for tax incentives to insulate homes and introduce novel sources like solar energy . These are intermediate and long-term measures , Unless Congressional Democrats summon up the courage . to support the Ullman proposals or something close to them , for more immediate effect , they will bear the blame for rejecting Mr. FoAl 's plan and substituting  --  nothing . III . Environment The strip mining bill , similar to a measure vetoed by President Ford last December , has been passed again by both Houses . Conservationists support the House bill as providing added protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecologically risky strip mining has already begun . A land use bill rejected in the House last year is needed more urgently than ever . It has recently been the subject of House Interior Committee hearings , with prospects for enactment favorable in this more liberal Congress . These three months between now and the Fourth of July are traditionally Congress 's most productive period , when numerous bills reach the floor and most of the others eventually acted upon move through the committee stage . It is a time of testing for Congress . Many members'of the House elected last November on pledges to make government more responsive are well aware that they now have to make good on those promises . The elected leadership of both Houses and the more senior members have an even greater obligation to join with them in producing programs to deal with the economy , the energy problem and the environment in ways that are creative and responsible .                     