@@729177

txt In his State of the Union Message , President Nixon has swung away from the strident divisiveness that marked the Administration 's approach to the 1970 campaign and returned to the role he originally marked out for himself of unifier , reformer and uplifter of American institutions . In terms that are lyrical even by the standards traditional for such Presidential openings of a new Congress , Mr. Nixon summons the legislators to join him in ending the " long , dark night of the American spirit " and effecting a peaceful revolution in governmental relations  --  one designed to give the individual a greater sense of direct involvement in official decision-making . As always , it is impossible to assess the adequacy of any of the specific approaches the President proposes until detailed programs are sent to Capitol Hill . But it is plain that Mr. Nixon has recognized the need for a drastic reorienting of national priorities to rescue the states and cities from collapse . His proposal that $5 billion of no-strings-attached funds be allocated to Federal revenue-sharing with the states and localities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress last year . On top of that , Mr. Nixon urges that another billion dollars in new Federal money be allocated to a fund that would have to be spent in six broad areas of unquestionable importance  --  urban and rural development , education , transportation , job training and law enforcement . This new money would be coupled with $10 billion more which the Federal Government already gives to the states and communities for specific programs in these fields . Local governments would make their own local decisions on exactly how the combined sum would be spent within the six broad categories . On an over-all basis , Federal aid would go up by onequarter , according to the President . Impressive as that expansion is for a start toward revenue-sharing , the specifics are crucial  --  both as to which existing programs the President proposes to abolish and what formula will be used to see that the extra money gets to the places where it is most desperately needed , especially in the big industrial states and cities . Except for the Keynesian concept of a " full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President was disappointingly vague in his economic prescription for achieving " more jobs , more income and more profits without inflation and without war . " He was vaguest of all in any hint of ideas on how to curb the runaway wage-price spiral , the greatest present threat to the stability of the dollar . The President has rightly emphasized the need for quick action this year on reform of a welfare system that is as destructive of human dignity as it is ruinous in cost . His proposals on reorganization of the hulking Federal bureaucracy , better health and a sounder environment will be commented on in subsequent editorials . The important question left by the address is one Mr. Nixon himself cites as the basic reason that Americans are questioning government at all levels : the gap between promise and performance . At this halfway point in his term , the President must demonstrate that the idealistic , even idyllic , tones of his message are not mere vacuous rhetoric . If through his detailed legislative recommendations and , even more importantly , through his own day-to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his address , the nation may yet be lifted to that " driving dream " he has once again held out as his primary goal .                     