@@728630

txt School bond issues in the United States continue to go down to defeat . But often this happens in spite of approval by a majority of voters . The reason is that many states require more than a simple majority vote for passage of school-finance issues . Missouri is one . It requires a two-thirds vote . As a result , St. Louis public schools are in deep financial trouble . Six straight bond issues have failed in the past two years , though all were supported by a simple majority at the polls . Overcrowding now will - continue , school officials say , necessitating the bussing of 3,000 students daily . A test case is making its way to the U.S. Supreme Court , challenging this kind of law on the basis of one man-one vote . A yes vote is worth only half as much as a no vote , critics insist , when two-thirds approval is required for passage of a school question . ? Yardstick performance Demand for measurable results in the education of American children is growing  --  not only among critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other schoolmen talk increasingly of " accountability " and " performance contracts . " " A business that showed no greater gains than ours would fail , " they say ; there must be a better return on dollars invested . So , steps now are being taken toward " guaranteed " results . First , two school districts in Texarkana , Texas , signed a contract with Dorsett Educational Systems for a five-year dropout-prevention program . The contract 's unique feature is that it provides for fluctuating payments to the company according to students ' achievement levels . Now , Learr.ing Foundations International is guaranteeing results of teaching projects in several Georgia schools . And Dallas , Detroit , and Portland , Ore. , are experimenting with this approach in individual schools . ? eGetting to know you ' Dr. Jack Hornbeck , superintendent of San Diego schools , offers two bright ideas for bringing students ' together through tech-nology : ? Move toward racial integration via closed-circuit TV , pairing schools and letting students and teachers get acquainted by seeing and talking to each other without abrasive physical contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , field trips and similar meetings could pave the way for classroom integration . ? Use satellites in San Diego 's school-toschool program . The city 's classrooms already are mailing video tapes to " sister schools " in Saudi Arabia and Spain . Why could n't satellite relay be used for live , two-way communication between students in San Diego and abroad ? The Defense Department was approached as a means of obtaining access to satellite relay time . San Diego 's involvement in such a program is uncertain but the Defense Department is considering using the idea among its 192 overseas schools for U.S. dependents . ? It 's bounding upward Upward Bound ? designed to motivate disadvantaged American youths to complete high school and go on to college ? is doing just that . In this broad view , the program is judged a success , according to a national assessment by an independent firm . Reporting to the Office of Economic Opportunity , the evaluators found fault with some aspects of the program . But they noted it is drawing the vast majority of its participants from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revealed that only 7 percent of Upward Bound participants dropped out of school in 1967 , compared with 31 percent of 17-year-old low-income students across the nation . Federal officials see in the report the basis of an appeal for a greatly enlarged program that would detect and attract perhaps 100,000 underachievers each year . ? An even mix In its school-bussing program , Harrisburg , Pa. , aims to achieve more than a balanced mixture of blacks and whites . It also plans to distribute children from very-low-income families throughout the school system . Bussing , which begins in September , will include movement of white students into ghetto areas as well as transporting blacks into formerly white schools .                     