@@731135

txt JAMES ROCHFORD and his four top deputies in the Chicago Police Department are among the 11 leading candidates for police superintendent . On the list of 11 are six Chicago policemen , including the head of the Police Academy . The other five finalists have no connection with the department . The out-of-towners include Donald Cawley , New York City police commissioner ; John Nichols , former Detroit police commissioner ; and Col. John R. Plantz , of the Michigan state police . ALL 11 , including Rochford , have undergone 10 hours of arduous testing which is considered one of the final steps in the nationwide search for a successor to James Conlisk , who resigned last October . The 11 candidates were selected as finalists from among the many police officials from around the country who applied . The screening and testing was done by the International Association of Police Chiefs at the request of the Chicago Police Board . The tests were given Tuesday and yesterday in a Rosemont hotel . The chiefs ' association next week will present the board a list of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board then will present Mayor Daley at least three candidates from which to select a superintendent . THE POLICE Board is not required to recommend any from the list offered by the chiefs ' association , but the association recommendations are expected to strongly influence the board 's choices . The fact that a majority of the finalists are Chicago policemen may please Mayor Daley and other defenders of the department . The mayor has said he would prefer to pick a Chicago man as superintendent . Here are the known final-ists : ? Rochford , 52 , who took the test yesterday , is considered a tough street-wise policemen . He has been with the department since 1947 . ? Michael Spiotto , 58 , deputy superintendent for investigative services and a policeman here for 31 years . ? Patrick Needham , 411 , deputy superintendent for administrative services , considered a modern-style scholarpoliceman . ? Mitchell Ware , 39 , deputy superintendent for inspectional services , and a Chicago policeman only since 1972 . He is a lawyer and formerly headed the Illinois Bureau of Investigation . ? Samuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who pioneered efforts to improve the Chicago Police Department 's image in the community . ? Capt . James , 47 , director of training for the Police Department , who formerly was superintendent of the Illinois State Police and held top positions with the Cook County sheriff 's police . ? Cawley , 43 , New York born and reared head of the New York City Police Department . He was appointed commissioner by former Mayor John Lindsay , who left office Dec. 31 . ? Nichols , 54 , flamboyant former head of the Detroit police who has a tough-cop reputation . He ran for mayor of Detroit last fall and lost by a slim margin . ? Col. Plantz , official of the Michigan police . ? John Ingersoll , ' former deputy director of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics . The other finalist was not identified because his present employer reportedly does not know he has applied for the job .                     