@@730813

txt AN EXPLOSION leveled a fireworks storage plant yesterday in County , injuring seven persons and shattering windows more than three miles away . The Worldwide Fireworks Co. warehouse at 4004 McCullom Lake Rd. , was leveled by the series of midafternoon explosions , which sent huge mushroomshaped clouds of white smoke thousands of feet in the air , according to witnesses . The entire plant , consisting of three aluminum storage buildings , a mobile home used as an office , and 14 trailers packed with fireworks for shipment , was leveled . Fire Chief Glenn Peterson of Township estimated damage at $300,000 . THE ENTIRE north wall of a nearby ranch-style house belonging to the plant owner , Robert Van Schoick , was blown down by the force of the explosion .. ? Large chunks of metal and fireworks were recovered miles from the blast , Peterson said . The company was preparing the fireworks for shipment for July 4 celebrations across the country , according . to Murray Yule , 50 , of 1221 Cleveland , Wilmette , a company representative . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Hospital only one , Robert Seaman , 30 , of 85429 River Dr. , Naperville , was admitted . He was listed in fair condition with a broken artn ? THREE OTHERS injured at the warehouse were Seaman 's brother , Thomas , 36 , of Stanton , Mo. ; Kurt Johnson , Teen-age girl , whose home adjoins fireworks warehouse , races home from riding stable when she hears blast , to find home a shambles . Page 3. 22 , of 536 Stewart St. , Palatine ; and Michael Rowe , 33 , of McCullom Lake . Mrs. Robert Van Schaick , 34 , the owner 's wife , and her two children , Lisa , 4 , and Robert.Jr. , 2 , were injured when the explosion rocked their home , at the same address as the warehouse . Her husband was out of town at the time of the explosion , Mrs. Van Schoick said . CHIEF PETERSON said the explosion was thought to have been touched off by spontaneous combustion in one of the main storage buildings , which set off explosions in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coworker , Johnson , were talking with the Seaman brothers in the office trailer when he " heard a strange hissing noise outside  --  lIke someone dragging a box across the floor . " " After I thought for a second and realized what it was , Kurt and myself headed for the front door of the trailer and the Seamans dove thru a window , " Rowe said . The men were treated for shock and minor injuries they received running from the blast which leveled the trailer seconds after they fled . TRAFFIC ON nearby Ill . Hwy. 31 was , blocked thruout . the afternoon as secondary explosions were touched off . Firemen continued to comb an 00-acre area surrounding the plant in an effort to locate live fireworks , Peterson said . The explosion and smoke were seen for miles and reportedly heard up to 30 miles away .                     