@@729709

txt With the results now in , the only thing close to a surprise to emerge from South Vietnam 's uncontested election was the ' huge size of the turnout and of the so-called " vote of confidence " in President Thieu . Political analysts had been predicting a high turnout of perhaps 75 to 85 percent of the registered voters . As it-was , election officials reported a record turnout of more than 87 percent . Election officials said that more than 91 percent of the more than six million voters cast ballots of , " confidence " in President Thieu . This raised some eyebrows here . But given the element of intimidation and coercion which the government had on its side , observers of the election , including some experienced diplomats , accepted the turnout and " vote of confidence " figures as being close to the truth for most of the country 's voting constituencies . This did not mean , of course , that the election amounted to a meaningful vote of confidence in President . Thieu . It appeared that for most . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to go through in order to stay out of trouble with the authorities . But the high percentage did reveal to a dramatic extent just how much pressure the government can now bring to bear on a large number of people throughout South Vietnam . Ever since its recovery from the Tet offensive of 1968 , the American-backed Saigon government has been expanding its military and administrative presence throughout the country . The record vote was in a sense an expression of that greatly enlarged presence . // *Big Viet vote but . . confidence in Thieu ? // Another figure which raised eyebrows was the 76 percent turnout reported in Saigon , along with an 83 percent " vote of confidence " for Mr. Thieu ; some experts believe there may have been a bit of cheating involved here . There had been widespread opposition in Saigon to the uncontested presidential election . But when it came down to voting many people felt it was best to stay on the safe side of the authorities . They voted in relatively large numbers compared with some previous elections . Aand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular but because that was the safe thing to do . Some of those who voted for Mr. Thieu in Saigon did so because they were uncertain as to what would happen in the future if Mr. Thieu were voted out . One lesson learned from the election was that the non-Communist opposition to Mr. Thieu has turned out to be even more fragmented and disorganized than most observers believed it to be . The An Quang Buddhist faction made a decent show of strength in the old capital of Hue where a significant number of voters responded to the An Quang appeal for a boycott and stayed home . The turnout in Hue was reported at 67 percent and the " vote of confidence " at 64 percent  --  the lowest figures reported for any voting constituency . But outside the cities of Hue and Da Nang , where the An Quang influence is great , the opposition calls for a lioy-Cott ? w-erelargely ignored . Credibility damaged Of course , some opposition politicians are saying that the real trouble is going to start now that the one-man election is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Wounded War Veterans Association and the Student Activists , damaged their own credibility in the preelection period by proving able to organize nothing more than small and scattered demonstrations . The War Veterans Association , for instance , had issued an " ultimatum " to President Thieu promising " strong action " Unless he called off the election . Mr. Thieu plunged ahead , and the veterans failed tO make good on their threat , with perhaps the exception of one brutal clash with the police at Da Nang on election day . Mr. Thieu 's " landslide " victory at the polls may force some of the opposition groups to unite , but most observers are doubtful that this can be accomplished to any significant extent in the immediate picture .                     