@@730360

txt With the designation of Sargent Shriver as the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee all but official , American voters can begin to give full attention to what both President Nixon and his Democratic challenger , Senator , have rightly called " the clearest political choice of the century . " The fundamental issues of economic and military policy , of approaches to human dignity and the quality of life that divide the two parties have now been sketched by Mr. in Saturday 's televised announcement of his new running mate . He indicts the Nixon Administration for dividing the country and falling to fulfill its pledges of peace and prosperity . His own goal is to help turn America 's course into a journey " inward toward the most powerful aspirations of the human heart . " A totally different estimate of both the record and the potentialities will emerge when the Republicans gather two weeks hence to renominate Mr. Nixon and Vice President Agnew . Indisputably , the gulf is wide ; the campaign task for both parties will be to persuade the country that not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs , will and capacity to translate them into reality . ? For the Democrats this task has been made substantially harder by the agony that has gone into filling the second spot on their ticket . The circumstances surrounding the original choice of Senator Eagleton and the week-long indecision over whether he would stay or go raised troublesome questions about Mr. 's own judgment and even the trustworthiness of his commitments . These questions will provide abundant campaign fodder for his enemies , even though the damage to the ticket would have been vastly greater had Mr. Eagleton remained . One solid effect of the whole tragic affair was that it awakened the country  --  we hope permanently  --  to the distortions in the yardsticks traditionally ' applied by both parties in selecting their Vice-Presidential candidates . How many extra votes the running mate might attract has obscured to the point of total exclusion any concern for his adequacy to fill the Presidency if fate decrees . In exercising his second opportunity to round out the Democratic slate , Mr. was decidedly conscious of the need for putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest on his preference list would accept the nomination . The most disappointing rejection of all came from Senator Muskie , who only a few months ago was an odds-on favorite to head the ticket and who remains , in the judgment of many , the Democrat best qualified to occupy the White House . Although a variety of personal and political considerations influenced the half-dozen turndowns , their sum will be widely read as a vote of no confidence in Mr. 's chances of victory and an index of the depth of the splits in the party . ? The man who will now be his running mate , Mr. Shriver , brings many attractive qualities . In contrast to Senator 's shy , almost diffident , manner , Mr. Shriver is an ebullient salesman , as he proved by Hs brilliant success in launching the Peace Corps at the start of the Kennedy Administration and again by the fact that the coldness of official relations between the United States and Gaullist France interfered little with the warm personal relations he built up as Ambassador to Paris in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressive , however , as first field marshal . of President Johnson 's oversold " War on Poverty . " Mr. Shriver 's chief assets are dynamism , charm , an engaging blend of practicality and idealism and , probably most persuasive to politicians though most dubious in any legitimate value scale , a link by marriage to the " magic " of the Kennedy family name . Whatever else , as measured against his opposite number on the Republican ticket , Mr. Shriver more than holds his own . Both parties are now squared away for a fateful contest on the issues .                     