@@734357

txt Soon after Andrew Young submitted his resignation as the chief United States delegate to the United Nations , he suggested that his supposedly secret meeting with a Palestine Liberation Organization representative in New York had been discovered through intelligence operations . But he reacted philosophically to the apparent intrusion . " I know how the world operates , " Mr. Young told a reporter . " I know there are no secrets here . " It was an assessment that was echoed many times in an inquiry by The New York Times into the question of who is spying on whom at the United Nations , perhaps the largest single concentration of diplomats anywhere . An Assumed Way of Life Behind the sober speeches and elegant cocktail parties that are so much a part of the public image of the United Nations , the investigation disclosed a world where the business of intelligence is an assumed way of life , where spying is so pervasive that some diplomats call their New York community " the stock exchange of global intelligence operations . " It is a community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such places as the crowded delegates lounge . But is also a place where sophisticated electronic equipment is clandestinely used , where informants and double agents go about their business using dual identities , " safe houses , " dead-letter drops and microdots . The operatives have ranged from night cleaning personnel and clerical workers , who have access to documents , secret messages and codes , to some of the highest officeholders at the world organization . Soviet Official Defected Last year , for example , it was disclosed that Arkady N. Shevchenko , the Under Secretary General for the Department of Political and Security Council Affairs and the senior Soviet official in the United Nations , had for years been providing information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency . When Moscow ordered him home , he defected . Just two months earlier , Ding Ba Thi , the chief of Vietnam 's delegation to the United Nations , was accused of complicity in an espionage case in Washington and expelled from the country . " Everyone at the U.N . knows that spying goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The U.N . was built for this kind of thing . Everyone wants to know everything , and that includes the Western countries . " Indeed , the United Nations offers so many opportunities for spying that many intelligence organizations reportedly use it as an intelligence training ground for junior diplomats . Mr. Young 's meeting with Zehdi Labib Terzi , the leader of the P.L.O . ' s observer // mission at the United Nations , took place on July 26 at the Beekman Place townhouse of Abdalla Yaccoub Bishara , the Kuwaiti representative at the world organization . In the furor that followed its disclosure , the White House and the State Department declared that Mr. Young had neither informed them that he had planned a meeting nor reported the details of the discussion . Furthermore , they said , the meeting violated Washington 's policy of avoiding all diplomatic contact with the P.L.O . Theories Abound on Meeting But within four days of the meeting , Mr. Young said later , a virtually complete account of it was " in the pipeline " in Washington despite efforts by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Soon afterward , the whole incident became public knowledge . Just how the secret got out remains a secret , but diplomats and former intelligence officials have come up with a number of theories . One is that F.B.I . agents had been spying on the P.L.O . or the Kuwaitis and caught an American in their net by chance . Another is that the Israeli intelligence service listened in on the Beekman Place conversation as a part of its routine surveillance of Arab groups and then turned over a report to the United States . Still another , but generally discounted , theory , is that the F.B.I . had Mr. Young under surveillance . " When he was very young , I 'm sure the bureau had five men on him at every meeting he went to , " said a former American intelligence officer , alluding to Mr. Young 's activities in the civil rights movement . " Those days are long gone . They would have had to have Carter 's personal approval to cover him and that is highly unlikely . " Array of Electronic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign and American organizations in New York include the latest spike microphones for listening through walls , laser sensors capable of monitoring conversations from great distances by reading the acoustic vibration of window panes , computerlinked array processors that can combine many indistinct sounds to derive an audible conversation , and telephone intercepts of many varieties . The main owners of such equipment are said to be the United States and Soviet Governments . But the Israeli intelligence service , the Mossad , which agents of other countries speak about with awe , is also reported to be extremely well equipped . Bugging , the use of a concealed listening device to pick up sounds , does not by any means appear to be the standard way of gathering intelligence at the United Nations . Former American intelligence officers say that while the F.B.I . once had many microphones hidden in the offices and homes of foreign diplomats , few remain in place now . Many diplomats said they took precautions against hidden microphones and telephone intercepts , but they say they have rarely found evidence of their existence . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for microphones after the Young-Terzi meeting , but he said there was " no evidence my house was bugged . " Some of the spying at the world organization is so obvious as to be almost comical . One diplomat recalled a Soviet employee of the press office who was constantly cleaning the telephones in various offices . " He was remarkably thorough , " the diplomat said , " always unscrewing the receivers of the phones , so as to clean dust out , he said . " Another told of a Soviet clerk in the UNESCO office who " was forever concealing the documents he collected during the day between the covers of two old magazines , taking them into the Xerox room and closing the door . " " When he was finished , " he said , " he always walked out smiling , with all the papers neatly done up inside the magazines . " Some United Nations officials . however , are deeply concerned . " We know that many of the delegates themselves are intelligence operatives , " an official said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff , among the cleaning and maintenance crews , and among the hundreds of newsmen accredited to the U.N . There is no such thing as a security clearance even for the 252-member security staff , who are recruited from all over the world according to geographic distribution . " $30,000 Needed to ' Sweep ' Offices While the United Nations uses a fluoroscope to screen packages against the inclusion of bombs , one of which arrived by mail from Idaho this month , it has no protection against electronic spying . " There is some feeling here that an investment of $30,000 for equipment to ' sweep ' offices for bugs would be well spent , " an official said . " In particular , Secretary General Waldheim 's office on the 38th floor might well be ' swept ' after each visitor . But most delegations would n't stand for it , nor would many senior U.N . officials . It would smack too much of police surveillance , so everyone is willing to keep quiet and live with the situation . " In fact , officials of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could recall no complaints of suspected electronic surveillance of the building or its delegates ever having been received . The United Nations organization responsible for such matters , the Committee on Relations With the Host Country , confirmed that it had never made any complaints of this kind . But there is no question that telephone intercepts and other listening devices are in use . A former American intelligence officer said , for example , that he felt sure the F.B.I . regularly tapped about 25 telephones used by diplomats in New York , including those of the Russians , the Chinese , the Cubans and some Arab nations . U.S. Mission Is Suspected Some delegates said they suspected that the United States Mission across from the world body 's headquarters on First Avenue housed electronic spying apparatus aimed at the United Nations . At the American Mission , officials are equally apprehensive about being spied on from across the street . The mission building was originally designed with an open , window-vented facade , an informant said . But in the middle of its construction American security agents began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood next door on the site of the United Nations Plaza Hotel . Accordingly , the elevators were moved outside the mission building into a new , domino-shaped structure interposed between the mission and the paint factory , designed to block any electronic signals . The facade was also redesigned , and when the mission moved into the building in 1961 the windows had been removed . There is general agreement that by far the largest spy operation in New York is run by the Soviet Union . The precise strength in New York of the K.G.B. , the Soviet security and intelligence service , is not clear , but a former American . intelligence operative estimated that the Soviet network , including K.G.B . officers , helpful Soviet officials employed by the United Nations Secretariat and informants , some of them American citizens , totaled about 1,000 people . 200 F.B.I . Agents on Duty The Americans are said to have the second largest contingent , with about 200 F.B.I . agents assigned to counterintelligence in addition to a much smaller , but unknown , number of officers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the Chinese had a substantial and growing spy organization in New York but that American intelligence had been unable to achieve what it would regard as a reliable estimate of its manpower . American intelligence officials estimate that the Israelis have about 25 intelligence agents at work in New York and acknowledged that until two years ago they had a very close relationship with both the C.I.A . and the F.B.I. , exchanging information on such things as international terrorist activities , particularly those involving the P.L.O. , and Soviet intelligence operations . But the American officials said that as Israeli-American relations had cooled , so had the level of cooperation . Palestinian spokesmen in the United States have consistently charged that the Mossad obtains intelligence data from domestic Jewish groups . But there has never been any public evidence to support this contention , and leaders of American Jewish groups and the Israelis have firmly denied it . Five Foreign Nations Singled Out Clandestine struggles involving many other countries come to light from time to time . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee recently singled out Chile , the Philippines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence operations in this country . Political murders and rough physical encounters of the kind that beset James Bond apparently occur infrequently in real life in the United States . But they are not unknown and they are a source of concern for diplomats , particularly since they rarely result evdn in formal charges against suspects . An exception was the murder in Washington in 1976 of the former Chilean Ambassador to the United States , Orlando Letelier , for which the onetime chief of Chile 's intelligence service , Gen. Manuel Contreras Sepulveda , was indicted by a grand jury . Many Americans of Yugoslav origin allege that a continuous and sometimes lethal cat-and-mouse game is played here between Yugoslav and American agents of the Yugoslav secret service on the one hand and American sympathizers with the cause of Croatian nationalism and critics of President Tito on the other . A continuing stream of violent and sometimes mysterious incidents has lent credence to this charge . This summer , a Federal grand jury began an investigation into violence among Yugoslays in the United States after four killings had taken place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one incident two summers ago , three armed Croatian nationalists forced their way into the Yugoslav Mission to the United Nations at 854 Fifth Avenue , shot a man at the door in the stomach and barricaded themselves in an upstairs office for two hours in an unsuccessful attempt to kidnap the Yugoslav delegate . Critics of the Senate 's list of foreign intelligence operations in this country contend that it omits reference to a number of active and effective networks , notably those of Israel and the so-called hard-line Arab nations . Officials of Israeli missions and American Jewish organizations say it is essential to maintain close watch over the activities of their adversaries because such activities have frequently led to terrorism in many parts of the world and direct threats to Israel 's security . In these and similar struggles between foreign nations that spill over into the United States , it is often difficult to separate the kind of work that might properly be done by police forces around the world from the kind involved in intelligence gathering . " In the free world , " an informant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few police forces have the knowledge and skills essential to combat political violence , illegal surveillance , and such things . The spy organizations themselves are nearly always better manned and equipped than the police . It 's too bad , but I 'm afraid the United States is going to have to play unwilling host to the world 's spies for as long as their is an American system of government . "                     