@@734444

txt Job losses among industrial workers , particularly black workers , produced a small increase in the unemployment rate last month , the Labor Department reported today . But , over all , the nation 's jobs market sent out mixed signals in October , and economists interviewed today said that the latest employment and unemployment figures suggested that the economy was still not in the expected recession . The jobless rate rose to 6 percent of the work force last month , compared with 5.8 percent in September , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics . This rate has been fluctuating between 5.6 percent and 6 percent since August 1978 . It had last been at 6 percent in August of this year . New York City Rate Declines In New York City the unemployment rate decreased from 9.5 percent in September to 8 percent in October , the Regional Commissioner of Labor Statistics announced today . Page 9 . The national survey of households used each month by the statistics bureau showed that total employment edged down in October by 22,000 to a total of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the  --  bureau , one using employers ' payrolls , indicated that employment rose by 300,000 last month . Janet L. Norwood , the Commissioner of Labor Statistics , said that the difference in the two surveys might represent a correction of the previous month 's trends , when employment had been discerned as rising when measured by the household survey and declining when measured by the payroll data . Statistical series such as the employment rate frequently show short-term aberrations that tend to correct themselves over the longer term . Dr. Norwood suggested that this is what was happening with the two employment surveys , although she could not pinpoint the reasons for the reversal . ' Clear Slowdown ' Discerned In any case , Dr. Norwood said at hearings of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress today , since last winter both surveys " reflect a clear slowdown in the rate of employment growth . " What was clear from the employment data was that whatever gains there were had come in the service sector of the economy . In the manufacturing sector , both employment and the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The decline in employment was particularly sharp in . the automobile manufacturing industry in October . " The pattern shows a slow and spotty economy but certainly not one that has already dived into the recession tank , " said Arthur M. Okun , an economist and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution . Mr. Okun said that continued high consumer spending , continuing high inventory levels by industry and " the fantastic immunity of home building to increases in mortgage rate " had kept economic activity and , consequently , employment high . But he expects changes . " I continue to believe there . is a - substantial deterioration ahead , " he said . Michael K. Evans , of Evans Economics Inc. , said that he regarded the September results , when the unemployment rate shrank by two-tenths of a percentage point , to be " the real fluke . " He expects the jobless figures to rise steadily through the middle of next year . Rudy Oswald , director of research for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations , also suggested that unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the divergent employment results from the two surveys indicated that many more workers were holding down a second job in order to cope with inflation . The payroll survey double-counts workers who hold more than one job , while the household survey counts each worker only once , no matter how many jobs he or she may hold . Richard Landry , an economist at the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , said that the monthly figure indicated that the economy was still " near the top of a boom , " adding , " we are convinced we are not in a recession yet . " Dr. Landry said , however , that the Chamber 's forecasters were still predicting a short , shallow recession for next year . But the high rate of employment , combined with continued double-digit inflation , he said , provide further evidence of the need to curb inflation through moderate monetary and fiscal policies .                     