@@733743

txt Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance 's decision to go ahead this week with strategic-arms negotiations despite the trials of two major Soviet dissidents drew sharp political criticism today . In a statement on Saturday and in a news conference today , Mr. Vance said that the importance of a strategic arms accord made it imperative to proceed with negotiations and not to link the talks to anything else . But the Coalition for a Democratic Majority , a group that favors a stronger line against the Soviet Union than the Admin. istration does , said that Mr. Vance 's announcement that he would not postpone his meeting with Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko in Geneva " speaks louder than his rhetorical criticisms of Soviet behavior . " ' Calling President tarter a Liar ' The coalition , which is led by Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York , said that the su , ess of arms negotiations " does not depend upon our proceeding with this particular meeting and thereby acquiescing itt an act which is not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a liar . " Mr. Carter has denied that Anatoly Shcharansky , whose trial began today , was an American spy , as the Russians have charged . At the same time it was learned that the Carter Administration , a few weeks ago , had raised the possibility of a trade for Mr. Shcharansky , a Jewish activist , but the Russians reportedly showed no interest , apparently intent un holding the publicized trial , whatever the implications for Soviet-American relations . Arms Talks of ' Special Quality ' The Carter Administration , at Mr. Vance 's urging , had earlier ruled out linking the strategic arms talks , now in a crucial phase , to Soviet actions on other issues . Today Mr. Vance strongly defended that policy against rising protests from Capitol Hill and from Jewish leaders . He said that although the trials had worsened relations , the strategic arms talks were of a " special quality " and had to be continued . Because these talks dealt with the possibility of the " mutual annihilation " on both sides , " this issue must be treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis with the highest priority , " he said , rejecting suggestions that he put off the negotiations in protest against the dissidents ' trials . Mr. Jackson , in a separate statement on the Senate floor , criticized the decision to go ahead with the talks in the face of the trials of Mr. Shcharansky and of Aleksandr Ginsburg , accusing the administration of " a confused , uncertain and often contradictory " approach . Senator Robert Dole , Republican of Kansas , called for suspension of the arms negotiations and of all scientific and cultural exchanges pending the outcome of the Shcharansky and Ginzburg trials . Position on Dissidents Clear Mr. Vance , asked about Mr. Jackson 's opposition to continuing the arms talks now , replied : " I respectfully disagree with what Senator Jackson said . I think it is of the utmost importance because of the unique nature of the SALT discussions that we should proceed with those discussions . We have made very clear our position with respect to the treatment of the dissidents . " He repeated a sentiment he had expressed on Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and would " inevitably affect the climate of relations . " Mr. Vance agreed with a questioner , however , and said , " Yes , the general atmosphere has clearly been aggravated " by the trials . " The imperatives to go to Geneva now are that we are dealing with negotiations that affect the national security of our nation and the security and well-being of the world in general . " Mrm Vance said . " It is a question which deals with the prospect of mutual annihilation of either side With the consequences that could have not only for the two countries involved but the world in general . " " Therefore , we think this issue must be treated differently from others and should be addressed on a continuing basis with the highest priority " he said . " We have indicated in the past that we would not link these discussions to other discussions and continue to believe that is a correct and sound policy . " Brzezinski Invites Jews to Meeting Meanwhile , Zbigniew Brzezinski , President Carter 's adviser on national security , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House to discuss the trials of the dissidents . It was learned that , in the discussion , Mr. Brzezinski noted that the Administration had raised with the Russians the possibility of seeking ways of avoiding a crisis over Mr. Shcharansky . The implication of his remarks was that the Administration had suggested a possible deal for Mr. Shcharansky but that Moscow had not shown intecest . Administration officials afterward would not dispute this interpretation .                     