@@730431

txt The Cambodian nation is in deep trouble and once again its non-Cambodian residents are living in dread lest they be blamed for everything and become targets of a new pogrom . Military reverses , threats to the rice supply , price rises , commercial rivalries and xenophobia are all involved In the current crisis . It has been touch-and-go for Pnompenh 's Chinese residents during the last week and few of them believe they are out of danger yet . One Chinese rice merchant was shot to death during the week and many others were roughed up , chased out of their shops , robbed or threatened . In most cases soldiers led the anti-Chinese activity , and even if there had been policemen around , public sentiment against Chinese was running too high to stop the abuses . The , Chinese are not the only ones living in fear . In a textile shop a-small child was chattering in Vietnamese this week when a foreigner entered the store . The child 's sister sharply scolded him in Khmer , saying : " Shut ups Never speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and take us all away ? " The threat is not an idle one . Two years ago , after the overthrow of Cambodia 's chief of state , Prince Norodom Sihanouk , Cambodians went on the worst anti-Vietnamese pogrom in modern history . Nearly all of Pnompenh 's 200,000 Vietnamese residents , many of whom had been been here , were turned out of their homes and stores by police and troops . Many were interned in makeshift concentration camps , but a still undetermined number were massacred . The bodies of slain Vietnamese were floating down the Tonle Sap and Mekong Rivers for weeks , and Vietnamese official sources now place the number killed then at " thousands or tens of thousands , " All but about 10,000 of Cambodia 's remaining Vietnamese were evacuated penniless to South Vietnam , which many had never seen , South Vietnam exacted a // terrible revenge on . Cambodia . Over a period of weeks , Saigon 's armed forces roared through dozens of Cambodian villages and hamlets , burning them to the ground , raping the women and killing everyone else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their people were killed by the rampaging Vietnamese army . Since then the blood feud between Cambodia and South Vietnam has been papered over to achieve at least nominal cooperation in fighting the North Vietnamese , who currently occupy much of Cambodia . One of the few links between the neighboring countries is Son Ngoc Thanh , Premier of Cambodia , who spent much of his life in exile in Saigon and whose Vietnamese is nearly without accent . Vietnamese officials , who privately admit their loathing for'all things Cambodian , regard Premier Thanh as one of the few acceptable leaders in Cambodia . At home Premier Thanh has found his association with Vietnam a heavy liability . The local press is almost uniformly hostile to him , frequently caricaturing him as an agent of the hated Saigon Government . Cambodian antipathy toward the Vietnamese is not merely the result of more than a thousand years - of intermittent war between the two nations . Minority in Own Capital A decade ago the Cambodians were a minority in their own capital , At that time , Pnompenh 's population was about one-third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-third Viet ' namese . This fact would have been irksome enough to the Cambodians to incite trouble , but , making matters much worse , the Chinese and Vietnamese had the real power in the city . This situatton ended with Cambodian independence . Foreigners were barred from public office , as were Cambodians with foreign wives or husbands . It was made practically impossible for Chinese or Vietnamese to adopt Cambodian nationality , although some succeeded in obtaining citizenship by paying huge sums of money to corrupt officials . But even with the civil service purged of Vietnamese and Chinese , these two groups still overwhelmingly dominated the nation 's business and commerce . Now the Vietnamese are nearly all gone and the few left are under continuous pressure . A prominent Vietnamese resident complained this week that his wife , who had absent-mindedly worn a Vietnamese ao dai , had nearly been attacked as a result . The woman had been riding in a car when her dress was noticed by a rickshaw peddler who ran her car to the curb and tried to drag her out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened in restaurants after having been overheard speaking Vietnamese with each other . Vietnamese complain that while their army is fighting the Communists in Cambodia they get nothing but abuse from the local press . The Chinese are still here ? some 400,000 of them in a nation of only seven million Inhabitants ? partly because unlike the Vietnamese they have no other place to go . But in the last two years their existence as an ethnic group has been steadily hedged in . In a speech last Friday , President Lon Nol appeared to be inciting violence against the Chinese merchants , saying , " I have learned that our enemies have ordered their accomplices to buy all existing stocks of rice in Pnompenh at exorbitant prices . " The president went on to charge that the merchants , nearly all of whom are Chinese , were working in collusion with Communist froces who are choking off the rice supplies that come in by road . Whenever prices go up or shortages occur , the Chinese are invariably blamed as malevolent speculators bent on growing rich by bleeding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese are in real danger , particularly when the Government appears to support violence against them , as it did Friday .                     