@@730776

txt President Nixon announced today another major reorganization of government and reshuffling of political power as a result of the Watergate scandals . He disclosed the following at a Cabinet meeting : ( John B. Connally , the former Secretary of the Treasury who switched from the Democratic party to the Republican party a few days ago , will join the White House as an unpaid special adviser to the President on a part-time basis while continuing his law practice in Houston . He will advise the President on various domestic and foreign matters and on rebuilding the White House staff . ( Dames R. Schlesinger , Director of Central Intelligence , will be nominated as Secretary - of Defense to replace Elliot L. Richardson , who was nominated as Attorney General last week to take ever the troubled Justice Department and oversee prosecution of the Watergate case . William E. Colby , deputy director for operations of the Central Intelligence Agency , will become its director . to succeed Mr. Schlesinger . ( The super-Cabinet that the President set up in January as part of a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demolished with the President going back to the traditional system of direct contacts with the regular Cabinet members . The superCabinet system collapsed according to Ronald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , because its two chief architects and operators , H. R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman , resigned last week as Presidential aides because of the scandals . 4IJ . Fred Buzhardt Jr. , general counsel of the Defense Department , is moving to the White House on a temporary basis to be special counsel on Watergate matters . Leonard Garment will continue to have over-all counsel chides for the White House , but Mr. Buzhardt will answer directly to the President . As the top Defense Department lawyer , Mr. Buzhardt has been heavily involved in the Pentagon papers case . The moves came after Mr. Nixon had addressed a Republican fund-raising dinner here last night at which he said : " We are not going to allow this deplorable incident to deter us or deflect us from going forward toward achieving the great goals that an overwhelming majority of the American people elected us to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much ' the same thing at his Cabinet meeting this morning , which Mr. Connally and Mr. Schlesinger attended . Afterward , Mr. Ziegler reported the changes to a crowded press room . The appointments followed the pattern that Mr. Nixon had established earlier in seeking to repair the Watergate damage ; instead of turning to outsiders , as some Presidents have done in scandals of the past , Mr , Nixon drew on his established circle of aides and advisers . Refusal From Packard The post of Defense Secretary was first offered to David Packard , who served as Deputy Secretary in the first Nixon term and who had returned to private business and apparently did not want to resume government service . Reshuffling of officials has been so rapid that it had an air of musical chairs . Mr. Richardson , Defense Secretary for three months , has not yet been confirmed as Attorney General and the Senate is showing no inclination to hurry with the confirmation , as a result of pending matters in the Watergate case . Mr , Ziegler was asked if there would be any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defense in case of further Senate delay . He said the White House was confident the Senate would act soon . Following the announcements , Mr. Ziegler was flooded with questions , many of them centering on the unusual situation of Mr. Connally 's acting as Presidential adviser without giving up his law firm position . He is a senior partner in the Houston firm of Vinson Elkins , Searls &; Connally , which represents various corporate interests . Asked if this would not represent a conflict of interest , Mr. Ziegler said Mr. Connally had been advising the President in the past on a variety of matters and that he would have no operational functions in the White House . The press secretary said that Mr. Connally would be given an office in the Executive Office Building , would probably he here three days a week and would be available to the President on Associated Press J. Fred Buzhardt Jr . To be special counsel ? any matters about which Mr. Nixon wished to consult him . This was an arrangement Mr. Connally apparently preferred rather than returning to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as a leading contender for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1976 . Pressed as to the question of conflict of interest , Mr. Ziegler said , " I am convinced " that the President and Mr. Connally will be careful to lay aside any interests represented by Mr. Connally 's law firm in their consultations . Mr. Ziegler was then asked if the White House would provide a list of corporate clients of the Connally law firm . He said that would have to come from the firm . In Houston , a spokesman for the firm did not respond to a request for the list of clients . The super-Cabinet that Mr. Nixon set up in January was short-lived . Seeking to put into effect by executive order much of the Nixon reorganization plan that Congress had refused to enact , the President elevated three Cabinet officers by giving them titles of Counselor to the President in addition to Cabinet titles and offices in the Executive Building , where they spent much of their time . They were Caspar W. Weinberger Secretary of Health Education and Welfare , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of Housing and Urban Development , with authority over community development matters ; and Earl L. Butz , Secretary of Agriculture , with jurisdiction over natural resources and environment . Three Are Demoted Mr. Ziegler said that the President had told all his Cabinet members today that the three would no longer have the title of Counselor to the President and he would maintain closer contacts with each member of the full Cabinet . Not affected by the dismantling , however , were the positions of George P .. Shultz , Secretary of the Treasury and assistant to the President for economic affairs ; and Henry A. Kissinger , the President 's chief adviser for foreign affairs . Administration policy and operations , Mr. Nixon was reported to have told the Cabinet , will be coordinated through Administration - wide committees in which the three demoted Cabinet members will have considerable authority . The move is expected to repair to some extent the President 's relations with Congress . Many Representatives and Senators had complained that the centralized setup curtailed Congressional oversight of the executive branch and access to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that the return to the traditional Cabinet system was based on the departure of Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Ehrlichman . The super-Cabinet grew out of a reorganization commission study headed by Roy Ash , now director of the Office of Management and Budget . Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Ehr lichman had a strong hand in shaping the commission 's plan , And when the super-Cabinet idea went into effect , Mr. Butz , Mr. Lynn and Mr. Weinberger reported to Mr. Ehrlichman . Only Mr. Shultz and Mr. Kissinger reported directly to the President , as they are still free to do . However , further staff shakeups were expected as Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr. , temporarily assigned to the White House to oversee the reorganization , works with the President for what some White House aides believe will be a more open Administration . Today 's moves also raised questions about the future of the C.I.A. , which had been undergoing reforms and cutbacks under Mr. Schlesinger , a former economics professor . Mr. Colby , who will succeed him , has been in international intelligence work for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Buzhardt , the new White House special counsel , Mr. Ziegler , said he had been brought in because Mr. Garment , whom Mr. Nixon turned to after he dismissed John W. Dean 3d , as counsel , had too heavy a work load . Mr. Garment , Mr. Ziegler said , will draft legislation for reforms in campaigning financing while Mr. Buzhardt advises the President on ongoing developments in the Watergate case .                     