@@730616

txt S e n . Mike Mansfield D. , ' Mont. , the Senate majority leader , called on President Nixon today to end the Viet Nam War " with the stroke of a pen . " Mansfield criticized Nixon 's dispatching of Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr. , Army vice chief of staff , to Saigon altho he said it is an indication the talks are " getting somewhere . " But he said he does not see why the Nixon administration " has to go thru Saigon to cons* with President Nguyen Van Thieu " when he can bring the war to a close by merely signing a peace accord . ASKED IF TIIIEU might be able to veto a new peace settlement hammered out by the United States and North Viet 11 a m , Mansfield said he " would n't be surprised " If Thieu " had a part to play " in the decay of last October 's agreement in principle . " It 's up to President Nixon now , " said Mansfield , appearing on the television interview show , Face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a price for a mistake that never should have occurred . " If this is another false start toward ending U. S. involvement in the war , Mansfield said , there is little Congress can do . " We can pass resolutions but we ca n't end the war , " he declared . " We should n't fool ourselves . " Mansfield complained that Congress has also " given away " a lot of its authority to wage war , but said he looks forward now to " gradually reasserting our prerogative . " HE DOWNPLAYED congressional threats that new administration appointees would be given rough treatment on cudirmation unless the executive branch agreed to make top officials readily available for testimony before Congress . While the question of how tar " executive privilege " extends remains moot , Mansfield said he has no doubt " cabinet-level administrators will appear before Congress when requested . Mansfield characterized the opening mood of the 93d Congress as ' ' disturbed , frustrated , uneasy . " He blamed it mostly on the war . He doubted the wisdom of lifting wage and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy . TURNING THE President 's argument around , Mansfield said the relative success of checking inflation under Phase 2 shows that controls should be kept on . " I hate to see a situation which has stabilized itself be shifted , " he said . He said that-three years of congressional insistence on controls had been ignored by Nixon " until the crunch came " and the Aug. 15 , 1971 , freeze had to be ordered . Mansfield also said he sees no change coming for the seniority system in Congress because it 's " good and democratic " and , he added , no one 's come up with a better one .                     