@@728466

txt Some major building projects in the Chicago area were halted yesterday by a strike of heavy equipment operators . The selective strike was called by Local 150 , International Union of Operating Engineers , AFL-CIO , in a contract fight with the Builders Association of Chicago . Chief target was McCormick Place ; the 72-million-dollar lakefront exposition hall scheduled for completion next October . Shortly after 7 a. m. , pickets appeared there and at 11 other sites . These included the Atomic Energy commission job at Weston , the American Airlines building at O'Hare International airport , the First National bank building at Clark gaining team had repeatedly and Madison streets , the 230 W. stated they had full power to Monroe street building , Illinois negotiate a contract . Institute of Technology at ** terms of the Jan. 6 and State streets , and Johnson agreement the highest rated Publishing company , 830 S. equipment operators would reMichigan ay . ceive a 68 per cent pay hike List Sites Closed spread over 41 months . Those now receiving 56.55 an hour would receive pay increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three years , or an hourly wage of ; 11.05 beginning Jan. 1 , 1972 . Pay increases also were included for three other operator classifications . Donald W. Dvorak , association executive director , said the board rejected the agreement because of what it considered " exorbitant " pay increases and objectionable reclassific ation and upgrading to higher pay scales of less skilled operators . Union Chief Sees Problem Tentative Pact Rejected The union 's action resulted from a tentative agreement reached Jan. 6 by union nedotiators and the builders . The association 's board of directors disavowed the tentative agreement and asserted they were entitled to the same perogative as rank and file union members to approve or to reject a pact . Martin said , however , that the builders association bar- The other sites closed by the walkout were the International Business Machines building at 400 N. Wabash ay. ; the Hartford Insurance building , 150 S. Wacker dr. ; and Intilding , s at 625 N. Michigan ay . and at Monroe street and Wabash avenue ; and the Illinois Bell Telephone company building at Monroe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCormick Place . Other sites were shut down when trade union workers refused to cross picket lines . William F. Martin , union president , ordered the work The old contract , covering stoppages yesterday , even tho 1,200 heavy equipment operathe National Labor Relations tors in the union , expijed Dec. board has set a hearing in the 31 . The union was legally free contract dispute for April 14. to strike after that date . qwq flees : owner of the Carl E. Erickson company , refused to comment on the sudden union action or discuss what plans , if any , are contemplated to curb the work stoppages . Raymond Schoessling , chairman of the Metropolitan Fair and Exposition authority and president of the joint council 25 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters union , said ' that any prolonged strike by the Operating Engineers union could present a real problem .                     