@@731716

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 188 Letters to ' the Editor Where , Then , Is Our Leadership ? ' To the Editor : ? When all the events of 1974 are sorted out , the inability of our Government to deal forthrightly with an economic crisis of tidal-wave proportions will go down as the year 's major failure . , Our ability to joust successfully with rampant inflation prior to the ArabIsraeli war of 1973 had already suffered because of benign neglect by government as well as massive grain sales and two successive dollar devaluations . One year after the Arab oil embargo and quadrupling of oil prices , Western Europe lies as economically ravaged as during the Hitler onslaught of the 1.940 's , and fortress America is gripped in the jaws of an economic vise that is fast closing . Yet only now does Dr. Kissinger in muted terms warn of impending economic catastrophe , while other members of the Administration still spout about the beneficial effects of the recycling of petro dollars . Only now has Washington taken notice of the vulnerability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doors to the nation 's capital markets have just about been closed on all but the most credit-worthy . Wall Street can not meet its prime function of supplying capital and our banking system is being strained . Only recently , Washington announced that Watergate Thoughts To the Editor : I have read with some amusement your Jan. 2 editorial on the Watergate trial verdict , entitled " Guilty , " and have come to the conclusion-that what you left unsaid is more significant than what you did say . To wit : ( That the Watergate affair has been blown up out of all proportion to its inherent significance by the predominantly liberally biased ' media  --  to reverse the proverb , a veritable " teapot In a tempest . " ( That the " break-in " itself was chiefly the result of a combination of poor judgment and innocuous stupidity on the part of the perpetrators . ( That the so-called cover-up and obstruction of justice , though not to be condoned , was but a human and natural reaction and not the heinous crime trumpeted by the liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office and made the malevolent scapegoat for this inane caper by the liberal establishment . ( That the " break-in " itself made no apparent contribution to the Democratic debacle of 1972 .. ( That the Watergate affair was in essence a politically inspired vendetta to destroy the Republican party . ? ( That the trial itself was in a biased ambiance , with a biased judge and an incompetent , if not biased , jury for such an important and complex case . ( That millions of taxpayer dollars went down the drain on this generally minor , if not trivial , escapade. ( ghat it is incongruous with all the crime and unlawful skulduggery rampant in this city and throughout the country that so much attention was focused on this minor and petty affair by the liberal media . Finally , rather than the " catharsis for the nation " which you mention , I venture to say that , in retrospect , history will record the over-all Watergate affair as a brazen and incredible imposture perpetrated on the gullible American public by the arrogant . and unethical liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 , 1975 ? ' Let Us Rejoice ... ' To the Editor : Let us rejoice that Watergate no longer befouls the pure moral climate of our land . Secure in our prosperity , once again we can enjoy our happy , stable families , so thoroughly perfected by sound education , wholesome television , inspiring movies and quiet evening walks down our city streets , where we reach up and touch the stars . JEANNE MCQUADE Queens Village , N. Y. , Jan. 4 , 1975 ? Penny Gumball Dirge To the Editor : ? The penny gumball at my local supermarket is no more . The Jan. 5 story " Penny Gumball in Trouble " predicts price increases or the possibility of hollowing the balls . In New Jersey both measures have already come to pass . At many locations the " penny " bubble gum now costs 1.25 cents . This fractional increase is effected by allowing four turns of the knob upon payment of one nickel . Regarding the nickel pistachio nut machine , am wary of risking the coin for fear of getting empty shells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jan. 5 , 1975 150 banking institutions are currently experiencing difficulties ? a higher number than at any time since the Great Depression . The coming months will undoubtedly see numerous bankruptcies within the business sector . All of this on top of a collapse of our construction and automobile industries . The din of the unemployed promises to become the roar of 1975 . Yet throughout this economic nightmare , our Government 's attitude has been that the passage of time will heal us . The fragile peace orchestrated by Dr. Kissinger in the Mideast is fast becoming unglued as the . Arab nations become further intoxicated with their economic power , although Secretary of the Treasury William Simon grimaces bravely and fantasizes to the public about lower oil prices . Ron Nessen , the Presidential spokesman , waves illusionary treaties with the Communists and promises peace in our time , while Congress ' figures on new ways to emasculate the military . Yes , we are now in a crisis of such major proportions that it tears at the fabric of all that has made America great , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late for our Government to realize that the continued acquiescence to economic and political blackmail will surely lead us all to disaster . Where , then , is our leadership ? JOHN H. LANG Pearl River , N. Y. , Jan. 4 , 1975 Justice and the C.I.A . To the Editor : The great brouhaha about whether the C.I.A . exceeded its authority in conducting domestic surveillance ( in final analysis , it is simply a jurisdictional dispute in which the F.B.I. , whose jurisdiction was infringed , is n't even complaining ) has some interesting ramifications . That the C.I.A . is precluded by law from carrying on domestic operations is a consequence of the expectation , indeed the certainty , that it would conduct its activities in a manner violative of the U.S. Constitution . Such was the intention . Our Government must not , as a matter of policy , violate the law at home ; what we do in someone else 's home is another matter . Until we are prepared to accord to the world at large the same standards of justice that we apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at best , as hypocrites , at worst , as outlaws by the rest of the world 's peoples . Justice for ourselves is predicated upon the belief that " all men ... are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights . . . " The C.I.A . as conceived and organized under its present charter simply confutes that premise . MALCOLM MONROE White Plains , Jan. 2 , 1975 ? ? The Blue Chip Committee To the Editor : President Ford 's panel to investigate the C.I.A . ' s involvement in illegal domestic spying is more of a " blue chip " committee rather than a " blue ribbon " one . Vice President Rockefeller has been a hawk on issues like Vietnam and nuclear , testing . In 1959 , he urged the Eisenhower Administration to resume nuclear testing to " preserve peace in the world . " In the 1964 Presidential primaries in Grant 's Pass , Ore. , Rockefeller urged an increase in military commitments to Thailand , an end to troop withdrawals from South Vietnam , invasion of Communist sanctuaries in Laos , Cambodia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laos . Ronald Reagan 's record is even more closely associated with imperialistic ventures . All eight men are part of the power structure that the C.I.A . was trying to protect . There are no peace-movement members , no women and no minorities . DON LUCE Exec . Dir. , Clergy and Laity Concerned ? New York , Jan. 6 , 1975 On Rattling a Saber To the Editor : I am shocked by the suggestion of Secretary of State Kissinger , supported by President Ford , that the U.S. would use military force against oil-producing nations to prevent the strangulation of the industrialized world . This is the height of ' arrogance and folly . If we are so dependent on oil from the Middle East that they can " strangle " us , it is our own doing , based on an affluent lifestyle and the way that we are using our own resources , We can change that , if we want to , but it will take leadership instead of saber-rattling . After all , it is their oil  --  not ours . Or does free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation tried to steal what was ours , then talk of Near might be understandable ( though horrible to contemplate in this nuclear age ) . But it is madness to talk of using military force to fight economic policies . Perhaps Kissinger 's pronouncement was intended to be viewed in the light of the Israeli-Arab conflict , but that is not what he said . The United States should stand firm in its support for the State of Israel , assuming reasonably adjusted boundaries , and that support ( if we really mean it ) should not depend on the price of oil . This country has been blessed with natural resources of immense value and beauty . True , we have used them greedily and they are not infinite , but we still have great stores to draw on  --  and not the least of these should be the spirit of the people . Let the Administration then present plans for us to cope with ? our problems  --  plans that will lift our spirits ? not reckless talk which increases international tensions and blinds us to the hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis and its economic ramifications . BRUCE MCDUFFIE Binghamton , N. Y. , Jan. 5 , 1975 ? Remember Pearl Harbor To the Editor : In recent months I have noticed that discussions with my friends have increasingly explored different military solutions to the OPEC situation . These discussions remind me of similar internal discussions held by top Japanese Government officials in the summer of 1941 after the Allies denied Japan access to foreign oil . " Japan was backed into a corner " was the Japanese justification for the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor , and thus Japan had no alternative but to fight . The same rationale seems to have great appeal now for many of my friends . We even wonder if talks with our new allies , Germany and Japan , have reached a planning stage and if any preliminary troop assignments and refinery targets have been selected and in which countries . It is comforting to know that discussions such as I have had'with my friends can be held freely in our democracy but frightening when I realize we are . beginning to morally justify our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jan. 2 , 1975 ? To Wreck a Currency To the Editor : Keynes knew bloody well what to do when the age of cheap money dawned on the world in 1933 at his instigation : He borrowed and bought silver in order to become a millionaire in due course . Should Congress follow Mr. Bab 's infantile idea ( letter Jan. 5 ) and have the Treasury stuff still more Government paper into the banking system in order to bring the rate of interest down , smart people would take another leaf out of Keynes 's book : They would borrow and buy gold ( or silver or anything that Congress can not print ) . Currency debasement , started in 1933 and long concealed cleverly by Keynesian rhetoric and propaganda . has by now reached the stage where the Treasury can not simultaneously suppress the rate of interest and the price of gold : one or the other is bound to break out . A. E. FEKETE Visiting Fellow , Princeton ? University Princeton , N. J. , Jan. 6 , 1975 ? Endangered Fisheries To the Editor : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial Dec. 201 the United States is sacrificing the once-rich but soon-depleted fishing banks off New England . After inspecting the out-of-date vessels and fishing gear of industrious fishermen in Gloucester , Mass. , and then sailing among huge fleets of state subsidized super-trawlers of foreign powers just a few miles offshore , I have come to the conclusion that any Congressional delay in accepting the bill for extension of the fisheries limits ( the economic zone ) to 200 miles is ill-advised . It is unlikely that the second round of the U.N . Law of the Sea Conference due in Geneva this spring will reach any useful agreement without due bargaining from all sides . And an extension to 200 miles , or a pledge . to such extension , before the conference will give the U.S. a better bargaining position . BJARNI SIGTRYGGSSON Reykjavik , Iceland , Jan. 1 , 1975                     