@@733416

txt Ralph Nader obviously feels betrayed . Since the announcement that air bags wo n't be required in all new cars until 1984. he has publicly assailed not only Transportation Secretary Brock Adams , who made the announcement , but also Joan Claybrook. the government 's highway safety administrator . Recently , Mr. Nader charged that Miss Claybrook has " etched a trail of averted or broken promises , " and demanded that she resign He picked on Miss Claybrook , of course . partly because she had worked as a Nader operative for seven years , fighting for safety and other consumer causes . Miss Claybrook is n't exactly admired by the auto makers , either . General Motors Chairman Thomas Murphy said that Mr. Nader " may be right " in calling for her to quit . " But for the wrong reasons . " He said he does n't think she has been doing the Job " fairly and equitably . " Not that their ex-periences have been entirely negative . Since she took office as head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some important areas . Although Transportation Secretary Brock Adams gave auto makers one more year than she had urged to install air bags , she 's pleased at having helped bring about the air-bag decision and the Senate vote backing the ruling Her agency also drafted the rules requiring rising fuel economy through 1985 She is readying further safety plans that she had promoted as a Nader operative They include improved car-occupant protection in side-impact crashes , reduction of hazards for pedestrians struck by vehicles , and a system of rating cars for their crash-protection features . And she is whipping into shape the safety agency 's languishing effort to correct auto defects , thus trying to satisfy another old desire . ' I would match my level of performance against anybody else 's in the first eight months on the Job , " the 40-year-old Miss Claybrook says defiantly . But being in the driver 's seat has its drawbacks . Associates say Miss Claybrook now has to be concerned , for instance , that while being tough on auto makers , she does n't appear unreasonable to them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branding her as soft on the industry . " it 's a very tough Job , " she says , stoically . Mixed Reviews One House staff member watching auto safety developments insists that Miss Claybrook has so far " pushed as hard as she should , without bringing the world down around her on all sides . " But some other observers say she may have come on a bit too strong to suit Mr. Adams and his staff . A former associate complains . " She never regards a battle as won until all her opponents are dead . " Among Adams aides , there is some feeling that although their boss firmly decided in favor of the air bag , Miss Claybrook pushed him mightily to back it , that she 's a bit of a fanatic about auto safety and that they must keep a constant eye on her . One Adams aide says she sometimes comes up with " wacky schemes " with politically explosive implications . Miss Claybrook has made speeches castigating auto makers as sometimes " Irresponsible , " and an Adams staffer says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worry . " Miss Claybrook says , however , that she tries to proceed Judiciously with new proposals to Mr Adams and his staff , to avoid any " backlash " Speeches Draw Fire Pressures are coming , too , from an auto industry reluctant to move as far and fast on safety measures as Miss Claybrook would like . Though auto executives praise her as knowledgeable and courteous in their private dealings , they have made it clear to Secretary Adams and his aides that they dislike her speeches . Moreover , getting her safety agency 's sluggish bureaucracy to move is n't easy . Miss Claybrook is irked by the time it takes to produce action , the lack of power to hire and fire people freely and the uneven quality of staff work . She has had to hold up issuance of tire-quality grading requirements , blaming inadequate staff work in the past . She has abandoned a speedy timetable for new auto-design rules affecting pedestrian safety , after top aides persuaded her they were unrealistic . Often now , when told there 's no way to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sad . " says Deputy Administrator Howard Dugoft Other former public-interest warriors now working m the Carter administration are discovering that they often have to sound less aggressive than they did before . and they must take a longer view of what it takes to solve problems . Much as Miss Claybrook is facing autoindustry pressure . Carol Foreman , former head of the Consumer Federation of America and now an assistant agriculture secretary . finds her vigorous food-labeling policies have come under fire not only from foodindustry people but , privately . from some department higher-ups . Mrs. Foreman . too . finds it hard to get action . Though she has thousands of people in her domain , most of them are meat inspectors : she says she has too few people to delve into issues Like labeling and toxic substances in food . " I ca n't find anyone to do what I want done . " she laments . Gus Speth , an environmental activist in the past and new a member of the President 's Council on Environmental Quality . encounters other frustrations- He must spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from people outside government- people like the Gus Speth of the past . Though the **25;1110;TOOLONG find their tasks complicated by criticism from Mr Nader and some of his colleagues , other public-interest representatives say the new insiders are doing remarkably well . And most of the newcomers in government , like Miss Claybrook , are proud of their accomplishments so far Mrs. Foreman cites her consumerminded decisions to crack down on use of nitrite and nitrate additives in bacon , improve school lunches and require blunt labeling that tells buyers that there is some groundbone tissue in mechanically deboned meat When it comes to serving consumers . " being here is better than being somewhere else , " she says . Setting a Fast Pace Cynthia Wilson , an assistant to Interior Secretary Cecil Andrus. has helped develop environment-protecting park and wilderness policies . with success " beyond my expectations , " she says Thomas Jorling , a former water-pollution fighter outside government who now is an Environmental Protection Agency official , predicts that eventually the changes he is helping to make at that agency will satisfy all but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss Claybrook " was off and running her first day on the job . " an associate says and she has maintained a fast pace ever since . She says she found the safety agency sot perform:tog its " missal ) . " of vigorously seeking to cut highway deaths and injuries by pushing the auto industry to make can safer . Armed with intelligence . enthusiasm . charm . a passion for safety and earlier experience in working for the agency . Miss Claybrook set about making changes . She quickly set a tone of openness . posting a daily list of people she would be talking to . and issuing daily summaries of meetings with staffers and outsiders . Meanwhile . she helped shape Secretary Adams 's air-bag decision and built support for it on Capitol Hill . Sen. Wendell Ford of Kentucky . chairman of the Senate Consumer Subcommittee . recalls Miss Claybrook 's patiently answering one uncertain Senator 's questions about bow well the air bag has performed in crashes . persuading him to vote in favor . Rep. Barbara Mikulski. a Maryland Democrat who was dubious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did a top-notch job of allaying her concerns : " She won me right over . " One of her most effective moves has been to revamp her agency 's effort to find safety defects in cars and compel recalls . She installed a new defects-investigation chief and prodded auto companies to move faster on recalls . In one Instance , she held a public hearing when she thought Ford was moving too slowly on a recall . Big Backlog Miss Claybrook is also pushing the agency to clean up some 70 unfinished investigations of safety defects-40 of them from one to six years old . When she decided that people already on the Jobs were incapable , she brought in a temporary team of five young attorneys to start the cleanup Looking ahead , the safety chief has told staffers to develop a five-year plan for new safety standards . A plan including 90 possible new rules and changes or cancellations of old ones is about finished . Pedestnan safety is high on the list , starting with a proposed rule to eliminate sharply protruding hood ornaments . ' When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such protrusions by dragging a fish net over the hood , she replied that it would be better to drag the design engineer over the hood . ) But on many fronts . Miss Claybrook has met tough going . She has found , an aide says , that she ca n't always follow her preferences because of constraints imposed by Mr. Adams 's staff , the President 's budget office , the pressure of time , lack of resources , and her own political instincts . Though some of the staff 's work is " really fabulous . " she adds . " some of it is crappy . " She is tussling now with the question of whether to revise or even withdraw an existing standard requiring a new type of truck air brake with an antilocking feature . among other things . She blames poor staff work in the past for the trouble with the regulation . Critics say the new air brakes fail to work as they should or cause huge maintenance costs . To promote more dedication within the agency . Miss Claybrook has given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But she says they were rag at cuequarter speed when she took over . and " if I can vet diem np to sue-half . Tm doing well " Her oral causes some cancers sot only within her agency but also with some of Secretary Adams 's aides . One aide argues that aaybrook-type " public-interest people with strong and well-known views " should n't be named to " judicial " posts like highway safety administrator . Though Secretary Adams has usually backed her up . his public-affairs office censored a film she in to promote the air bag in Congress  --  deleting pleas by people crippled in car accidents . When Miss Claybrook proposed rating new car models according to their crash protection for occupants . Mr. Adams first balked but then gave a cautious go-ahead . She will proceed gingerly in seeking public support for such ratings , which some people fear could be misleading to car buyers .                     