@@730177

txt Inside the human body , cells talk to one another continually in a conversation that makes the difference between health and illness , life and death . It is a dialogue that has been going on in a multitude of animal species probably for more than 300 million years . Its language is something that modem scientists call immunology . And today , against a background of new knowledge mushrooming virtually month by month and a sense of real excitement among specialists , the incredibly complex system of immunology is beginning to yield up an understanding of what it is all about . Some scientists expect that their understanding will recast much of what medicine can do about many of man 's most important diseases , including cancer , arthritis and some forms of heart and kidney disease . Most of this promise is still to be realized ; it is little more than a gleam in scientists ' eyes . Yet new ways to help the sick by manipulating the immunological system , unimaginable a few years ago , are already being tried . And in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several months , scientists from many laboratories have made it clear that they have far more ambitious ideas for the future . Backed by Federal Funds To support immunology research , the National Institutes of Health are spending about $64-million a year through grants and ' contracts , with most of it administered through the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the National Cancer Institute . There are several unconventional ways in which doctors are now manipulating the immune response to cope with disease . One is the transplantation of bone marrow to give a patient vital elements of a new and functional , immunological system . Another is the use of a rather mysterious substance called ' , transfer factor " to ' give patients with defective immunological systems the capability to fight deadly infections against whin they had been helpless . Both methods have already saved lives , although the illnesses against which they have been used are rare . There are even more new manipulations that are still . in the laboratory or animal research stage but ' that seem likely to be applied before long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as that of selectively removing particular harmful antibodies from the blood or preparing tailor-made magic bullets that would seek out and kill certain specific cells and no others in the body . Precision Is the Key In these cases tit is not so much the ideas that are new as the specificity with which the job can now . be done . It is the difference between the bludgeon and the rapier , the blunderbuss and the rifle . In the preface to the proceedings of the fourth in an annual series of conferences on immunology , Dr. Maurice Landy , of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and Dr. Jonathan W. Uhr , of New York University , say of the state of their art : " The precision and selectivity of the forms of intervention envisioned for the ? immediate future will assuredly have an immenseimpact on medicine . " While immunology is one of the newest frontiers of medical science , it is also one of the oldest allies of Medical practice . Doctors were making good use of it centuries before they had ally real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it a name . Today . the most common use of immunology by far is vaccination , which , got its scientific start in 1796 when Dr. Edward Jenner infected an 8-year-old boy with cowpox virus ( vaccinia ) in the hope that , it would protect against smallpox .. In modern terms , the fact that it did work would be explained by saying that the vac.cination prevented the infectious disease by giving the body an immunologic memory of a virus that it had never met in the natural course of things . The . agents of that memory are called antibodies . Multitude of Relationships Most nonscientists who ever think about it see the immunologic system simply as a defense against infection  --  a matter of antibodies made by the body to kill germs . To a specialist the system now appears to ? comprise at least three kinds of living cells and five kinds of antibodies as well as other substances in a multitude of complex relationships that have an amazing range of vital functions . It is clearly a main defense against infection . It appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in important ways by distinguishing between " self " and " non-self " and , for that reason , it probably played an important rele in evolution . When the first living things developed in earth 's primordial seas , they had to invent means of keeping themselves separate from the rest of the soup of organic material around them . From this need , presumably , the immunologic system arose . The first organisms were made from the materials in that soup , yet had to segregate themselves from it . Failure ' to do so would have been as disastrous as an automobile assembly line in which each new car attracted to itself , indiscriminately , all the steel , glass and rubber in its vicinity . Even today we enlace .. that same problem . The things we eat , drink and touch , the germs that live in us , on us and around us ? all have chemical characteristics mach like the tissues of our own bodies . We must have ways of telling the foreign from the native . " The Immunologic process is our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals:Anywhere , " says Dr. Robert A.:Good of the UMversity of Minnesota , Minneapolis . Major ' Course of Illness It is-also becoming clear that derangements of the system are a major cause , of illness . It is estimated that at any one time there are between 10 million and 20 million Americans who have diseases in which immunologic mechonisms play a major role . The figure becomes much higher than that If everyone with an allergy is included , because allergies are classic cases of the immunologic system gone awry . There are many diseases in which immunology is probably a factor because the system acts too little , too late , too much or in the wrong way . There is an impressive list of illnesses in which this is suspected : some of heart andkid ney disease , much of arthritis and related conditions and perhaps all of cancer . There are also scores of rare diseases with such names 1 as Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome , ' Swiss-type agarnmaglobulinemia and systemic lupus erythematosis that reflect either deficiencies or derangements of the system . The fact that so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the current interest , but more important , from a practical viewpoint , Is the incredible precision of the immunologic language and the rapidly accumulating understanding of how it works . These , together , offer the hope of influencing the system in precise ways to achieve a desired effect without doing damage to anything else , For example , it should be possible to use the system to attack cancer cells in a patient 's body while having no effect at all on closely related normal cells of the same organ in the same person . This is still beyond practical possibility , but well within the bounds of theory . Current treatment methods are much blunter , killing some normal cells as well as those of the cancer . Success depends on a hazardous balance between damage to the patient and damage to the cancer . Another area of high current excitement centers on experiments showing that hereditary immunologic traits are probably an Important ? factor in determining how susceptible any person may be to a given type of disease . The evidence for this has been accumulating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article in Science by Drs . Baruj Benecerraf of the Harvard Medical School and Dr. Hugh 0 . , of Stanford University 's School of Medicine . In mice and guinea pigs , and probably in other species including man , the genetics of the susceptibility to disease are linked closely to those genes that put an individual signature on every person 's tissues . Those are the signaThis is the first of several articles that will appear from time to time on basic immunology research and its applications to human health . tures that create the main problems for the surgeon who wants to transplant a kidney or a heart from one person to another . During a recent interview , Dr. said that this kind of information could be used to help sort people out according to the diseases most likely to afflict them in the future ? provided considerable amounts of money were made available to do the necessary surveys and other studies . Even without this kind of major effort , he said , the , new understanding of the links between the ? genetics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could tell scientists much about the way diseases arise in man . The Functions of Key ' Cells The research also merges into another of the key'issues of current immunology : the functions of the main cells of the immunologic system and the dialogue , about them . In particular this involves two general populations of lymphoid cells called T cells ( for Thymus , a little gland high in the chest ) and B cells ( for " bone marrow " ) . Their existence and roles as separate populations in the body have only come to light within the last few years , and they are the subject of much current debate . There are many ways in which greater knowledge of T cell and B cell functions and their interactions could be applied for the benefit of human health , There appear to be conditions in which ' it would be helpful to , turn up the dial , so to speak , on one or the other cell population while leaving the other alone . There are also unwanted immunologic responses that might be blocked without damaging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by manipulation of either T or B cells ? if one knew how to do it . One of the most obvidus cases is that of transplantation , whether it be a heart , kidney , liver or a piece of skin . In all of . these operations the main problem is not surgical technique but coming to terms , with the body 's jealous guard over its own individuality . The immune system desperately resists the presence of any foreign tissue . To keep , the transplanted organ from being destroyed , surgeons must give ' their patients powerful drugs that suppress much of the immunological system  --  and thus often put the transplant recipient at risk of infectious disease . If T cells alone could be suppressed , the problem would ' be much simplified because they seem to be the main agents of tissue immunity . It appears that the precursors of both cell populations form in the bone marrow  --  the source of blood and much of the body 's immunologic capabilities . The T cells then pass through and are influenced by the thymus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Immunological organs . While T cells are so-called because of their link to the thymus , B cells get their name not only from the bone marrow derivation but also from the fact that they seem comparable to immunologically active cells in fowl that come from an organ near the tail called the Bursa of Fabricius . Experts are still searching today for the equivalent of the bursa in man , Dr. Good , whose research in Minneapolis has clarified much of current knowledge of the thymus and its role , thinks that the human bursa equivalent possibly may only appear briefly in the individunal 's development and then regress , leaving no trace sufficient for its identification . At present it appears that the T cells and B cells are the main agents of cellular immunity the kind that resists tissue transplantation and is resporisi ? ble for important kinds of allergic reactions . T cells are capable of destructive action when they encounter something they do n't like . They also seem capable of mobilizing the scavenger cells called " macrophages " at the scene of action so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells. , It pis widely suspected that T cell antipathy to the foreign is an important bulwark against the cancer cells in the body and that this probably has its roots deep in evolution as a defense of " self " against anything extraneous . But this is a two-edged sword . Sometimes the T cells are tricked into enmity toward normal constituents of the in ' dividual 's body . Self-destructive immune effects then produce something called autoimmune disease , Scientists think it probable that this is the key problem in many important maladies such as rheumatoid arthritis , rheumatic heart disease and some destructive kinds of kidney disease , as well as in other less familiar types of serious illness . Globular Proteins B cells on the other hand , are the precursors of the cells that snake antibodies , the globular proteins found in the bldod that seem to be a main defense against germs . There is some evidence that certain viruses  --  including those that cause flu and some animal cancers  --  are resisted mainly by B cell functions , while fungus diseases and some bacteria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the province of the T cell . But the picture emerging today in laboratories throughout the world is far more complicated and significant than that . Much of the current excitement and debate is on the way the populations of cells communicate with one another and trigger into activity any of several kinds of immune response . Antibodies , themselves produced on the orders of B cells , invoke the aid of a whole family of substances named " complement " which generate a whale cascade of reactions to deal with anything the antibody points out as dangerous . Some experts believe there may well be several types of T cells , each with its own special functions . The whole immunologic system appears to use all of these cells and proteins in an arment of checks and balances , rangement of checks and balances , signals , countersignals and duplicate defenses that must have arisen and proliferated through evolution because life depended on them . Cells Work Together While T and B cells each have separate functions , it is becom ing clear that they work most effectively together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hottest areas of current immunological. research . Any gathering of immunologists is likely to erupt into a debate over the nature and significance of the signals that pass between T cells and B cells . It is clear that the system must tell ' the body to tolerate some things and reject many others . Too jealous a guard by the defense system can lead to over-reaction and even **27;2131;TOOLONG what seems to happen in allergic conditions and auto-immune disease . Too lax a defense , on the other hand , can lead to infection or possibly cancer . Some scientists guess that as many as 100 or even 1,000 cancer cells arise by accident in any normal person every day but are destroyed . Dr. Melvin Cohn , a senior fellow of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies at La Jolla , Calif. , describes the ithmunology system as walking a tightrope continuously to tolerate the harmless and yet react destructively against the potentially dangerous . In this he sees the . cooperation of T and B cells as vital . In his view the system works a little like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistaken triggering of a nuclear weapons assault . It takes more than one signal from more than one individual to fire the missiles . According to Dr. Cohn 's theory , one signal from an immunologically active cell spells tolerance . Two simultaneous signals start the war . Encounter With *Antigen ' Dr. Richard Dutton of The University of California at San Diego has been searching for some chemical messenger , released by T cells , that carries the signal to the B cell . He and others consider the triggering mechanism , whatever it proves to be , as one of the'most exciting areas of search . Dr. Uhr , at New York University , has described the triggering event as akin to the ringing of a doorbell . Whatever it is , the signaling is a reaction to the body 's encounter with something called an " antigen . " This is really just a name for anything that the body is capable of recognizing as foreign . The signaling that achieves this recognition is probably more easily described in terms of braille than spoken language . The recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the antigen fits , in lockand-key fashion , a receptor on the surface of the cell . When this process sounds the alarm , the scavenger cells called macrophages may be drawn to the site , T cells with destructive capabilities may multiply and attack , and B cells may be stimulated to make antibody . This latter part of the process is as remarkable as any . Scientists generally believe today that the individual is endowed from the start with a whole library of receptors on his B cells , one or more of which is capable of fitting the shape of . any antigen that may be encountered during life . It is a little like giving a tourist a key to the city , except that it is not just one key nor was it cut deliberately to fit any one lock . Instead , it is as though some key-maker ground cut keys in every shape he could imagine , confident that somewhere there would be a lock to fit it . This appears to be the way the immunologic system prepares to make antibodies that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triggered , an antibodyproducing cell makes antibodies in profusion , each cell producing only one specific type . Since some scientists estimate there areas many as a trillion precursors of antibody-producing cells in -a normal human being , this gives a broad enough range of shapes to meet the need . In recent years , much has been learned about the antibodies themselves . They are molecules of a type of protein called immunoglobulin , and at least five major types are known . Among these are immunoglobulin G  --  the circulating antibody active against bacteria , viruses and foreign proteins ; imimmunoglobulin A , secreted in the nose , respiratory and digestive tracts and at other places to give local protection against invasion ; inununoglobulin M , which appears to be the first antibody formed to deal with any newly recognized antigen , and immunoglobulin E , which has recently been identified as the type that figures in allergic reactions . Although the fifth type , immunoglobulin D , has been detected , its functions are still unidentified . Antibodies Harvested Antibodies have , been harvested , tagged , analyzed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Rockefeller University have actually deciphered the complete chemical structure of an immunoglobulin G molecule , the most prevalent of the antibody types known in man . The basic antibody structure is known to consist of four chains of chemical subunits ? two light chains and two heavy chains . On these are large " constant regions " that are the same from antibody to antibody and appear to dictate function . There are also variable regions that confer specificity  --  the combining sites of the antibodies . The variability itself  --  the factor that allows antibodies to be formed to fit any conceivable antigen ? seems to result from genetic mutation in the producing cells . Armed with so much knowledge of the nature of antibodies and the cells that produce them , some scientists , such as Dr. John Fahey of the University of California at Los Angeles , are trying to grow them artificially in the laboratory . He and his colleagues have human cells growing in laboratory flasks that do make immunoglobulin but , so far as they can tell , it is ' not actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , the potential for their use , both in research and for medical purposes , would be vast , Dr. Fahey noted during a recent interview . Altogether , the complexity of the immunologic system seems to rival that of any other body system with the possible exception of the brain . And some scientists see links between the brain and the immunologic system as possibly highly eewarding to study . In , the case of immunology , the complexity of the system is an irresistible challenge to scientific curiosity . But it is also more than that . The very fact of such complexity means that there ought to be many points within the system at which a person who knows enough could apply leverage to make a change . Many who specialize in immunology believe it offers medicine and science an almost infinite array of opportunities .                     