@@734100

txt With a Mideast performance which , even short of a final treaty , is being hailed by both friends and critics in the United States , President Carter will move quickly to make use of whatever increased political " clout " he has gained . Hardly catching his breath , Mr. Carter will turn to the energy emergency . Within the next two weeks he will deliver a major pronouncement on what he wants the nation to do to respond to a problem that is growing more critical each day . Monitor sources indicate the presidential speech will either include a proposal for legislation or set the stage for such legislation . Further , the sources say , the President 's approach will be daring and imaginative and will call for specific sacrifices on the part of the public . Meanwhile , assessments from political leaders of both parties , both in Congress and around the United States , indicate : ? The President 's prospects for getting a SALT II agreement through Congress have probably been improved a bit ? but not so much that anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratification . ? Prospects  --  or new energy legislation , particularly a bill that would lead the United States in the direction of energy independence , have indeed been enhanced by a President who looks stronger today than before he embarked on his latest and apparently successful quest for a Mideast peace . Says House majority leader James Wright : " It was a magnificent performance " Carter in the Mideast . " And if he now comes to us with an imaginative piece of legislation , centered on moving toward energy independence , it will pass . " ? Early indicators show that the President will receive a decided lift in the polls now  --  but one that may not take him as high as the // From page 1 Can Carter cash in on Mideast momentum ? public opinion rung he reached quickly following the Camp David summit . Further , Democratic leaders as well as Republicans are saying that even if the Egypt-Israel treaty comes about now , there will be no long-lasting effect on Mr. Carter 's standing in the polls . But all seem to concede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and that if he " cashes in " on it soon , he can benefit thereby . Also , there seems to be a broad assessment among political observers that Mr. Carter now is less vulnerable to a challenge from a Democrat for the presidential nomination next year ? and that he doubtless will be more likely to win re-election . But , again , there caution prevails in assessing the long-range political impact of Carter 's dramatic achievement , with politicians underscoring their belief that the President 's poll standing could be eroded soon if inflation keeps rising as it has and if he does n't deal effectively with the energy crisis . ? Finally , the President himself has gained confidence by his recent achievement of pulling apparent success out of what seemed certain defeat . Thus , he comes back to the US with a new spring in his step and , despite the fatiguing days of negotiation , with batteries obviously recharged.                     