@@734490

txt The referendum on Iran 's new constitution has displayed the strengths and growing weaknesses of this country 's effective leader , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini . On the one hand , the new Islamic constitution is certain to be massively approved . And under it ; Ayatollah Khomeini formalizes his already almost dictatorial powers . On the other hand , it is also clear that many Iranians have ignored the Ayatollah 's peremptory orderq to vote . Unofficial reports indicate that large numbers of people declined to cast a ballot , especially in some important areas of the country . These acts of defiance underline the continuing and , in some cases , spreading resistance to the Ayatollah 's arbitrary rule . In effect , the vote has drawn attention to the erosion of the Ayatollah 's popularity . Although he retains huge support among the masses , it is clear that he is less and less able to use the crisis over the American hostages to whip up an emotional national unity behind him . At time of writing , the referendum results were still coming in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least , in giving the impression that there was thumping approval for the document . But what they neglected to mention in reading the results for the news media was the percentage of the turnout . When and if that is provided , the results are not expected to be quite so glowing as members of the Revolutionary Council would like to make them appear . Indications are that there have been massive boycotts of the polls in Azerbaijan , Kurdistan , Baluchistan , and in the Turkoman areas . The last three are areas with Sunni majorities where opposition to the regime is strongest . In Azerbaijan ; large numbers boycotted the polls after a statement by Ayatollah Kazem Shariat-Madari that there would be no objection to voting on the constitution ? but only after amendments had been made to three key articles that , in effect , give Ayatollah Khomeini dictatorial powers . Ayatollah Shariat-Vadari , a mild-mannered religious // From page 1 Vote shows Khomeini power and weakness leader , has a large following among the Iranian Turks of Azerbaijan , as well as in Tehran itself and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Known in the past.to have backed down on stands he had taken , this time he remained firm . This correspondent spoke to a source in his office in Qom Dec. 2 and again to his son late Dec. 3 . I was informed firmly that Ayatollah Shariat-Maderi himself had not voted on the referendum ? giving the lie to the state-controlled radio , which reported that he had in fact voted . I was told that large numbers of his followers also had not voted . One Turkish Iranian woman in Tehran , asked why she had not cast her vote , replied : " Ayatollah Shariat-Madari asked us not to vote , and I did not . " Reports reaching Tehran indicated that demonstrations had occurred in Tabriz , the provincial capital of East Azerbaijan where marchers protested the radio 's censorship of Ayatollah Shariat-Madari 's statement . On Dec. 3 , the second day of the demonstrations , the radio authorities relented and broadcast the statement . Following this , a large number of Iranian Turks were reported to have wanted to take back their votes cast earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war had been called only days ago , offi'cials decided it would not be wise to conduct the polls in any of the towns . Anyway , the Kurdistan Democratic Party had already announced earlier that it would boycott the polls , and that is exactly what happened in those Kurdistan towns where the polls were held . In Baluchistan where the Muslim Union party had similarly called for a boycott of the polls , various incidents were reported . In some towns opponents of the regime carried away the ballot boxes and would not permit the voting to continue . Officials have reported that this happened in Chah Bahar , Iranshahr , and Saravan . In Tehran itself a score of political parties and groups had earlier announced that they would boycott the polls . From what this correspondent saw on both Dec. 2 and 3 , the voting was not quite as enthusiastic this time as it was for the referendum earlier this year that declared Iran an Islamic republic . On that earlier occasion , Ayatollah Khomeini 's popularity among all classes was still high . It certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest vote may show the Ayatollah retains the backing of a majority of Iranians , they are also likely to show that majority to be greatly reduced . The crisis created by the occupation of the American Embassy one month ago may have enabled the fundamentalist group in the regime to whip up ' enough support for Ayatollah Khomeini to put more " yes " votes into the ballot boxes . Having raised Iranian emotions to fever pitch , it remains to be seen if he can begin cooling Iranians down again to enable negotiations to begin on the American hostages . The impression here is that the referendum ' vote may enable the Iranians to soften their stand on the hostages . It will be two more months before the presidential election is held under the newly approved constitution , and it is difficult to see how the present tensions could be maintained for so long . There is now little chance that any but hardliners remain in the running for president ? unless a more moderate figure such as former Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan can somehow make an unexpected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional form of government , the power of the Revolutionary Council is likely to diminish ; and the council will disappear when the elected government takes power .                     