@@732747

txt The Export Administration Act , which declared it to be the policy of the United States to oppose " restrictive trade practices and boycotts fostered or imposed by foreign countries against other countries friendly to the United States , " expired with the ending of the 94th Congress . An effort to strengthen that mild legislation  --  which in fact had been weakly administered by the Department of Commerce  --  was made in the last Congressional session ; but this attempt , in the form of the so-called Rosenthal-Bingham Amendment to the Export Administration Act , also died with the 94th Congress . To keep alive the formal United States policy of opposition to foreign boycotts ( particularly the Arab boycott of Israel ) , President Ford has issued an executive order , which in fact weakens the effectiveness of the Export Administration Act by limiting its criminal penalties to a maximum fine of $10,000 ? not even a wrist-slap for the huge multinational corporations that cooperate in the Arab boycott . The law that has now expired had imposed very much higher fines for second or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years for periodic violators . ? The crucial issue which both the lapsed Export Administration Act and the President 's new executive order failed to address  --  and which the new Congress should take up after the election ? is what actions by American firms in compliance with foreign boycott rules are to be prohibited and what are not . Even the liberal proponents of the Rosenthal-Bingham Amendment recognize that the United States can not and should not impose its own codes of behavior on a foreign nation or deny it the right to engage in a primary boycott against a nation ( though friendly to the United States ) which the foreign country regards as an enemy , a right which this country insists upon for itself . However , the United States has both the obligation and the right to oppose foreign boycotts when they deny equal rights to Americans . Thus an antiboycott law is needed that would effectively prohibit American firms from agreeing , as the price of avoiding exclusion from Arab markets or resources , to refrain from doing business with other American individuals or companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular race , religion or national origin . It is inadmissible  --  and shameful ? for American firms to agree to furnish information to the foreign boycotting country on the race and religion of their employees or board members or customers or suppliers . In the past , the United States Government has winked at American companies that submitted to such obnoxious conditions and discriminated against American individuals and firms . This failure to uphold American law has not been limited to the Commerce Department . Commissioner John R. Evans of the Securities and Exchange Commission this week criticized the S.E.C. itself for not forcing American companies to disclose their participation in the Arab boycott . He holds that such disclosure is required under Federal securities laws . Not only the securities laws or the new Presidential executive order but the nation 's antitrust laws , banking laws , civil rights laws and the Constitution itself prohibit the kind of conspiracies and discriminatory actions which some American companies seem to have accepted as a condition for doing business with the Arabs . Economic advantage is no argument for a failure by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which lie at the heart of American principles of liberty and equality .                     