@@734229

txt The Centennial Year of the Church of Christ , Scientist , was honored June 4 by members of The Mother Church , The First Church of Christ , Scientist , gathered here for the denomination 's Annual Meeting . It was on April 12 , 1879 , on a motion of Mary Baker Eddy , that she and nine followers voted unanimously " To organize a church designed to commemorate the word and works of our Master , which should reinstate primitive Christianity and its lost element of healing . " Mrs. Eddy discovered Christian Science in 1866 . Speaking in behalf of The Christian Science Board of Directors , Chairman Harvey W. Wood called attention as well to " growing interest by people of many different faiths in Christian healing ? a reaching out to learn more of man 's relationship to God , and the spiritual basis of true health and wholeness . " An overflow audience seated in several auditoriums in and near the Christian Science Center here was present for the meeting . " In the course of the 100 years since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we 've learned there are no easy shortcuts to spiritual growth . It does not come about with the roar of a rocket engine , the dazzling light and ' beat ' of the disco , or the soft or hard ' sell ' of a TV commercial . // " Through the prayer of spiritual understanding , " he said , " mankind can find deliverance from the cruelty , debasement , and limitations of materialistic thinking . " Spiritual progress , " said Mr. Wood , " requires quiet inner listening and obedience to the ' still small voice ' and willingness to put off the stridency and harshness of human ways and means . " The Directors called upon Christian Scientists to match the example of New Testament disciples in " fulfilling the purpose of Christian Science ? namely , mankind 's salvation from sin , disease , and death . " The message from the Directors also reported to members on church finances and cited the annual audited verification of the total freedom of The Mother Church from all debt , aside from current bills . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance is gained through accretion , " said Treasurer Marc Engeler , " we are proving that substance is an integral aspect of the spiritual idea of Church , whose purpose to bless and whose power to heal are entirely generated from within . " Although modest increases were noted in numbers of members applying for accreditation as full-time practitioners of Christian Science ( the Church 's healing ministry ) and in numbers of applications for church member- ship , especially from areas such as Africa and Latin America , those attending the Annual Meeting were urged not to substitute quantity for quality of membership . Robert H. Mitchell , Clerk of The Mother Church , said , " The time has come for us to assess the effectiveness of our Church by its progressive thrust , its commitment to healing . " Allison W. Phinney , Manager of the Committees on Publication , pointed out that " the leavening effect of Christian Science healing has actually been proceeding at a more rapid pace than ever before . What has been developing has been greater interest in the possibility of Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Christianity  --  and any time in the 100 years since our Church was founded . " Speaking as the incoming President of The Mother Church for 1979-80 , Mrs. Ada Reynolds Jandron described " the great task of the Church " as " unity against world evils  --  economic , political , social , racial , and ecclesiastical bondage . " " The Annual Meeting , " said Mrs. Jandron , a Christian Science practitioner in Boston , " is a time to take stock not merely of material accomplishments but of the spiritual progress of the Church ; a time to rededicate our efforts to push onward in the work God has given us to do . "                     