@@730961

txt Vice President Agnew has as . sured political allies on Capi. tol Hill that he is not seriously considering resigning and is planning to " stick to my guns . " Agnew assured at least one Republican congressman , who telephoned Agnew 's office yesterday to offer support and the hope that the published report that Agnew was about to resign was not true , that he plans to continue to fight the charges that he accepted bribes while governor of Maryland . " The story of his impending resignation is not true , " Agnew told his supporters . THOSE SAME supporters were urging congressmen today to autograph a large poster they are preparing to send to Agnew as a token of their support for him . The poster shows a cat , clutching a pole with his claws and seeming to he near a fall . It reads , " hang in there , baby . " It is being kept in the Republican cloakroom , just off the House floor . Despite Agnew denials and similar reactions from the White House , there remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation . Altho top officials refused to be quoted , imminent action of some kind ? either from the Vice President or from the federal grand jury ? was anticipated . Sen. Barry Goldwater R. , Ariz. , one of Agnew 's strongest supporters , told reporters he believes that Agnew would seriously consider resigning if he is indicted . " I 've been telling him to fight it , " Goldwater said . GEORGE BUSH , chairman of the Republican National Committee , was quoted in Cincinnati as saying he was concerned about reports that Agnew might resign , but insisted that the Vice President is not yet a liability to his party . " People who say that are making an unfair judgment unless they have the facts , " Bush said . Meanwhile , at the W hit e House , President Nixon 's spokesman denied that t h e President or anyone at the White House is trying to pressure Agnew into resigning . A number of pro-Agnew Republicans privately accused , White House officials of leaking the report that the Vice President is seriously considering resigning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said " That is all calculated by the White House to keep the Agnew story alive . " " I 'M BLAMING the White House staff at the highest level ? Mr. chief of staff Haig and Mr. counsellor Laird , " Gold said . Without mentioning Gold by name , Warren denied his charges . " I am denying that there is any truth to stories that there is a disposition on the part of the White House to force the Vice President to resign , or that the White House is applying pressure on the Vice President to resign , or that people in the White House are leaking stories on the Vice President , " Warren said . Asked if the President wanted Agnew to resign , Warren refused a direct answer . He recalled that President Nixon expressed confidence in the integrity of Agnew since he has known him during a recent preps conference . The President stands behind that statement , Warren said .                     