@@734296

txt Here is a nice question for the economists and the political theorists : Which is the better , or worse off ? the United States with its economic " crisis " out in the open where everyone sees it and talks about it ; or the Soviet Union with an economic problem probably more serious in the long run , but concealed from its own people and at the moment scarcely noticed by the outside world ? Right now all anyone is talking about is whether President Carter in Washington can do and is doing anything like as much as he should be doing to keep a creeping shortage of energy from dragging the American economy down into a crippling economic recession . Pattern of Diplomacy The consensus at the moment would seem to be that he should have done more drastic things . Instead of decontrolling gasoline and oil prices , as his European allies have done , and letting prices rise to the free market level , he has preferred to play for time , hoping that " voluntary " restraint in use of energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabia ( an extra million barrels of oil per day ) will tide his country over until long-term projects for other and different sources of energy can mature . - There are great risks for Mr. Carter in playing the hand this way . Suppose the American people simply refuse to drive their cars less , and more slowly . Suppose they keep on overcooling their houses and offices and private cars in summer and overheating them in winter . Suppose the Saudi Arabians get tired of giving Mr. Carter more time by raising their production level and getting nothing they consider adequate in return for their ever more valuable oil . Suppose all that happens , then the United States will be in worse trouble than it is now , for there will be gasoline lines again , and rationing will be unavoidable , and the economy will suffer and lurch once more as it did in June , and inflation will begin soaring again . The other way of playing the hand , the way Mr. Carter rejected , also had risks and dangers . It would have jolted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have jumped overnight toward European levels of roughly $2-a-gallon gaso ? line , or higher . Detroit would have closed down more automobile plants . Unemployment would have jumped . Would the independent truckers have gone on strike again ? Probably . Railroads and mass-transit systems would have been unable to handle increased demand . Dislocation of the economy might have been worse . One can not be sure today whether Mr. Carter was foolish , or astute , to play the hand as he has decided to play it . His purpose is to protect the American economy . Did he choose the right , or wrong , way of doing it ? Perhaps the answer will begin to emerge in about six months ' time . But meanwhile there are certain facts which can be noticed in this moment of uncertainty and anxiety . For its size , the United States still has the most productive economy in the world . It is still turning over at good speed . It is still employing more people than ever before in history . Few people have ever had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have begun to decline a little . Americans are extremely well off . The only question is whether they will have to accept a modest reduction for a while in terms of real income , until ingenuity can find new and sufficient and no more expensive sources of energy than oil has been over the past century . How long will that take ? An optimist says five years . A pessimist is likely to say 10 or even 20 years . But where will the Soviet economy be by that time ? Right now Moscow has the happy experience of watching Americans anguish over their economic difficulties and their friends and allies burst into dismay over Mr. Carter 's presumed mishandling ( by West European lights ) of the American problem . But the Soviet Union , albeit using oil less freely than does the United States , also is beginning to run short . The Soviet oil industry was supposed to have increased its production this year , but in fact fell behind by nearly half a million barrels ( actually , 3 million metric tons ) during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Pravda , an unusual occurrence . It also came out in warnings by the Soviets to their partnerrin Comecon ( their Council for Mutual Economic Assistance ) at its recent meeting in Moscow . The partners were told to save on gasoline because Moscow would have to begin cutting down on deliveries to them . All , except Romania , buy most of their oil ( nearly 90 percent ) from the Soviet Union . *Please ton to Page 7 From page 1 US airs crisis , Soviets do n't An oil shortage is not the only developing drag on the Soviet economy . It is running into labor shortages . That may seem surprising considering that its industry is still a decade or more behind the American in quantity and quality of product , but it is a fact that in the more advanced sectors of Soviet industry there is an actual shortage of skilled manpower . This is partly because Soviet agriculture still absorbs nearly 30 percent of all Soviet manpower , and partly because another 20 percent is employed in food and drink processing industries . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and heavy manpower demands by the military . So short is the manpower supply left over for the advancing segments of industry that Moscow is beginning to have to bring non-Slavic recruits from far Asia to European Russia and the Ukraine . This in turn causes ethnic friction . To a Russian factory worker in the European part of the Soviet Union an Uzbek or Kazakh makes an unfamiliar bench mate . He might not even be able to speak Russian . The essential fact about all of this is that the two superpowers are both in economic difficulties . The American difficulty is the most obvious . But it is also the one which is being given immediate treatment . There is an argument over whether the treatment is sufficiently radical . But something is being done about it ? out in the open where all may see and freely criticize . Which will be in the sounder condition 10 years from now ? The odds favor the American .                     