@@734106

txt Higher fuel prices and diminished supply are putting a squeeze on the nation 's public school systems , particularly large metropolitan districts . Busing for desegregation purposes and federal and state laws requiring better transit services for students with special education needs have dramatically increased the demand for school transportation . Thus , today 's risinggasoline prices and tightening supply situation place public schools in a predicament . " Something will have to give , " says an official here . The Houston Independent School District got a scare last week when its major fuel supplier was unable to make a delivery on time . The buses were kept rolling , but the incident prompted discussion of what programs the district might cut if gasoline supplies were curtailed . " The first to go would be field trips and all kinds of special events , including sports , " said // From page 1 School busing fleets feel fuel supply pinch Ray Westmoreland , executive director of transportation for the Houston schools . Like many other major public school systems , Houston 's system is seeing fuel-related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget . Associate Superintendent Clifford Kelton says that if the district implements all the transit-related majors it would like , the transportation budget will more than double by next year from the current $6 million . Gasoline alone will cost the district $500,000 this year . Since the energy crisis of 1973-74 , Houston schools have significantly increased fuel consumption for transportation . While district enrollment dropped from 216,000 to about 200,000 from 1973 to 1978 , the number of students riding buses jumped from 20,000 to over 31,000 . Mr. Kelton attributes the rise to court-ordered busing for racial desegregation and the great increase in the transportation requirements for students in special education programs . The Los Angeles City Unified School Distri.ct logs 25 million miles a school year transporting students , and officials say that the demands are rising , mainly for the same reasons cited in Houston . ? " If the supply situation gets real tight , I 'm afraid some students just wo n't get to school , " notes Ralph Jacobs , deputy director of transportation for Los Angeles . Mr. Jacobs says the meager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on school buses than in many other cities . Most officials say oil companies have guaranteed public schools high priority should gasoline supplies become critical . Further , the US Office of Education says schools would begiven favorable treatment should the federal government implement a fuel allocation program . Still schools see inevitable distribution bottlenecks and spot shortages should gasoline supplies dwindle significantly . " Deliveries were very irregular in 1974 ( during the Arab oil embargo ) , and the same thing is starting to happen now , " . says Mr. Jacobs in Los Angeles . Hanford Combs , former chief of transportation for the Ohio Department of Education and now a private consultant , says schools have been remiss in letting their transportation needs grow so rapidly . " We need a more logistical approach to school busing so there is n't as much criss-crossing all over town . Also , schools will have to cut some field trips and other special events while better coordinating the ones they retain . " Mr. Combs says public school transportation in the US is already " the largest mass transit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $3.2 billion a year . Owen Kiernan , executive director of the National Association of Secondary School Principals , argiies that schools are aware of the problem . " It 's seen as critical all over the lot , " he says . However , Mr. Kiernan asserts that the wellspring of programs to help the handicapped and other disadvantaged students in recent years has expanded transportation requirements in ways that school officials can not control . But even while supporting tax cut measures like Proposition 13 in California , he says , the public broadly supports new special education programs and would not stand for their curtailment.                     