@@729042

txt The organization that represents 500 of the city 's 625 elementary school principals charged yesterday that Chancellor Harvey B. Scribner appeared to be " encouraging militancy , pressure politics and discord " in the school system . It said he should resign or be removed if he did not correct his actions . Julius Warshaw , the president of the organization , the Elementary School Principals Association , said Dr. Scribner , who took office on Sept. 1 , had possibly violated the school decentralization law by appointing an unlicensed acting principal at Benjamin Franklin High School when there were qualified candidates available on the eligibility list . The acting principal . Melvin Taylor , had been the choice of a group of parents , teachers , and students who took over the East Harlem school for more than a week last month and prevented classes from being held . // Mr. Taylor , a former teacner at the school , holds a state principal 's certificate but was not on the city system 's eligibility list because he had not taken the local licensing examination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Com ? modore Hotel that was attended by other officials of the association , also said that in a recent speech Dr. Scribner had " made slanted , unwarranted statements about the poor educational program in the city without attempting to determine their correctness and validity and by not consulting with teachers and supervisors . " Mr. Warshaw said that the ' principal association 's executive bbard had written last Friday to Dr. Ewald B. Nyquist , the State Education Commissioneer , asking that he appoint a commission to look into the matter . " If Dr. Harvey B. Scribner is violating the law and creating these problems , " the letter said , " we ask that , in the interest of unity and good education , you remove him . Otherwise we see in the offing the weakening rather than the strengthening of our school system . " Dr. Nyquist said in Albany last , night that the principals " letter would receive " every consideration . " But he added that he generally was " sympathetic " to Dr .. Scribner 's attempt to " loosen up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedures . Dr. Scribner could not be reached for comment last night . Before taking over the city school post , which replaced that of Superintendent of Schools , the 56-year-old New England-born educator had been State Education Commissioner in Vermont and before that had been Superintendent in Teaneck , N. J. In recent weeks he has been criticized by organizations representing most of the city 's 65,000 teachers and nearly 3,000 supervisors . Among these groups have been the United Federation of Teachers , the Council of Supervisory Associations and the High School Principals Association . The supervisors ' council has brought suit to block an attempt by Dr. Scribner and the Board of Education to hold a special supplementary examination to qualify additional persons , presumably including Mr. Taylor , for high school principals ' licenses . The Chancellor has also come under attack for his recent proposal to scrap city licensing examinations for teachers and supervisors . Statements Recalled Mr. Warshaw , who is principal of Public School 114 in Brooklyn , said that the city 's principals were distressed by Dr. Scribner 's general criticism of education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public " and undermine efforts to unite professional and community groups . A statement issued by the association 's executive board noted that Dr. Scribner had said that educators should " encourage and enable new learning " and that " the selection and appointment of teachers and supervisors is outmoded . " " Does Dr. Scribner believe that the teachers and supervisors of the city have been discouraging learning and that they are not sincere and dedicated to the children of New York City ? " the principals ' statement continued . " How is it possible that Dr. Scribner has some of the aaswers so quickly when all over the United States educators and community people are searching for the answers ? Were the solutions found in the school systems of Teaneck and Vermont ? " We . would expect that Dr. Scribner , as Chancellor , would bring people together to find the answers and assess the problems . " ? Jack Frank , a past president of the association and the principal of Public School 128 in Manhattan , declared at the news conference , " 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I 've been around 45 years . " He added , " We 're doing the best job we can . "                     