@@730942

txt Mr. Nixon 's ' ' state of the Union " message is a test of whether a weakened President and an uncertain Congress can cooperate at a time of national urgency . Historical precedents show they can . At one of the most partisan periods in history , 1948 , a Republican Con congress passed the Marshall Plan , proposed by Democratic President Truman . It took the cooperation of a George Marshall , Secretary of State , and an Arthur Vandenberg , then Republican Senator of Michigan ? and it saved Europe . It had a big assist by a starkly cynical coup in Czechoslovakia by Soviet Russia which chilled Americans . Mr. Nixon 's new message to Congress comes when the American economy is in serious trouble , and when critical foreign negotiations are reaching a decisive stage . The temptation for leaders of both parties is to blame the other and to try to get partisan advantage from the difficulties . Different system Alone among big democracies the United States has a system where one party controls the executive and the other the legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in part to the awkward situation , often to the amazement of foreign observers . Now comes President Nixon 's new outline of legislative proposals . Nobody in Washington expects the relationship to work very well , or for very long ; but at the same time it is unlikely to bring immediate breakdown and sullen stalemate which it almost certainly would in parliamentary governments . What is required is a George Marshall and an Arthur Vandenberg . Mr. Nixon forecast his new message in his press conference last week and in subsequent comments from the White House . Implicitly , if not directly , he puts the blame for inflation on Congress and its irresponsible spending . Democrats in Congress reject this charge : they argue that Mr. Nixon and his advisers have mismanaged the economy . The weakness of the congressional position is that in 200 years under whatever party it has never produced an efficient budgetary control system , and it still lacks it . To meet Mr. Nixon 's immediate imputation , congressional leaders propose to set up their own budget ceiling , below Mr. Nixon 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budgetary procedure will continue . // *Can President , Congress cooperate ? // President Nixon cites four areas where need for cooperation with Congress is " urgent " ; fighting inflation , defense " second to none , " the energy crisis ( where he told the press he has " seven major proposals " ) , and finally a package of domestic measures . The latter presumably include the minimum wage bill which he vetoed last week in its first form . The minumum wage veto is symbolic . Congress probably lacks the votes to override . This requires a two-thirds vote , plus 1 , in both houses . Revised bill asked In his veto , Mr. Nixon acknowledged the new , bargaining situation , and urged Congress to pass a more acceptable ( i.e. trimmed down ) bill . America now faces a period of veto-government in the sense that every initiative by Congress must consider the chances of a veto , and it must tailor measures accordingly . To override in the Senate requires an ultimate 67 if all members vote ; and in the House , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Republicans have enough votes generally to act as the balance of power . The Senate divides 56 Democrats to 44 Republicans and independents ; and the House 243 Democrats to 192 Republicans . Compromise and comity are always required to make the Washington legislative machine function . The " new " situation is Mr. Nixon 's weakened position . Skyline altered On Feb 2 , 1973 , when he gave the first state of the Union message of his new term , Mr. Nixon had just been reelected by a landslide . " A single , all embracing state of the Union Message , " he said , " would not appear to be adequate . " His subsequent package of messages bespoke his feeling of confidence and mastery . The Watergate scandal has altered the Washington skyline . Mr. Nixon , with two press conferences in two weeks , appears to be resuming an activist role . His approach to Congress , however , seems ambigious . It casts doubt on the chances of cooperation , delicate at best . House Majority Leader Thomas ( Tip ) P. O'Neill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposing compromise . At his press conference here , however , Mr. Nixon called the congressional record so far " a very disappointing performance . " This runs contrary to a study by the nonpartisan Congressional Qvarterly , here , saying that legislative record of the 93rd congress so far is rather high . Democratic O'Neill charged that administration economic performances " have . brought nothing but inflation and misery to the people . " Republican congressional leaders , after a two-hour conference with Mr. Nixon Sept. 6 , said Mr. Nixon 's news-conference criticism was misinterpreted . Said House Minority Leader Gerald F. Ford ( R ) of Michigan : " The White House will work with the majority in Congress . " Whether conciliation could be maintained was uncertain . With a fantastic 19.3 percent August jump in farm prices ? highest in history ? many felt there was need for cooperation .                     