@@729769

txt Reacting sharply to efforts by the House Banking Committee to legislate retroactive pay increases , President Nixon late today warned that such action " would seriously jeopardize " the post-freeze economic stabilization program . " The committee 's action , " Nixon said in a statement , " is clearly inconsistent with the purposes of the economic stabilization program . " It would provide for a piecemeal approach to the develop . ment of the program and ignore the effect of these actions on other aspects of the problems ' , being considered by the Pay Board and the Price Commis. sion . The amendment would provide for special treatment to one segment of the American economy . " Nixon referred to several amendments adopted today by the House Banking Committee in its consideration of the leg islation to extend and broaden Presidential powers to control wages and prices . The key amendment would require payment of all but " grossly disproportionate " wage increases in contracts negotiated and ratified before the freeze began on Aug. 15 . The President said the amendments are " damaging and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He said it was the responsibility of the 15-member Pay Board  --  not Congress or a committee  --  to determine whether the frozen wage increases should be paid retroactively . " Most importantly , " the President said , " this action would limit the flexibility ' of the Pay Board and the Price Commission to consider the widest possible range of actions and options and limit their ability to develop a course , which is the most equitable to all Americans . " Donald Rumsfeld , director of the Cost of Living Council and an ex-officio member of the Pay Board , said at the White House that he thought the Banking Committee action " directly undermines " the tripartite idea behind the Pay Board in which labor , management and public representatives are to decide pay policy . But he added at another point : " I 'm not a spokesman for the Pay Board . They are doing their work in an orderly fashion . . . progress is being made . " Apparently responding to reports that the public members of the Pay Board yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases , the House Banking Committee , on a 16 to 14 vote , would require payment of wage increases retroactively if the contracts were ratified before the freeze . An initial vote yesterday on the wage-price legislation had left the bill , proposed by the Nixon administration , virtually unchanged . Waving a newspaper containing the report of the Pay Board 's proposal on retroactive wage increases , Rep. Frank Annunzio D. , Ill. also succeeded in reversing another committee decision that would have barred consumer suits against merchants who raised prices in excess of standards to be set by the Price Commission . Puts Off Final Vote Another change in the bill would exempt low-income wage earners from Pay Board standards or guidelines . However , the committee put off a final vote on the bill until next Thursday to give members a chance to change their minds once again . The Pay Board 's public members yesterday proposed that the freeze on wages be extended from Nov. 13 until Dec. 31 and that no wage increases accrued during the freeze be paid retroactively . The public and business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited to an average of 5 per cent a year in order to meet the goal of 2 to 3 per cent inflation by the end of 1972 set by the President . " Overstates Reality " Labor 's members on the pay panel rejected the proposals . Led by AFL-CIO President George Meany , the five representatives of organized labor repeatedly have threatened to end their participation on the Pay Board unless workers receive wage increases due them under existing contracts and receive the increases retroactively . Despite the known labor position , Ronald L. Ziegler , White House press secretary , told newsmen that the " suggestion of a deadlock " within the Pay Board on the issue of retroactive pay increases " somewhat overstates reality . " The board , he said , obviously is dealing with very difficult matters and " I 'm told that'the suggestion of a deadlock or impasse is not correct . " Meanwhile , the Senate Finance Committee voted to give Nixon the power to raise the surcharge on dutiable imports from 10 to 15 per cent or impose import quotas on any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been working on Nixon 's tax package , came as a complete surprise to the administration , which has not been seeking to raise the import surcharge . Moreover , there was no indication that the President will use the new authority even if it is finally given to him . In order to impose the 15 per cent import surcharge , the President would have to declare a " balance of payments emergency . " Under the proposal , the President could impose the higher tariff or import quotas , but not both . The quotas could be imposed on a product by product basis or against individual countries .                     