@@728597

txt Inadequate preparations and " inconsistent directives " in the past from the Mayor 's office kept the police from stopping attacks on antiwar demonstrators by construction workers Friday , the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association charged yesterday . The statement by the policemen 's labor organization followed by a day a charge by Mayor Lindsay that the city had " witnessed a breakdown on the police as the barrier between the public and wanton violence " on Friday . The Mayor , angered by the rampage of workers  --  an action he called " organized and rough " ? had ordered Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary to investigate what he said were " failures of police performance . " Police Accused The police , who had been forewarned that trouble might erupt , were accused by some witnesses of standing by while students were attacked . There were about 70 injuries , including those to four policemen , that resulted as a band of workers roamed through Lower Manhattan . The workers beat antiwar demonstrators and stormed City Hall to force officials to return to full staff a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the four students slain at Kent State University last week by National Guardsmen . It was learned yesterday that Richard Kellerman , Deputy Police Commissioner for Press Relations , had submitted his resignation effective last Friday because of differences with Mr. Leary over the Commissioner 's decision to attack a series of articles in The New York Times on police corruption . Leary Assailed Articles Mr. Leary called the articles " unfair " and " McCarthyism all over . " The police began preparing for two rallies today in the downtown area . A group of college students said they would stage a " peaceful " protest " to close down " Wall Street in the morning , and construction workers were planning to meet at City Hall . An officer at Police Headquarters said several hundred uniformed men and detectives had been assigned to the dem // onstration areas , but he dedined to give a specific number . He said that other men , . would he available in mobile ; units  --  probably busses  --  to be ' moved in quickly if needed . In his statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ; said : " The events in and aroundl City Hall Park on Friday are ! directly attributable to an inj adequate number of policemen , assigned to demonstrations and ; to the inconsistent political diH rectives imposed on the police by the Mayor 's office . " In the face of previous demonstrations , police have been ordered to remove their helmets and nightsticks and take minimal action  --  or no action . After demonstrations get out of hand with severe injuries to policemen as well as civilians , the ! The New - fork Times Michael Belknap , a lawyer , who was injured on Friday . police are then criticized for ' not taking enough action . " Mr. Kiernan said that the . only way to eliminate confusion between restraint and inadequate police response " is tol assign a sufficient number of patrolmen to handle any crisis that may arise at demonstrrations and to permit those pat rolmen to enforce the law firmly , consistently and equally against all violators for the protection of all citizens . " A spokesman for the Mayor said in reply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeated occassions that he never interferes with the operations of the Police Department , although , of course , he has responsibility for the over-all direction of the department . " Meanwhile , criticism of the police continued . Representa tive Edward I. Koch. a Man hattan Democrat , said at h joint meeting of the New York University anti Columbia Uni- ! versity faculty-student Senates : that " the police commissioner ought to resign  --  or be made to , resign . " " His police officers are involved in corruption , and now they ca n't even do the business of the police , " Mr. Koch said . Paul O'Dwyer , who is seeking the Democratic nomination for the Senate , said that he could not accept Commissioner Leary 's explanation that the police had their forces stretched thin at City Hall because they were expecting trouble at Foley Square . Tom Morgan , the Mayor 's press secretary , said on Friday after the attacks that his office had received a number of calls the day before warning of confrontations between the workers and demonstrators and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lamula , a former Republican Assemblyman and chairman of a civic investigator group called the New York Truth Squad . said his organization was planning to bring civil suit in behalf of the students injured in the attack . Mr. Lamula said that he had so far got in contact with three victims of the attack and that his squad was enlarging photographs taken during the fights to identify individuals . " These phony heroes , some with unsavory police records , will be sued personally , " Mr. Lamula said . In addition to the civil action , he said , he expected " all-out action by top city officials , " including criminal prosecution by the District Attorney . Michael Belknap , who was kicked and beaten at Pace ColCity Hall , where he was watching during the demonstration , attacked yesterday the Mayor 's call for an investigation of the incident by Commissioner Leary . " It is just outrageous to have the Police Department investigating the failure of the police to act , " said Mr. Belknap , whose eyes were still bloodied and blackened from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic nomination as State Senator from Manhattan 's East Side , issued a call for an independent citizens group to investigate discriminatory law enforcement. , He also is considering the bringing of a class action in behalf of all these injured , seeking damages from I he city . A detective monitoring the special police number set up to receive information on Friday 's attack , ( 577-77711 reported that a number of calls were received .                     