@@731763

txt The major oil-exporting countries adopted a political and economic strategy today to counteract what they have regarded as a United States policy of confrontation and military threats . A high-level meeting of the 13-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , or OPEC , ended three days of talks here with a formal offer to meet with industrial oil-consuming countries in an international conference on energy , raw material supplies and development of the world economy . A communiqu ? by Ministers of Petroleum , Finance and Foreign Affairs coupled the offer to begin a dialogue with consumers to a rejection of military threats against OPEC countries and campaigns attributing inflation to oil price increases . Such " campaigns and threats create confusion and lead to confrontation , " the communiqu ? said . ' Threat to World Peace ' The ministers said that a review of the world economic situation showed that the economic crisis in both industrial and developing countries " constitutes a growing threat to world peace and stability . " The offer for an international conference of producers and consumers carried with it a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels would remain frozen for the rest of this year and would be gradually raised in 1976 and 1977 if an inflation index was agreed upon with industrial consumers . " This would be a period of adjustment , " said Jamshid Amuzegar , the head of Iran 's delegation . But the Iranians and Algerians , as well as other delegates , said agreement would have to be reached on formulas to retain the value of oil payments in the face of inflation in the industrial world and depreciation of the dollar . Detailed Studies Planned The detailed studies of an OPEC position on these price and monetary questions were referred to a preparatory committee . It will begin activity in Vienna Feb. 9 and will report to a new ministerial meeting on Feb. 19 . This is all in preparation for the organization 's first meeting of chiefs of state , which is to take place here at the end of February or early in March . The date is to be fixed by consultation . The leaders are to give final approval to the position of the oil-exporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and if the industrial countries agree to such a conference . President Valdry Giscard d'Estaing of France has proposed a conference of about 12 countries  --  four oil exporters , four industrial consumers and the remainder developing countries . But Secretary of State Kissinger has said that the United States would not take part in any conference with OPEC countries unless the industrial consumers first adopted a common position on energy . The main element of Mr. Kissinger 's oil diplomacy is the creation of the international Energy Agency by the members of the European Economic Community and Japan , Britain , Canada and other industrial countries . The other element of United States policy is a proposed $25-billion pool of funds from industrial countries to give financial backing to financially weakened members of the energy group . Membership would assure each country of a fair quota of oil in the event of an embargo or production cutbacks by the OPEC countries . ' Global Embargo ' Urged In the closed sessions of the meeting here , the International Energy Agency and a refusal by United States officials to rule out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belald Abdesalam , Algeria 's Minister of Industry and Energy , as a " war machine against our people , " according to a conference document that became available . This strong language was linked to a recommendation by Algeria that the OPEC countries " agree on a global embargo of their oil exports against an aggressor " attacking any member of the group . This proposal was referred to the preparatory committee that will meet next month . Such a political decision is certain to be left for the meeting of chiefs of state . Other delegates said in the closed meeting that efforts had to be made to attract the European countries and Japan away from dependence on the United States for oil-payment support and emergency oil supplies . Special credits for European countries like Italy and Britain and for Japan were discussed in the event these countries faced payment crises , Iran is now completing negotiations with Italy on a 10-year economic cooperation agreement and has already advanced $1.3-billion to France , according to the head of Iran 's delegation . The ministers agreed to mobilize support among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A plan was discussed and referred to the preparatory committee for building 10 fertilizer plants . around the Persian Gulf that would supply 2.5 million tons of chemical nutrients , or three-quarters of the needs of the developing world . Sheik Ahmad Zaki Yamani , the Petroleum Minister of Saudi Arabia , is going to visit India . Next month , Sheik Sabah al-Ahmed al-Jaber , Kuwait 's Foreign Minister , is to visit Cuba , Brazil and Argentina to complete loan and investment agreements . The moves by the OPEC countries , which have largely been individual until now , are taking the form of a collective diplomatic action designed to prevent a hard-line consumer front from taking shape under United States direction . But there is also a strong desire to negotiate with the industrial countries on a durable price for energy within cooperative meae sures against global inflation . The major oil countries see the price freeze adopted from Jan. 1 to Sept. 30 this years as a demonstration of their desire to ? reach agreement with industrial couptries , from which they buy most of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in banks .                     