@@730117

txt Medicine Sweden : Aches and Pains in a Medical Paradise ' STOCKHOLM ? When Americans argue about reforming medical care in the United States , some often point to Swedish medicine as a superior model . These are the benefits they cite : Since Jan. 1 , 1970 , Swedish medical care has been almost completely socialized . Virtually all the hospitals are owned and operated by Government agencies , and those occupying hospital beds pay nothing . Of Sweden 's 11,000 doctors , only 400 are private practitioners who collect fees for service . The rest are Government employes on salary , and an ambulatory patient who consults them pays the state only 7 crowns ( less than $1.40 ) per visit . No outpatient pays more than $3 toward the cost of drugs . Thus , no family fears bankruptcy as a result of serious illness . Except for the small minority who go to private physicians , there is theoretically equal access to medical care for all Swedes , poor or rich . Roundthe-clock emergency medical service is available  --  even including house calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are well trained and many Swedish hospitals are well equipped . There are complaints , however , and chief among them are these : ? The medical system is swamped . A non-emergency patient has to wait for hours to see a doctor in a Government clinic , and it takes weeks or months to get into a hospital . " About the only sure way to get into the hospital fast is to hemorrhage or get into a bad automobile accident , " an American resident of Stockholm says . Bengt Janzon , information director for the Swedish Government agency that supervises the medical system , complains of the doctor shortage . He dismisses as naive any idea that Sweden 's low infant mortality and high average length of life are primarily the result of its socialized medicine . ? The care is tmpersonaf . " You never see the same doctor twice in the clinic , " a Swedish businessman says , while a diplomat reports that if a hospitalized person must see a doctor three times a day , it will be a different doctor each time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the key directors of the medical system in Stockholm , put the matter this way in an article in the American magazine Modern Medicine last August : " . . . this new system does not offer substantial incentives for a doctor to do a superior job . .. I believe that in the majority of cases the doctor-patient relationship has become weaker in a situation where the patient is no longer seeing the doctor of his or her choice , but an impersonal institution , in which one can not be assured of meeting one 's ' own ' doctor . " ? The taxes are high . Medical care is paid for through an 8 per cent income tax . A separate health insurance fund exacts 3 to 4 per cent of a worker 's pay and the same amount from his employer . Moreover , the costs of the medical system in Sweden ? as in the United States ? are mounting rapidly , and local governments are spending twice as much for health and medical care in 1972 as they did in 1968 . The Swedish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its medical system and is planning improvements . Thus by 1975 it hopes to have an additional 4,000 physicians , to help reduce the lines in the Government clinics . Similarly it plans to get more chronically ill patients into nursing homes and the like so as to make additional hospital beds available for the acutely sick . Does the Swedish system offer a model of paradise for the United States ? There seem to be both positive and negative lessons here for the American concerned with the improvement of health care delivery in his country . SCIIVVAIR-rZ                     