@@732898

txt Harry McGurk and John MacDonald of the University of Surrey ( England ) , have found that what we see a person saying , especially with the lips , influences what we hear as much as does the sound that comes into our ears . This does n't mean you have to look at someone to know what they 're saying . But , if you are looking at them , hearing becomes a composite process both of seeing and of processing sound . Furthermore , if someone artificially mixes things up so you see a movie of a person saying one thing while you hear a sound track saying something else , you may hear a third thing that was n't being said at all . This is no mere confusion . It is a definite illusion as strong and recurring as the visual illusion that the moon looks bigger when near the horizon than when high in the sky . Hire is a striking illustration that there 's more to the spoken word than meets the ear . As a generality , ' this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the // From page 1 *Hearing is seeing other person , differences of social or occupational rank all moderate the dictionary meaning of words and the nuances of pronunciation . Some of this is cultural and specific to a given language , as are the gestures which give colorful point to communication between Italians . Other aspects seem deeply inherent in the human species , bridging all cultural barriers , as do many facial expressions . Linguists McGurk and MacDonald may have discovered one of these . Describing their findings in the journal Nature , they explain they made a film of a woman saying four simple syllables ? ba , da , ka , and pa . They then mixed up the sounds and lip movements to give various mismatches and tried these on both children and adults . All heard the sounds correctly when not looking , but made significant errors when they both saw the film and heard ' the mismatched sound track . researchers find Sometimes " ba " became " da " , for example . Sometimes listeners heard such things as " bagba " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . The researchers call these illusions " powerful . " Although they knew what was going on , they themselves experienced the illusions repeatedly . " By merely closing the eyes , " they report , " a previously heard ' da ' becomes ' ba ' only to revert to ' da ' when the eyes open again . " The two linguists think lips and sound may give varying clues . Sometimes lips dominate and sometimes sound is more important . Sometimes the two may just confuse each other 's signals in the tests . However , the scientists admit they do n't yet-understand what is happening . Nevertheless , their findings do remind us that we still have much to elarn about what governs communication , or lack of it , between people .                     