@@729308

txt An avalanche rained tons of water , mud and rocks on an isolated mining camp high in the Andes Mountains , and federal police estimated today that 400 to 600 persons were killed . Police said the avalanche struck the mining camp of Chungar yesterday , but the first rescue teams were unable to reach the area until today . Radio Contact Lost The camp is 55 miles north of Lima at an altitude of about 10,000 feet and an eight-hour journey by foot from the near-1 est town . It was inhabited by an estimated 1,000 persons . Police believed as many as 6001 of them were dead , buried under tons of debris . A spokesman in Lima for the Peruvian-owned Chungar Mining Co. said he bad been in contact with the mining camp by radio soon after the disaster , ' , but that communications subsequently were severed . He later said reports from the site said that 241 bodies had been found , 160 of them children . " The camp has practically disappeared , " he said . Fifty to 70 injured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The mines in the area owned by Chungar produce an esti- 1 mated 240 tons a day of lead and copper . Police reserves from Lima were dispatched to the area to aid in rescue work which company officials said was being carried out by local police and miners from adjoining camps . The stricken camp is an eight to nine hour drive from Lima . Rescue HQ Set Up The government has set up a rescue headquarters in the town of Huaral , 78 miles north of Lima , and the Peruvian Red Cross has sent convoys of medicine , food and blankets from there to Chungar . Federal police in Lima said about 50 injured persons were rescued and taken to hospitals in hamlets near the camp . Police said reports from the area indicated . that the avalanche was touched off by a light earthquake . It caused a part of a nearby mountain peak to topple into Lake Yanuaguarin . Water spilling over the banks of the lake caused an avalanche that roared down onto the mining camp below . The torrent destroyed a bridge and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail junction of Huaral , officers said . This forced rescue teams to cross 12,000-foot mountain ranges to reach the area from the east . 3 Towns Send Teams Rescue crews were dispatched from Cerro de Pasco and Canta as well as from Lima . Such slides are not uncommor in Peru between December and April when rains drench tilt mountain areas , loosening rocki and filling Mountain lakes to overflowing . The avalanche was the worst disaster to hit Peru since May 30. 1970 , when an earthquake struck an area 180 miles north of Lima . The quake killed an estimated 70,000 persons . Many of these died when an avalanche of mud and rocks thundered down the slopes of Mt . Huascaran , Perm 's highest mountain , burying two small towns .                     