@@733146

txt President Carter , who pledged as a candidate to end the practice of appointing " unqualified persons to major diplomatic posts , " has now virtually cumpleted picking his ambassadors  --  and on the whole , he seems to have lived up to his promise . Despite a rather novel procedure  --  a " screening board " ? taken by the Carter Administration to prevent incompetents from being named as ambassadors , some questionaole cnotces nevcrtneiess appear to have been made . These have aroused the ire of the American Foreign Service Association , the diplomats ' trade union , which would like to prevent outsiders lacking outstanding qualifications from becoming envoys . As a candidate Mr. Carter , in his book , " Why Not the Best , " was critical of what he called " the disgraceful and counterproductive policy of appointing unqualified persons to major diplomatic posts as political payoffs . " " This must be stopped immediately , " he said . When he assumed office , he inherited a Foreign Service in which 74 percent of the embassies were headed by career @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department official said this week that it was anticipated that in the new Administration 75 percent of the embassies would be under the direction of career diplomats , and 25 percent non career , a slight , insignificant change . The decision to maintain roughly the same numerical balance between career and pcilitical appointees came as a disappointment to many Foreign Service officers . Walking the Halls Their unhappiness was aggravated by the fact that Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance had named many noncareer persons to top State Department jobs . This meant that an unusual number of senior diplomats have been literally walking the halls at Foggy Bottom waiting for a job to be found for them . There have been several distinct patterns to the choice of ambassadors . Among them were the following : 11Mr . Carter has sought well-known public personalities for several key embassies . These include Kingman Brewster Jr. , former president of Yale , as Ambassador to Britain ; Robert F. Goheen , former president of Princeton , as Ambassador to India ; Mike Mansfield , former Senate majority leader , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic governors also have been chosen : Patrick J. Lucey of Wisconsin to Mexico ; John C. West of South Carolina to Saudi Arabia and , tentatively , Raul H. Castro of Arizona to Argentina . Ladybird Johnson had been considered for Mexico and Sargent Shriver for the Soviet Union , but neither was available . 9The Administration has not been vindictive toward career officers who held prominent positions under Henry A. Kissinger . His top aides who chose to stay in the service have been given important assignments : Lawrence S. Eagleburger as Ambassador to Yugoslavia , Arthur A. Hartman as Ambassador to France , George S. Vest as Assistant Secretary for European Affairs , Arthur W. Hummel Jr . as Ambassador to Pakistan , William E. Schaufele Jr . as Ambassador to Greece . In addition , forty Ford administration appointees have been asked to remain in important posts , ranging from Spain and Rumania to the Soviet Union and Taiwan . CDespite Mr. Carter 's explicit promise to remove political payoffs from ambassadorial appointments , the practice seems to have persisted . But here , the " payoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money . The assignments that have attracted the most criticism include : Milton A. Wolf , a prominent Cleveland businessman , as Ambassador to Austria , Marvin L. Warner , a Cincinnati real estate developer , es Ambassador to Switzerland , Anne Cox Chambers , publisher of The Atlanta Constitution , as Ambassador to Belgium , and Philip H. Alston Jr. , Atlanta lawyer , as Ambassador to Australia . All , in one way or another , actively supported Mr. Carter 's campaign . flA major effort was made to increase the number of women , blacks and Hispanic-Americans as ambassadors . Since the percentage of women in the top two wades of the Foreign Service is only 2.9 percent , and of minorities only 2.6 percent , this has meant going outside the career service . Some of the candidates have been clearly excellent , such as Wilbert J. Le Melle of Ossining , N.Y. , a black Ford Foundation official who speaks seven languages , appointed to Kenya . But some have provoked criticism , such as the choice of Sally A. Shelton , a 32-yearold legislative aide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador to El Salvador . Five Appointments Criticized The American Foreign Service Association , in a public statement on May 25 , specifically criticized five choices as " unqualified for their ambassadorial assignments . " These were Mrs. Chambers to Belgium , Mr. Alston to Australia , Mr. Wolf to Austria , Mr. Warner to Switzerland , and Miss Shelton to El Salvador . Administration officials , while conceding that these five were not the strongest of Mr. Carter 's nominees , nevertheless maintained that they were not without competency . Mr. Warner , for instance , was cited as head of the Ohio Board of Regents , which oversees universities in the state , and Mr. Alston as an outstanding lawyer . The question raised was whether ambassadors should be selected if they were competent or highly qualified in their chosen field or whether they must be qualified in foreign affairs . The Foreign Service association  --  and most State Department officers  --  would argue that except for highly unusual appointments , such as that of Mr. Brewster , an ambassador should have proven competence in foreign affairs . Otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept of a professional career service . To insure that the ambassadors who were chosen were competent , Mr. Carter established a special 20-member advisory board to screen all names submitted for about 50 posts , including the mast prestigious embassies . The commission was asked to pass on to the President and to Mr. Vance the names of about five noncareer persons as well as the two or three submitted by the Foreign Service that it regarded as " qualified " for the post . The commission was not asked to recommend who should be the ambassador . This was left to the President and Mr. Vance . Members of the commission who were interviewed requested anonymity and one said he thought the process had been useful if only to keep out the " totally unsuited. "                     