@@731430

txt Almost unnoticed by most Americans a new element has crept quietly into the impeachment issue ? censure . Should President Nixon , rather than being impeached , instead be censured by Congress ? " Censure " would constitute formal criticism ; but he would remain in office . Several sources report there has been modest discussion of the possibility of censure among House Republicans . Rep. William Cohen ( R ) of Maine , a member of the House Judiciary Committee and one of the few sources willing to be identified , says there has been some discussion among Republicans on the floor of the House , but " I have not heard very much at all within the committee itself . " The censure issue is the newest twist in the drawn-out impeachment process to which President Nixon again returns , this time from the Soviet Union . The censure issue brings with it many questions : // *Censure instead of impeachment ? // ? Is It likely to succeed in siphoning off possible Republican votes for impeachment ? Several congressional sources unanimously say it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or it is not , " insists Representative Cohen . " I do n't think censure is being taken that seriously . " More serious course One House Republican source goes further : If what the President " has done is serious enough to merit a censure resolution , then it ought to be serious enough to consider some substantive action , " such as impeachment . He calls censure " a useless exercise " that would leave " a bad taste in the mouths " of both pro- and anti-Nixon members of Congress ? neither would be satisfied with the result . ? Is there any organized campaign among some Republicans , or the White House , to try to siphon off anti-Nixon impeachment votes in Congress by substituting a censure motion ? Numerous Republican congressional sources , including some Republicans extremely hostile to the President 's Watergate actions , say they detect no organized censure effort . Talk-show response A White House spokesman says the White House has not been making an organized effort to talk up the censure Idea in Congress . " I have not heard one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insists . What brought the question to the fore was a response Tuesday night in Boston to an audience question by the Rev. John McLaughlin , a priest employed as a White House adviser . Asked about censure , he responded : " I see that as an alternative to the Impeachment process which Congress could realistically entertain . " The White House spokesman emphasizes that Fr . McLaughlin " was speaking for himself " In giving that answer , and was not speaking for the White House . The discussion of censure among Senate Republicans is even less frequent , and less serious ? if that is possible ? than among House Republicans .                     