@@731416

txt Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger today branded as " totally false " reports he negotiated secret agreements giving the Soviet Union more nuclear missiles than publicly agreed during the first round of the strategic arms limitations tans . " Those arguments are totally false in every detail , " Kissinger said at a press conference at the State Department . " They have no merit whatsoever . " Kissinger admitted , however , the existence of written American Interpretation of the first strategic arms agreement which was signed by the Soviet Ambassador to the United States , Anatoly Dobrynin . KISSINGER said the interpretation " does not permit the Soviet Union to build one additional modern ballistic missile on submarines above the level of 950 we agreed upon . " The 950 figure was announced when the agreement was signed . S h or t l y after Kissinger 's press conference , Sen. Henry M. Jackson D. , Wash. told reporters he had evidence to yrove Kissinger was wrong in his - assertions . Jackson said Kissinger made a secret deal with the Russians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have charged that " secret agreements " between the secretary of state and the Soviet Union allowed the Soviets to build 1,020 modern submarine ballistic missiles , 70 more than provided for in the arms agree-ment , " THE ISSUE here Is not 70 missiles more or less , " Jackson said today . " The issue is withholding from the Congress and the American people a secret agreement that had the clear effect of altering the terms of the SALT interim agreement . " After three hours of explanation from Kissinger this afternoon before a Senate armed services subcommittee he heads , Jackson told reporters , " My statement stands 100 per cent ; he 's done nothing to change what I said . " " At the appropriate time , when the documents are released , they will corroborate the position I took earlier , " he said . Jackson said the hitherto Jecret understandings would be made public only after Kissinger and NLxon return from Moscow around July 8 . " THE ONLY ONE who knew about the loophole from July 24 , 1972 , until June 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " We ? would n't have known anything ' about it had we not talked to Nitze . " Paul Nitze , who recently resigned from the SALT negoti : tiating team , reportedly learned of the understanding from members of the Soviet standing commission on strategic arms . Kissinger said it was neces- ' nary to draw up an American interpretation of the arms agreement because the Soviets disputed a key issue on whether they could trade old , shortrange missiles for modern , long-range ones . " We wanted to prevent the Soviet Union from trading in a weapon we were certain they would have to retire in any event . " Kissinger said . Under the agreement the Soviets could trade in 210 missiles for more modern ones . KISSINGER SAID the U. S. was successful in having a group of.Soviet submarines , Gclass ships , excluded from the agreement because they were considered obsolete . This was considered an American negotiating success . disputing the U. S. interpretation of this provision , and a month of exchanges ensued . This resulted in the U. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read the statement , which confirmed that the Soviets were restricted to 950 ballistic missiles on submarines , and were not allowed to use missiles from Gclass submarines as trade-offs for more modern weapons . Kissinger admitted this statement had been withheld from Congress , altho he said the arguments used in it were public . lie said it was kept private to avoid embarrassing the Russians , who might lose face if it was known they signed an American interpretation of the SALT agreement . KISSINGER ALSO responded to a charge the U.S. was pledged to maintain a submarine force of less than the 710 allowed by tile 1972 arms agreement . Kissinger said President Nixon had informed the Soviet leaders during the 1972 summit that the U.S. did not intend to exercise its right under the agreement to convert 54 Titan submarines to the more powerful Trident submarines . Thus , Nixon was assuring tile Soviets the U.S : , would maintain only 656 submarine missiles . " This was not a concession . " Kissinger said . " It was a relatively minor gesture designed to retain general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  