@@728485

txt The United States Government appears to have been surprised by the overthrow of Prince Norodom Sihanouk . It is not yet prepared to write him off as a force In Cambodian politics , and has not yet decided how the reported coup d ' etat may relate to other fast-moving developments in Indochina . With the continuing threat of a North Vietnamese military advance across Laos , there is great concern about any further expansion of the Vietnam war in Cambodian territory . Although the organizers of I he coup , led by Lieut . Gen. Lon Nfil , are rerarcled as friendl. to the United States , their at ' ? would not be automatically cheered in Washington . The coup may provoke new encroachments by North Vietnamese forces , officials fear , or may lead to major forays into Cambodia by the South Vietnamese Army . At least some officials , however , felt that new leadership in Cambodia might eventually lead to a more sustained effort against the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces operating in the border regions , thus enhancing the American military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no discernible evidence that Americans were in any way involved in the coup . High officials here who attempted to explain events in Cambodia earlier this week appeared to have no suspicion of such a development . Mike Mansfield , the Senate Majority Leader and a friend of Prince Sihanouk , said he would deplore his ouster , but added , " Igive you my word that we are nott involved in this . " Formally , the State Depart-1 ment had no comment . It lost contact with the small American mission in Pnompenh early this morning and was unwilling to risk saying anything about a possibly confusing situation . Several Theories Offered In their private estimates , officials were developing several tentative , and sometimes conflicting , theories : On his current mission to Moscow and Peking , Prince Sihanouk was thought to be using the threat of a right-wing challenge to reinforce demands that Hanoi be persuaded to withdraw its troops from Cambodia . Some officials suspected therefore that the Prince might have helped to arrange the recent demonstrations against the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the Prince 's diplomacy was not ruled out . cBut in the view of the majority of analysts , the challenge to him is legitimate , if not necessarily permanent . They said they had detected a pattern of dissent and opposition by army and provincial leaders , not only over the Prince 's tolerance of Communist troops but also over his highly personal and often arbitrary style of leadership . ( In view of the Prince 's long rule and popularity , hardly anyone was prepared to accent the news of his deposition as final . The quality and durability of his challengers are unknown because they have served in his sizable shadow . There was some concern that if his own resources failed , the Prince might solicit the support of North Vietnamese troops encamped in Cambodia . qln his quest for Cambodian neutrality , the Prince has been weaving and dodging from one side to the other in the Southeast Asian wars over the past decade . Therefore , he has not endeared himself to the United States . But his resumption of relations with Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer held a Communist victory in South Vietnam to be inevitable At least some officials thought his brand of diplomacy might become the best way of reducing North Vietnam 's use of Cambodia as a safe zone for troops threatening Saigon and other regions of South Vietnam . gThe Prince 's challengers , if successful , would preside over an army of about 35,000 men that is deemed a poor match for more than 40,000 North Vietnamese troops already in Cambodia . The Cambodian army leaders appear to have helped American air and South Vietnamese ground forces in limited attacks on these North Vietnamese , but Washington may find it difficult to handle a Cambodian request for open intervention against the Communist forces if the coup and subsequent policies result in a new pattern of conflict inside Cambodia . Stability Held Possible Few Administration officials share Senator Mansfield 's feeling that " Sihanouk and Cambodia are synonymous " and that his overthrow " would mean the end of Cambodia and neutrality . " In some quarters , in fact , there is a feeling that General Lon Nol and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might bring a period of more stable neutrality and efficiency comparable to the one achieved by the Indonesian army leaders who overthrew President Sukarno . Moreover , these officials believe that a new Cambodian regime , by restoring diplomatic relations and collaborating with Saigon , might mount an effective campaign of harassment against North Vietnamese troops , thus reducing their threat to South Vietnam . Other officials agree with Senator Mansfield 's judgment , that a successful coup could pose " an eg/Ar.itpaLy difficult and dangerous situation . " They saw Prince Sihanouk 's willingness to deal with Moscow and Peking and the Vietcong as well as the United States as the best means of keeping Cambodia out of the war . They fear that his overthrow will only encourage 1:anoi to seek compensation for American gains in South Vietnam through new military challenges in Cambodia as well as Laos . There is no immediate comfort for the Nixon Administration , therefore , in a situation that could bring new conflict and disorder to the Indochinese peninsula at the very time that the Americans are trying to reduce their involvement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by turning the fighting over to the Saigon regime . British Urge Caution Special to The New York Times LONDON , March 18 ? British sources familiar with Cambodia warned tonight against hasty judgments about the nature of the coup , especially against the characterization " right-wing . " The sources agreed that Lieut . Gen. Lon Nol , the Premier , and Prince Sisowath Sirik Matak , Deputy Premier , ar to the right of Prince Sihanouk . But they are not right-wing , the sources said , in the sense that the term would convey in Saigon . One person remarked that , after all , both had ? long served in Prince Sihanouk 's government . It was noted that the first radio statements by the new regime seemed to be sounding the Sihanouk line about Cambodian neutrality . Sources here emphasized the complexity of Cambodian politics , and Prince Sihanouk 's resilience , in cautioning against early conclusions .                     