@@732067

txt The Federal Bureau of Investigation began a nationwide search Monday for James Hoffa , former Teamster boss . While hundreds of agents fanned out in major United States cities seeking informers and tipsters in the underworld , and the labor movement , a contingent of agents here began hunting clues to the whereabouts of the 62-year-old former international president of the Teamsters Won . Two-man teams interviewed employes of Jimmy 's favorite restaurant on Telegraph Road . Hoffa 's abandoned car was found in the restaurant parking lot after he drove there for a luncheon appointment Wednesday . OTHER TEAMS went from store to store in the shopping center which surrounds the restaurant , and other agents rang doorbells at homes and apartments surrounding the shopping center . An FBI helicopter and a single-winged FBI plane flew over as agents made photographs . Meanwhile , at Hoffa 's Northwest suburban lakeside home , other agents set up a telephone communications system . An FBI radio transmitter aerial rose above the two television antennas on the roof . THESE WERE THE visible signs of er , Anthony Tony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Leonard Schultz , on the ? day he disappeared . The family believes Hoffa was kidnaped , but does n't know whether the men Hoffa was to meet were involved . Hof fa and Provenzano have been feud-Ins for years . One source told The Associated Press that ? Provenzano became angry when Hoffa refused to amend the union 's pension plan so that . Provenzano would be included . HOFFA 'S DISAPPEARANCE came after a month of violence in a struggle over control of Detroit Local 299 , the union Hoffa founded when he was 19 years old and built into the richest in the nation . It is now controlled by one of Hoffa 's men and is being sought by Fitzsimmons ' son , Richard . In the last month , Richard Fitzsimmons ' car was bombed and business agents have been beaten . The arms of agents have teen broken and the eye of one was shot out and another 's barn was burned . Hoffa intended to use Local 299 as a base for his move back to tho top . His prison sentence for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1971 by former President Nixon and a provision was written into the commutation by some of Nixon 's Watergate friends that // Technicians Install antenna on the roof of the James Hoffa home in Lake Orion , Mich. , Monday as ttie FBI-moved personnel and equipment into the Hoffa compound . he could not return to union activity until 1980 , Hoffa had moved ahead methodically , anticipating the possibility of removal of the ban to enable him to be the kingmaker at next year 's convention . AS REVEALED IN Sunday 's editions of The Tribune , he used his role as a prison reform lecturer thruout the U. S : and Canada to recruit local gangsters and local Teamster officials . Hotta also sought to obtain commitments from business men to contribute to his campaign fund in return for preferred treatment in application for loans from the Teamster Pension Fund . Federal agents have indicated that crime syndicate chieftains became incensed at Hoffa 's moves and sent word for him to quit . Hoffa reportedly rejected their request and rebuked them profanely for trying to interfere with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested that Hoffa has been executed and placed in cement in the Michigan highway system . In this labor-conscious city , many are waiting to see when and if Hoffa is returned or if his body is found . His family believes Hotta has been kidnaped al-the there has been no ransom demand . Some federal agents believe Hoffa 's removal from the Detroit scene was dictated by members of The Commission , the crime syndicate 's national ruling bodY . Federal agents also are seeking possible motives in federal grand jury investigations of . both Frank Fitzsimmons and his son , Richard .. THE ASSOCIATED ' PRESS quoted ' sources " as saying Hoffa was probably kidnaped or killed . The sources said he was a victim of Mrs. Barbara Crancer , former Teamster leader 's daughter , his own campaign to regain , union power , because his eainhin . t4eatehed a both present union officials and ' organ- ized crime . The FBI , discussing the ease for the first time , said Monday that it has no real clues to go on . Jay ' E. Bailey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office , said agents will be questioning " any people who can shed some light on Hoffa 's disappearance . " The Detroit News said Monday that federal authorities believe Hoffa hoped ' his knowledge of ' corruption in the Teamsters.Union would , help him unseat Fitzsimmons . THE FEDERAL government bee been investigating pension irregularities at the Teamsters Union for years . Authorities say many crime figures have ready access to the $1.34 billion in assets in the funds .                     