@@731975

txt Letters to the Editor MEYER RANGELLANDREW A. ROONEYROBERT C. BELL Jr.LEWIS BENTONC.D . CANTRELLJAMES ... Letters to the Editor Malpractice : Toward a Solution To the Editor : This nation , founded in law and ideals , seems now to be a land of lawyers and big deals . The American bar , with due respect , is doing to health care what it has done to pelitics , and the Watergate of 1975 is the health-care crisis unfolding before us . Although Times editorials correctly diagnosed the legal and court system as the prime problem , Albany apparently failed to appreciate this , judging from its recent " Band-Aid " treatment of the tort system . The legal piranhas who have brought about the crisis , while blaming it on the medical profession , remain undeterred . Discipline in the doctors ' ranks can never be improved without the granting of legal immunity that prevents a " bad apple " from suing the medical society for depriving him of income . Therefore , it is of little consequence whether the ultimate disciplining power is lodged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late Governor Lehman , one of our ablest leaders , described the conspiracy of our lawyer-legislators to perpetuate , for their profession , the obstructions to justice by which they prosper . Since our . Legislature is controlled by the state bar and not by the ' so-called powerful doctors ' lobby , the prolonged foot-dragging and current inadequate legislation likely represents a conspiracy of the bar to maintain the status quo . The medical profession can only continue its violent protest against a corrupt system , knowing that failure means the end of high standards of health-care delivery . When hospitals begin to close , their employes dismissed ; when the emergency rooms of other hospitals are flooded with people at " sick call " as in a military camp and patients sent out of state for specialty care , then perhaps will Governor Carey and the Legislature recognize the full depth and scope of the problem . WILLIAM H. BLOOM , M.D. Bayshore , L.I. , June 5 , 1975 An editorial on this subject appears today . To Farm the Oceans To the Editor : The United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliament of mankind . However , its best friends agree that changes are needed , most especially in the areas of finance and organization , if the requirements of the world community are to be met . If the U.N . must remain dependent upon the donations of nationalistic and sometimes recalcitrant governments , its policies and operations must be limited accordingly . Independent authority must rest upon independent people who are supported by independent resources . The resources of the seas and seabeds , which cover 70 per cent of the surface of the earth , have been free of national domination since the ; dawn of history . Technologists and technology are now rapidly opening up the underwater world . Its proper exploitation could become a sound basis for international cooperation , world government and world peace . A converse competitive approach and scramble by individuals and nations to To the Editor : Two major points concerning laser separation of uranium isotopes were ignored in the Times news article of April 24 and the subsequent comment by Marc Ross letter May 19 . First , the possibility for use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nil . The A.E.C. and E.R.D.A. have classified all technologies which might lead to separation of useful amounts of isotopically enriched uranium or plutonium . A private group attempting uranium isotope separation using only publicly available information would find itself spending many millions of dollars over a period of years . Because of its size and requirements for both material and personnel , such an operation could not long remain clandestine . There is a crucial difference between knowledge of technology of isotope separation and knowledge of the scientific principles . Second , the economic importance of the development of laser isotope separation is stunningly underrated in Dr. Ross ' letter . Isotope separation is only one small area in the rapidly developing field of laser - induced chemistry . Selective molecular excitation using lasers may make possible a hitherto undreamedof degree of control over chemical reactions of all kinds . It is of the greatest economic importance for the United States to be To the Editor : Dr. Bernard Jacobs ' remark that " the best interests of our patients and our profession . . . are essentially identical " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that other famous altruist who said , " What 's good for General Motors is good for the country . " For who can be so cynical is ' to doubt that it was the doctors ' fervent concern for their patients ' welfare that prompted their powerful A.M.A. to fight tooth and nail throughout the years against Social Security , against H.I.P or any other form of . prepaid group health insurance , public or private ? Who can doubt that ' the doctors ' only concern was to preserve and protect the uniquely independent joy experienced by their patients as they paid their astronomical private fees , happy , secure and free from the Marxian specter of government control , Bolshevism and , Heaven ( and the A.M.A. ) forbid , socialized medicine . The doctors ' passionate complaints against high legal fees sounds curiously like the pot calling the kettle black . And their pious call for government action to regulate and reduce insurance fees , and legal fees would be more persuasive if they went a step further and included medical fees as well . As the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " or should it be , " Physician , heal thyself ! " What we need is a Carey " highlevel commission " to investigate the high malpractice insurance fees and the high legal fees with special , regard to their impact on high medical fees ? not to protect one of these , rip-off artists from the other two , but to protect the long-suffering public from all three . MEYER RANGELL New York , June 5 , 1975 To the Editor : The whole malpractice issue might be resolved if doctors treated lawyers on a contingency basis . ANDREW A. ROONEY Rowayton , Conn. , June 5 , 1975 appropriate world resources could have results too destructive to even contemplate . Let us hope and pray and work to the end that the international resources of the world can be devoted to international purposes , and that some day the burden of national armaments can be lessened by a more effective world organization . ROBERT C. BELL Jr . New Canaan , Conn. , May 31 , 1975 A. Broken Law of Life To the Editor : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shameful and sickening . The perpetrators are likely to be individuals who seem to have forgotten the second of Jesus ' great commandments , . " Love thy neighbor as thy self . " This divine commandment is so all-embracing for everyday living and practicing religion that it can be regarded as a law of life . Like all idealism , the ' trouble lies not with the ideal but rather with the weak individuals who try to realize the ideals . LEWIS BENTON Hempstead , L. 1 . , June 5 ; 1975 at the forefront of such a fundamental development in chemical technologY . For example , to meet the estimated demand for isotopically eariched uranium in the year 2000 and later using established technology , the United States ' must construct ten additional . gaseous diffusion plants costing several billion ' dollars each ; between the years .1985 and 2000 . The cost of supplying the ' required U-235 up to the year 2000 would ; be reduced by $80 billion by using a laser method instead of gaseous-diffusion , according to an estimate by the General Accounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to concentrate the longer-lived radioactive wastes produced by fission reactors , thereby ameliorating the problem of storing these wastes . The argument that we should not seek this knowledge ignores ' not only the benefits of knowledge , responsibly used , but the real dangers of ignorance in this case : The impossibility of evaluating others ' capabilities for isotope separation , and the impact . that their capabilities could , have on our own lives . We can not legislate ignorance of a new technology for the rest of the world , even if we should be so misguided as to attempt it ; for ourselves , C. D. CANTRELL Laser Research &; Technology Division Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory Los Alamos , N.M. , May 27 , 1975 Rails to Trails.to Trouble To the Editor : The May 30 editorial " Rails to Trails " . displays good intentions but an unfortunate lack ' of information on the subject . ' Most abandoned branch railroads run through , private property , mainly farmlands or private woodlots , and often near . farm buildings . The proposal for converting such routes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property owners . We have one such trail in this vicinity , and people who live near it are often annoyed by nuisances and alarmed at prospects of vandalism or actual destruction . I know of . no such trail that offers any " comforts , " with the result that the explorers feel free to go to private houses along their route and ask for drinking water , use of a telephone or bathroom service . If all hikers and cyclists were considerate and honest persons , the problems could be less , but they are not , and property owners hesitate to antagonize them by refusing any of their demands . . Littering can cause more than eyesores . A farmer friend burned a load Of silage after he found the remains of a discarded glass bottle in it . This represented more than $100 ; up to $1,500 if a cow or two had munched on the glass . I can multiply this one evidence of dangerous littering . And what about . fire from a carelessly discarded cigarette butt tossed into a dry stretch of grassland or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought , especially if one owns a big hay barn or some valuable trees nearby . I have seen statements that these trails will be ' policed . Can an officer be stationed every fifty feet of a 25-mile trail ? Such promises become additionally ridiculous when they appear almost in juxtaposition to a news story about the total or part-time closings of many areas of state parks because of the ' lack of custodial personnel . I write this from a rural home , but I have also been a city dweller , with nearly 35 years in and near New York City , and I know all too well the pressing need for creating open spaces for the city dweller. to enjoy . I also know that the person , in city or country , who has never owned or been responsible for real property can be , if ' nothing worse , a nuisance if he is allowed to run loose on private property ' and with no training in the responsibilities , which go along with his freedom . There is quite a field ' for education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . BERNICE A. FORD Canastota , NX. , May 31 , 1975 - To the Editor : Thank you for your excellent editorial ' " Rails to Trails " May 30 . Hiking , biking and off-road vehicle riding are among the fastest-growing and , most popular forms of recreation in. the United States . Urban areas , with the most people and pressures for ? recreation opportunities , have the Most rail service with tracks both usable and slated for abandonment . Rails turned into trails afford super ' lative recreation facilities . Time remains in some instances for development of Bicentennial-related trails which provide access or are adjacent to areas of historical interest . A recent Federal study indicated about 15,500 miles of rail in seventeen states and the District of Columbia are in excess of modern rail service needs and should be abandoned . Many of these routes pass through highly populous areas . The Department of the Interior 's Bureau of Outdoor Recreation can supply recreationists with information on trail systems , and recreationists can help their cause by promoting wise use of rights-of-way for all types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Outdoor Recreation Washington , May 30 , 1975 The Street Wreckers To the Editor : I ca n't help but wonder why all the major shopping streets are allowed to deteriorate . I have seen 42d Street become a haven for degenerates . Now I see 34th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues crowded with pushcarts and storekeepers putting all their wares outside in the street . It is no pleasure to walk down this street and be crowded between the rubbish , wares and electrical appliances left outside by the storekeepers . Is there nothing that can be . done to get'the merchants and the pushcart peddlers to stop this ? Or is this another street that has to be abandoned ? Must we find ' other streets to walk crosstown ? HERBERT SPIEGEL Hackensack , N. J. , May 23 , 1975 Uranium : On Legislating Ignorance                     