@@728307

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Elections in Japan To the Editor : Japan 's elections on Dec. 28 have been widely misinterpreted . Most commentators and wire services perceive the Sato  - -  victory as a majority vote for U.S.-Japanese " partnership " and ' for the Mutual Security Treaty . Studies of political attitudes and voting trends in Japan make such conclusions doubt . ful . Almost one-third of the Japanese voters stayed home . A 'S in the U.S. , a significant segment of Japanese young adults feel that the polling place is the last place to bring about social ' change . " We vote with our bodies , " a radical student told me in Kyoto during the past summer . He and thousands of radicals like him closed down over 100 universities last year . Most voters are influenced by the " peace-and-prosperity " issue . Japan 's economic growth ' has been miraculous . Its prosperity assured continuation of the Sato Government . Voters cared less about ' U.S.-Japan " partnership . " Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Treaty and Okinawa 's reversion are deeply divided . For example , a 1968 survey published in the Asahi Journal showed that only 18 per cent favored the security treaty as a way to guaranteeing Japanese security ; 26 per cent favored an independent defense force , while 44 per cent advocated nonarmed neutrality . Despite this divided sentiment , the Sato Government Is moving Japan toward the possession of a strong military . force . Japan 's defense agency is purchasing 665 Nike missiles produced by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries , 311 Hawk missiles produced by Mitsubishi Electric . A 43-ton rocket is Japan 's contribution to " weather research . " Herman Kahn predicts that Japan 's " self-defense forces " will be nuclearized by 1975 . According to surveys taken by Prof. Yasumasa Tanaka at Gakushuin University , 55 per cent of the Japanese public now believe Japan will have nuclear weapons within the next twenty years . Rather than fostering partnership with the U.S. , Japan 's elections may have increased the likelihood of economic and military rivalry . NORMAN H. WILSON Director , Putney Center Antioch-Putney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Soviet Aim in Mideast To the Editor : Secretary William Rogers 's proposal for a total Israeli withdrawal from the occupied territories , reinstatement of Jordan in Jerusalem , etc. , was admittedly a masterpiece in diplomacy . With a single stroke it freed the State Department from a distasteful cross-eyed policy in the Middle East , offered the Arabs full rehabilitation , justified the trust of big oil interests in his appointment and put the Israelis in their place . Yet the proposal was turned down by the Arabs . Where , then , is the flaw In Mr. Rogers 's policy ? Very simple . The Middle East problem started before Mr. Rogers took office . Changing labels from cause to effect did not change the real problem of the Middle East which , strangely , is not Israel but the U. S. presence in the Middle East . The Russians do not want Israel destroyed  --  after all , the Israeli war of independence was won with captured Communist , not American , guns . The Russians want the United States out . They will make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek colonels largely unpredictable , will have to retire to the Italian mainland out of effective reach of the installations in Turkey . That is why Mr. Rogers 's offer can not be accepted by the Arabs ; the Russians simply can not afford it . Any policy in the best Arab interests , if labeled " made in U.S.A. " will be turned down because what matters is not what is said but by whom . The " No " from a reluctant Nasser will , of course , be duty rewarded : MIG-23 's , wheat , a few factories , perhaps some hard cash . More instances of Mr. Rogers's- generosity  --  for example a demilitarized Negev ? will only bring more rewards to Nasser . As to presence in the Middle East : has the U. S. position grown stronger there , now that everyone has turned down the plan ? Selling out seldom gains friends , but it , might pull the carpet out from underneath the feet of the U. S. in the Middle East . Perhaps it would be better if Mr. Rogers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Abba Eban does not have to travel all the way to Washington to hear these proposals . YEHUDA WEISSBERGER Forest Hills , N. Y. , Dec. 31 , 1969 ? Australians in Vietnam To the Editor : Sir Alan Watt letter Dec. 28 believes an Australian voice should be heard in America in reply to Senator . Fulbright . But Sir Alan 's voice represents , at most , the 39 per cent of Australians who ( before Mylai ) supported our continued involvement in the Vietnam war . Gallup Poll Oct. 15 , 1969 . Senator Fulbright 's analysis of Australia 's motives in Vietnam is very widely accepted in Australia . Prowar columnist Denis Warner , who has for years enjoyed the role of principal mentor to us on the war in Vietnam , wrote in The Sydney Morning Herald two days after Sir Alan 's com-plaints : " Australian officers in Vietnam accept quite frankly that Australia became involved in the Vietnam war for political and diplomatic reasons . . . the premium on . .. an insurance policy . . . . From . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maintenance of an American presence in South East Asia . With the benefit of hindsight . . . the Australian tactic of maximum applause with minimum participation was bound eventually to excite unfavorable comment , if not to be self-defeating . . " The Americans slipped by inadvertence Into an everincreasing commitment , and with them , always lending encouragement but only . . . limited material support . . . went the Australians . . . . It is not easy to believe that Canberra regarded the war itself as a serious threat to the security of Australia . " Every derelict regime in Asia that has wanted American military aid or guarantees has for twenty years exploited U.S. anti-Communism to get deeper U.S. involvement for its own purposes . So with Australia 's political use of ? the Chinese Communist bogy . But our leaders did n't really believe it themselves . So now , with the United States on her way out of Asia willy-nilly , the exercise loses its point and our Prime Minister assures us that we are , after all , not under any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warner reports that e while the morale of American troops in Vietnam " disintegrates , " morale among Australian troops remains high . The reason is simple . The American troops once believed they were on a crusade in defense of freedom and light . The Australians never did . ALEX Caen . Kensington , N.S.W. , Australia Jan. 3 , 1970 ? Fascist Disrupters To the Editor : A Dec. 27 letter objects to the use of " fascist " to describe leftist practitioners of violence on the grounds that " the essence of fascism is the corporate state which exercises terror as official government policy to maintain itself in power . " This is not correct . The Times 's use of the term as applied to Black Panthers groups which prevent speeches by those of whom they disapprove is historically justified . The movements of Hitler and Mussolini were fascistic before they attained state power , and they were characterized by preference for bullying and shouting down over argument . The essence of fascism was political organization exalting the use of violence against opponents . If this fits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ROBERT G. WESSON Associate Professor of Political Science , U. C. L. A. Santa Barbara , Calif . Jan. 2 , 1970 ? Saigon 's War To the Editor : Vietnam is a story of false hopes and wrong roads . I fear that the President 's plan to turn the ongoing war back to the South Vietnamese will add one more false hope and wrong road to the story . Vietnamization assumes that the South Vietnamese , with poor military leadership and morale , will do what tough , well-led U.S. forces could not do . Vietnamization assumes there is popular sentiment to continue the war , whereas I would guess the popular sentiment is for peace and that the political group that works for peace will gain the political high ground in South Vietnam . Vietnamization holds out the promise of military victory , thereby allowing the Thieu Government to sit tight politically , waiting for victory rather than working for broad political support in preparation for the political jousting that must ensue as fighting diminishes . Policy Choices In short , Vietnamization , by being cast as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard policy choices . In addition , it places the initiative in the hands of Saigon and Hanoi . Vietnamization tells Saigon that mediocre military , and perhaps political , performance will insure that the Americans stay around . It gives Hanoi several choices : hit U.S. forces and delay U.S. withdrawal , hit South Vietnamese forces and discredit the U.S. President and weaken his political support , or wait and hit later . Most important , Vietnamization goes against the old axiom that to get out of Vietnam one must get out . Reports of improved conditions and confidence in South Vietnam make this a good time for the U.S. to strike for a military agreement with Hanoi while publically announcing that all U.S. troops will be out of Vietnam by 1971 . As Clark Clifford has pointed out , U.S. withdrawal is the key to U.S. withdrawal ? through preparing the way for a U.S .. ' Hanoi military agreement by convincing Hanoi that the U.S. really means to get out and will accept whatever political decision the South Vietnamese themselves make for their future , and through forcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when U.S. forces leave . Such a policy fulfills the U.S. objective of making it possible for the South Vietnamese to choose their own future . We can not determine whether they have the will , skill and leadership to survive as an independent country . We can determine whether this inevitable political testing takes place sooner rather than later . ROY WEHRLE Washington , Jan. 6 , 1970 ? Right to Bear Arms To the Editor : In a letter concerning the Black Panthers Prof. Richard B. Angell . Dec. 28 there appeared this statement : " . . . there can be no question that they have a right to keep and bear arms under the Second Amendment to the Constitution . .. . " There can indeed be a question . The Second Amendment to the Constitution does not grant any absolute right to American citizens to keep or bear arms ; it merely forbids Congress or the President to interfere with their doing so . But it leaves the states free to restrict the possession and use of firearms in any way they see fit , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . Those who proposed and voted for the first ten amendments did not fear oppression by their state governments , but there was considerable fear that those who had drafted the Constitution , in their zeal " to form a more perfect Union , " might have established a too powerful central government , which might become tyrannical and attempt to deprive the people of their natural rights . It was to guard against this possibility that the first ten amendments , limiting the powers of the central government were passed by the first Congress and ratified by the states . That these amendments limited the powers of only the central government was well understood at the time and remained unquestioned until the end of the Civil War . The Civil War amendments , however , and especially the Fourteenth Amendment , opened up avenues through which at least some of the rights which had been protected in the Bill of Rights against infringement by the central government could also henceforth be protected from infringement by the states . Using these avenues the Supreme Court , especially in this century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from state infringement about some of the rights mentioned in the original Bill of Rights . The Court has not , however , attempted to cover with this mantle of protection all the rights mentioned in the first ten amendments . I can recall no case in which the Supreme Court has attempted to prevent infringement by states of the right to keep and bear arms . Therefore , Black Panthers and other citizens as well have no constitutional right to keep or bear arms in violation of laws which states have made or may make in the future restricting or abolishing such a fight . HAROLD W. THATCHER Forty Fort , Pa. , Dec. 30 , 1969 ? Bank Holding Bill To the Editor : The one-bank holding company bill , which passed the House of Representatives on a 351-to-24 vote , was the product of almost a full year 's study by the Banking and Currency Committee . It is difficult to believe that any news media which studied the committee 's report on onebank holding companies or covered any of the twenty days of hearings on the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Editorial Dec. 28 . Since the passage by the House , the banking lobby has engaged in an extensive campaign to pin an " extreme " label on the legislation . This is an age-old propaganda device which the banking lobby hopes will make it easier to weaken the bill before final passage . The banks ' party line notwithstanding , an analysis of the legislation will reveal that the House-passed measure returns the legislation to the basic position proposed in a bill introduced by myself last February and to some of the important points of the Administration bill introduced in March . The final House version reflects the best features of these bills as refined ' and expanded by the testimony presented the committee in week after week of hearings . Surprisingly , The Times editorial endorses a now-discarded bill reported out of the committee last slimmer  --  a bill that virtually everyone outside the banking community denounced as too weak to provide even the most minimal separation of banking from nonbanking activities . This bill , which the House overwhelmingly rejected , would have gutted the 1956 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 17 , 1969 grandfather clause , the nonbank acquisitions of virtually every one-bank holding company in the United States . Such a giveaway could not stand up under examination . As a result , the House strengthened the bill on the floor . To ' their great credit , many of ' the members of Congress who originally supported the weaker bill changed positions  --  and ' vigorously advocated the strengthening amendments on the floor . The Times implies Administration support for the weaker bill , ignoring the fact that a leading Administration official , Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust , Richard , expressed serious reservations about this version and urged strengthening amendments . In fact , Mr. 's position was an important factor in gaining wide support for a stronger bill on the floor of the House . The strengthened bill does not , as The Times editorial states , " carve up the financial markets between competing financial institutions . " It simply provides a basic legal framework needed to keep the business of banking separated firmly from nonbanking enterprises  --  something which The Times editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PATMAN Chairman , House Banking and Currency Committee Washington , Dec. 29 , 1969 ? Union Gangsterism To the Editor : The real tragedy behind the murder of United Mine Workers official Joseph Yablonski will be found in the **29;582;TOOLONG national apathy toward union gangsterism , in the U.M.W. as well as in dozens of others that are guided by spiritually unenlightened persons who believe , with reason apparently , that the union members and the public in general can be duped forever . For every union leader in prison there appear to be a hundred like him running free , exacting tribute from their unions ' unwilling dues payers , and conspiring to eliminate any opposition , often with the help of naive politicians who feed out of the union 's campaign trough and dare not anger a single union leader for fear of having a sizable chunk of campaign funds made unavailable to them . NORMAN S. MEESE Kensington , Md. , Jan. 6 , 1970 Rise in Medicare Cost To the Editor : Regarding the 15 per cent increase in Social Security benefits and the 32.5 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education and Welfare giveth . The Department of Health , Education and Welfare taketh away . Blessed be the name of the Department of Health , Educe. tion and Welfare . Amen . The Rev. JOHN F. STEVENS New York , Dec. 30 , 1969 The writer is Assistant to the Deputy for Program , Executive Council of the Episcopal Church . ? Dangers in Polls To the Editor : Public opinion polls have bee come so important in American political life that more sophisticated analyses of their results must be reported in the press . Opinion results should be analyzed and reported by level of political awareness and participation , so we can know which attitudes and reactions are characteristic of well-informed and participant , as opposed to uninformed and nonparticipant , segments of the population . The polls should include questions aimed at revealing each respondent 's general knowledge of public affairs , knowledge of basic facts concerning the issues on which he is asked to express an opinion , and his participation in voting and other citizen activities . Consider how interesting it would be to learn the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic facts about the war and those who do not , or the support the President receives from those who vote regularly and those who do not . But it is not simply a matter of interest ; the polls as currently presented may be concealing from us some of the most important aspects of our political processes and how they reflect the state of public information . Being interviewed in a public opinion poll , unlike voting , writing letters to legislators and other forms of citizen expression , requires no voluntary initiative . The present method of reporting lumps together the active and the apathetic , the aware and the uninformed . But there may be substantial differences in the stability of opinions according to level of information and participation , and leaders may be seriously misled in their assessment of the political consequences or their policies if they take only the single figure as representing the entire population . I believe President Johnson was misled in this way and that President Nixon may be , too . We have a greater need now than ever before to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is a major public debate about political deception : some claim that our national leaders have been deceiving the people about the Vietnam war for the last five years ; others ( like Mr. Agnew ) claim that the news media deceive the people about those in authority . The only way to resolve this question is by examining how exposure to Presidential messages and to editorial opinion affects public opinion over time , and this involves comparing the opinions of those who are more and less exposed . Now that the possible manipulation of public opinion by leaders and news sources has become an issue , the pollsters and news media must regularly provide opinion data crosstabulated with indicators of awareness and participation . If they do not , they are contributing to the problem rather than to its solution . ROBERT A. LEVINE Professor of Anthropology and Human Development University of Chicago Chicago , Jan. 2 , 1970                     