@@729975

txt A woman attorney who headed the public defender 's Juvenile Court office and a former co-worker have been arrested on charges of trying to extort $50,000 from Chief Public Defender Gerald W. Getty . Tim Ti u:luxe learned yesterday . Miss Carolyn J. Jaffe , 29 , an assistant public defender , and Gerald S. Hartsman , formerly employed in Getty 's office , were charged with theft by intimidation . Chief Circuit Court Judge John S. Boyle has assigned a special investigator to look into the practices of the public defender 's office , according to Benjamin S. Mackoff , Boyles ' administrative acqictant The disclosure of the scheme followed a statement by Boyle that he has taken over supervision of the hiring , firing , and payroll of the public defender 's office , the probation office , and the jury commission . Threatened Him , Family Altho Getty would not comment on the specifies of the extortion plot , he said : " I can confirm the fact that Carolyn Jaffe thru herself and her boy friend , G. S. Hartsman , threatened me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the couple had first asked him for $50,000 and then reduced their threat to $20,000 , with the first payment Gerald Getty of $500 to be made last Thursday . The couple were arrested last Thursday after Getty called the state 's attorney 's office and arranged to make the payment in front of state 's attorney 's police in the Juvenile Court , 2240 W. Roosevelt Rd. , at 5 p. tn . THE Timm learned . Released on Bond Both appeared Thursday night in Bond Court . Miss Jaffe was released on $5,000 bond and Hartsman was released on $25,000 bond . They were scheduled to appear Feb. 24 in Felony ' Court . Miss Jaffe contacted , by telephone last night said she had no comment on the charges . " I 'll say what I have to say in court , " she said . Getty said Miss Jaffe formally resigned her position as assistant public defender . She had supervised the office 's Juvenile Court operation . Hartsman , who was not a public defender , bad left the office earlier . Lecturer on Law Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ versity Law School , was appointed to Getty'soffice in July , Miss Jaffe , a lecturer on Juvenile Court law , also was the president of the board of the Illinois Law Students Assistance Foundation . Judge Boyle told THE TemUNE that he took over the supervision of the public defender 's office , the probation office , and the jury commission to trim costs . He said he took control in a letter dated Jan. 26 . Majewski Resigned Post Mackoff said that Boyle 's letter ? which specified that employment applications , changes in staff , and payroll control would be handled by his office  --  followed disclosures that an assistant public defender also was a paid trustee of the Sanitary District . Getty 's office came under fire in January when it was learned that Chester P. Majewski , a $21,600-year assistant public defender , also was a paid trustee of the Sanitary District . Majewski resigned Ms public defender post after the disclosure .                     