@@728323

txt Designing a new pollution-free auto propulsion system has got to be one of the great challenges of the ' 70 's .. And very shortly President Nixon will have to decide which of two competing federal departments is to guide this significant development . The subject has come up at two recent meetings of the President 's Cabinet-level Environmental Quality Council . Transportation Secretary John A. Volpe advocated a program to cost about $100 million over a five-year period . His major emphasis was on governmental assistance to stimulate research and development of the two most promising types of engines private auto manufacturers can devise . .. Health-Education-Welfare Secretary Robert H. Finch proposed a less costly incentive program calling for federal purchase of prototype engines developed by the carmakers. - The President says he will decide which plan should be ' followed and which department should supervise the program . ? The courts are now moving to center stage as violence fades somewhat from the domestic scene . A year-opening survey of sensitive spots in the fields of civil rights , campus protests , and political , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? which - turned to violence three years ago are planning various kinds of ' nonviolent pressure for the coming year : ? The courts are , taking the lead in requiring more  --  rapid social change . By upholding the legal rights of universities and other institutions , the courts are forcing experiments in violence back into the more normal channels of political agitation and pressure . And by affirming the legal rights of deprived citizens , the courts are requiring the established order to abandon various forms of . and oppression . Armed robberies in Toledo have been cut in half since enactment of the city 's 1968 handgun ordinance , according to the U.S. MUnicipal news . The weekly is published here - and- noted by many legislators . ' Toledo 's chief city counsel , John T. Burkhart , says the local law requires regular reports of gun sales by dealers , plus police screening of handgun owners who must obtain identification cards . Convictions have been won in : Toledo courts in each of 150 violations . ' Crime and what to do about it hang in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the potential of . the law-and-order issue . ? The long-range approach by the presidential commission on violence under Dr. mil- , ton S. Eisenhower contrasts strongly with the short-range approach of President Nixon . . Mr. Nixon ' in his campaign emphasized relatively inexpensive proposals like wiretapping , holding certain suspects in jail without bond , and altering the membership and direction of the U.S. Supreme Court . He has said little about gun control , however . The Eisenhower group vigorously condemned the distribution of 90 million firearms in the nation , of which it said 24 million are handguns . Toledo is the latest example of what curbing handguns may do in cutting crime . The State Department is quietly revolutioniiing its recruitment program . Aim : ' to escape from the Ivy League image  --  of the general-purpose Foreign Service officer and concentrate instead on recruiting specialists in economics , business administration , communications , political science . To , do this the whole ? Foreign Service entrance examination is being reevaluated . Passing scores for young officers will be weighted so that a banker , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the strength of his accounting or business administration skills . This will allow the young specialist to move quickly into his area of competence and a positioh of authority  --  without having to ' spend five or 10 years stamping passports . Some observers thought that , because it was a Lyndon Johnson project , the White House Fellows program would be dropped . On the contrary , it 's been fully accepted by the Nixon administration . Under the program , a select group of outstanding young men and women under 35 spend a year in Washington working closely with ' Cabinet officers and White House officials . The 1969-70 " class " of 18 is taking on key tasks . Some are even submitting ideas for innovative projects which might be included in the President 's State of the Union address . Three Fellows are working at the White House . Another is helping HEW Secretary Finch on environmental matters . . ,                     