@@728665

txt The Czechoslovak party Presidium has voted to expel the 1968 reform leader , Alexander Dubcek , from the party and remove him from his post as Ambassador to Turkey , according to a very reliable source in Prague . The decision was apparently taken in face of opposition from Mr. Dubcek 's successor as party leader , Gustav Husak . If normal procedure is followed , the vote must go to the party Central Committee for approval . This , it may be presumed , following last year 's clean sweep of Dubcek supporters in the committee , would be a mere formality . The committee is slated to meet June 18 for what originally was foreseen as a further review of the country 's continued difficult economic outlook . Demotion effort expected But with the Presidium split on the Dubcek issue and the recent strong evidence of continued tensions within the party 's lower leadership levels , it is said there now may be demands from the hard-line ultras for changes within the top ruling group and its apparatus . These demands would not be aimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from last month 's Soviet visit , still enjoys Moscow 's support . However , having won the day over Mr. Dubcek , the ultras are believed likely to press now for demotion of one or other of the three " moderates " in the 11-member Presidium who voted with him against the proposal to remove the former leader from the party altogether . The hard liners apparently also succeeded in pushing through a demand to proceed with the trial of chess champion Ludek Pachmann , one of a group of well-known Dubcek followers arrested last year following renewed antiinvasion protests . Organizations dissolved If this in fact comes about , it will be the first break in Dr. Husak 's oft-repeated pledge not to countenance political trials . His insistence on Mr. Dubcek 's appointment as Ambassador to Turkey at the beginning of the year was read in this light . Recently the party purge has assumed even greater proportions . Scores more of local party organizations have been dissolved , and many of the screening commissions entrusted originally with the " exchange of party cards " have been dismissed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its recalcitrant Dubcek sympathizers . ? Another purge has hit the trade unions , ousting the entire presidium and secretariat of the Czech Trade Union Council and the chairman of no fewer than 11 Czech national unions . Mr. Dubcek currently is still in Czechoslovakia following his return from Ankara May 30 , purportedly to see his ailing 80-year-old mother at her home in Slovakia . At the time of his departure for Ankara six months ago , he was suspended from the party , which he joined as a youth of 18 , 31 years ago . Defection doubted The Presidium majority which carried the vote for his final expulsion also called for his formal relief from his diplomatic post . It is questionable whether he will even be permitted to return for the normal protocol formalities undertaken by a departing ambassador . It is generally accepted by all but his enemies within the party that it would be completely out of character for Mr. Dubcek to take the opportunity to go into emigration . " He is not , " one of his close associates told me , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dubcek 's continued hold on party rank-and-file sympathy and allegiance that the purge is still far from completed . Membership already has been slashed to less than a million by more than 600,000 dropouts and expulsions . The hard liners have intended apparently to reduce the party still more drastically to one not exceeding 500,000 but cleansed entirely of the reformers and conforming even more unequivocally and unquestioningly to Russia 's own conservative orthodoxy .                     