@@728780

txt A new ground rule for dealing with Hanoi has developed at the White House : The longer Hanoi avoids negotiation , the less eager is President Nixon to talk . He now feels himself in a stronger military and political position in Vietnam . He is more confident , with passing months and events , that the Saigon government can get a grip on most of its territory , certainly on the vital portions . Mr. Nixon is less willing to make concessions to Hanoi . He would accept serious peace talks gladly , if Hanoi showed a disposition to meet his familiar basic conditions . But he does not relish and will not encourage long public haggling with Hanoi over terms of settlement which would share power with Communist forces in South Vietnam and give them a veto inside a new government . Teinpest in a ' T ' cage Now Washington has its own tiger cage controversy . This cage stands within the Capitol itself . It 's a life-size simulation of those purportedly confining American prisoners of war in North Vietnam ? complete with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " captive " languishes in a nearby rat-infested prison cell . Both exhibits are displayed this summer in the Capitol chamber known as the crypt ? courtesy of H. Ross Perot , the wealthy Texan who has championed American PWs in Indo China . The displays are raising a pint-size version of the uproar caused by the tiger cages at South Vietnam 's Con Son Prison . Some say the grisly exhibits show poor taste . Others charge that they are pure propaganda and misrepresent the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong ? particularly since the Americans ' South Vietnamese allies may be just as harsh . 0 Dwindling donors One effect of the current economic squeeze : It 's drying up contributions to many nonprofit organizations . " You have no idea how tough it is , " sighs the director of one group based in Washington . " I went to New York City twice in the last three weeks and came away with virtually nothing in contributions . " He attributes the dearth to the combination of continuing inflation and a nation in the economic doldrums . There 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard on those of us with liberal causes , " he says . They are less popular than before . 0 Halt billing boo-boos Ever had a computer keep billing you for something you did n't owe ? A proposed Truth-in-Lending Act amendment just introduced in the Senate would put a halt to such billing mistakes . One part of the measure , introduced by Sen. William Proxmire ( D ) of Wisconsin , would require creditors to send an acknowledgment to the consumer within 10 days after he has notified them of the error . It would also require creditors to correct their mistake ( sending a new statement as evidence ) or explain why the firm was not in error in the first place . If neither action is taken , the company would have no right to question the sum the consumer said was in error . 0 A first for the UN Times change . And UN Secretary-General U Thant 's recent visit here is not the least of such changes . Early this year Massachusetts Rep. Bradford F. Morse ( R ) sent President Nixon a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inviting the Secretary-General to Washington to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the signing of the UN Charter . On July 10 U Thant came to Washington at the invitation of the President to attend a state dinner and reception at the White House . Never before had Washington received a UN secretary-general . It is significant that a Republican President felt free to extend this invitation  --  given the history of fierce opposition to the UN by many of his conservative supporters . But in one sense , the way had been well prepared by one of Mr. Nixon 's own appointees , a conservative little lady from California , Mrs. Shirley Temple Black . As a member of the U.S. delegation to the UN , she not only is an enthusiastic supporter of the organization , she recently called on the President to use it more often to settle world problems .                     