@@729576

txt The Nixon Administration acknowledged today , through a Senate subcommittee staff report , that the Central Intelligence Agency was maintaining a 30,000-man " irregular " force now fighting throughout most of Laos . Many news articles in recent years have described C.I.A . sponsorship of an irregular army in Laos . However , the subcommittee report represented the first time that the agency publicly and officially confirmed its military activities in Laos . The report indicated that the use of the irregular units in Laos was more wide. , spread than had been indicated fn the news accounts . The force has become " the ( main cutting edge " of the Royal Laotian Army , according to the report , and has been supple ? mented by Thai " volunteers " recruited and paid by the C.I.A . The agency 's involvement in a secret war in Laos was finally confirmed officially in a staff report prepared for the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on foreign commitments by James G. Lowenstein and Richard M. Moose , two former ' Foreign Service officers who made an inspection trip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , once classified top secret , was made public today after clearance by the C.I.A . as well as the State and Defense Departments . Publication of the detailed 23-page report marks the formal acknowledgment of the secret war that the United States has been conducting in Laos ever since the breakdown of the 1962 Geneva accords , which were supposed to re-establish the neutrality of that country . In making public the report , Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri , the subcommittee chairman , said : " It is an encouraging sign that the executive branch has finally agreed that much of what the United States Government has been doing in Laos may now be made public . The veil of secrecy which has long kept this secret war in Laos officially hidden from the American people has ' been partially lifted . " Senate ! . Symington complained however , , that the executive branch was still refusing to make public " certain truths concerning the nature , composition and command arrangements of the Thai forces in Laos . " The information the Administration has refused to make public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recruitment of the Thai forces violates a provision against hiring soldiers that was written into the Defense Appropriations Act last year . One fact kept secret by the executive branch is the presence in Laos  --  referred to in the past by Senator J. W. Fulbright  --  of a series of Thai generals who use the Thai equivalent of John Doe as their names . The senator did not give the Thai equivalent . In contending that the provision against hiring troops is not being violated , the State Department has argued that the Thai volunteers came under the command of the Royal Laotian Army . Out of the report came the first detailed description of the rapidly rising cost of the American military involment in a war do which , the report observed , ' ' the Royal Lao Government continues to he almost totally dependent on the United States , perhaps more dependent on us than any other government in the world . " In the fiscal year 1970 , which ended on July 1 , a " partial total " of United States expenditures in Laos came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $52-million for economic aid and $70-million was spent by the C.I.A . exclusive of the amount spent on the Thai forces . This was the first time that the C.I.A . has permitted disclosure of its spending in Laos , and even then the figure came out indirectly through subtraction from over-all estimates included in the report . In the current fiscal year , the report said , the estimated cost of military assistance has " risen rapidly , " doubling since January , mostly because of increased ammunition being furnished the Royal Laotian and irregular forces . The cost of military and economic aid plus the C.I.A . programs is now expected to come to $374-million in the current fiscal year . At that level , the report observed , the cost will be more than three times as large as it was in fiscal 1967 and 25 times as large as when United States assistance began nine years ago . Not included in these estimates were the costs of United States bombing operations in northern Laos in support of the , Royal Laotian forces and in southern Laos against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The report said that American air operations in Laos had declined over the last two years , with United States planes averaging 340 sorties a day this April , compared with a daily rate of 440 in the first part of 1969 . At the same time , 13-25 bombing in northern Laos has increased since it was begun in February , .1970 , with what amounts to " free fire zones " being established for the bombers . These zones have been cleared of the civilian population and any activity in them can be considered to be supporting the enemy . The report also said that in recent months the Chinese Communists have increased their air defenses along the road they are building in northern Laos , making the " area one of the most heavily defended in the world . " The Chinese , the report said , have moved in " a heavy new increment " of radar-directed antiaircraft guns , raising the total to 395 , including for the first time 85-mm. and 100-mm. guns that are effective up to 68,00D feet . The area around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes , but the report noted that on at least two occasions the road had been attacked by unmarked Royal Lao Air Force ** furnished by the United States . The Chinese build-up of antiaircraft defenses began after an attack by two Laotian planes in January , 1970 . In the last two years , the report said , the size of the Chinese forces along the road has increased from 6,000 to between 14,000 and 20,000 . Since November , 1970 , the Chinese , in addition to " upgrading earlier road construction , " have constructed eight small-arms firing ranges of a kind normally associated with garrisons of ground troops as well as a large heaquarters building and 66 basketball courts . The Chinese road stretches from the Chinese - border to Muong Sai in north-central Laos , with branches extending toward Dienbienphu in North Vietnam and toward the Thai border . The purpose of the road remains unclear , but the report observes that in terms of " areas of influence , " the " practical effect of the Chinese road is that the Chinese border has already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " To subcommittee members , probably the most significant disclosure of the report was confirmation that the irregular units in Laos are " trained , equipped , supported , advised and to a great extent organized by the C.I.A . " The " B.G. units , " as they are known , ( for the French term " battalions guerriers " ) , " have become the cutting edge of the miiltary , " the report said , " leaving the Royal Lao Army as a force primarily devoted to a static defense . ' These units began as a force of Meo tribesmen under Gen. yang Pao operating around the Plaine des Jarres , but now , the report said , they are operating in all sections of Laos except a small military region around Vientiane , the administrative capital . Except for a 1,500-man cadre from the Royal Lao Army , all members of these units , according to the report , are " volunteers , " with their rations and pay supplied indirectly by the C.I.A . and guaranteed evacuation of wounded by air America helicopters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irregular forces totaled 38,000 men , according to the report , but it is now down to about 30,000 men , largely because of desertions , heavy casualties and " financial restraints incurred by budgetary limitations . " With the military manpower I base in Laos " exhausted , " the report said , the agency turned to Thai " volunteers " to supplement the irregular forces . The precise number of Thai " volunteers " in Laos was deleted from the report , but Senator Clifford P. Case of New Jersey and Senator Fulbright have used a figure of about4,800 . The report  --  made public , in its declassified form , with gaps representing security deletions ? said : " Most of the irregulars have been recruited , we were told , as a ' volunteer force ' outside the Thai army , although ( deleted ) . " The C.I.A. , the report said , " supervises and pays ' for the training of these irregulars in Thailand and provides their salary , allowances ( including death benefits ) and operational costs in Laos . " In addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes of Air America  --  an air operation in Laos supported by American intelligence . On the question why the Thai irregulars were wanted , the report said , " We were told that ' the embassy wanted to ( deleted ) the ( deleted ) with ( deleted ) because the ( deleted ) were more mobile and thus ' could do things the others could not do ' . " Conclusion Generally Gloomy The report reached a generally gloomy conclusion about the military and political situation in Laos  --  an appraisal that , according to subcommittee aides , the executive branch reluctantly agreed could be published . " Most observers in Laos say that from the military point of view , the situation there is growing steadily worse , " the report said , " and the initiative seems clearly to be in the hands of the enemy ? ' It added : " There are apparently no plans for retaking or holding any of the two-thirds of the country ' no longer under Government control but only a hope , not too firmly held in some quarters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can continue to be held . " The report said , " No one we met ' in Laos , American or Lao , seems to have , a prescription for the future . ' other than to continue to do what is being done now . " " In their most optimistic moments , " it continued , " Lao and Americans , as well as most Western observers , expressed a guarded belief that the Lao will be able to cling to what remains of their territory , believing that the war , in Vietnam will end : in an agreed settlement in which the great powers will participate and that this will lead to a similar resolution of the situation in Laos . "                     