@@728576

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 34 Letters to the Editor of The Times To Cut War Budget To the Editor : Two successive American Presidents , from different political parties , have now committed the United States to foreign military actions without a declaration of war by Congress . The magnitude of the military appropriations granted by Congress not only permits , but actually encourages such Presidential actions . As long as voters return to Congress those legislators who allow massive military appropriations , we can expect a continuation of the events of the past five years , both military and nonmilitary ( since military expenditures have such devastating consequences upon nonmilitary needs and programs . ) On the other hand , if enough voters will effectively demand a 50 per cent reduction of military expenditures , the President and his military advisers will have more than enough money for the adequate defense of our vital interests , but will have fewer resources for offensive military adventures . GEORGE H. KLUMPNER , M.D. Oak Park , Iii. , May 1 , 1970 Reception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the confrontation with General Maxwell Taylor at Monmouth College is premature and er-roncous . It is a fact that General Taylor , after drawing hoots from his audience , refused to speak , and one may be justified in criticizing the audience for its uncomplimentary behavior . The following , however , are not established facts : that the " socalled " professor alluded to in your editorial prevented Taylor from speaking ; that he intended to do so ; that he led the radical students against Taylor ; that his convictions include " fascist repression " ; or that General Taylor would have been able to speak even if the professor had not attempted to read his rather innocuous but idealistic statement of protest before the audience . Where General Taylor is concerned , what happened at Monmouth College is not unique . Other college audiences have refused to greet him cordially because of his significant role in formulating the policy which has embroiled the United States in Vietnam . Moreover , many professors have demonstrated , one way or another , against the policy for which General Taylor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what happened on that evening . We regret that you have accepted The Associated Press version of what happened without question and without waiting for the findings of that investigation . CHARLES R. MAYES Prof. of History , Chairman West Long Branch , N. J. April 27 , 1970 Thirteen other members of the Department of History and Government signed this letter . ? Suppliers ' Plea To the Editor : Has former Ambassador Benjamin H. Oehlert Jr . noticed the parallel between his argument for arms to Pakistan ( " ... every country , rich or poor , will get what arms it feels it needs for self-defense . It is better for us to sell arms to friendly countries rather than someone else . . . " letter April 18 ) and that of Sam the heroin wholesaler : " If the addict who got my stuff did n't get it from me , he 'd get it from someone else .. . " ( news article April 20 ) . Poor Uncle Sam , the arms pusher , still ca n't see that it 's not just a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the health of the user . JAMES W. GOULD Milton , Mass. , April 20 , 1970 Status of Puerto Rico To the Editor : May I congratulate The Times for having presented through the observations of Tom Wicker a cogent picture of the complicated present-day political scene in Puerto Rico . Mr. Wicker will probably find that none of our political leaders will subscribe fully to his analysis , but this would ' be true of any objective study of the situation . Certainly the three columns April 23 , 26 and 28 contribute significant and perceptive insights into the rather turbulent politics of Puerto Rico . I have one clarification to offer . Mr. Wicker may not have been as clear as he desired in indicating that Governor Luis A. Ferre does not take the position that the Presidential vote ' in itself constitutes a step toward statehood for Puerto Rico . The Presidential vote is a short-range measure which he deems essential to commonwealth status . Attainment of statehood is a long-range objective , which must await the expression of the will of the people of Puerto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. CORDOVA Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico Washington , April 30 , 1970 ? Palestinians ' Claims To the Editor : Arnold Forster 's April 16 letter raised the subject of Amnesty International 's charges that Israel had tortured Arab prisoners only to drop it . If the charges are false , then the Israeli Government should refute them . A description of the supposed benefits Israeli rule is bringing the Palestinian Arabs is off  --  the subject . Such a description , however , is the bulk of Mr. Forster 's letter , and it is a masterpiece of selective information . He does not mention collective punishment , for instance , or that Israel will not let the 325,000 Arabs who fled their home in 1967 return . The claim that 1,200 Palestinian Arabs from Gaza are studying in the United Arab Republic on Israeli Government scholarships is so unlikely that it can not be accepted without more information . Mr. Forster 's main point , ' that Israel is trying to integrate the refugees with the local , populations , is the most . misleading . Integrate whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local populations are Palestinian Arabs . Perhaps Mr. Forster means the integration of the Gaza refugees with their fellow refugees in Amman . This " integration " the Israelis encouraged from the first days after the June war by providing free one-way transportation to the Jordan River . On the West Bank , in at least the cases of the three villages of Immaus , Yalu and Beit Nuba , the Israeli Government encouraged " integration " by evicting the approximately 8,000 residents and leveling the houses . The frontiers Mr. Forster claims are open are so for the most part in one direction . The refugees may leave their homes and their land , but the Israeli Government will not let them return . Mr. Forster avoids using the term , and Premier Golda Meir has said that they did not exist , but the Palestinian Arabs do exist . They are the people , not Cairo nor any other Arab Government , with whom the Israelis must some day come to terms . There is a. growing , healthy awareness in Israel that the Palestinian Arabs exist and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans would only listen , is not far distant from the call the Palestinians are making for an integrated Arab Jewish state in Palestine . The mechanical repetition Mr. Forster has given us of old Zionist propaganda only slows American realization of the real issues , the real forces , and the real chances for peace in the Middle East . JOHN V. CHAPPLE New York , April 17 , 1970                     