@@733002

txt On what used to be the great , open , high seas , a world scramble for resources is under way . Although reminiscent on a global scale of the U.S. gold rushes of the 19th century , the consequences are sure to be vastly more far-reaching . Quietly , without waiting for the drawn-out intricacies of international agreement , coastal nations have thrust their claims far out into the waters off their shores . Very little unrestricted fishing is left within 200 miles of anybody 's coastline . In the past three months alone , vast swaths of ocean have been brought under such restrictions by the United States ( March 1 ) , the Soviet Union ( Dec. 10 ) , and Canada ( Jan. 1 ) . Within a couple of years , the globe 's open fishing areas have been nearly halved ? with potentially devastating effects for densely populated countries like Japan . which depend heavily on fishing in foreign waters . ? The average Japanese eats ten times as much fish as an American . His " kamaboko , " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in price . His " poor man 's protein " is in danger of becoming a rich man 's delicacy . Ecuador , Peru , and Chile have long claimed complete territorial control ( as opposed to fishing control ) 200 miles out to sea . Today , however , 10 countries have abruptly pushed their territorial claims out the full 200 miles . Five more nations have extended their territorial limits out to either 100 , or 130 , or 150 miles . Another nine claim distances varying from 15 to 50 miles out . Nearly all of these are African or Latin American countries . // From page 1 Global scramble for ocean wealth The traditional three-mile territorial sea control has become a minority ' enclave for holdouts such as the United States , Britain , West Germany , and Japan . The great majority has moved to 12 miles or many more . Further extensions of territorial or fishery limits have been occurring almost daily . UN parley still trying This vast seaward shift of national claims has not yet sunk the United Nations laborious Law of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are meeting privately in Geneva to try to resolve the pivotal dispute over deep-sea mineral-mining . The full conference is due to reopen here in New York in May . But the free-for-all proliferation of claims has sharply reduced the incentive which prompted coastal nations to negotiate the " law of the sea " in the first place . " Most of the coastal states have gone out and grabbed what they really wanted , " says one American official . Like other major maritime nations , the U.S. draws a sharp distinction between simply extending fisheries jurisdiction and the far more drastic step of extending territorial limits . The latter introduces concepts of national sovereignty , including the least theoretical restrictions on rights of passage by both commercial and military vessels . ( Oil and gas on the Continental Shelf is already claimed by many coastal states under present international law . ) Nonetheless , such important distinctions can get lost as one extension feeds upon another , producing a snowball effect . As a result , - numerous conflicts of overlapping jurisdictions now have to be sorted out all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangement has been made between the U.S. and Canada , for instance , major differences remain over fishing rights on the prolific Georges Banks off New England and Nova Scotia . The Soviet Union and Norway are haggling over fishing rights in the Barents Sea . Japan is deeply concerned lest its dispute with the Soviet Union over the Kurile Islands be further complicated . As for the prickly problem of American-Cuban relations , the U.S. has carefully drawn its southern fishery limits along a 300-mile line equidistant between the two countries . This also will have to be tied down by eventual agreement , although no negotiations currently are under way . The few major coastal states which have not yet greatly expanded either their territorial or fishery limits include Australia , China , and India . The Indian Parliament , however , already has passed enabling legislation for a 200-mile " economic zone , " such as is likely to emerge from any law of the sea agreement . Many national claims would not fit at all into any conceivable law of the sea treaty . For instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territorial claims out to sea ? would almost certainly have to pull back . Instead they would only be able to exert narrow authority in the " economic zone . " Many national fishery regulations , too , would have to be adjusted ? including those of the U.S. With each new national fait accompli , the chances for a law of the sea success are further eroded .                     