@@733114

txt The Soviet Union apparently is about to get its first new chief of state for 12 years . The choice will do Much to indicate how far reaching the sudden leadership shuffle in the Kremlin will be . Kremlin watchers here consider it certain that Nikolai Podgorny 's unexpected departure from the ruling Politburo May 24 means he also will lose his other title of chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet ( legislature ) ? that is , chief of state . ( Actual power belongs to the chief of the party , Leonid Brezhnev , who is head of the Politburo itself . ) " We wo n't have long to wait , " commented one experienced Kremlin analyst . " They ca n't go without a chief of state for long . " This was a reference to the duties of the office , which require constant officiating at ceremonies and greeting of visiting chiefs of state and other dignitaries . The successor could be announced at the next half-yearly meeting of the Supreme Soviet on June 16 ? or even before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whether Mr. Brezhnev has : // From page 1 Soviets about to get new chief of state ? Dropped Mr. Podgorny to make room for another leader whose elevation could be intended to remove him from the race for power . ? Been forced to make the change because of opposition within the Politburo , perhaps to his overall policy of seeking arms control and d  --  tente with the United States . It says much for the difficulty of Kremlin watching that Western analysts at this writing simply were not able to do more than speculate . Rumors of differences between Mr. Podgorny and Mr. Brezhnev-have circulated here for some time . No hard evidence was available to support them . In fact , Mr. Podgorny has been very active and visible of late , touring Africa to demonstrate Soviet interests there , and being seen in all the right places in public . But he has suddenly lost his seat in the all-powerful Politburo - and in a manner that suggests he was pushed out . A brief announcement from the news agency Tass simply said that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Politburo . " Conspicuously absent were such phrases as " at his own request " or " for reasons of ill health , or age . " The announcement was tacked to the end of a lengthy report of a speech by Mr. Brezhnev about a new constitution for the Soviet Union . The speech was made at a regular meeting of the full membership of the Central Committee of the Communist Party in Moscow . The announcement was followed immediately by news of two more shifts on a lower level - the demotion of Konstantin Katushev from the Central Committee secretariat , and the promotion of a member of Mr. Brezhnev 's personal office , Konstantin Rusakov . Both the latter appointments are connected wiith the handling of Eastern Europe . Analysts here recalled that when Nikita Khrushchev was pushed out of offide , the formal announcement said it was at his own request . The stark language of Mr. Podgorny 's removal thus seems to indicate trouble in high places . Analysts speculated whether the removal might have been connected with preparations to publish the new constitution . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is to replace the existing 1936 version . Analysts are watching to see whether the rights of Soviet citizens are to be curtailed in any way , or whether the right of individual republics to secede might be altered . Some analysts doubted the connection with Mr. Podgorny though . They suspected the issues were more immediate . Mr. Podgorny has generally been ranked third in the aging Soviet hierarchy . lie is 74 . Mr. Brezhnev is 70 . Alexei Kosygin , the Premier , is 71 . Removal of Mr. Podgorny opens the way for the kind of further shuffle , perhaps connected with the struggle to succeed Mr. Brezhnev , that analysts here have long been expecting .                     