@@732963

txt Los Angeles , which was called the prototype of the ? American city of the future only a few years ago , is beginning to wonder : Has the future come and gone ? In a culture where boundless growth was long considered as much of a birthright as the sun , leaders are worried about slipping population , an exodus of jobs to the suburbs , urban decay , complaints of an inhospitable climate for business , and , for the first time , refusal of some transferred executives to move here because of high costs , especially for housing . In short , many of the problems are like those New York City and other older Eastern cities are facing in their fight to survive . The city is marshaling a broad program etr York Timm that it hopes can hold businesses here and thus keep the city from " becoming another New York , " as one official put it . " I guess we grew so fast that we thought the golden egg would never stop being laid ; now , we 're @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Frederick Schnell , a retired Prudential Insurance Company executive who serves as a special assistant to Mayor Toni Bradley and liaison officer with business . Prudential recently became the latest company to move from Los Angeles to the suburbs . Los Angeles 's concern for its future is coming against a backdrop of deepening economic introspection by the entire state of California . California 's economy is growing faster than that of the rest of the country , but it is not expanding fast enough to absorb all the people who come here . Migration to California , which declined in the early 1970 's , has picked up modestly recently , and as a result the unemployment rate here is much higher than in the nation as a whole . In January , for example , the state 's unemployment rate was 8.4 percent . as against 7.3 nationally . Many experts here expect the state 's economy to be robust this year but not robust enough to reduce the unemployment rate very much . After New York , California has the highest per capita personal taxes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : many say that the state and some localities are ' antigrowth " and antibusiness . A study made two years ago by the Fantus Company of New York . which helps corporations to select industrial sites , ranked California 47th in an index that tried to measure how hospitable 48 states were to business . Rapidly rising home prices  --  increases of 1 percent monthly have been typical for at least two years  --  are becoming a major concern to companies that want to send employees here , and employees are increasingly turning down transfers to Southern California . Company Gives Reasons Recently , for example , a middle-management employee for a major life insurance company who lived in Wantagh , L.I. , was sent to open a new office in Orange County . After six weeks of house hunting , he told his superiors that it would cost him twice as much to buy a home here as in Wantagh . After a vice president came here and verified his report , his transfer was canceled . Nevertheless , homes in parts of Orange County are still cheaper than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are moving to this area , which has generally had one of the lowest unemployment rates in the state . Complaints that California is a difficult place in which to do business have accelerated since last month , when the Dow Chemical Company said that it was abandoning plans to develop a $500 million petrochemical plant near San Francisco that would have employed 1.000 pe ; : ple In a strong criticism of the business climate here , Dow officials cited bureaucratic resistance , environmental hurdles , requirements for 65 different permits and other obstacles that they said made the company uncertain that the facility could ever be built . Dow 's action has stunned many Califcrnia political and business leaders , many of whom are putting pressure on Gov . Edmund G. Brown Jr. , whose " lessmay-be-better " approach to governing the state is being tested . Responding to complaints , the Governor is now trying to induce businessmen to move plants and offices here , but many business people fear that the state will continue to lose ground to other areas . " We 're now in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumer - oriented , high - tax legislation . " Donald Baird , president of the California Mortage Bankers Association , said in a recent speech here . For the first time in 200 years , he asserted , the state 's economic outlook is pessismistic . Partly to counter such criticism , the Governor 's Director of Employment Development issued a statement saying that in 1976 " California 's economy far outpaced the rest of the nation , " creating new jobs at a rate 30 percent higher than the national average . More Manufacturing Jobs The statement said that 3.8 percent new manufacturing jobs had been created ? the national average was given as 3.3 percent  --  and that since 1954 only Texas has had a better job growth rate . The Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto forecast recently that California 's economy would grow at a rate 25 percent higher than that in the rest of the country . But some experts say that the economy must grow faster than elsewhere merely to stay even because of the state 's attractiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bank study recently called " built-in problems " that keep unemployment here high . These factors include proportionately higher-than-average numbers of members of minorities and of women in the work force and a relatively new industrial plant that requires proportionately fewer workers than does older plant equipment . In Los Angeles , the problems are somewhat different from those in the state as a whole . Beginning in 1972 , the population began to decline in this city . A ' 2.3 percent decrease was familiar in other large cities , but it shocked boosters here . A recent estimate by the City Planning Department suggests that the declind Of the early seventies may have been arrested . The current estimated population ; ? s 2.8 million . After realizing that jobs and people were moving to the suburbs . Mayor Bradley and his advisers two years ago aSsigned a committee of 200 business leaders to help to keep Los Angeles front experiencing problems similar to New York 's . The city designated a number of municipal employees , including policemen and building inspectors , to report any signs that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also formed a group called the Ad Hoc Image Enhancement Comthittee to see what could be done about the city 's national reputation for choking smog , clogged freeways and urban sprawl . The eventual decision , said Bradford Crowe , director of the city 's Economic Development Office , was , " Let 's show the city as it is , warts and He said that it was too soon to know if the effort would work but that he was optimistic . " We put out a number of firm and we 've saved about 3,000 jobs , " . : he said Mr. Crowe acknowledged that stink theorists say that the eventual decline of a city is inevitable . " The classic trend , in Boston , in London . in New York , in Rome and Athens is growth , stabilization and then decline , " he said . " We 're fighting the inevii:atzility cycle . "                     