@@732440

txt Attorney 's daughter found slain A YOUNG WOMAN found bludgeoned to death in a desolate area of Goose Island on the Near North Side was identified Friday by a Loop attorney as his missing 21-year-old daughter . The murder victim , whose body was found at 7:30 a.m . Friday in the trailer of a truck rig at 850 W. Haines St. , was identified as Ellen Waldron . Her ' father , Austin J. Waldron Jr. , of 10526 S. Tatman Av. , has law offices at 69 W. Washington St. Miss Waldron , who formerly lived at 3514 N. Broadway but moved several weeks ago to 1133 W. Grace St. , was reported missing to police Wednesday night by her mother , Marian , when she went to the apartment and could not gain admittance . Although blood stains In the trailer Indicated she had been killed there , polico were investigating the possibility that several tires in her apartment Friday may have been set to destroy evidence leading to the killer 's Identity . ' FOUR SEPARATE fires In the apartment were put out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighbor. heard from at 1:30 a.m . Friday by Cur-Us Cotten , 22 , with whom she formerly shared the apartment on North Broadway . Police Comdr . Joseph DiLeonordi of the citywide homicide unit said Cohen reported she telephoned him and said she was in trouble but for him not to worry . Cotten told police he became alarmed Wednesday night when ho telephoned her and got no answer . Ho telephoned her parents ' home and spoke to her mother , who in turn called the girl 's apartment but got no answer . Police said Mrs. Waldron then drove to her daughter 's North Side apartment . When she found the doors locked and no one answered her knock , she filed a missing person report with police . A NEIGIIBOR told Investigators of hearing a man and woman shouting in the apartment Wednesday night , but police were not notified . Miss Waldron worked as usual Wednesday as a file clerk for a law firm in Scars Tower . Thursday morning she telephoned a co-worker to say that she nod been robbed and " was having problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Miss Waldron 's fully clothed body was found by a truck driver , James Di-Domenico , when he chocked the trailer before hooking it to a tractor to drive away . TILE TRAILER was parked at the dendend of West Haines Street , which ends on Goose Island a block west of Halsted Street and a block'south of Division Street . DILeonordl said the young woman had been struck on the head , at least six times , with a blunt instrument .                     