@@732272

txt AN EXSAILOR FROM Des Moines struggled for months to bring his Filipino wife to the United States but found himself tangled in red tape . no /imp came irom - ms cougresamoa , senator , a private attorney , or the governor 's office , so the distraught man turned to Thomas Mayer . Mayer is one of a growing number of public servants who makes his living as a problem-solver , a pathfinder in officialdom , and sometimes even a sob sister . He is the ombudsman for the state of Iowa . Although his official title is " Citizen 's Aide " to make his role more understandable to the public , Mayer is an ombudsman In the classic sense ? an independent officer designated by a legislative body to investigate and remedy citizen 's complaints against the government . THE WORD OMBUDSMAN  --  literally grievance man  --  comes from Sweden where the first one was appointed in 1809 with the adoption of a new constitution . Mayer , who has been Iowa 's ombudsman for over three years , spends the lion 's share of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and traffic tickets . But he also is willing to tackle dilemmas like the ex-sailor 's which are not strictly within his domain . " The man was at the end of his rope , " Mayer recalled . " Ho was ready to give up and move to the Philippines , I wasnl going to turn him away . " Luckily , Mayer is a lawyer by profession , so he was able to straighten out the ex-sailor 's difficulties with immigration authorities and complications resulting from the sailor 's wife 's first marriage . ONLY THREE OTHER states have such ombudsman  --  Hawaii , Nebraska , and Alaska . Although other states , including Oregon and South Carolina , have created similar posts , often as an arm of the governor 's office , they are not considered independent enough to be true ombudsmen . Following Sweden 's lead , Finland , Denmark , Norway , and New Zealand appointed ombudsmen . Only recently did the concept catch on in Canada , Australia , and the United States . In Illinois , a state legislator proposed a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state 's legislative districts but nothing came of it . Before that , former Lt. Gov . Paul Simon now a U. S. representative from Carbondale proclaimed himself the " people 's ombudsman " and once rode across the state with a trucker to see for himself the condition of the roads . THE UNITED States has broken new ground in terms of making the ombudsman office more informal by handling most complaints by telephone rather than in writing , and by establishing troubleshooters in areas such as city government , hospitals , prisons , and colleges . Unrest In prisons prompted five states to appoint ombudsmen for their penal systems . And two months ago , the Cook County Department of Corrections named an ombudsman for its facilities . Similarly , campus rebellions in the late 1960s resulted in several major universities , including the University of Chicago , appointing ombudsmen for their students . " In some ways , ombudsmen are an outgrowth of the consumer movement , " said Stanley V. Anderson , a professor of political science at the University of California and an expert on ombudsmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sorts for the American public . " ONE OF THE NEW American-style ombudsmen is Forrest Green , who handles gripes about the City of Detroit . " I 'm convinced that citizens are pushed around a little too much by government , " said Green . " They pay the freight , but they 're not being heard by the bureaucrats . " As an urban ombudsmen , Green deals with many of the usual city-dwellers ' complaints about garbage pickup , potholes , vacant buildings , and the more difficult police brutality allegations . During the first half of this year , his office handled 5,000 complaints , almost all of them legitimate , Green said . In Chicago , the sprawling Michael Reese Hospital and Medical Center was one of the first in the country to provide ombudsmen for its patients and their families . IN AN EFFORT TO " humanize " the 1,000-bed institution , Marion Simon and a staff of six are available to handle patient problems whether they be a roommate who smokes , an error on a bill , or a malpractice complaint . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to patients , nurses do n't have the time , but we can resolve a patient 's fear and anger in many cases and solve his problems , " Simon said . Mahan Washington , a semiretired owner of a cleaning business , staffs Reese 's emergency room at night . He often takes an unorthodox approach . One night , the emergency room sent a pregnant woman in the early stages of labor to County Hospital because she was destitute , she had had no prenatal care , and the risk of complications were great . BUT THE WOMAN refused to leave . She told Washington she was afraid of County because she felt it was too big and too crowded . Feeling sorry for the woman , Washington sat with her half the night until her baby was ready to be born and the Reese doctors would be duty-bound to deliver it . IF MANY CITIZENS are taking a dim view of government and politicians . lately , the press also has had its share of critics , leading some newspapers to establish readers ' ombudsmen , At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the news business , handles telephone calls from irate readers , investigates complaints of inaccuracies In reporters ' stories , and writes a weekly column of press criticism . Bransted says his role is to create good public relations  --  and perhaps inergase circulation ? by answering readers questions , as well as watching that the paper maintains quality reporting , writing , and editing . " IF SOMEONE COMPLAINS about not getting - thelx .. newspper , .. 1 ' 11 track down their carrier , ' ho said . " Ilsine one gripes about a crime story glorifying violence , I 'll explain that though newspapers do n't condone violence , they do reflect society . " To most of us , being an ombudsman is about as appealing as manning a department store 's complaint booth during the Christmas rush . But ombudsmen , a generally easygoing lot , say they love their work . Most of them concede that the job requires a tactful , resilient , patient , unflappable person . An ombudsman does occasionally run amok in the bureaucratic maze himself or comes up against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TROUBLE WITH some government employes is that they do n't want to deviate from their job description , " says Mayer . " I 've gotten the runaround from state agencies myself , but I wo n't give up . I keep trying and neither I or my staff ever pass the buck . " The trend toward ombudsmen has affected business and industry . Many large corporations have designated special administrators to deal with personnel problems . They may be called assistants to the president or employe relations managers . Others , like Illinois Bell Telephone Co. , set up a mechanism for questions and complaints . Illinois Bell , with 40,000 employes , began a confidential Feedback program in April , 1909 , whereby employes vent their gripes in writing or by telephone if they feel they are being wronged by a superior , if they have questions about fringe benefits or company policy , or anything else . Bell 's employes and bosses were skeptical , but Roger Johnston , a Bell spokesman , said the program has been successful and has handled over 7,000 questions and grievances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servants with egg on their faces . For instance , a woman whose auto was stolen was driving in downtown Detroit a few months later when she spotted the hot car . She followed it and its three occupants  --  right into a police garage ! The car was being used by detectives for undercover work . As it turned out , police had recovered the stolen car and impounded it but erroneously listed the car 's title number instead of the vehicle number , so that the state 's computer listed the car as having " no owner . " The woman eventually got her car back end was compensated for damages .                     