@@731883

txt " It is not my intention to preside over a wake , " said Action Director Michael P. Balzano at his confirmation hearings in March , 1973 . Yet now , two years later , Mr. Balzano 's directorship is under such fierce attack that he is in danger of presiding over that wake : for the passing of the nation 's first federal volunteer agency , with its staff of 1,700 and its nearly 160,000 volunteers involved in such programs as the Peace Corps , VISTA , RSVP ( Retired Senior Volunteers Program ) , Foster Grandparents , Senior Companions , SCORE ( Service Corps of Retired Executives ) , and ACE ( Advice Corps of Executives ) . This newspaper has learned that criticism of Mr. Balzano 's management has reached such a pitch that two special congressional hearings will shortly be announced . A draft of legislation dismantling the agency if he is not removed is waiting in the wings . Special hearing The House subcommittee on equal opportunities is about to announce special oversight hearings on April 9 and 10 on Action 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( D ) of California said in an interview : " The purpose of the hearings . . . is twofold : first , to determine whether domestic volunteer programs , in particular the Older Americans Act programs RSVP , Senior Companions , Foster Grandparents should remain under the Action umbrella or be transferred to other agencies . Congressional sources point out that these programs contain 90 percent of the volunteers at Action and their exodus would be fatal to the agency . " Second , to look into charges of mismanagement , abuse of the civil*Please turn to Page 6 *Peace Corps-VISTA chief // service system , and a shift in the agency from a poverty focus which have been leveled against the director of that agency . " Petition cited Representative Hawkins is referring to a 77-page petition to the Civil Service Commission originallly signed Jan. 13 by 35 past and present Action employees . The petition , which now bears 150 signatures , alleges violations of the personnel practices of the agency from July , 1971 ( pre-Balzano ) , until now . It charges " widespread discrimination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " systematically subverting the essential principles of merit selection " in the civil service . This newspaper also has learned that Mr. Balzano is being asked to be prepared to testify specifically on his management , on why the volunteer programs should remain at Action , on its goals , its objectives , its recent reorganizations , and on his management 's effect on agency morale . Dismantling possible At stake is whether Action 's individual programs will be dismantled and sent back to their original agencies : the Peace Corps to the State Department , Vista to the Office of Economic Opportunity , SCORE and ACE to the Small Business Administration ( it already has petitioned to be transferred ) , the older Americans programs to the Office of Aging . In addition , the House subcommittee on manpower and civil service shortly will be announcing hearings , the first on April 10 , which will deal with the allegations in that petition . The subcommittee will draw from a file it has been assembling on Action as one of the federal agencies that had " political referral units . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee spokesman noted " it 's fair to say we will also be considering what is going on in Action now . " In addition , this newspaper has learned that Sen. Alan Cranston ( R ) of California , who originally helped shepherd Action into being four years ago , has drafted legislation which , if passed , would dismantle Action as an agency providing it continued under its present leadership . Senator Cranston , in a statement to this newspaper , said : " I believe the programs themselves have a fair chance for success if only there is a change of leadership at the agency , but that is a matter generally within the control of the President , not Congress . " Given what I conceive as a'grave morale problem within the agency and a seemingly irreversible erosion of congressional support . . . the only feasible route would be to protect the individuals served and those serving by returning the volunteer programs to the federal agencies from which they came . " He said that , when asked for his views by the White House , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give the agency one more chance to work . I continue to believe strongly in volunteer programs and a federal focus for them . " The White House refused to comment on the Balzano affair .. Balzano comment Mr. Balzano told this newspaper : " I can not conceive that members of Congress who view what we are doing here and ... around the country would lower themselves to make a personal attack on a person and punish an entire federal agency . . . , I put my faith In stating our case before the members . " Mr. Balzano said the Hawkins hearings would not focus on him , " not on the present management . No , I doubt that seriously . . . 21 months ago this agency had fewer than 40,000 volunteers . Today this agency has over 160,000 volunteers with less money and less staff . . . "                     