@@731944

txt A bill calling for a mandatory one-day jail sentence for anyone convicted of carrying a concealed weapon was passed by the House , 91 to 41 , Friday and sent to the Senate . Rep. John Merlo D. , Chicago , chief sponsor , said the measure is needed because many persons caught carrying a concealed weapon simply get a suspended sentence . Requiring at least 24 hours in jail to give the offender time to think about his act may help curb the " epidemic of gun lunacy on our streets , " he said . The proposal would be in effect for only two years after it became law . During that time , a study would be made to determine its effectiveness . MERLO SAID he feels the bill has a " better than even " chance of being passed in the Senate . In tho House , voting was not along party lines and most opposition was from legislators representing non-metropolitan areas . " Carrying guns In the country has been a way of life forgenerations and It appears they do n't appreciate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Merlo said . Merle said he had not been approached by representatives of groups opposing gun control . He stressed that his bill would not make it illegal to have a registered gun in one 's home or place of business . MERL 0 SAID a one-day mandatory sentence would allow judges to convict a defendant without feeling he would be punished harshly . But Rep. Eugene Barnes D. , Chicago said people who carry guns in crime-ridden areas for protection should not be punished . Other gun control legislation , including bills to ban handguns , are expected to come up for votes on the House floor in the next few weeks . IN OTHER legislative action , a final vote on a bill to prohibit employment of illegal aliens in Illinois was postponed when it fell 38 votes short of passage in the House . The Mexicans are sneaking across our border , taking our Jobs , taking our money , " saidthe sponsor , Rep. Webber Borchers R. , Decatur . " This is a matter of patriotism . " In a 95-24 vote , the House passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hire a person given an unfavorable discharge from military service . The measure , sponsored by Rep. E. 14 . Barnes D. , Chicago , would not apply to a person who had received a dishonorable discharge . A BILL requiring installation of automatic fire sprinkling systems in newly built apartment buildings with more than eight floors was approved by theHouse , 112 to 7 . The measure , also sponsored by Merle , would apply to buildings on which construction is started on or after Jan. 1 , 1976 . Meanwhile , a plan to tighten security in the Capital complex is being considered by Secretary of State Michael Howlett . It was inspired by recent bomb threats which have . disrupted legislative proceedings and other state business . Under the proposal , public access to state buildings would be limited to main passageways and visitors would be subject to search by security personnel .                     