@@729433

txt The State Supreme Court an ? nulled yesterday a state direc-1 tive that barred Medicaid pay-1 ments for abortions to all but , " medically indicated " cases . Justice Samuel A. Spiegel wrote in a 28-page decision that the directive , handed down April 8 by George K. Wyman , State Commissioner of Social Services , discriminated against the poor in violation of the equal protection and due-process guarantees of the United States Constitution . Justice Spiegel acted on a suit that was filed April 12 by New York City against Mr. , Wyman and the State Social Services Department to in- ' validate the directive , which was described as an " adminis-II letter . " The justice held that the directive discriminated against the poor , who were normally qualified for Medicaid assist-1 ante , because it did not permit the " elective induced abortions " that have been legally available to those with private means since the liberalized state abortion law went into effect last July 1 . " In other words , " Justice Spiegel declared , " not everyone entitled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would be able , as of right , to have Medicaid pay for it . Those who want an abortion , unless it is ' medically indicated , ' would be obligated to pay for it themselves . " The problem arises as to those who want an ' elective induced abortion ' and are deprived of Medicaid because it is not ' medically indicated ' and yet can not otherwise afford to pay for it . " Under state law , abortions are freely authorized to women with the consent of their physicians , within 24 weeks of conception . Residency in the state is not required . Between last July 1 and April 8 , when the Wyman directive was issued , Medicaid payments were available to those who sought an " elective induced abortion " without restriction or limitation . Justice Spiegel asked : " Are the indigent , eligible for Medicaid for medical attention . who do not want a child because of handicaps , such as too large a family already , inadequate housing , insufficient income of other per . sonal reasons , infairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by this directive ? " Are thay unlawfully and improperly denied their right to Medicaid reimbursement for an abortion , though eligible for all Medicaid approved medical treatment ? " The Wyman directive " must be condemned , " Justice Spiegel concluded , " when ft deprives some indigents of rights which all others enjoy . It is even less tolerable when it deprives some indigents of the rights other indigents enjoy . " Commissioner Wyman 's administrative letter ? which he called " a clarification " of existing policies  --  followed a report by Senator James H. Donovan , an upstate Republican and leader of a move to repeal the liberal abortion law . Senator Donovan said Governor Rockefeller had promised that the state would suspend Medicaid payments for abortions while the Legislature considered a permanent ban on such payments . The Senator said that in conversations with Mr. Rockefeller during legislative efforts to cut the state budget , he had told the Governor that the use of public money for " destroying the unborn " had never specifically been given legislative approval . Estimate Lacking City officials associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might have been deprived of abortions as a result of the Wyman directive , They indicated , however , that private hospitals had cut down their service to Medicaid patients . Hospitals in Syracuse , they said , have now begun to demand affidavits from physicians asserting that the abortions they recommended were " medically indicated . " When the city initially filed suit on April 12 , Dr. Joseph T. English , president of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation , contended that 10,008 of 23,530 abortions performed in municipal hospitals since last July 1 involved women who were Medicaid patients , and that during the same period , 6,160 of the about 28,000 abortions in voluntary ( nonprofit private ) hospitals in the city also involved Medicaid eligibles . The city 's action against the state was supported by 14 nonprofit health , welfare , religious and civic organizations . Among them were the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York , the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies and the New York County Medical Society . A spokesman for State Attorney General Louis J. T.efkowitz said his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal .                     