@@731067

txt Florida 's runaway development binge , a phenomenon achieved by lax laws and technological advances that subdued and transformed a wild subtropical peninsula , is rapidly moving the state toward a showdown over the basic issue of property rights . The opening guns of the war against growth have rumbled in Hawaii , Oregon and Vermont , but by next spring pow , erful forces are expected to be locked in struggle in Florida over the extent to which the state can regulate and set limits on nearly every stage of development . With a population that has tripled in the past quartercentury to nearly eight million , Florida has moved quicker and further than any other large state to establish a broad public policy on growth . For the first time in the state 's frenetic half-century race for expansion and tourist dollars , the lid is being clamped on private investment projects . Motels built illegally on beaches , an act once winked at by the state , are now ordered torn down as public obstructions . Developers who state inhabitable in the last quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent hordes of people streaming south from the cold industrial centers of the Northeast and Midwest . The growth mystique remained unmolested even as the calls for environmental protection gathered force in the late nineteen-sixties . The state government still sold wetlands and bay bottom to private investors ; hotels and apartment houses were built at the edge of the sea though the beaches had already eroded ; artificial canals honeycombed huge housing developments and soon stagnated and became polluted ; untreated wastes were poured into surrounding waters , and the quality of life that had been so romantically depicted in travel brochures was in rapid decline . The impetus for change came with three significant . events in 1971 . President.Nixon in that year ordered work halted on two Federally funded public works projects : the proposed Miami jetport , which would have opened large sections of the Everglades to commercial development , and the cross-Florida barge canal , a waterway that was expected to be an engineering triumph and an ecological disaster . Inherent in the decisions was an affirmation  --  at least on the Federal level  --  that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial ventures . New Legislation Enacted Later that year , as fires smoldered in the parched everglades , Governor Askew assembled a conference on water management problems in South Florida to discover the reasons why a region with 60 inches of annual rainfall was suffering a crippling water shortage . " The results of that conference showed that the emergency was not an accident of nature , " remarked Dr. John M. DeGrove , chairman of the Joint Urban Studies Program at Florida Atlantic University . " That was the turning point , I believe , when public opinion began to exert pressure on slowing down the frantic pace of growth in this state . It was the end of the notion that Florida could grow as fast as it could for as long as it could . " That conference also provided the data needed to selife unbearable for all but a A special committee eventually few months of the year . drafted four major pieces of But earth-moving technol- legislation that were enacted in ogy , pesticides and the air- the next session of the legisconditioner have made the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become the home of a migrant leisurely class composed mainly of elderly whites , accompanied by a tide of single young people in service industries who pump their gas , clean their houses and serve them meals . In the last three years since the tight money market of 1969-70 was eased , the flow has become a torrent , creating inordinate pressures on the real estate market . Coupled with the nation 's inflated economy , residential land costs since 1970 have doubled ? and in some exclusive areas have tripled or quadrupled  --  and construction costs have soared by 50 per cent . Rich and Poor Enclaves The wealthy migrants are gathering in ' exclusionary enclaves like Boca Raton , Key Biscayne and Naples ( where a Florida development landmark qwq islands are ordered to replant the ravaged land . It is a process watched with interest by other states as the struggle for public control over private land interests builds into the foremost environmental issue of the decade . " We have started to bite the bullet on making some very hard decisions about the future of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has made the adoption of a rational growth policy the priority concern of his administration . " For the first time restraints are being placed on people as to what they please to do  --  and where they please to do it . " Governor Is Hopeful The Governor , in an interview , said he remained confident that it was not too late for the state to " get a handle " on the growth problem and save large portions of the state 's once-abundant natural resources . However , there are those who take a less sanguine view . " The change in public attitude about protecting what 's left of our environment has been tremendous , " remarked Kenneth Oertel , chief counsel of the state 's Internal Improvement Trust Fund , the regulatory board responsible for all navigable waterways . " But it seems the developers always manage to stay one step ahead of us , and I do n't know if we 're going to win or not . Maybe it 's just too late to keep the state from becoming one vast Disney World or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they ca n't continue to operate in the free-wheeling style of the past was in evidence at a " Florida 2000 " conference called by the Governor . Some 150 government officials , land developors , environmentalists and representatives of the Florida business community called on the state to rigorously protect its natural resources and restore air and water to the quality so recently lost . Except for the limited development in four commercial centers ( Miami , Jacksonville , Tampa , St. Petersburg ) , the state was virtually pristine before the Second World War . Now the 500-mile-long peninsula has been cut and channelized , bulldozed and bulkheaded , scraped and scissored to a point where principal life resources have been threatened . lature . In the words of the Governor , the new legislature ' " moved us further along the Toad to land control than any other large state in the nation . " One of the laws , the Environmental Lands and Water Management Act , set up regional planning councils to strengthen the state 's role in the decisionmaking process when major questions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this proposition are the listing of " areas of critical state concern , " primarily wetlands and watershed regions where little or no development will be allowed , and " development of regional impact , " the limiting of high density or proliferating housing plans that would materially strain the environmental or governmental resources of an area if approved . Another law , the Water Resources Act , is meant to preserve the state 's fresh water supplies , In addition , the legislature passed a comprehensive state planning act and a $240-million bond bill for the state to purchase environmentally endangered lands . As welcome as this legislation was to conservationists , they were disappointed when the legislature did not provide funds for the bureaucratic apparatus needed to administer it . The new division of planning , for example , which had decades of catching up to do in a state that has never developed reliable information en its natural and urban systems , has a total staff of 53 workers , including secretaries , to accomplish the research , investigate applications and abuses , and develop plans for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interim between the passage of . the laws and the time when the state is in a position to block projects not considered in the general public interest has also drawn criticism . Even now , developers are rushing to get projects under way to beat future restrictions that would either sink their projects or send their costs shooting up . Along the state 's panhandle , for instance , the state is losing the race to prevent the construction of waterfront condominium apartment buildings , which are being rushed to completion before the state can establish coastal setback lines . The result , conservationists say , will be irreparable damage to the dunes line that is the area 's natural barrier against storm tides , in addition to esthetic considerations . As the state moves to limit development , the restrictions must ultimately be reflected in the market place . Experts are predicting that the admission price for outsiders to enter the Florida real estate market will take another quantum leap in a few years , and this is itself creating a land-rush , " buy now " fever among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in effect in the cities of South Florida experiencing the shock of excessive growth , and some communities like Boca Raton , which has placed population caps on growth , are reeling from the rush of people anxious to get in before the door closes . Boca Raton is just a community of 23 square miles , but more building permits were issued there last year than in the entire state of Vermont . In addition to the spiraling costs of property , construction costs are expected to rise by 80 per cent by the end of the decade . There are already extreme shortages of skilled building trades men such as carpenters , plumbers and electricians , as well as shortages in materials like brick , lumber and cement . In many Southeast coast communities the average cost of a house is $35,000 . On Key Biscayne , modest bungalows built for $12,000 20 years ago are selling for more than $50,000 today . A Statistical Profile The effect of all this has been to penalize many of the retirees on fixed incomes who were the rank-and-file of the earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are newlyweds , who can not afford a home and are caught in a cycle of apartment or trailer living in which no appreciation or equity is built up and savings never narrow the gap on a downpayment for a home . There are thousands of frustrated couples under 30 grinding their teeth over the fact that the house they could not afford to buy five years ago has since doubled in value , remaining out of their reach and depriving them of cashing in on the real estate windfall . Because of this , some new communities in the South Florida megalopolis between Miami and Palm Beach are losing the young people who make the towns work , and some planners are seriously considering regulations that would make a developer provide low-income housing next to his profitable condominium projects for the rich . Still , the state 's profile grows older ( one of seven Floridians is over the age of 65 -- compared to one out of 10 nationally ) , and shows fewer children and more females ( widows ) . It has a smaller proportion of nonwhites than most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is projected , dospite the fact that half are at the poverty level or below it , adding an estimated 1,244,200 new households by 1982 . Each Florida household now consumes 11,275 kilowatt hours of electricity ( more than the national average ) and 140,000 gallons of water , while adding to the environment 2.4 tons of solid waste and 3.3 tons of air pollutants . As if all this were not enough , there is now concern about the impact of a prolonged national fuel shortage on the state . The vast majority of tOurists arrive in Florida by auto , and tourism is the state 's major industry , and the gasoline tax its major source of revenue . If gas rationing inhibited travel for a long period the economic repercussions would shake the state . Moreover , a prolonged heating shortage up North could send thousands more elderly couples to settle in Florida sunshine , a development that would contribute little to the state 's economy while stretching already overextended public services . No one , however , really believes it will come to that . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prospect of turning anyone away .                     