@@731592

txt President Ford vetoed today a spending authority measure requiring a halt in United States military aid to Turkey . In a message to Congress the President declared that the cut-off would force United States withdrawal from the Cyprus peace negotiations and jeopardize the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , Furthermore , he said , it would " imperil our relationship with our Turkish ally and weaken us in ' the crucial eastern Mediterranean . " The Congress , anticipating the veto , postponed ' a planned month-long election recess that was to have started last Friday . Both houses will reconvene tomorrow to act on the veto . Congressional leaders have predicted that the , veto will be ? sustained : Even so , there are indications , that critics of aid to Turkey will try again to , at , tach the , ban to whatever new spending : authority legislation is fashioned , In his veto message , the President said : " I take this step with great reluctance , but in the belief that I have no other choice . " ' Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greece nor the Greek Cypriote people " who have suffered so tragically " in recent months . " We would inevitably be forced to withdraw from the negotiations because the Congress would have taken the tools we need to affect the outcome , " he said . The battle over aid to Turkey began Sept. 24 when the House of Representatives , and subsequently the Senati ' attached to a spending authority resolution a provision cutting off aid to Turkey unless the President certified to Congress that Turkey was complying with American foreign-aid laws and that " substantial progress " was being made toward settlement of the Cyprus situation . Both President Ford and Secretary of State Kissinger lobbied against the restriction , contending that it would jeopirdize United States efforts to induce Greece and Turkey to negotiate a Cyprus settlement . Pitted against them were a number of Senators and Representatives , some of them of Greek ancestry , who contended that Turkey had violated foreign-aid laws by using American weapons during its invasion of Cyprus last summer . A compromise , waiving the halt in aid until Dec. 15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last Wednesday . However , it was rejected by the House , 187 to 171 , on Friday . The closeness of the Senate and House votes would suggest that there are insufficient votes to override the veto . A twothirds vote is required . The confrontation threatens to hold up funding ? for a number of agencies and programs , including foreign aid , agriculture , health , education , welfare and environmental protection . The resolution to which the Turkey restriction was attached called for continuing appropriations at existing levels for these agencies and programs whose regular money bills have not yet cleared Congress . Today 's veto was the sixth by Mr. Ford since he took office . No attempts have been made by Congress to override his previous vetoes of bills dealing with animal health research , upgrading of United States marshals , prosphate sales in Florida , railroad retirement and nuclear matters . Inquiry by Rosenthal In another development today , Representative Benjamin S. Rosenthal , Democrat of Queens , disclosed that he had requested the Controller General , Elmer B. Staats , to determine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided Turkey since July 20 . Mr. Rosenthal also asked ? him to determine " the legal remedies existing for the recovery of the value of these illegal , deliveries or , alternately , for their return to the proper custody of agents of the United States . ' - Meanwhile , Senator Edward M.:Ignnedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , accused the Administration of " cynical use of tax dollars in support of policies which prolong the Greek refugee - problem and the Turkish occUbation of Cyprus . " The Senator 's accusation came as he released a report by a Senate refugee subcommittee Outlining the plight of 282000 war refugees in Cyprus . The ' report recommended that . the ' United States provide at least $10-million in aid to the refugees .                     