@@733994

txt A spokesman for Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini said today that Iran 's militant opposition leader rejected President Carter 's plea for cooperation with the Government of Prime Minister Shahpur Bakhtiar and emphasized that he wanted his followers in Iran to overthrow it and seize Dower . The spokesman for the 78-year-old head of Iran 's Shiite Moslems told reporters at the Ayatollah 's headquarters-in-exile here , " The Bakhtiar Government is declared illegal and must go . No buts , ifs , whens or hews . " The spokesman , Sadegh Ghothzadeh , rebuked President Carter in the name of the Ayatollah for issuing his appeal for cooperation yesterday . " It is not up to Mr. Carter to make such requests , " he said . ' Respected Personage in Iran ' Mr. Ghothzadeh also said there was no point in the Ayatollah 's receiving Sayed Jelaleddin Tehrani , head of the regency council that has assumed the Shah 's powers in his absence " if he has come to talk about cooperation with the present Government . " Mr. Tehran arrived here from Teheran today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a personality who is to be saluted as a most extensively respected personage in Iran . " But he insisted that he was here in a private capacity and had no immediate plans to meet the Ayatollah . In Teheran , however , Mr. Balthtiar said he had sent Mr. Tehrani to France as his personal envoy to the Ayatollah . Meanwhile , in an interview tonight on French television , Mr. Bakhtiar said , " I will not vacate my place to Ayatollah Khomeini , just as the Ayatollah will not vacate his place to me . " Mr. Bakhtiar said that to surrender his position to the Ayatollah would be like " a cardinal replacing a president . " But he went on to say that the Ayatollah " is an Iranian and he has the legal right to return to Iran . It is up to him to decide . " This impasse between the two major contenders for power in Iran following the departure of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi arose on the eve of a countrywide series of marches planned by the Ayatollah 's supporters as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shah left Iran , the Ayatollah told his followers they had " a religious and a national obligation " to participate in the marches , scheduled for tomorrow . Meanwhile , the Ayatollah and his followers moved to consolidate their apparently growing authority in Iran by appointing two special commissions to further their plans for a complete political takeover . One commission , the Ayatollah 's spokesman said , will coordinate a series of strikes against the Bakhtiar Government , while maintaining essential supplies and protecting the country 's oilfields and industries against sabotage . It will be headed by Dr. Yadolah Sahabi , a former Teheran University lecturer . The other commission , led by Dr. Jalil Zarrabi , an Iranian physician practicing in Houston , will take charge of the Iranian Embassy in Washington and the United Nations Mission in New York , protecting property and documents . Condemns Foreign Interference Mr. Ghothzadeh summed up the Ayatollah 's opposition to the Bakhtiar Government and his rejection of President Carter 's request to cooperate with it by saying , " The reaction of the Ayatollah to President Carter 's statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interference in its internal affairs by foreigners , particularly superpowers , and if the legality or illegality of the present Government of Iran is strictly an affair of the Iranians . " The spokesman added that the Ayatollah hoped President Carter 's statement yesterday that the United States did not intend to interfere in the affairs of Iran , " will be the basis of United States policy toward Iran in future . " " We want to be free and left alone to decide for ourselves , " he said . " As soon as this is understood by the U.S. , Russia . China , France , Africa and Asia , calm and stability.in the country will follow . " The Ayatollah 's rejection of President Carter 's plea for cooperation with the Bakhtiar Government and his renewed outburst against foreign interference , came as no suprise to observers of the exiled opposition leader and his followers here . The Ayatollah , whose father was killed by the forces of the Shah 's father , spent 15 years in exile in Iraq , plotting to overthrow the Iranian dynasty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with complete victory in sight now , " a diplomat said .                     