@@732981

txt Letters Letters On the Blessings of Work and Life Underground To the Editor : I found Paul Delaney 's March 3 news article quite interesting ( " Cornpanies Go Underground to Increase Profits and Save Energy " ) . The present cold winter , January in particular , has helped to emphasize that ours and the world 's fossil-fuel supplies can be counted ' on less and less as time progresses . Residential and commercial building heating and air-conditioning account for about 20 percent of our energy use . The prospect of periods like this January without fuel for heating is frightening for the colder parts of the country . Action to correct our dependence on cheap fossil fuels should begin soon . As a member of the National Academy of Sciences , I obtained the N.A.S. publication " Legal , Economic , and Energy Considerations in the Use of Underground Space . " This is the report of a National Research Council workshop which met in June of 1973 . It tells of experiences with the use of several million square feet of underground facilities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not prohibitively difficult to tunnel . An interesting example is given by Spacecenter , Inc. , which operates simiConcorde : Toward A Dispassionate Trial To the Editor : The Concorde should be given permission to land at Kennedy International Airport because the noise measurements that are being used to exclude the Concorde do not adequately recognize the " quality " of the noise . I am a resident of Queens . More specifically , I am directly under the Whitestone exit from La Guardia Field when the popular runway 13 is used for takeoff and less than one-half mile from all takeoff traffic when runway 4 is being used ( runway 22 is almost never used for takeoff ) . Even so , I much prefer the constant noise of a a jet to the intermittent rock screaming of my neighbor 's hi-fi . Which gets me to the point of why the perceived-noise-decibels method of assessing aircraft noise is not realistic . Would you prefer a steady one pound force on your head for one minute or a 600 pound whack with a hammer for one-tenth of a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial . Editorial March 9 . JOHN RYMAN Whitestcne , N.Y. , March 8 , 1977 To Site a New School To the Editor : We welcome the proposed Fine Arts Center of the Annenberg School of Communications to New York 's " culture row . " More than a dozen museums , art institutions , cultural societies and libraries are located here . All these could be available to the Annenberg school to bring to the attention of the vast public which is unable to view the collections in person . But to be maximally productive does n't the Annenberg school need a free hand for operation . . . not hidden away in the southwest wing of the Metropolitan Museum where it will come under the sway of that museum 's ' strong leadership ? Mr. Annenberg could provide his wonderful gift the full scope of activity it deserves by housing it in its own building on the three empty lots across from the Metropolitan Museum , between 81st and 82d Streets at 1000 Fifth Avenue . TONI DRAPER New York , March 9 , 1977 The writer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inc. lb Ohlsson lar facilities for dry and refrigerated storage , underground in Kansas City and aboveground in St. Paul . The refrigeration temperatures typically rise 1 degree Fahrenheit per day underground after plant shutdown or power loss , but 1 degree Fahrenheit per hour aboveground . Installation costs were SIO per square foot aboveground for dry storage and $30 for refrigeration , vs. $2.50 underground for dry storage and $8 to $10 for refrigeration . A Dollar for CUNY To the Editor . A great many successful teachers , lawyers , doctors , accountants and professional people in all fields of endeavor were provided with solid foundations on which to build their careers at the City University of New York . A great many current and , I hope , future students similarly will be aided by this most valuable institution of learning . The thought has occurred to me that if each alumnus and each student of CUNY would send an annual thank you note to the university , in the form of a one-dollar bill , it is just possible that CUNY would not be forced to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its work in a manner complementary to the dignity it has so justly earned . THERESA M. FLORIo Brooklyn , March 8 , 1977 thorities . As a member of the top council of the F.S.L.N. , Tomes Sorge Martinez , convicted and self-confessed murderer and terrorist , acknowledged these acts and deaths and accepted " collective " responsibility for them . There is absolutely no truth to the allegation that the Nicaraguan air force has engaged in aerial bombardments of villages , and much less have there been air operations by any foreign country , as some calumnious reports have stated . Nicaragua enjoys full religious freedom . We respect the law and human rights , and those terrorists who have been captured have been submitted to an impartial and public trial in conformity with these laws . The pastoral letter issued by the bishops , and referred to in your report , above all else condemns violence and calls for respect of law and order . ROGER BERMUDEZ B. Presidential Press Secretary Government of Nicaragua Managua , Nicaragua , March 10 , 1977 From the Editor : The Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to documents prepared by church authorities . The article prominently noted the denial of the allegations by a spokesman for President Somoza , who said that many of the church 's charges were false and that others were exaggerated . To the Editor : Your March 2 news report " Bishops in Nicaragua Say Troops Kill Civilians in Fighting Leftists " contains information which , apart from being inexact and distorted , grievously offends the reputation of my country and its principal figures . It is widely known in international circles that , since the coming to power of Fidel Castro 's Communist regime , Nicaragua has been the target of a series of direct aggressions in the form of invasions . Men have been armed and trained in Cuba for the purpose of trying to overthrow the constitutional government and seriously damage the nation 's economy and progress . Acts of terrorism and disturbances of the public order have been carried out so as to provoke a reaction from the authorities , which would then prompt charges of human-rights violations . Your correspondent has recognized that the so-called F.S.L.N @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cuba and who hope to install a Communist regime in Nicaragua . These same terrorists , after failing to win the support of the peasantry , carried out over 61 summary executions of Pieces de mesta ( similar to police magistrates ) and systematically stormed and pillaged villages in their attempt to retaliate against those villagers whom they suspected of reporting their whereabouts and activities to the auOperating costs for both dry storage and refrigeration were ten times greater aboveground . The underground storage rates higher on ( a ) maintenance  --  protected from weather , heat , freezing , no roof to maintain ; ( b ) utility costs ; ( c ) insurance  --  fireproofing is easier and storm hazards are nonexistent ; ( d ) strength  --  almost unlimited floor loads ( in Kansas City shale it is 200 tons per square foot ) ; ( e ) stability  --  no vibrations for delicate machines and instruments , and ( f ) operating costs ? machines remain accurate much longer . Manufacturing and consulting engineering firms sited underground in Kansas City found that the employees " are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency was better than for aboveground offices . An underground elementary school was opened in Artesia , N.M. , in September of 1962 ( it can double as a fallout shelter ) . The conclusion was that worries about the physical and mental health of the students were unjustified and that it is actually a benefit to some . Nine-tenths of thosm familiar with it recommended that more schools be built this way , if the cost did not exceed that for other schools . Clearly , the feasibility of such construction depends on the geology of the underground of each locality . Such construction might be prohibitive in Manhattan , where the expense of subway and water-supply tunnels is quite high in the kind of bedrock which supports skyscraper contruction . The uniform year-round temperatures underground are favorable for comfortable living with low heating and cooling costs . Care to prevent water seepage is important , but apartments would be much safer from burglary , and the surface could be made into landscaped gardens and have solar-energy collectors . The subject clearly deserves more serious attention in our national thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The writer , professor of physics at Columbia , was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1975 . Nicaragua : ' We Respect Human Rights ' Abortion Issue : A Case Against a Constitutional Amendment To the Editor : Although I am troubled by the specifics of the Most Reverend Bernardin 's proposition  --  a constitutional amendment as a solution to the abortion issue Op-Ed Feb. 26 ? that is not why I write . I am even more troubled by the broader social implications which reside within the philosophical matrix which Archbishop Bernardin has necessarily assumed in order to reach his specific remedy for the abortion issue . He would invoke the mechanism of a constitutional amendment to buttress a specific point of view  --  a view by no means unanimously held in our pluralistic society . In fact , the polarization here is not between a far-out minority and a numerically significant majority . It is between two groups not significantly disparate , either in number or social composition . The polarization exists because we are dealing with a specific issue ( whether and to what extent a fetus has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either direction . This is so because neither the necessary facts nor the relevant ethical value criteria can he objectively defined . Thus , we have an issue which is really rooted in the realm of theology , ethics and metaphysics . This does not mean that all issues so rooted can not be resolved with consensus . Essentially all theological and ethical systems ? whether they reside in complex or in primitive society  --  would have little difficulty in accepting the Sixth Commandment as it applies to humans who are alive outside the womb . All theological and ethical systems clearly do not agree upon how to resolve the issue of fetal life . The constitutional amendment as a solution introduces a serious complication . The act of abortion is initiated by one person , a woman , and that act will physically Impinge upon one person only  --  the same woman . Traditionally , the Constitution and our laws have protected individuals from society or vice versa . They have not been concerned with limiting the scope of individual action where others are not affected . And now we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broader issue , we must ask if it is proper , under any circumstance , that the Constitution be used to impose a constraint upon an individual 's freedom of choice ? particularly when the justification for that constraint . can not be arrived at by any objective procedure . With respect to the narrower abortion issue , we must ask if the Constitution is the proper medium wherein an Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Church , or anyone else , may tell any dissenting woman that his theological and ethical and metaphysical constructs are correct and that hers are wrong . RAYMOND L. DUJACK Washington , Feb. 27 , 1977                     