@@732453

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Of Nuclear Safety and the ' Messiah Complex To the Editor : In a March 21 letter Charles M. Hart points out a serious error in Professor Wald 's Feb. 29 Op-Ed article on the nuclear power controversy . ( Mr. Hart says that experience shows that electricity can be generated and we can safely convert from fossil to nuclear fuel while maximizing profit . ) The Wald article contains two other equally important errors . His most important error is the assumption that those who oppose nuclear power do so at great personal sacrifice . He says , " Whom is one to believe ? One can not be sure . But it helps to know that those opposed to nuclear power have nothing to gain from their position but the public good , that they are indeed willing to pay for the privilege of speaking out . " Does he not know that monetary gain is only one of the many competing incentives which influence human behavior ? Many individuals and groups throughout history have sacrificed economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attain by advocating a position opposed to that of the " establishment . " In many cases , these people have been sincere , and history has sometimes proven them right and sometimes wrong . The messiah complex is quite common . Just compare the feeling of importance now being enjoyed by the General Electric and N.R.C. engineers who recently publicized their worries about nuclear safety* with what their situations would have been had they reported their opinions , as they should Transit ' Euphemism ' To the Editor : The Transit Authority has said that the costs of its new labor agreement with the Transport Workers Union will be paid through productivity increases , but in the past , the T. A. has used " productivity increases " as an euphemism for service cuts . The service cuts of last year have already caused a serious deterioration of service quality ; planned cuts for this year will make it even worse . Companies like Union Carbide have cited transportation problems as one of the reasons for their relocation outside the city . The economy of New York City depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Transit operations can be made more efficient . but cutting service and increasing productivity are not the same things . STEPHEN B. DOBROW Asst . Prof. of Urban Systems Fairleigh Dickinson University Teaneck , N. J. , April 1 , 1976 ? A Landmark Off Limits To the Editor : Fort Totten is truly a spectacular recreational resource of both historic and esthetic importance . We can be thankful that it has been designated an official landmark but lament that it is off limits to the public presumably because there is no access . This beautiful architectural relic fronts on one of the most active pleasure-boating bodies of water in the United States and deserves to be opened and enjoyed , if only for the time being by this limited portion of the interested public . When all the title and ownership questions have been resolved between the Army and the Parks , Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration of New York City , then total development of the entire eighty-acre site can be contemplated . In keeping with the Coastal Zone Management Objectives of the states ' Environmental Quality Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most economically feasible and certainly , the most expeditious utilization of this magnificent resource . G. DARCY GIBSON Amityville , N.Y. , March 25 , 1976 The Safer Birthplace To the Editor : The prevention aspects of all medical practice are unquestionably the most important . The recent trend in many instances , in metropolitan as well as rural areas , for home deliveries of infants has been cited in the lay press as well as in medical writings . The decrease in infant and maternal morbidity and mortality in modern times reflects not only good prenatal and newborn care but also births being carried out with ample facilities in readiness for any unforeseen emergency during labor and delivery or immediately thereafter . Fetal distress for various reasons , prolapsed umbilical cords , hemorrhage , infection are grave problems in the best-equipped surroundings , let alone in the home with little or no help . The important point to remember is that today the very same unsuspected emergencies have , to their own supervisors . Based on my own extensive experience in the same field , I do not believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another mistake made by Dr. Wald as well as by most of the governmentappointed committees charged with investigating technical problems has to do with his worry about conflict of interest . When a judgment is to be made on a technical question , elimination of all persons with any conflict of interest automatically eliminates all those who have any deep knowledge of the subject . Power plant safety is an engineering problem , not a scientific problem . It takes experienced quality-assurance engineers , stress analysts , system designers , metallurgists and other engineers to solve it . The opinions of physicists are worth very little and the opinions of biologists are usually worth nothing unless they educate themselves in more relevant disciplines . All of the major engineering societies have advocated the development of nuclear power because they bring together the experts with conflicting interests , adequately balanced between the profit and the safety motivations , and make them hammer out their conclusions in a goldfish bowl where all can challenge selfish attitudes . B. F. LANGER Pittsburgh , March 23 , 1976 The writer is past chairman , A.S.M.E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Folly ' To the Editor : For many years the student bodies of the great colleges and universities of the United States were either all male or all female . Such prestige schools as Yale , Harvard and Princeton were world famous for the achievements of their male graduates . Likewise Vassar , Skidmore and Sarah Lawrence were equally renowned for the accomplishments of their female graduates . Several years ago these fine schools went coeducational , and not one of them has been the same since . The influx of students of the other sex has diluted their educational and moral standards and turned each of these formerly fine schools into a far less efficient tool for educating our youngsters  --  male or female . The ultimate folly in this tragic demise of higher education is the absurd decision to allow women cadets to enter the U.S. Military Academy at West Point . The admission of females can only have an adverse effect on the ability of West Point to maintain its unsurpassed record of turning out tough , rugged combat leaders for our armed forces . The female officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the fine R.O.T.C. programs without sacrificing another of our truly great American institutions . EVA SWEBERG Highland Falls , N. Y. , April 1 , 1976 can arise as in the days when an infant and/or expectant mother was cited as ' ' lost in childbirth . " Losses will surely occur if we repeat practices proven long ago to be so unsound and unsafe for both the unborn and the expectant mother . Valuable time lost in transit after an emergency has arisen in the home or even after arrival at an emergency hospital facility might otherwise have proved to be lifesaving . Consequently , to maintain the greatest ' overall safety in maternity practice , we do not approve of home deliveries . Neither has the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists nor the American Academy of Pediatrics given their sanction for births electively at home . A single loss of a baby or mother under such inadequate circumstances is simply unacceptable . LANDRUM B. SIIETTLES , M.D. Gifford Memorial Hospital Randolph , Vt. , April 5 , 1976 The Minsk Incident To the Editor : On March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has toured several Soviet cities ; It described how things went in INifipsk , the capital of Byelorussia , whence I recently came to the United States . As your correspondent , David K. Shipler , writes , the worst reception at the exhibition was accorded in my native city of Minsk . I understand the feelings of the American guides , but during the short time I have  --  spent in America my observation is that in their judgment of American-Soviet relations Americans are not guided by their emotions for the most " Part but evaluate situations soberly and objectively . I would like , therefore ; : to see a sober evaluation of what happened in Minsk . May I point out that Minsk is considered one of the most cultured ' cities in the Soviet Union . Inhabitants of Moscow or Leningrad , after ? having visited the Byelorussian capital , ? quite often are attracted by the city 's more Western look and by the hospitality of its people . The rudeness displayed ' by the Minsk hecklers at the American exhibition is to be explained as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hired individuals , a line of .. action whose origin lies within the offices of the Kremlin , The city of Minsk was unfortunate to have hosted the exhibitionata. time of sharp criticism of the Soviet Union by the American public and when President Ford 's critical attitude toward d  --  tente was being articulated . A continuation of the Soviet anti-American campaign , recently intensified , can be seen in the entire Soviet press , not only Byelorussian ? full of:lies and hatred for the United States unwitnessed even during the cold war . Are not the Soviet threats-:about bombs in the American embassy in Moscow a continuation of the ' same line of conduct toward Americans that were seen in Minsk ? ANATOL TERESHKO New York , March 31 , 1976 ? Moscow vs. a Linguist To the Editor : According to a March 27 news story , the well-known Russian linguist Igor A. Mel'cuk has been dismissed from his position at the Linguistic . Institute in Moscow , where he has worked for the past twenty years . This represents a severe intensification in are  --  harassment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his defense of other Soviet citizens , including Daniel and Sinyaysky . This latest act of repression follows Mel'cuk 's outspoken support for Sakharov and Kovolev , both'members of the Russian Committee for the Rights of Man , and may have ' been a direct result of a letter of ' Mel'cuk 's published in The Times Jane 25 . The loss of employment serious indeed , and may be a prelude to  --  forse . As members of the international community of linguists we feel- compelled to express our great ' concern . NOAM CHOMSKY , ARNOT117EVERS Cambridge , Mass. , March ' 30 , 1976 The writers are , respectively , professor of linguistics at M.I.T. and chairman of the Dutch Linguistics Society . ? Achilles ' Heels To the Editor : A Russian literary weekly , " The Times reports news story March 28 , is backing a notion that Achilles , the Greek hero of the Trojan War , - was a forebear of the Russian people : Before they get into this very far , the editors of that magazine ought to pause and reflect , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hcild in high regard . True , he was a breve and accomplished warrior , but in small matters he tended to become . peevish if frustrated . For instance , , he , quarreled with Greek General Agamemnon over a maiden , spoil of war , and when he lost the judicial decision ; withdrew from the war to spend years in his tent , in petulant and irritable isolation , while the Greeks tried " Vi'make do without him . The army he had brought to . Troy , the Myrmidons , were thought by , some to have been ants metamorphosed into soldiers , but by others , humans so patient and servile that they resembled ants . The Russian : people would find little to appeal to  --  them in either case , and the legend  --  that he was divine on his mother 's side should make him even less attractive as an ancestor of a Marxist state . ESTEI.LE SKLAREW Croton-on-Hudson , N. Y. March 31 , 1976 ? African Priority To the Editor : Mr. Carrel 's March 24 letter reinforces the view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africans disagree essentially because the latter conSidr selfdetermination and equal civil rights before everything else , even " rapidly improving economic and socialstatus . " The justificatory tactic of , noting the recent African failures in nation growth indicates that the writer has forgotten his nation 's early history . And the refrain " If the South African blacks really felt oppressed , . they would no doubt try to emigrate th the Congo or Kenya " reminds one of the political cartoon of 1964 in which Goldwater asks the less fortunate , " Why do n't you go out and inherit an apartment store ? " And how does Mr. Cerra suggest that the Bantu leave South Africa . by the underground railway ? ( Rev. ) KANE 1ev. , York . March 24 , 1976                     