@@730312

txt Sweltering New Yorkers increased their demands for electricity to a near-record level yesterday , only hours after ithe Consolidated Edison Company restored service to more than 200,000 Brooklyn residents who had been blacked out in the city 's worst power failure since 1965 . Acting . to preserve its power supply as the temperature surged into the high 80 's , Con Edison slashed voltage by 5 per cent between 3:09 and 5:05 P.M. in parts of Manhattan , Brooklyn and Queens . At the peak of demand , between 3 and 4 P.M. , Con Edison was supplying 7,689,000 kilowatts , only 30,000 less than the record established during a ' 3 per cent voltage reduction on July 1 , 1971 . The Weather Service said no end was in sight for the summer heat wave blanketing the Eastern Seaboard . ' Mayor Urges Restraint Monday night 's power failure in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn seriously affected one hospital  --  the Veterans Administration Hospital  --  but a spot check of hospitals in the city disclosed that almost all were without emergency generating equipment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in using electricity . The Mayor met at City Hall with Con Edison officials , representatives of the Public Service Commission and municipal aides to discuss the power situation . Charles F. Luce , the Con Edison board chairman , had predicted earlier yesterday that New Yorkers would demand 7.9 million kilowatts during yesterday 's late afternoon heat , and a spokesman said that only the 5 per cent voltage reduction , the appeals for restraint and some internal conservation in Con Edison facilities had averted a new record for demand . Purchases of power from other suppliers , reaching a maximum in mid-afternoon of 1,665,000 kilowatts , enabled the utility to maintain relatively normal service , although parts of Queens were blacked out during the day . Today 's prospects failed to diminish concern . The National Weather Service forecast calls for temperatures of from 90 to 95 degrees . Still unknown , meanwhile , was the cause of Monday 's breakdowns in six 27.000-volt cables that feed power from substations to transformers for conversion to lower voltage suitable for customer 's use . " We 're going to perform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said at ? City Hall , where he attended the Lindsay meeting . Noting that the failure was not of supply but of distribution , the Mayor said : " It 's clear that no guarantees can ever be made that a cable system somewhere else will not trip out . We 're pretty close to the edge on heat loads . " After the six cables failed , the company turned off the remaining four in the area rather than run the risk of burning out additional cables . starting manhole fires or damaging customers ' appliances . The result was to plunge into darkness 100,000 households , businesses and industrial factories in an area bounded by the New York Bay and the Narrows on the west , 11th Avenue on the east , Fourth Street . on the north and 101st Street on the south . Con Edison found itself busy yesterday restoring power not only to Bay Ridge , but also to two areas of Queens . About 4,000 customers in Maspeth lost power at about 9 A.M. , and service was not fully restored until 3:05 P.M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. more cable trouble left about 800 customers without service in Rosedale , but all were receiving service again by 8:05 P.M. , Con Edison said . As the heat continued in the aftermath of the 13-hour blackout in Brooklyn , many persons there expressed concern about possible spoilage of food . Martin Gellman , director of the . city 's Office of Wholesale Food Safety , said that in a properly operating , well-insulated refrigerator , good food would keep safely for 36 to 48 hours without power . He observed , however , that it was impossible to know the condition of each morsel of food when the blackout began . " When in doubt , " he advised , " throw it out . You doh't want to get sick over a few cents worth of food . " In the case of larger quantities of meat in home freezers , he said that despite customary advice to contrary , the meat could probably he refrozen . But he cautioned that when it is again defrosted it should be carefully examined , and if its condition is doubtful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of further difficulties with the supply of power that individuals refrain from overstocking freezers during the summer , shun leftovers , and make such dishes as egg salads or chicken salads freshly . A Con Edison spokesman said that in the past the utility has paid claims for damage when it was established that the damage resulted from its negligence .                     