@@731423

txt As Americans and Russians wrestle with the problem of controls for the newest and most awesome nuclear weapons , the nuclear boat rocks as a growing number of hitherto non-nuclear powers push to clamber aboard . First it was India . Now Iran is hurrying up behind . Others are close to the capability . Iran will be one of the next countries to join the Mideast nuclear weapons club , says Shah Muhammad Reza Pahlevi . " Without any doubt , and sooner than one would think , " was the Shah 's response to an interviewer for the French magazine Les Informations , who asked him whether Iran would have its own nuclear arms . The Iranian Embassy in Paris said about the Shah 's statement : this was " an information invented out of whole cloth without any foundation . It added that the Shah " never made any statement that could be interpreted in this way.1 The Shah 's state visit to France this week includes a scheduled visit to the French National Nuclear Research Center at Saclay . Beginning in 1955 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own top-secret nuclear program at Dimona , in the Negev desert . Iran last February concluded agreements with France for a chain of small reactors with a total capacity of 5,000 megawatts at a cost of $1.2 billion . Iran 's fifth development plan , running from 1973 to 1978 , calls for start of construction of nuclear power stations , the first at the port and naval base of Bandar Abbas , on the Persian Gulf . Canadian talks disclosed Also in February , Canadian Minister of Energy , Mines , and Resources Donald S. Mcdonald visited Iran and discussed the possible sup- ply of one or two of Canada 's heavy-water power reactors . No decisions were announced . Iran has been engaged in nuclear research since 1958 , under coordination of the National Iranian Atomic Energy Commission in the Ministry of Economy , and with assistance from the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission since early this year . Since 1958 the nuclear center at Tehran University has been conducting research in nuclear physics , electronics , nuclear chemistry , radio-biology , and medical physics . It has also been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. H. Rouhaninejad , an Iranian nuclear physicist . // *Fingers on A trigger // Tehran University 's five-megawatt pool-type research reactor went into operation in November , 1967 . Since 1972 , it has also utilized a threemegavolt van de Graaf-type accelerator . Iran 's most hostile Arab neighbor , Iraq , organized its own atomic energy commission in 1957 . It is now headed by Dr. Moyassar Yahia al-Maltah , an Iraqi nuclear physicist . The Soviet Union supplied a small two-megawatt experimental reactor installed at Tuwaitha , sough of Baghdad , operating since 1968 to produce isotopes for teaching and research . The Shah 's announcement will be interpreted in many quarters as a contradiction of Iran 's signature of the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty ( NPT ) on July 1 , 1968 . Iran ratified the treaty on Feb. 20 , 1970 and deposited instruments of ratification in Washington , Moscow , and London . However , , Iran has not concluded a safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Eenergy Agency ( IAEA ) in Vienna . Such agreements , concluded with a number of other countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear fuel for military purposes . Iraq signed the NPT on July 1 , 1968 and ratified it on Oct. 29 , 19 ; 1 . It concluded a safeguards agreement on Feb. 29 , 1972 . Israel has refused to sign the NPT , and Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmy said last week that Egypt ? which did sign ? would not ratify the treaty until Israel signs it . Mr. Ahmed claimed on Monday that India has enough plutonium for 17 bombs , according to a Reuter report from the Islamic Foreign Ministers Conference in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia . He said this Pakistani calculation had been confirmed by Canada , based on the reactor capacity the Canadians helped India to set up.                     