@@733288

txt column missing ell 's act to tactics of the Nixon White House in the Watergate scandal , and from Senator Bob Packwood , Republican of Oregon , who said Mr. Powell 's behavior resembled that of Mr. Nixon 's staff . Senator Percy , who said there was " not a shred of truth " to the allegations , took a somewhat more forgiving attitude , although he was insistent that Mr. Powell apologize . With an air of quiet humility , Mr. Powell submitted to nearly an hour of intense questioning about his conduct at a White House press briefing today in which he readily described his action as a " dumb " and in which he said the President had " certainly not " been involved . Mr. Powell was asked whether he had in the past attempted to plant similarly damaging stories about other Washington figures and answered that he was not aware that any action by him had resulted in the publication of " inaccurate " information about a politician . However , on one occasion earlier this year Mr. Powell told a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Central Arizona Water Project by Representative Morris K. Udall , Democrat of Arizona . Mr. Udall had been critical , in part , of Mr. Carter 's effort to stop funding for some water projects and had been a staunch political foe for the Democratic Presidential nomination . Defends His Motives Mr. Powell also repeatedly denied today that his motive had been to " discredit " or to harm Senator Percy politically . He said he had merely wished to draw attention to information regarding a matter In " the public eye " ? presumably meaning the possibly improper use of corporate aircraft that has been raised about Mr. Lance and President Carter . Mr. Powell said he told Senator Percy in the telephoned apology that " I had no intention of seeing inaccurate information published " about the Illinois Senator . However , Loye W. Miller , Washington bureau chief of The Sun-Times , told other reporters at the White House today that Mr. Powell telephoned him with the allegations early yesterday morning , saying he had just seen Senator Percy commenting on the embattled Mr. Lance on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator . Mr. Miller said the press secretary had characterized Mr. Percy as " the sanctimonious S.O.B . " The incident might not have come to light except that Mr. Miller believed Mr. Powell had not placed any restriction of confidentiality on the tip . When asked whether he had given the same information to other journalists , Mr. Powell said , " Yes , " but declined to identify them . He had telephoned his tip to The New York Times , where it was understood that Mr. Powell was requesting confidentiality . After finding no apparent basis for the charges against Senator Percy , The Times did not publish a report . The Cox Newspapers reported today that their Washington bureau had been given the same information as The Sun-Times but had printed nothing after a reporter could not substantiate the material . Mr. Powell suggested several times today that he had expected his call to The Sun-Times to be treated as " background " information and that his name would not be disclosed . At midnight last night , Mr. Miller said , the press secretary attempted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a Threat The incident was perceived here as threatening to drag the President deeper into the controversy over Mr. Lance 's past banking and business practices . It could also adversely affect the atmosphere in which Mr. Lance will testify tomorrow before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee , of which Senator Percy is the ranking Republican member . However , if the White House believed that it faced any significant new problem because of the incident this was not readily apparent . At Mr. Powell 's briefing , which was devoted almost entirely to his own conduct , Hamilton Jordan , the assistant to the President , arrived in the press room to play an elaborate practical joke . Mr. Jordan brought with him a chromeor nickel-plated artillery shell with a ragged gouge machined out of the warhead , as if to resemble a tooth bite . Taped to the shell was a copy of a Washington Star headline , from an early edition today , reading , " Powell : Dumb of Me on Percy Leak , " and a note signed by Mr. Lance which assured Mr. Powell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after having " bit the bullet . " " This , too , will pass , " the note ended , and was signed , " Regards , Bert Lance . " Mr. Powell vigorously denied that any of his information about Senator Percy had come from such official sources as the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the Internal Revenue Service . He said that two persons , one of whom was a Government employee , had telephoned him to volunteer information . One had purportedly said that he had " first-hand knowledge " that Senator Percy had used a Bell &; Howell aircraft while in the Senate because the caller asserted that he had ridden with the Senator . The other source said he had second-hand knowledge that Senator Percy had insufficiently reimbursed the Chicago bank for campaign assistance , by Mr. Powell 's account . Mr. Powell would not identify either source . Mr. Powell said he had described his behavior to President Carter today as being " inappropriate and dumb " and that " he seemed to accept my analysis without question . " After denying that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked if he had acted in a " spirit of public service . " " I think you could probably rule that out , " said Mr. Powell .                     