@@731372

txt A closed-door committee room on tourist-cluttered Capitol Hill occupies center stage this week in the Watergate drama as , quietly and laboriously , staff members of the House Judiciary Committee continue their presentation of evidence in current impeachment hearings . It is the second week of presentation of evidence in private sessions . The tentative schedule calls for it to be the last . As the week opened two junior committee members called anew on - President Nixon to turn over to the committee documents and tapes ? including the originals from which White House transcripts were made ? which the President thus far refuses to relinquish . Appearing on CBS-TV 's " Face the Nation , " Representatives William S. Cohen ( R ) of Maine and Wayne Owens ( D ) of Utah said the information is needed . " The real problem now , " said Mr. Owens , is that the White House simultaneously calls on the committee to complete its work speedily , yet refuses to give it documents it needs to do this . He termed this " White House hypocrisy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we do not have the whole story " about Watergate , which " lies quite clearly within the grasp of the President . " Next stage is to begin about May 28 ? public , televised hearings by the committee . By then the committee staff members ? headed by attorneys John // *Nixon again asked for tapes and data // M. Doar and Albert E. Jenner ? will have completed their briefing of the 38 committee members . , Committee members this week face a continuation of what they experienced last week : listening to staff members present evidence , reading accompanying material . ? including tape transcripts made by the committee  --  and listening to a few of the presidential tape recordings themselves . Important but boring In all , the work is extremely important but often tedious and rather boring , , as some committee members ? such as second-ranking Republican Robert McClory of Illinois ? are saying . Several also are indicating that little new information bearing on the role of President Nixon has been revealed in these staff presentations that had not already been publicly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was known that the committee staff to this point has concentrated in assembling information previously available ? including the important material turned over to the committee by the Watergate grand jury : Mr. Cohen confirmed this Sunday . He said the committee thus far has heard a " chronological review " of material bearing on the President and " almost all of the material has been a matter of public record . " Meanwhile , Republican National Committee chairman George Bush refused to take a position on the Nixon-House Judiciary battle over White House tapes and documents which the President declined to provide . Appearing Sunday on ABC 's Issues and Answers , Mr. Bush declined to support Mr. Nixon 's position on the tapes , saying this question should be left for lawyers on both sides to work out , One perplexing side issue with which the committee is grappling is how to prevent material presented in these secret sessions from being leaked to the press and public . Public sessions asked Two leaks last week led presidential Watergate lawyer James St. Clair to ask that the current sessions be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be . In a letter to committee chairman Peter Rodino , Mr. St. Clair charged that some committee members were characterizing material presented at these meetings " in a distorted and extremely prejudicial manner . " He added that the leaks were " prejudicing the basic right of the President to an impartial inquiry on the evidence . " It is not known at this writing whether Chairman Rodino and his committee will accede to the , St. Clair request . Two junior members of the House Judiciary Committee called Sunday for most of the committee 's present hearings to be made public . Representatives Owens and Cohen took the position on CBS-TVs " Face the Nation . " Mr. Cohen called it a " deplorable act " for committee members to leak some material this past week , if indeed the leaks did come from the committee . At the same time , he called it " somewhat hypocritical " for the White House to complain about " selective editing when there appears to have been selective editing " by the White House . Mr. Owens called White House criticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the White House to " try to degrade the committee . " He said these are the first leaks from the committee in its several months of existence . Two leaks detailed The two leaks were : ? Information that the White House-prepared transcript of a presidential conversation on Sept. 15 , 1972 , omitted a controversial section without indicating an omission . The second , included'a threat by Mr. Nixon to retaliate against the parent company of the Washington Post for the newspaper 's Watergate coverage . The conversation was between Mr. Nixon , then White House chief of staff H. R. Haldeman , and then White House counsel John W. Dean III . Additionally , the text of the committee transcript of that tape ? which supposedly is still secret ? was printed in the Washington Post . ? Information about a second tape recording discussed at the closed-door committee meeting . This one included a discussion of the future resignation of Mr. Nixon 's 1972 campaign manager , John N. Mitchell . The conversation was held June 30 , 1972 ? 13 days after the Watergate break-in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mr. Mitchell . Timing discussed According to the Washington Post , the tape included a discussion of the timing of the Mitchell resignation . After Mr. Haldeman apparently warned that delaying the resignation could cause difficulties , the story said the President ambiguously replied : " Well , I 'd cut the loss fast . I 'd cut it fast . If we 're going to do it I 'd cut it fast . That 's my view , generally speaking .. . " The presidential response ? if it was as quoted ? is open to different interpretations . Judiciary Committee members will have to decide for themselves : Was he referring to trying to minimize political embarassment ? Or was he referring obliquely to the Watergate cover-up ? thus indicating he knew of it at that time ? Mr. Nixon repeatedly has said he did not know that a cover-up was under way .                     