@@730105

txt The rekindled antiwar protests on campuses throughout the country erupted into violence last night at Harvard , where students stormed the university 's Center for International Affairs . About ' 200 students broke into the three-story building while another 300 milled about outside ' , The students smashed windows and doors , ransacked offices on the first two floors arid used spray can paint to couple President Nixon 's name with various obscenities on the walls . Several hours later , 2,000 Barnard and Columbia students issued four demands at a mass meeting at Barnard College in New York City and said they would strike if the demands were not met . At Princeton University , about 800 persons // ? most of them students  --  also voted to strike in protest against the increased bombing of North Vietnam . The Princeton strike , which was expected to take effect immediately , was voted at a meeting attended by about 1,200 persons . Dr. Robert W. Goheen , president of the university , vowed to " oppose anyone who obstructs any person on this campus from going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held a peaceful antiwar march on and near the Columbia campus . Throughout the country , it became apparent that the renewed bombing of North Vietnam by the United States had reawakened the antiwar spirit on many of the nation 's campuses for the first time since April , 1970 , when American and South Vietnamese troops invaded Cambodia . But only at Harvard was there violence . The disruption there broke out at 6:20 P.M. , when 500 persons broke away from a group of 2,000 marching from Boston Common to Harvard Square and attacked the center . They overturned desks , threw electric typewriters out the windows and ripped telephones from the walls and desks . Papers and books were scattered about and destroyed , and a fire was set but quickly extinguished by firemen . Curfew at Harvard Square Three persons were arrested but none was injured . Policemen in riot gear sealed off Harvard Square , threatening to arrest anyone who did not leave the area , and a curfew was ordered for the neighborhood , effective from 9 P.M. to 5 A.M. The students then spilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they broke windows in the I.B.M . Building , the post office and several stores . At the Barnard rally , the students voted to strike the university on Friday , when a national strike of students was called for , and then voted to continue to strike until four professors working on a Defense Department project were expelled from the campus , until its International Affairs School ceased work for the Defense Department , the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency , and until the university sold all its stock in companies doing business with South Africa and dismissed all its trustees who held shares in the companies . Pickets Planned Today , The students also voted to picket Columbia buildings today , but would not attempt to stop anyone from entering them . On some campuses , the atmosphere has become so charged that seven of the eight Ivy League university presidents held a telephone conference yesterday to decide what to do about a call for a nationwide campus strike on Friday to protest the war . Another such conference will be held this morning , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The position I 'm taking is that I do not believe it is proper to close a university down , " Dr. said last evening . " I 'm extremely sensitive toward the rights of students who have paid for an education and want to get it . " But he added : " If a student on moral grounds feels that he or she can not attend class on Friday , I do n't think the student should be penalized . I am asking demonstrators not to limit the rights of the faculty and other students to enter their classes , the buildings , the library . You do not correct something wrong in Vietnam by doing something wrong here . " Dr. said that the only university president he had been unable to reach was Dr. Martin Meyerson , president of the University of Pennsylvania , but that the other Ivy League universities generally agreed with his stand . They are Yale , Harvard , Princeton , Dartmouth , Brown and Cornell , Strike Call Issued Meanwhile , from New York to California , slumbering student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike on Friday . The call was made in Washington Mon. day by Margery ? Tabankin , president of the National Student Association . The quickest response came from the Ivy League campuses , where seven of its eight schools published an identical editorial yesterday in its campus newspapers . The editorial said in part that , " in response to the present crisis , the eight Ivy League newspapers join in calling for a one-day moratorium on business as usual . Friday . We urge our presidents to suspend university activities on that day and we encourage all students and faculty to help shape further actions at general campus meetings . " Harvard ran the same edi-f tonial , but it went beyond the one-day moratorium idea and joined 15 other university newspapers around the country in calling for a nationwide student strike . At Cornell University in Ithaca , N.Y. , the University Senate , representing students , faculty and university employes , voted last night to support a series of actions , including a nationwide student strike on Friday , in calling for the immediate cessation of United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lot of strike talk at Columbia , and about 700 students took part in a peaceful march from the front of Low Library , past other students playing Frisbee and listening to a rock band , across Broadway at 116th Street ( thereby blocking traffic for 15 minutes ) , through the Barnard College campus , past Columbia 's physics building , on to the Internetional'Affairs Building and then west back to the Columbia campus . The marchers shouted " On Strike ! " and " We 're on the side of the Vietcong ! " but most students , sitting and talking In the sun , ignored the marchers . Elsewhere in the New York metropolitan area , the campuses were relatively quiet . At Rutgers , the student newspaper came out against a one-day moratorium . At Queens College and City College , most students seemed to be more interested in romance and Frisbee than in demonstrating . But , protests were erupting on campuses throughput the country . At the University of Wisconsin , Tom Higgins , president of the Student Association , predicted that the university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war during the next few days . Several hundred students among the thousands at the University of California at Berkeley voted to go on strike to protest the war . At Holy Cross in Worcester , Mass. , 150 students picketed a building where Marine Corps and Navy interviews were scheduled . At the University of Maryland , several hundred students broke some windows in the Reserve Officers Training Corps building , and 10 persons were arrested . Students picketed at the University of Maine and the University of Florida , and more than 1,000 students held a protest rally at the University of Illinois .                     