@@733601

txt The idea that a Government of Israel might be diplomatically unwise or chauvinistically greedy sticks in the throat of American Jews , and for good reason . To them , as to Americans generally , Israel is a moral creation , atoning for the slaughter of millions of European Jews . the embodiment of a humane , ethical society . And in the face of unyielding Arab hostility , its governments have been judged unusually smart and far-sighted . That image has been fading in recent months as Egypt acceded to Israel 's dream of direct negotiation with its adversaries . But most American Jews still could not bring themselves to express public doubts about Prime Minister Begin 's grudging response . They have feared diluting their political influence in the United States , on which Israeli security depends . They have feared contributing to the pressures on Israel from a Western world obsessed with the need for oil . So they have brooded in private , leaving only some of their leaders to complain to Mr. Begin behind closed doors . . Against that background , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by three dozen prominent American Jews is a major event . It claims a right  --  indeed , a responsibility  --  to influence the Israeli diplomacy that they so ardently desire to support . And it asserts an independence of judgment that will make its authors all the more credible as they also criticize the Middle East diplomacy of President Carter . As even democrats need always to be reminded , such candor is a source and sign of strength , not weakness . There is obvious anguish in the statement , organized by Leonard Fein , the editor of Moment magazine , and signed by Saul Bellow , Daniel Bell , Seymour Martin Lipset , and several prominent rabbis among others . The often lonely Jewish struggle for survival , vividly recalled on television last week , has placed a premium on cohesive self-reliance and therefore on the Jewish community 's tradition of unqualified public support for Israel . Breaking ranks has been particularly difficult at a time when so many foreign ministries are waving aside the Israelis ' Mistrust and insecurity in the quest for a settlement . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeply committed Zionists , they felt a need to rescue a cause that is also theirs from his peculiarly insensitive management . A secure peace for Israel is more important , they wrote , than the Begin dream of a Greater Israel , meaning the Prime Minister 's desire to cling indefinitely to the West Bank and its million Arab residents . Worried also by what they called the dangerous Carter policies in pressing for a settlement , they blamed Mr. Begin for Israel 's loss of popular support in the United States and President Sadat 's emergence as the more credible champion of peace . We share the signers ' misgivings about Mr. Begin 's course to date , but it is the decision to speak out that we particularly applaud . Other Americans , including Jewish leaders , we hope , will now speak out also , no doubt with different emphasis . In the process , they will be legitimizing the very idea of criticism of Israel in our political life . Paradoxically , that ought to strengthen support for Israel . So long as backing Israel required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental support could be undermined by the shortcomings of that diplomacy . So long as criticism of American diplomacy in the Middle East routinely echoed the complaints of a transient Israeli Government , it could be discounted as reflexive and unthinking . By upsetting these equations , the authors of the path-breaking statement have served both Israel and the United States .                     