@@728306

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 28 Letters to the Editor of The Times Plight of City People To the Editor : The seers into the seventies have been spelling gloom and doom . It seems that the transit workers and assorted politicians of New York City are not going to let the seventies begin without making their contribution to the continuing decline of life for New Yorkers . However , guilty as these two infamous groups are , let us not overlook the other guilty parties  --  the suburban constituents of weak-kneed legislators and leaders who continue their tradition of refusing to tax the " haves " for the benefit of the " have-nots . " Mayor Lindsay 's plan to subsidize mass transit costs through taxes affecting motorists is certainly far more equitable in terms of economic justice than the shameful burden the thirtycent fare will put upon New York City poor . Editorial Dec. 22 . When will the people of this state begin to assume responsibility for the inhuman existence of masses of city workers , city people who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the suburbs , city workers whose exploited labor supplies the entertainment , culture and services that suburbanites drive to New York to buy ? Legislators , state and Federal , had better begin to reassess their priorities and take heed of city people and city problems before the inevitable evil wastes of organized and systematic injustices begin to pollute their own comfortable , well-subsidized lives ? or at least before the stench of automobile exhaust reaches out to their golf courses and gardens . ( SISTER ) EILEEN FARLEY Yonkers , N. Y. , Jan. 2 , 1970 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? Lindsay on the Fare To the Editor : The histrionics being performed by Mayor Lindsay over the thirty-cent transit fare would be amusing if they were not so tragic for the citizens of New York City . Mr. Lindsay with his usual political acumen is trying to focus the attention of the citizenry on his valiant fight to protect them against an " irrational and unfair burden . " He very obviously makes no reference to the outrageous and extortionate wage settlement to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which not only places a huge burden on all the people in thic city . but which adds immeasurably to the inflationary spiral . This will eventually result in a much greater burden on the economy of the entire country , and especially on the poor , to whom he so obligingly poses as their only champion . FRANK HAHN New York , Jan. 5 , 1970 ? Display of Flag To the Editor : The Police Department 's recent decision to allow officers to display the American flag on their uniforms is a shocking revelation of how far such misuse of the flag has gone . It would be most naive to pretend that the current display of flags on cars , taxis , and lapels is simply an expression of patriotism or national pride . It is no such thing . Rightly or wrongly , the flag has now been adopted as the partisan symbol of those who support U.S. military involvement in Vietnam and who back President Nixon in regard to that controversial issue . Such political expressions have no more place on police cars or police uniforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buttons . The use of the American flag by one side in a political dispute , moreover , is implicitly a charge that the other side is unpatriotic . That tactic betrays such a lack of respect for our nation 's basic traditions of free speech and dissent that one must wonder whether these self-styled patriots even understand the significance of the flag which they display . It is regrettable that this intolerant position should now be officially endorsed by the New York Police Department . It is also most ironic that Patrolman Patrick Dolan , presumably a proponent of " law and order , " has brought about this change in department policy by the simple expedient of violating a regulation with which he disagreed . ARTHUR M. MASTER Jr . New York , Jan. 7 , 1970 Fathers and Sons To the Editor : On his recent trip to Vietnam , Spiro Agnew exhorted our boys to stand fast and not to " simply take off and walk away . . . leaving your sons and grandsons to finish something that you did n't have the courage to stick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except that it echoes the words the sons of those troops will hear on some distant , bloody , future battleground ; and their fathers heard while clinging to the moonscape of Pork Chop Hill ; and their fathers heard while freezing in the snow of the Ardennes ; and their fathers heard while dying in the long summer twilight of Belleau Wood ; and their fathers heard while sweating in the sticky heat at the foot of San Juan Hill ; and their fathers heard dimly at Antietam as their blood incarnadined the creek ; and their fathers heard . . . . And their mothers heard , too , while their tears blotted the letters of regret and the pages of history . ROY M. MOORE Wakefield , Mass. , Jan. 4 , 1970 ? Arms for Arabs To the Editor : It is naive of Edwin 0 . Kennedy ( letter Jan. 5 ) to claim that it is the need for defensive arms against Israel that turned the Arabs toward the Russians . Mr. Kennedy might recall other uses , of a less defensive nature , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Yemen civil war Egyptians fought and killed fellow Yemenite Arabs with Russian arms , including chemiCar weapons . ( It is unlikely that : the United States would coni pete with Russia in supplying ' President Nasser with such weapons , having restricted ffie use of these weapons by its own armed forces ) . In Iraq , Russian ; arms are being used in the me- , thodical extermination of the , Kurdish minority . To fulfill his lifelong ambition of dominating the Arab world , - Nasser feels he needs great quantities of arms . Since Israel : . constitutes a geographical barrier to Nasser 's grand scheme , her destruction , using arms from Russia or any other source , is high on his priority list . EMANUELA GAT , New Haven , Jan. 1970 , ? Moon Study Risks To the Editor : Additional knowledge of selenography does not justify ' risking the lives of any of the two dozen very splendid men scheduled to perform eight= more Apollo missions in a single spacecraft and a single lunar excursion module , willing as they unquestionably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planets should await the development , of adequate rescue capacity . We should exercise at least , as much prudence as the im mortal pathfinders of 450 to 500 years ago . Columbus took along two ' smaller back-up vessels and t Magellan sailed with a fleet of five ships  --  which was indeed fortunate as only one made it back to Spain with a handful of survivors which did not include Magellan , but happily did bring safely home the chronicler of man 's first circumnavigation of the surface of his planet . EDWIN EZEKIEL New York , Dec. 29 , 1969                     