@@729693

txt The Soviet Union called on the British Government today to revoke its ouster of 105 Soviet representatives as intelligence operatives and warned that , otherwise , Moscow would have no choice but to retaliate against Britons living here . In a stiff protest note delivered , this morning to Sir John Killick , the British Ambassador , The text of Russian note is printed on Page 3. the Soviet Union said it " flatly rejects the allegation that staff members of Soviet institutions in Britain ? engage in activities constituting a ' threat to the security ' of Britain . " The note called on the British Government to " call off " what it termed " unprecedented " actions expelling 90 members of the Soviet Embassy , trade mission and other Soviet agencies and bkrring , 45 : others , who are temporarily.out of . Britain , from returning . A Departure Set for Today The British order , issued on Friday , gave the Soviet representatives two weeks to leave . Most of them are expected to leave London tomorrow on two scheduled flights , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Airways . " If the British side leaves these measures in force , " the Soviet note warned , " the Soviet side will have no choice but to take corresponding measures in reply . " British officials acknowledged that the wording of the Soviet protest had made some form of Soviet retaliation almost certain , but probably not before London had had a chance to reply to the Soviet note . Both the British reply and the Soviet counter-action , officials said , could come as early as the scheduled meeting in New York tomorrow of Sir Alec Douglas-Home , the British Foreign Secretary , and Andrei A. Gromyko , the Soviet Foreign Minister . They are in New York Ito attend the United Nations General Assembly . In Mr. Gromyko 's absence from Moscow , the Soviet protest. , was handed to the British Ambassador this morning by the- Deputy Foreign Minister , Semyon P. Kozyrev . British officials described the 20-minute meeting as chilly , but correct . Mr. Kozyrev reportedly read the ? Soviet note aloud , and Sir John was said to have reiterated the position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Foreign Office had indicated then that it was ready to meet any Soviet retaliation . The Soviet Embassy in London is about twice the size of the British Embassy here ; it has a staff of about 150 , compared with the 78-member staff of the British Embassy here . ' tyres understood that at this morning 's meeting , neither Mr. Kozyrev nor Sir John mentioned the defector from the Soviet State Security Commit-1 tee , known by its Russian initials as the K.G.B. , who report- ' edly had provided extensive information to British authorities on Soviet intelligence operations in Britain . Said to Hold High Rank Usually well-informed sources here have reported that the man was a major general , a one-star general in the Soviet system , in the intelligence service . That would make him one of the highest-ranking defectors ever from the K.G.B . In its note , the Foreign Ministry contended that the British accusations were " fabrications " intended to " cover up activities , hostile to the Soviet Union , conducted by British Speoial Services " against Soviet agencies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Prime Minister Heath of trying to sabotage efforts toward relaxing tensions in the center of Europe and to block moves toward a European security conference , now one of Moscow 's prime foreign policy objectives . " The measures taken by the British side against the staff members of Soviet institutions in Britain , " the note declared , " can not be regarded in isolation from the general British policy line of late , invariably creating obstacles in the path of a detente , particularly in European affairs , in spite of the desires of many European countries to achieve a normalization and to hold a conference on European security and cooperation . " It was " hypocritical at the very least " for Britain to say she wants better relations with the Soviet Union , the note continued , when her action imposed a new strain on these relations . The Soviet press , more critical of the Tory Government than of other Western governments even before the expulsion order , stepped up its criticism of London today . Without giving details of the British charges or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispatch from Tass , the Soviet press agency , accusing London of " whipping up an anti-Soviet , spy-scare atmosphere . " The text of the Soviet protest note was read tonight over Soviet television , presumably in part , at least , as an antidote to information gleaned by Soviet citizens from foreign broadcasts that are heard by considerable numbers of people in European Russia . Pravda , the Communist party newspaper , had two other antiBritish commentaries , one accusing London of outright collusion with the whitedominated government of Rhodesia and the other commenting on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization assembly meeting in London , charging that Britain remained " the main center of cold-war ideas in Europe . " " The British Tories , " the Pravda article on NATO said , " intend to move against the current of history , against the natural development of events in Europe , a Continent dreaming of lasting peace and security . "                     