@@728490

txt Prince Norodom Sihanouk , the ousted chief of state of Cambodia , was removed from power , according to a government radio broadcast from Phnom Penh , for " provoking a political crisis . " A brief communiqu ? broadcast from Phnom Penh said Cheng Heng , president of the National Assembly , would serve as acting chief of state pending an election . Shortly after the Phnom Penh communique was monitored here the Prince was reported to have left Moscow . A Radio Peking report said the prince was given a full-scale ceremonial welcome and met by a delegation headed by Premier Chou En-lai . Caution advised Diplomats in Saigon cautioned against any attempt at this point to interpret the significance of the apparent overthrow of the popular Cambodian chief of state . ? But there was speculation that the new acting chief of state is a figurehead , with real power probably in the hands of " right-wing " personalities such as the Premier , General Lon Nol , and Prince Sirik Matak . There had been little warning that anything like a " coup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cambodian radio announcement came as a complete surprise in Saigon . " I can hardly believe this , but I will tell you about it anyway , " said South Vietnam 's President Thieu as he reported Prince Sihanouk 's ouster to newsmen after a message was handed to him at a palace reception in Saigon . Prince Sihanouk has often said that if a " right-wing " coup was staged against him it would be led by General Lon Nol , who would then , he said , attempt to bring Cambodia into the pro-American camp . In Paris on March 12 , the Prince said General Lon Nol belonged to the " right wing " like " all self-respecting anti-Communist soldiers . " Post recalled " We are friends , but a showdown is inevitable , " he said , predicting the possibility of a coup . No one in Cambodia even approaches Prince Sihanouk in political stature . But General Lon Nol , who is concurrently Defense Minister and armed forces commander in chief as well as Premier , enjoys widespread support in Cambodia 's 35,000-man Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerless position because of Prince Sihanouk 's reluctance to delegate authority . The Prince had a hand in almost every government decision , no matter how insignificant . General Lon Nol had been a relatively weak prime minister once before in 1966.67 and at first refused to take on the job again when it was offered to him last year . He accepted , however , after apparently getting Prince Sihanouk to agree to allow him to exert more power . Under General Lon Nol 's leadership , the Royal Cambodian Army has been increasingly active against the local leftist insurgents , known as the Khmer Rouge , and has even on occasion engaged North Vietnamese and Viet Cong troops using Cambodia as a sanctuary when they appeared to be disturbing the peace in border towns and villages . During the past year and a half , Prince Sihanouk and other Cambodian leaders , including General Lon Nol , have ex- pressed mounting concern over the presence of the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong troops , whose strength inside Cambodia is estimated to number at least 40,000 at any given time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Cambodian demonstrators sacked both the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong Embassies in Phnom Penh , a move which dramatized the Cambodian Government 's concern . But many observers , including some respected diplomats , felt the demonstrations could not have occurred without Prince Sihanouk 's assent . Others , however , felt the demonstrations would not have gone as far as they did had the Prince been at home . Some observers believe the Cambodian rightists felt compelled to take firmer control of the government after the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong , in talks that began in Phnom Penh March 16 , refused even to discuss Cambodian demands that Communist troops get out of Cambodia . Some diplomats in Saigon were concerned that if the rightists had indeed taken control in Phnom Penh , their take-over might in turn provoke a reaction from the left that could create a chaotic situation in Cambodia . These diplomats said it was too early , however , to rule out a possible comeback by the wily Prince Sihanouk . The difficulty of interpreting the significance of the crisis in Phnom Penh was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early Wednesday preceding the announcement that Prince Sihanouk had been deposed . At the same time , Phnom Penh 's airport was closed .                     