@@730765

txt Fired White House counsel John , W. Dean ; confiding to friends that he fears for his life , asked a federal court today to take control of nine classified documents he took from his White House office to assure that they would not be stolen nor destroyed . At the same time , it was learned that Dean has told a member of the Senate investigating committee he is prepared to testify that he participated in the coverup of the Watergate bugging at the direct orders of White House officials H. R. Haldeman and John D.*Ehrlichman . Dean Is said to have related hir own participation in the coverup activities and knowledge of other illegal acts carried out by other top Nixon administration officials to Sen. Lowell Weicker FR. , Conn. during a three-hour meeting last night , WEICKER SAID only that he met with Dean and that . Sen. Sam Ervin ED. , N. C.1 , chairman of the select Watergate committee , has agreed to a special committee meeting to consider , Dean 's plea for immunity in ' exchange for his testimony . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting . However , reliable sources said Dean confirmed statements attributed to him earlier ' that he did participate In meetings at which the Watergate bugging was discussed and that Haldleman and Ehrlichman ? later placed him in charge of ' the overall coverup operations . Dean was reported to have said that he is now hiding out and , fears for his own safety because of the information he posSeises . DEAN , CONSIDERED a key witness in the grand jury 's expanded probe of the Watergate roles of Ehrlichman and Haldeman , was reported by close friends to be out of town . A New York News dispatch reported that Herbert Porter , a former high Nixon campaign aide , , also told Investigators that he participated in the coverup on orders from Jeb Stuart Magruder , deputy director of the reelection committee . Meanwhile , an attorney for Dean filed a motion in federal court this afternoon asking for permission to lodge with the court a 43-page classified document and eight supplementary papers he removed from his office prior to April 30 . THE MOTION SAID Dean took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likelihood " of either a , " covert break-in " at his office or the " sealing of files atter his termination by government agents and thereby run the risk of illegitimate destruction of the documents . . . " Dean , who supervised the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's original investigation of Watergate and had classified files , has been accused by L. Patrick Gray of ordering the destriction of two other secret files as part of the coverup . There was no mention in the motion as to what the classified documents contain , but the motion said Dean believes they " may have a bearing on the subjects under Investigation by the Senate . " THE MOTION.CITED as the authority , , for , taking the documents from the White House a letter sent to Dean by Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield ID. , Mont. asking that Dean not destroy or permit the disposal of any records in his possession " which might have a bearing on the investigation . " Failure to preserve the classified documents , the motion said , placed Dean in danger of later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a total security clearance since his appointment as White House counsel in 1969 , said the Information is now locked in a safe deposit box he took out last night at a bank in suburban Virginia . The keys to the lockbox were filed with the court motion . The motion said Dean became concerned about the documents after being notified by his secretary Monday that newspapers were carrying reports that President Nixon had demanded and got Dean 's resignation . DEAN PERSONALLY was not informed of the action , the motion said , until two hours later when he was called by telephone by White House press secretary Ronald L. Ziegler . It has been known for some time that Dean was negotiating with the grand jury for ImMunity from prosecution , and that. - federal prosecutors are considering ' making a deal for his testimony . The negotiations with the Senate group began after it was learned that the probers had decided to seek immunity for Jeb Stuart Magruder , former deputy director of President Nixon 's campaign . Magruder and Dean are considered prime targets of the grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magruder , who gave federal prosecutors initial inform a Lion that high-ranking White House aides had prior knowledge both of the bugging and the coverup efforts . Subsequently , Magruder has charged that former Atty . Gen. John Mitchell and Dean had approved the bugging and had taken part in the coverup . Dean has acknowledged his own role but has maintained he was acting under orders . Until his own resignation Monday , Haldeman , as chief of staff , was Dean 's immediate superior . Ehrlichman , who also resigned , supervised Dean 's White House investigation of Watergate .                     