@@729003

txt Letters to the Editor pg . 46 Letters to the Editor Post-Election Comment To the Editor : The liberal and moderate voters of New York State can hold Governor Rockefeller largely responsible for the election of James Buckley to the Senate . By not repudiating Mr. Buckley ? the standard-bearer of a ? party founded to destroy Mr. Rockefeller 's brand of " progressive Republicanism "  --  and by giving nominal , paternalistic support to Senator Goodell , the Governor obviously tried to run with both candidates . In fact , the tacit Rockefeller-Buck , ley alliance was dramatically illustrated by the presence of Mario Procaccino at the side of both men as they gave their victory speeches . If the Buckley success does indeed " strengthen the forces intent upon turning the Republican party in the state away from the imaginative and positive policies initiated by Governor Rockefeller " as The Times says it may do ( editorial ' Nov. ' 4 ) , the Governor will have only himself to thank . Strong criticism of Mr. Buckley 's conservatism by Rockefeller  --  akin to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1964 might have shifted enough traditional Re- , publican votes away from the Conservative candidate to allow a victory for Mr. Goodell or Mr. Ottinger . It also would have lent credence to Rockefeller 's own weakening liberal tradition  --  the basis for his endorsement by The Times  --  which remains as more-legend than fact . , DAVID NEMIROFF ? New York , Nov. 4 , 1970 To the Editor : It has become customary in this state , after the Democratic party loses a state election , to ? appoint a committee , fire a chairman , or seek a new messiah to- lead the party out of the wilderness .. We have had a , number of commissions whose recommendations ' have not led us ' out of the wilderness . We , have had a number of messiahs whose personal leadership seems to have left us deeper in the wilderness . And we have apparently exhausted the supply of potential messiahs of Democratic affiliation , for ? the new suggestion seems to be to seek a nonpartisan messiah to whom the party may attach itself , as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the time has For Cooperation With Chile To the Editor : . There is every reason in the world for President Nixon , as the . elected leader of this democratic country , to acknowledge and , warmly cooperate with the elected President of Chile , Salvador Allende . There are two very important aspects in the way a country 's people organize their lives . One of these institutions is the democratic process for selecting its leadership . Another is the way it chooses to organize how the wealth generated within the confines of its geographical boundaries is distributed among its citizens . For years we have told the developing world that we as a country represent the democratic way of organizing our life style . It was - this fact , the fact of democracy rather than the few from above imposing their will upon the majority , that marked us for greatness . Private ownership of , property , inheritance rights and . other aspects of our modified capitalism were just forms that our democracy has fotind the most fruitful for the development of our individual citizens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own system , simply by the democratic process . If one of our good neighbors decides that a system of economic distribution which previously resembled ours is no longer applicable to their situation and needs , and they do this through recognized democratic institutions , we should continue to assist them and be their good neighbor during a period of difficult transition . If we do not , the world will know that it was not democracy that was important , it was the system of holding wealth and the distribution of that wealth that was important  --  showing us as hypocrites to the rest of the developing nations . RUSSELL B. CHRISTENSEN New York , Nov. 3 , 1970 come for a more realistic and practical . approach . The party will not rebuild itself by , attaching itself to someone who it is hoped will float into the stratosphere . It will rebuild itself by working from the bottom up , and by turning to its younger members who have demonstrated that- despite the disaster at the head of the ticket , they know both the political process and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The party must rebuild itself district by district with the kind of energy and devotion that produced such victories as Peter.A.A . Berle 's 77 per cent of the vote in the 64th Assembly District ( which never had a Democratic Assemblyman until Berle won it two years ago ) , Antonio Olivieri 's victory in the 66th Assembly District ( which has never had ' a Democratic Assembly man ) and also the victories of our Democratic Congressional candidates throughout the state . It is clear that the Democratic party is abysmally weak at the top but remarkably vital at the bottom . Given that condition , : its future is a hopeful one if it will build upon its own base . Its future will not be notably different from its recent past if it attempts to avoid ? the hard work of /Ridding an organization from the bottom up by attaching itself to some star , and once again becomes a personal appendage to a politician 's ambition for high public office . EDWARD N. ? COSTIKYAN New York , Nov. 5 , 1970 , ? To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a stanch conservative ) and no doubt many other good friends of the U.S. here in Britain have heard the results of your midterm elections .. At this distance , one feared from the election coverage that the bigoted and battlefield oratory by the leaders of the Republican ' party would gain decisive margins . But the American voters as a whole have resisted this and demonstrated their good sense and belief in fair play . , JON SLAVEN London , Nov. 4 , 1970 ? To the Editor : Perhaps it 's characteristic of a deeply divided country that James Buckley has begun to speak of his " mandate . " flights that cross the country onethird full : These agencies are , instead , leaving themselves open to . a demand for another fare increase , and providing the N. Y. Port Authority with a spullous claim that " aviation 's growth " needs more space at J.F.K. We insist , and hope other New Yorkers will insist , that Jamaica Bay is more important as open space , for recreation , and as an outdoor Taboratory ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more airline deficits by ' a making the public pay three ways : in higher fares , the annoyance of unnecessary flights , and lost environmental diversity . ROLAND C. CLEMENT Vice Pres. , National Audubon Society RICHARD L. PLUNKETT President , Linnaean Society of N. Y. New York , Oct. 29 , 1970 Containment , Not Pax To the Editor : Prof. Seymour Melman 's Nov. 2 Op . Ed. column in The Times is typical of much clap-trap that goes under the implied label ' of informed comment these days , from both left and right . Twenty-five years ago , American policy planners did not formulate " Pax Americana , " guaranteed by U.S. armed might , as Professor Melman wrote . U.S. military forces were demobilized following World War II . They were not rebuilt until 1950-51 , after the Soviet Union 's subversion of Eastern Europe , attempted assimilation of Iran , and North Korea 's invasion of South Korea . It was during those days that for . mer Secretary of State Dean Acheson One would not suppose that 39 per cent of the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sweeping the nation . Put another way ? 61 per cent of those who voted cast their ballots against the winner . Mr. Nixon won in 1968 with 43 per cent , Mr. Humphrey lost with 43 per cent . Yet Vice President Agnew has repeatedly scored the Senate for ignoring that mandate . ? Election contests that ' are , close ? say 51 per cent ' to 49 per:cent  --  leave many questions unanswered as to support or denial of polidies . But winners without majorities are ' certainly less than the people 's representatives . It would be better , to have mandatory runoffs , as is. the Practice in a few states . Inwnd TOBACK New York , No-v. 4 , 1970 0 To the Editor : . In the disaster ' to New ydrk ' liberals of James Buckley 's election to the Senate , the following stands but . The Times must bear its share of the blame . By its steadfast , refusal to acknowledge the real possibility of a u . Buckley victory which its unswerving support . of Gbodeilentailed , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tears should *. be shed for Charles Goodell . When the poll showed him a sure loser , he was given the opportunity to make a magnanimous sacrifice and ' strike a blow at his Republican tormenters . , Instead he ' chose to dissolve in maudlin histrionics in his televieion statement of Oct. 25 . , His political career Should : ? now be mercifully , over . He was tried and failed . ' SAMUEL M. , Gg.r.TAAN , M.D. ? New City , N. Y. , Nov .. , 4 , 1970 0 To the Editor : The Senate elections in New York and Connecticut underscore the need for electoral reform in an era of serious third and fourth , party candidacies . As in the . New ' York ' City mayoral contest last fall , no : : candidate won anywhere near a clear'majority - of the vote . The obvious answer is'to institute preferential ' voting , or . ( if this is deemed- too complicated to explain to the electorate ) a --  runoff : election . If moie than half of the : voters were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence in the ' political system . As things-now stand , , we have democracy  --  Saigon-style . JAMES E. HUMPHREYS New.York , Nov. 4 , 1970 . wrongfully Professor Melman also charges that the U.S. armed , presence in Asia is a " goal . " Our . goal in . Asia is similar to our goal in Europe ? to maintain U.S. diplomatic and economic participation . Of course Melman 's comments about the wastefulness of continued strategic arms build-up are - true but perhaps ; a bit trite . Neither the wastefullness. nor the problem are unilaterally ours . But one can fervently. hope-with-Professor Melman-that the SALT talks will succeed . His discourse on guerrilla warfare suffers a similar triteness . But one might think that the problems of guerrilla warfare are much to be preferred to the problems of all-out conventional war . While guerrilla warfare may be most frustrating to Melman , it probably does n't match the dire frustration of the Vietcong who have been effectively defeated and whose only hope is the continued and unstinting support from North Vietnam , mainland China , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgot that guerrilla warfare failed in Greece , Malaya and the ? Philippines , and under Fidel Castro 's tutelage , failed in Latin America . There is also lurking suspicion that Professor Melman blames the United ' States for the woes of this world . Yet in a historic perspective ; U.S. policies since World War II have been enlightened and in sharp contrast to those of the Soviet Union and Red China . RUSSELL L. WYLIE Willow Grove , Pa. , Nov , 2 , 1970 formulated this nation 's policy of containment vis- ? - vis the Communist world . This policy has served : as this country 's international program ever since . Professor Melman may . " choose to call the containment policy " Pak Americana . " But he should , resugnize that ' it was hatched in the D , ePartment of State  --  not the Pentagon=-and Shy Mr. Acheson , not W. W. steINY and Henry Kissinger . Expanding J.F.K. Airport To the Editor : The " seat war " being waged by America 's transcontinental airlines ( news story Oct. 28 ) is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of John F. KennedyAirport into Jamaica Bay is a sham . ? If the regulatory agencies , the Federal Aviation Administration and Civil Aeronautics Board , had the least interest in helping the nation solve its environmental problems , they would long ago have consolidated To the Editor : As a farm boy . I learned that while milking a sensitive , cow you bent her tail to ' take her attention away from the milking . It seems that our law-and ; order leaders also spent some time on , the farm . While bleeding ' the economy and running unemployment , rolls to record highs , they put on hard hats and , using illiterate alliteration , rave about pornography . RONALD GREENEY New York , Oct. 27 , 1970 Pornography as Diversion                     