@@730235

txt With the siege lifting for the moment around An Loc , the Saigon command is shifting its attention to other provinces in the region surrounding Saigon and to ' the - Mekong Delta , where intensified attacks are expected . Over the past few weeks , the Cornmunists have infiltrated new forces into Kien Thong Province along the Cambodian border to the southwest of Saigon , into neighboring Long An Province just to the south of Saigon , and into Hau Nghia Province to the west of the capital . The fact that the threat has grown closer to Saigon was dramatized recently when B-52 bombers struck in Hau Nghia Province only 15 miles to the west of Saigon . It was the closest such raid in several years . Elements of the Communist 5th Division , which fought earlier at An Loc and which now is mostly concentrated in Cambodia where it has been resting and refitting , now have begun appearing in Kien Thong Province . The Communists ' 9th Division , which launched some of the first attacks on An Loc , has also been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position to move back into South Vietnam to the northwest of Saigon . That leaves only the 7th North Vietnamese Division plus some smaller units in the area around An Loc. // *An Loc siege lifted , but Saigon area braces // By rotating their forces in and out of the An Loc battle , the Communists have managed to conserve considerable strength for operations elsewhere . Because of the pullback of South Vietnamese forces from Cambodia to deal with the offensive inside South Vietnam , the Communists also have gained great fredom of movement inside Cambodia along the border with South Vietnam 's Military Region III , which is the area surrounding Saigon , and Military Region IV , which encompasses the Mekong Delta . It is from this swath of territory inside Cambodia , which includes what used to be called Communist " sanctuaries , " that the Communists can be expected to stage new infiltration efforts in the coming weeks . Timing disrupted But in Hau Nghia and Long An , two neighboring provinces close to Saigon , all the indications are that the Communists have so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This appears to be the result of two factors . One is that the local Viet Cong regional and guerrilla forces have been giving less support to the main-force Communist regulars coming into those provinces than was originally expected . North Vietnamese prisoners complain that the local forces have not been " aggressive " enough in supporting them . The other factor slowing down the Communists has been the performance of the government 's regional forces ( RF ) , second-line troops who are not as well paid , trained , or equipped as the South Vietnamese regulars . Contrary to fears that they might not be able to cope with North Vietnamese regulars , the RF soldiers , particularly in Hau Nghia , have been fighting well . Advisers say that heavy American air support has been " decisive " in helping the RF cope with the North Vietnamese . Stiff resistance The 320th North Vietnamese Regiment , which moved into Hau Nghia and Long An a few weeks ago , has met tough RF resistance every step of the way . But the 320th Regiment , now badly battered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a number of Communist regiments now available for use in the Saigon area and in the delta . Perhaps a dozen of these regiments are inside Cambodia but can be moved into South Vietnam within a matter of days . A Communist regiment can number as many as 1,500 men . Thus , while there may be relative " lulls " on the major battlefronts around An Loc , Kontum , and Hue , the inevitable conclusion of intelligence sources is that the Communist offensive has a long way to go before completely running out of steam . The attacks in the coming weeks may become more intense in the southern part of the country , the sources say , while possibly remaining at lower levels elsewhere . " We feel surer that areas earlier considered as major fronts will not be overrun by the enemy , " said one Saigon informant . " But our attention is shifting to areas that had been considered secondary until now . "                     