@@728580

txt United States and South Vietnamese soldiers have begun a painstaking search of the Fishhook area of Cambodia amid increasing indications that many enemy troops fled in advance of the allied forces ' arrival . The task force discovered several recently evacuated enemy base areas  --  but no significant numbers of troops ? as the allies began to close a giant ring around the suspected location of the Communist military headquarters for operations in South Vietnam . Enemy resistance to the allied sweep remained light and scattered . This morning , the United States command reported that eight American soldiers had been killed and 32 wounded ? a low number for an operation of such size . A total of about 10,000 South Vietnamese and United States soldiers , including 5,000 American infantrymen , are participating . Enemy losses were listed as 476 killed , of which 161 were said to be victims of tactical air strikes and assaults by helicopter gunships . In addition , 118 persons were detained , but some of these appeared to be Cambodian civilians . Some Enemy Bases Found In an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation was extended 20 miles deeper into Cambodia yesterday , according to reliable military sources . Teams of lowflying helicopters crisscrossed the area north and west of the Fishhook section throughout the day , searching for signs of enemy troop concentrations . There was no immediate indication whether the United States command would extend the operation still farther into Cambodia if the task force failed to find significant enemy ) forces in the Fishhook area . The battalion - size enemy // base areas that have been found included some fortified bunkers and substantial stores of rice , military sources said , but none of the elaborate underground facilities that intelligence officers believe house the headquarters or the Supreme command of the Communist forces . This headquarters was described by Presidennt Nixon on Thursday as the prime target of the operation . Forty-one enemy weapons were reported found , and the low figure increased speculation that the bulk of the enemy force in the area ? originally estimated at about 7,000 men ? had escaped westward . One American officer at the operation headquarters at Quanloi said he considered it a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday as the task force assembled on the South Vietnamese side of the border , and had made a hasty retreat . " God only knows where they went after spotting all the tracks and tanks we brought up for this operation , " he said , referring to tracked personnel carriers . " I do n't see how they could miss all the commotion , and if I were them , I 'd get lost . " American intelligence experts believe that somewhere inside the Fishhook section there is an elaborate , multistory underground installation that serves as a headquarters for the central office for South Vietnam . This Is the over-all command organization for the Communist military and political effort in the southern part of South Vietnam . Supply Depots Sought In the next few days , the allies hope to close the ring they have drawn around the area , which is about 14 miles square , and find the headquarters and the extensive supply depots and communications centers that are thought to be adjacent to it . The area where the operation is taking place is mostly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jungle and battered rubber plantations . A light rain fell throughout Friday nlidat and softened many of the roads in the area to mud . Heavy bulldozers were airlifeted in early in the morning to begin clearing access routes far the armored units coming up to reinforce the airborne battalions that were taken in Friday . The tracks of the heavy vehicles have cut broad , cinnamon-colored ribbons across the green landscape . In addition to the central headquarters , the allies hope to find significant caches of arms , ammunition and food . The objective is to break up , at least temporarily , the supply system that supports the enemy troops in the southern part of Vietnam . It is estimated that 85 per cent of all these materials come down through the Cambodian supply network before being shipped into South Vietnam . " Even if most of the enemy troops have fled , " one American officer has said , " we still expect to find some more or less permanent supply facilities . " If we can destroy these , as well as the bunker complexes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " it will set their war effort back about nine months . With the rainy season beginning , they wo n't be able to do any serious reconstruction until next October . " New Attack in Parrot 's Beak SAIGON , May 2 ( AP ) ? Sporadic fighting continued today in the Parrot 's Beak area of Cambodia as dozens of tanks and armored personnel carriers and hundreds of South Vietnamese soldiers began a new drive . A South Vietnamese armored task force thrust into a large enemy base area at Bathu , a mile from the South Vietnamese border and about 45 miles west of Saigon . The Bathu area , seen from the air , is a complex of four square miles with dozens of roads and thousands of houses and bunkers . " It 's the Vietcong 's Longbinh , " an American officer remarked in astonishment during a flight over the area today . The huge logistical base at Longbinh is the headquarters of the United States Army in Vietnam . From the air , Bathu looks very similar . A task force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new thrust across the Cambodian border this morning , accompanied by United States advisers .                     