@@732472

txt Governor Carey today proposed changes in the state laws affecting medical-malpractice suits as recommended by a special advisory panel , but he appeared unwilling to accept its more sweeping recommendations , which could eliminate jury trials in malpractice cases . The changes were primarily aimed at limiting the amount that lawyers could get as a result of judgments in favor of a plaintiff , requiring juries to itemize the awards granted to plaintiffs and eliminating the lawyer 's right to suggest the amount of damages his client should receive . " These recommendations will further our efforts to guarantee the uninterrupted delivery of medical care , " the Governor said . The panel 's work and the legislation grew out of the rapidly increasing number of malpractice suits and rising cost of settlements and insurance premiums in the state  --  a situation that last year led the major malpractice insurers in the state to stop offering policies to hospitals and doctors . Medical Students Aided In New York , Mr. Carey announced that the state was increasing its loan-guarantee program for New York students attending medical schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low-income and middle-income students to study medicine . Page 44 . The malpractice recommendations were drawn up by a panel headed by Dr. William J. , president of Columbia University . These proposals and others were generally endorsed by medical societies around the state and the medical malpractice committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York . However , the legislation is likely to run into stiff opposition among members of the Legislature ? many of whom are lawyers ? and county bar associations . The Governors proposals re // jected other recommended changes in the legal ground rules of malpractice suits that would have lessened the amount of awards depending on other insurance and disability benefits available to plaintiffs , and place a ceiling on the amount awarded in the category of " pain and suffering . " . Also rejected by the Governor was the major recommendation of the panel  --  to establish a fixed schedule of awards for various kinds of adverse medical results that now are the subject of suit . Such a schedule would set the compensation and award it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at fixing blame or negligence in cases but at obtaining the highest possible settlement . Such a system would represent a philosophical shift in the whole body of law affecting malpractice , the nine-member panel said in its January report , making it a " workmen 's compensation or ? no-fault " system . The shift is necessary within a three-year period , the panel said , noting that the current legal or tort system " can not survive the . stresses and strains " and eventually will bring alput another crisis in the availability of malpractice insurance . Governor Carey said : " This proposal must be more clearly defined before it can be given legislative consideration . " He made further study of the ' n'om fault " proposal one of the mandates of a newly created Execu-1 tive Committee on Medical Mal- ' practice . He has hinted ' at his coolness to such a sweeping change by saying he would neither endorse nor reject it . The legislation to require the itemizing of awards would require juries to specify amounts granted in the categories of medical expenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pain and suffering , all resulting from an adverse medical outcome . But Mr. Carey rejected the panel 's recommendation of ' a $100,000 ceiling on pain-andsuffering awards , noting that it " is no less real than other injuries . " While he agreed that " misuse " of this subjective criterion by juries had inflated malpractice awards , he said such a ceiling was " too drastic a step " to take without more information . The Governor would also reduce the one-third of a settlement exceeding $100,000 that now goes to a plaintiff 's lawyer . He called for a sliding-fee scale in these cases as a curb on the seeking of exorbitant settlements . Also , lawyers would no longer be able to suggest the amount of award that should be granted  --  a practice that many people feel conditions juries to award higher settlements . Since the withdrawal of major malpractice insurers from the state last year , doctors and hospitals have been insured a pool of 300 insurance companies called the Medical Malpractice Insurance Association , or by a company set up by the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solve temporarily the problem of the availability of malpractice insurance while the panel came up with longrange plans : Other legislation proposed by the Governor not dikctly related to the panel 's report include increasing the maximum coverage of hospitals by the state 's pool to $10 million from $3 million and requiring a second medical opinion in cases of elective surgery where a third party is paying the , cost .                     