@@731852

txt The South Vietnamese government Monday faced one of its most severe battlefield tests since the departure of American troops as Communist forces poured into a key city 165 miles northeast of here . North Vietnamese attacked the provincial capital of Ban Me Thuot , one of the main centers in South Viet Nam 's Central Highlands , and captured the southern portion of the town , according to reports . The assault on Ban Me Thuot , which has a population of 80,000 , was the most determined in a series of attacks hera northern and central South Viet Nam . Several district capitals appeared in danger of falling , with radio communications and highways cut . One outpost was overrun . A SAIGON command spokesman said the North Vietnamese poured 400 rounds of heavy sliells into Ban Me Thuot and followed with infantry assaults . He said the city airport and an ammunition dump were main targets and North Vietnamese tanks were spotted three miles away and moving in . There were field reports that sappers attacked the provincial headquarters and radio station and soldiers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his cabinet leads to threats of a military coup . Page 3 ing house to house in the city . The North Vietnamese troops were reported to have opened a new front in the Central Highlands by attacking Due ' Lap , 31 miles southwest of Ban Me Thuot . Duc Lap , a lonely outpost on Route 14 , stands astride the North Vietnamese forces ' independent road network extending down the western spine of South ' Viet Nam . BAN ME THUOT , situated at an important crossroads in the Central Highlands , had not been touched by war since the Communists ' 1968 lunar new year offensive . If the Communists can take and hold the city , which is believed to be defended by a 2,000-man regiment of the 23d Division and the Montagnard militiamen , they would seal off Quang Due Province . Maj. Gen. Pharr Van Phu , the government 's commander in the Highlands , ordered a top-priority " red alert " for Bar . Me Thuot and ordered troops to occupy all high buildings in the city . Western military analysts called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the beginning of a " high point " of North Vietnamese and Viet Cong activity " to deal the maximum possible blows against the South Vietnamese army and to create maximum economic difficulties by cutting lines of communications . " THE ANALYSTS SAID the fighting had no connection with the siege of Phnom Perth , the Cambodian capital , which has been cut off by land and water by the Khmer Rouge insurgents . The attacks centered in the two northernmost provinces of Quang Tri and Thua Thien below the demilitarized zone and in the Lower Central Highlands . Field reports said two North Vietnamese battalions  --  perhaps up to 800 men  --  assaulted two district towns in Quang Tri and four other district capitals in Rhua Thien , most of them along the coastal strip of land northeast of Hue . In Cambodia , U.S. cargo jets dared heavy insurgent shelling to fly 1,300 tons of rice , fuel , and ginnumition into the air port of besieged Phnom Penh . The shelling killed 10 persons on the ground , but U.S. officials said none of the planes was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rebel attack on the town of Prek Phnou , which is the northern defense line of Phnom Penh . If the rebels broke thru to Prek Phnou they could move quickly thru nine miles of ' flatland to the outskirts of Phnom Penh.                     