@@733263

txt Letters Letters For Amnesty in Vietnam New York 's Share Of Federal Revenues To the Editor : The humanitarian concern for Vietnam 's hungry children , eloquently expressed in an Op-Ed article and letter by Marion Wright Edelman and Arthur W. Galston ( Aug. 14 and 25 , respectively ) , is shared by many who are also deeply concerned about other nearstarving Vietnamese : those in Hanoi 's fearsome " re-education " camps and prisons . A visitor to three grim detention centers in Phu Khanh province , former radical Buddhist legislator Nguyen Cong Hoan , who defected from Hanoi 's National Assembly this spring , describes seeing prisoners who looked " like skeletons " and complained desperately about lack of food when prison officials were not present . Other former re-education camp inmates who have since escaped from Vietnam describe repeatedly starvation-ration policies in the camps , resulting in very high death and disease rates . Casualties include victims of malnutrition , beriberi , dysentery , exhaustion from harsh forced labor , paralysis , infectious skin diseases and even vision loss . Rations in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bowls of rice , twice daily , with meat , fish , vegetables or even the vitamin-rich nuoc main staple of Vietnamese diet rarely if ever provided . Between 50,000 and 300,000 may now be imprisoned . Many of those suffering in the camps were once persecuted by previous Saigon regimes for demanding civil liberties and an accommodation peace , including Tran To the Editor : The effort necessary to solve the energy problem has been termed by President Carter " the moral equivalent of war . " Indeed the energy problem is equivalent to war in more than the Plcha moral sense . The extent to which our technological resources and research and development efforts will have to be mobilized to solve this problem will also be similar to a wartime effort . In the past , the public helped to carry the economic cost of such mobilizations via special government bonds . If indeed we are now at a state of war against depleting resources , would n't it be appropriate that the nation make an investment in " energy development bonds , " which would be used for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wellknown benefits of cheaper and safer energy , one would also expect the following results : ? The well-established phenomena of technological spinoffs from largescale technological crash programs ; Van Tuyen , whose political prisoner " case " has been " adopted " by Amnesty International . Buddhists have recently smuggled. from Vietnam to Paris an annotated list of more than 50 writers , journalists and scholars now in detention or dead .. More than a half top leaders of the An Quang Buddhists , Vietnam 's majority religion , once celebrated for self-immolation demonstrations against previous Saigon tyrannies , were swept up in arrests in April , and have not been heard from since . More than a dozen Buddhist monks and nuns are reported to have burned themselves to death since autumn , 1975 , in fiery suicide protests against Communist religious persecution . By all means let us express humanitarian concern for hungry Vietnamese children , and help feed them . But simultaneous , unceasing , public expressions of concern ought to be publicized for those suffering in Vietnam 's Gulag Archipelago . In the same humanitarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food , medical and reconstruction aid to Vietnam I urge those who promote such calls to join those of us who also call upon Hanoi to issue a general amnesty for all inhumanely or unjustly imprisoned more than two years after the war has ended , and permit those who wish to leave Vietnam to do so . THEODORE JACQUENEY New York , Aug. 26 , 1977 The writer is a former State Department foreign aid employee who resigned in 1971 protesting U.S. involvement in Southeast Asia . ? Infusion of skilled manpower into the U.S. technology which has started to fall back in innovation ; ? The promotion of such " energy development bonds " should help raise the public consciousness to the energy problem and make its solution a cooperative national endeavor . MICHAEL MAUTNER New York , Sept. 2 , 1977 Celebration of Death ' To the Editor : It is very hard for members of the World Friendship Center , who have many friends in the states , to believe that the people of Harlingen , Tex. , are planning to put on an air show celebrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 200,000 were killed in Hiroshima by the bomb . Hundreds of them were schoolchildren . Each year more have died . In 1977 , 2,282 died as a result of the bomb . There are hundreds more , in hospitals and out , suffering from leukemia , other cancers and various other diseases . It is disappointing to know that any American would allow a celebration of such death and suffering . The American members of the World Friendship Center feel that in 1945 we opened a Pandora 's box . We feel it is our duty to repent as we are bringing suffering to our own people as well as to people all over the world . We need to realize that we are all in the same boat . Expressions of friendship and compassion from the people of Harlingen to the people of Hiroshima would be welcomed . TOMIN HARADA , MAURINE PARKER Hiroshima , Aug. 28 , 1977 The writers are , respectively , chairman and resident director , World Friendship Center . To the Editor : In his Aug. 23 Op-Ed article ' Of Biting and Feeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago , makes two points about which I would like to offer an alternative view . On the general subject of the distribution of Federal revenues , he writes : " Attempts to trace the entire flow of money to and from the Federal Government appear to me to be as flawed in principle as they usually are in procedure . Most Federal spending is for purposes that should not be even as confused as they already are with regional politics . " He cites an obvious case , defense spending . I can not agree with this . Students of the subject have long talked of the unintended consequences of government actions . I have never suggested that the Federal Government , in taking as much money as it does out of New York and spending it elsewhere , had intended to deflate the economy of our state . I have simply suggested that this may very well be the most important unintended consequence of policies which have other nominal objects altogether . Federal agricultural policy did not intend to drive a great rural population off the farms and into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did . Federal welfare policy did not intend that a vast number of persons would become at least temporarily dependent , but the scant evidence suggests that it did . It seems to me we should know as much as we can know about what are the consequences of what government does . Mr. Reynolds further states that New York has no cause for complaint in the way it is treated on grants-inaid and in revenue sharing . I ave never said that we did . But grants-inaid and revenue sharing ( in fiscal 1976 ) , amount to only $64 billion of $359 billion in Federal outlays . It is true we do fairly well in most such programs . But this is because most such programs are designed to help states that need help . Revenue sharing is a splendid example , in point of fact . I will spare the readers of The Times the details of the formula ; suffice that it was designed to help most those states most in distress . For the current fiscal year New York State gets the second highest per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We now come ahead of Mississippi , which is third . DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN United States Senator , New York Washington , Sept. 7 , 1977 On Mideast Influences To the Editor : In his letter of Aug. 23 A. V. Martin states that , unless Israel shows willingness to compromise and recognition of Palestinian rights , we should notify Israel that " she must be prepared to defend herself without any help , direct or indirect , from us . " It does not seem to have occurred to Mr. Martin that Israel would be content to defend herself unassisted against the 22 Arab League states , singly or combined , if her enemies were not armed , supported and goaded on by the Soviet Union , and supplied with arms by us and by France in addition . Mr. Martin 's conclusion that the U.S. should " be rescued from a position of supporting an unjust government which has no significant support among the nations of the world , " apart from his biased judgment of Israel 's Government , fails to consider that it might not be entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sole party of influence in the Middle East . ERIC H. LESSING Greenwich , Conn. , Sept , 5 , 1977 Development Bonds to Meet Energy Crisis Toward Peaceful Solution of Kashmir Dispute To the Editor : In light of the restoration of democracy in India , and the commitment of the present rulers to uphold the will of the people , the outcome of the recent elections to the State Assembly in Kashmir attains profound significance . Four political parties espousing different platforms ran candidates for 76 seats . The platform advocated by the National Conference , the party of Sheikh Abdullah , popularly known as the " lion of Kashmir , " supported independence for Kashmir . The platform was widely upheld by the electorate , and the National Conference won an overwhelming majority of the seats ; three times as many as the Janata ( Mr. Morarji Desai 's party ) , and four times as many as the Congress ( Mrs. Ghandi 's party ) . The victory of the platform re-establishes an important fact : The Kashmir dispute wo n't simply go away ; the Kashmiri @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the commitment of the present Indian administration to freedom and democracy is genuine , the verdict of the Kashmir electorate , as expressed in what is surely a " mini-plebiscite , " must be recognized in deed . Otherwise , democracy becomes a mockery , and the oft-stated commitment to it , mere rhetoric . Since 1949 , India and Pakistan have fought three wars over the Kashmir dispute ; the stability of the South Asia region is highly vulnerable and , under the pretext of distracting attention of the people from internal miseries  --  a commonplace in the region  --  may be put to test anytime . The dispute has been brought before the United Nations Security Council more than once . Four permanent members voted favorably on a resolution advocating plebiscite in Kashmir . The fifth , the Soviet Union , vetoed the measure . In view of President Carter 's commitment to human rights , the United States , as the foremost freedom-loving nation , has the moral responsibility to persuade the present Indian leadership to honor the verdict of the Kashmiri people , and to resolve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloodshed . Such a resolution would , indeed , be in conformity with Prime Minister Morarji Desai 's espousal of non-violent policies . The moment for action is now . RAFIQUE AHMED New Rochelle , Sept. 1 , 1977 Bellbottoms Are Back To the Editor : Reading in The Times that the Chief of Naval Operations , Admiral Holloway , has countermanded , in true Navy fashion , the orders of his predecessor , Admiral Zumwalt , - and has ordered that enlisted personnel in the Navy will once again wear the traditional bellbottom style uniform , his decision conjures up exciting prospects for those who preferred things the way they were " in the old Navy . " For those who can recall days when Naval officers dressed far more gorgeously than their modern-day counterparts do , with fore-and-aft hats , with gold braid , cockade and plume , perhaps they dream again , in these days of serious fuel shortages and the dangers to environment of nuclear .. powered vessels , of seeing men-ofwar , in full rig , sailing forth gloriously to meet the enemy . THOMAS SYNNOTT Cambridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters from readers . Letters for publication must include the writer 's name , address and telephone number . Because of the large volume of mail received , we regret that we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters .                     