@@733619

txt Mayor Koch is quietly circulating a proposal to broaden and extend for seven years the power of the Emergency Financial Control Board to reject all contracts between New York City and its municipal labor unions . Technically , the legislation would impose a " suspension " of all future wage increases and increments ? including some forms of increases not now covered by the two-year-old wage freeze  --  until mid-19S5 at the earliest . But it would also give the board the power to approve wage increases if it determined that the city 's fiscal crisis had been " sufficiently alleviated " or for " any other appropriate reason . " A spokesman for Mr. Koch said in New York City that the legislation was not intended to " freeze " wages for the next several years , but only to ensure that no wage increases of any kind go into effect until they were approved by the Control Board . . Opportunity for Review " The legislation- is intended to give the board the opportunity to review each and every contract and to remove the freeze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fit , " the spokesman quoted Mr. Koch as saying . Even as the Mayor was seeking to clarify this point , however , the wage curb question was becoming a matter of dispute here . Several legislative and gubernatorial aides who had been given the city proposal , and who had talked with mayoral . aides , asserted that  --  contrary to what Mr. Koch was saying  --  the proposal had . been designed originally as a seven-year wage freeze , " as one aide to Governor Carey put it . The gubernatorial and legislative officials said they had argued with city officials that the proposal was too restrictive and also potentially damaging to the already strained relations between the city and its unions over the faltering contract negotiations . One senior state official , who asked not to be identified , said that Mr. Koch 's comment that wage increases would be permitted was a change from what the city submitted initially . Mr. Koch 's office refused to make a copy of the legislation available , despite the fact that it has been circulating among bankers and labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a copy of the legislation was obtained by The New York Times , Maureen R. Connelly , Mr. Koch 's press secretary , said it was " a draft for the purpose of . discussion . " She said later that , although several persons had evidently interpreted the statute to call for a " sevenyearwage freeze , " this was a misunderstanding that would be cleared up in eventual discussion swith various parties . However , it appeared certain that the Control Board legislation would encounter difficulty , as similar Control Board proposals did last year , when they were advanced by former Mayor Abraham D. Beame . On the one hand , Mr. Koch faces labor unions that want raises and - a Control Board that reviews , but does not have to approve , their contracts . On the other , he is being told by the Carter Administration . that Congress will require a strong board in exchange for any Federal loan assistance this year , a position Mr. Koch was moving to placate with his new proposal . The city 's existing " wage freeze " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature created the Control Board . The board was given the power to extend the freeze , which it did for two years , starting July . 1,1976 . So-called " step-ups " and " increments " , given to workers on the basis of years on 1119 job have been exempted from the freeze ! . ' , The Koch proposal would not'ex ertipt , : these from the control of the ' board , and thus it would broaden the board 's authority . Adjustments May Continue The board has been permitted to award " cost-of-living adjustments " to city workers only if it determines ' the money is available from productivity improvements or " other savings or other revenues . " Such adjustments might continue to be awarded under the Koch proposal . Another aspect of the Mayor 's proposal was expected to meet criticism from banks and possibly even the Treasury Department , both of which have advocated a powerful board lasting over a period of several years . This aspect would entail a so-called " sunset clause " calling for the board 's authority over contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only if the city 's budget falls out of balance . , As written in the legislation , the board would no longer have control over contracts after the third consecutive " truly balanced " city budget . The first " truly balanced " budget is not expected until the end of the city 's current four-year plan , when the city will have eliminated all its so-called " expense items " from its capital budget , which is financed solely by long-term borrowing . The Koch administration has offered the municipal workers a $610 million package for wage increases that would er-ount to 6 percent in the next two years . The unions have said they- would consider a settlement costing roughly this sum , but would insist that the contract be " structured " so that , by the end of the two-year period , they would be getting a 9 percent , not a 6 percent , increase . The Control Board legislation , because of its ' language regarding a wage freeze , could exacerbate the city 's fights with the unions . The unions have said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweeping authority over their contracts , and it is considered questionable whether such a board could be approved by the Democratic-controlled Assembly without union support . The current Control Board was approved in that house only because of vigorous lobbying by the unions , which said in 1975 that it was the only alternative to bankruptcy . In ' New York City , Victor Gotbaum , executive director , ofDistrict Council 37 , : of the - American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees , the largest , rriunicipal labor. ? union ; said he , had not yet- had a Chance ' to qexamina Mr. Koch 's proposal . But he criticized itS'having been circulated without consultation and said it was thus subject to some misunderstanding . " This is the Koch way , " he said . " He comes . in utiiraterally-4no discussion with us : ' after we 've been working with the banks on this one for more than a year . At the very minimum , to get something through he needs our assistance . " Meanwhile , another piece of legislation being sought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's relations with its unions  --  was reportedly encountering some difficulty among Republicans here . This legislation would expand the borrowing capacity of the Municipal Assistance Corporation from $5.8 billion to $8.8 billion , enabling the M.A.C. , a state agency , to sell $600 million worth of bonds to the municipal employee pension funds later this month . The funds , which are controlled by the municipal unions , have balked at buying $600 million worth of municipal bonds that they had been scheduled to take , so the city is trying to . persuade them to buy M.A.C . Bonds . The unions are declining to make their purchases on the ground that it would be " imprudent " to do so in light of the possibility of bankruptcy .                     