@@733876

txt AN EMBATTLED Sen. Percy recruited heavy Republican artillery for the preelection weekend to put down a personal and conservative backlash that spurred Democrat Alex Seith 's chances of nullinn off the biaaest upset of 1978 . But Democrats fretted that 50110 's unexpected showing could threaten other Democratic candidates because of the presumed late-hour support for Percy by Republican voters . Former President Gerald Ford was scheduled to hit the Illinois trail Sunday on the heels of a Ronald Reagan plea to conservatives in tile western suburbs who are angry about Percy 's support of such issues as the Panama Canal and Ike Equal Rights Amendment extension . REAGAN 'S ENDORSEMENT seas expected to alleviate the harsh resentment conservatives feel toward Percy . But Percy 's campaign strategists are more concerned with what they see as Republican dissent based on a perception that Percy is nonchalant in his attitude toward constituents . Appearances by Ford , Gov . Thompson and former Gov . Richard Ogilvie are aimed at salvaging those GOP voters . U.S. Senators Orrin Hatch Utah and Robert Packwood R , Ore.J were campaigning Downstate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. , Conn. and Jacob Javits R. , N.Y. ) were in Illinois for him . The most dramatic incidents of the campaign so far occurred Friday when Seith and Percy confronted one another over a Percy ad that carried the headline , " More about the Mobs , the Chicago Machine and Alex Seith . " The two met for a televised appearance at the studios of WBBM-TV , and Seith 's wife , Fran , who had broken into tears earlier because of the ad , stood in front of Percy while her husband demanded , " Are you telling Jay wife that I . am part of the mob ? " PERCY SAID later Ile regretted the headline , . then collapsed to the floor of Democratic United States Senate candidate Alex Seith says he 'll return a Nevada-based committee 's S1,000 campaign contribution if , as reported , the committee members include gambling operators . Page 2 . Michael Bakalis stands by as the Rev. Jesse Jackson urges Operation PUSH voters to split their ballots , a strategy Bakalis believes would work to his disadvantage in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television station . Atter a brief rest , lie resumed his frantic weekend cam paign schedule . Percy set out to campaign in six Downstate cities on Saturday looking in good health and bouyed by new poll results indicating he is neck-and  --  neck with Seith . At airport press conferences along the way , Percy talked about tax issues , but reporters continued to press him about his brief fainting spell Friday in Chicago . " I do n't know why so much was made of it , " he told reporters in Rockford . Percy substituted a set of fresh radio and television commercials for the final hours of his campaign . They were intended to recoup defecting Republicans by assuring them that Percy had seen public opinion polls and had " received the message . " His new commercials are specifically intended to apologize to Republicans , particularly those in the vote-rich collar counties of Du Page , Kane , Lake , Will and , his aides say . PRIVATE POLLS showed Percy 's gest deficits are among these traditional Republican voters and if his strategy works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher than expected turnout . County Clerk Stanley Kusper estimated Saturday that as many as 60 per cent ? // Percy-Seith race heads for the wire // of the 1.1 million suburban voters might cast ballots . That would be below Mc 1976 presidential election vote bat con siderably higher than the 1974 totals and a plus for Republicans . State Sen. James " Pate " Philip , tht GOP chairman in Du Page County , fig. tires 64 per cent of the voters will cast ballots , which could rescue Percy , and will almost certainly help a variety al Republicans . THE BIGGEST beneficiary could be Gov . Thompson who , after a slow start , seems comfortably ahead of State Comptroller Michael Bakalis , a Democrat . Thompson 's push for Percy In the collar counties could pay off dividends In increased GOP turnout that could help the governor amass the vote totals he wants to keep alive his 1980 presidential prospects . Bakalis has cut into Thompson 's popularity in some Downstate counties where Democrats are returning to the fold after supporting Thompson in 1976 . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic wards and could improve his showing of two years ago when he caplured 20 of the city 's 50 wards . Atty . Gen. William Scott , a Republican seeking his fourth term , and Secretary of State Alan Dixon , a Democrat seeking re-election , have little to fear from any Percy-Scith fallout . . DESPITE REPORTS of a federal grand jury investigation of his campaign finances , Scott is leading all Republicans in the polls . His opponent , Richard Troy , a Democrat and trustee of the Sanitary District , spent most of his campaign attacking Scott . . Dixon , who rivaled Thompson two years ago as the top vote-getter in the state , is an overwhelming favorite to keep his job . Isis GOP opponent , Sharon Sharp , is the first woman to go after a major state office but her campaign has been short of funds and issues . Two races that could be as close as the Percy-Seith conflict are at the bottom of the state ticket . Jerome Cosentino , a Democrat and also a trustee of the Sanitary District , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County treasurer , in the race for state treasurer . Cosentino is the first ItalianAmerican nominated for state office . Roland Burris could be the first black to win state office in Illinois . He is the D e m o c r at running for comptroller against John Castle of De Kalb . Burris , a former official in the Daniel Walker administration , has an edge in Cook County while Castle , who has Gov . Thompson 's support , is counting on a big vote in the collar counties . the PERCY PUSH could be a plus for both Republicans in the treasurer and comptroller contests . It also could be a help in certain Cook County races . County Board President George Dunne , who doubles as chairman of the county Democratic Party , is a topheavy favorite to win a third term . His opponent is Joseph Woods , former sheriff and current county board member from the suburbs . Woods ran against Dunne for the board presidency in 1970 and lost . It does n't appear he can avoid another defeat . OTHER DEMOCRATS confident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matched with Virginia Hayter , the mayor of Hoffman Estates ; Senate President Thomas Hynes , who is expected to run away in the county assessor race from Republican ' ferret Clarke , a former state senator ; and incumbent County Treasurer Ed Rosewell , who faces Republican businessman Edward Gjertsen of Palatine . Richard Martwick , incumbent regional superintendent of schools , is heavily favored over his GOP challenger , Anthony Torres . The six Republican incumbents who Election facts WHAT : 1978 general election WIIEN : Tuesday , Nov. 7 , 1970 POLLS : Open from 6 am. to 6 p.m . To learn the location of your precinct polling place , call 269-7976 If you live in Chicago . Other Cook County residents should call their local village or city halls . TO BE ELECTED : ? The federal offices of United States senator and representatives in Congress . ? The state offices of governor , lieutenant governor , attorney general , secretary of state , comptroller , trustees of the University of Illinois , and senators and representatives to the General Assembly . ? The judicial offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cook County offices of board chairman and commissioners , assessor , treasurer , clerk , sheriff , regional superintendent of schools , and commissioners of the Chicago Metropolitan Sanitary District . REFERENDA QUESTIONS : ? Amend the constitution to extend indefinitely the life of the state personal property tax . ? Amend the Constitution to give tax-exempt status to post halls of congressionally chartered veterans ' organizations . ? Advise the General Assembly on whether limits should be put on taxing and spending by governments in the state . VOTE FRAUD : Persons with complaints or questions about voting procedures in Chicago can call 269-7870 , the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners . Also , 443-7960 , the state 's attorney 's office ; 353-3524 , the U.S. attorney 's office ; and 726-3954 , Project LEAP Legal Elections in All Precincts . represent the suburbs on the county board also are favored to hold their seats , while the 10 city Democrats on the board are shoo-ins for another four years . COUNTY RACES THAT could be affected by a rush of Percy supporters include the fight for sheriff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District trustee spots . Incumbent Sheriff Richard Elrod holds a comfortable lead over Donald Mulack , a Republican who survived a tough primary struggle that should have enhanced his chances to capture the sheriff 's post . If the GOP suburban vote materializes , and if city Democrats follow the patterns of previous elections by skipping over the sheriff 's race , Mulack could be a surprise . THE REPUBLICAN candidates for the Appellate Court  --  Calvin Sawyier , Brian Duff , and Jon Waltz  --  have waged the stiffest judicial campaign in years . But the Democrats have countered with a trio of highly rated candidates in Dom Rizzi , Allen Hartman , and Calvin Campbell . The Democrats are favored , but again , a Percy turnout could create an upset or two . An , almost parallel situation exists in the race for three Sanitary District seats . The Republicans offered Linda Huff , Ted Ritter , and incumbent Deloris Foster as their choices against two Democratic incumbents , Joanne Alter and William Jaskula ; and Thomas Fuller , an aide to Elrod . IN THE KEY congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Evanston goes into the election in a different role . He is a narrow favorite to retain his 10th District seat over State Rep. John Porter IR. , Evanston . Mikva often has been criticized as being too liberal for the North Shore district but his superior campaign organization could win him another term unless conscience-stricken Republicans turn out in big numbers to help Percy .                     