@@733592

txt After more than a year 's search , the trustees of the Metropolitan Museum of Art have elected the museum 's first full-time salaried president . He is William . B. Macomber Jr. , a 57-year-old retired diplomat whose last post was Ambassador to Turkey from 1973 to 1977 . The choice of Mr. Macomber , by unanimous vote of the board , surprised the museum world , because he is not known in the art field nor had his name been among the many reported to be in contention . Under a reorganization of the museum 's administrative structure voted by the board last March , Mr. Macomber as president will he in charge of management and finances while a subordinate director will be in charge of curatorial and artistic matters . The director , who will succeed Thomas Hoeing , has not yet been chosen . Mr. Macomber , whose salary was not disclosed , succeeds Douglas Dillon , who had served as unsalaried president since 1969 and now becomes board chairman . Yesterday Mr. Dillon said that Mr. Macomber 's extensive Washington background , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department from 1969 to 1973 and as Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional Relations from 1957 to 1962 and from 1967 to 1969 , would he " very useful in dealing with political figures in the city , in Albany and in Washington . " And he termed Mr. Macomber 's lack OF experience in the art world " a plus farm : - rather than a minus , " adding , , ? ve did n't want someone who 'd second-guess or dominate the director and interfere with the professional operation . " Mr. Macomber had in fact been chosen from among two or three other leading candidates , he said " because he had the best understanding of our concept of this job and how it fitted in with the job of director . He 's very supportive of the professional side , which is the heart of the museum . We were impressed by his respect for and quick understanding of that , and his total acceptance of it . " The new aaministrative structure calls for the president to function as chief executive officer . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseeing of the Metropolitan 's vast construction projects . In addition . he will lead its tremendously expanded merchandising and publications program , which grossed $14.1-million last year . The director , presumably a trained art historian , would serve as " chief professional officer " in charge of the staff program and operation of the museum 's curatorial and educational departments . Opponents Get Reassurance Yesterday Mr. Dillon appeared to rea ! - ; sure opponents of the reorganization plan , who have charged that it would reduce the esthetic function of the museum by making the role of the professional director subordinate to that of an " outside administrator . ' ' On the museum 's organizat:onal chart , Mr. Dillon noted , both jobs were " in the same box , " with the president on top . But the two would jointly run the museum , he said , " like the execalive officers of a big corporation . Each has a special area but they will jointly run everything . " Yesterday Mr. Macomber said that he hoped his " skills as a diplomat would prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as did Mr. Dillon , the advantage of his lack of art experience . " I 'm not a museum person or an art person , although I have an intelligent layman 's appreciation of the beautiful things in the musem , " he said . " But if I had a background in the visual arts there might he less willingness en my part to stay off the diroctor 's turf . " Job Caned ' A Partnership ' Asked how he saw his role in relation to that of the director , Mr. Macomber said that he looked on the operation " as a partnership , " that he would support the professional side but " would hope that leadership of it would come from my partner , the director . " Mr. Macomber said he had not yet had time to develop a philosophy of management as applied to the Metropolitan . " hut generally my philosophy of management is that I do n't believe in surprises or changes for changes 's sake . You have to take your time , go slow . " And he added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can to make it work , but we 'd have to wait and see . " Mr. Macomber , who had known Mr. Dillon as Secretary of the Treasury , came to the attention of Richard S. Perkins , head of the search committee , after he had retired from the State Department last year . Asked if he , soul : play a strong role vis-A-vs the new management team , Mr. D ; Ilon said that he hoped his a ** int , of the board chairmanmanship would " relieve me of a lot of details , concerning fund-raising and the construction program , for example , " He added that he would concentrate on " carrying out policy set by the hoard , and , of course , will he available at all times for consultation . "                     