@@733629

txt Fortunately , the Chief Justice of the United States , Warren Burger , is not always judicious . He let fly a vigorous essay in the guise of a concurring opinion last week which reminded us of important quarrels on the high bench concerning freedom of the press and served notice that the First Amendment rights of , say , The New York Times may one day be judged legally no greater than those of General Motors . That raises some fascinating and troubling free-speech questions and we are grateful to the Chief Justice for bringing them to the surface . Unlike him , we think they are still safely academic and we hope he will not press them toward resolution too quickly . ? The problem before the . Court appeared relatively modest : Did Massachusetts have the right to forbid corporations to lobby voters during a referendum about an income tax ? Like many states with similar laws , Massachusetts had been careful to leave corporations free to speak about everything in non-election seasons . It left them free also to participate in any referendum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imprudently , we think  --  that an income tax did not materially affect that business . So when the tax vote came , a bank and some corporations sued to speak . And now the Court , 5 to 4 , has struck down the law . We do not particularly object to this outcome . An income tax is arguably the business of a business ( " We must move our company to Connecticut because younger executives refuse to live in high-tax New York , " our corporation friends keep telling us ) . And a referendum is arguably different from an election of officeholders in that it is a one-time poll involving no long-term delegation of power to anyone . So a state 's understandable fear that corporations might use their legally nurtured economic power to overwhelm voter opinion need not justify the same prohibitions in every season or in every type of election . But we regret that in reaching its decision , the Court 's majority ventured down a tricky theoretical path , with the Chief Justice enthusiastically in the lead . To spare itself the burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muzzle a corporation , the Court turned to the theory that corporations already share most  --  though not yet all  --  of the ordinary citizen 's First Amendment rights of free speech and press . The amendment , it held , protects not only a person 's right to speak but also a community 's right to hear speech ? no matter what the source . Therefore a state that would curb corporate speech bears a heavy burden of proving it necessary . That , on the face of it , is an appealing theory ; the more debate the merrier in a democracy . It is one thing , however , to enhance corporate speech as a matter of policy , as conditions warrant . It is quite another to endow corporations  --  which are artificial " persons " created by the state  --  with more and more of the civil rights that the Constitution reserved for individuals . The speech of every person within a corporation , after all , is already fully protected . To keep augmenting the immutable rights of a legally immortal corporate body is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the state need not permit its own creation to consume it . " As if these matters were not difficult enough , the Chief Justice then added his personal warning that the freedom of the press is not only similar to any other corporation 's but may in fact come to depend on it . Two lines of his thought converge in this startling prognosis . One is that the free-press clause of the First Amendment really grants no special . standing to the institutions of the press  --  only to the idea of free speech and publication . If that is so , the Chief Justice contends , then limits on any corporation risk limiting the " media corporations " that he finds increasingly hard to distinguish from any other . But even if the Constitution were read to confer a special status on the media , he adds , then the state would have to decide who is press and who is not  --  a modern version of the dreaded licensing practice that gave rise to the free-press idea in the first place . For the Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has trouble making between a " media corporation " ? which may own paper mills ( like The Times ) or distribution agencies or even oil wells  --  and any other business . Is it really so difficult to pick out the press in a gallery of corporations ? Did the Founders who provided for freedom of the press not recognize that the owners of some presses would also own lands or slaves ? Of course they did ; yet a press was still a press and they declared it precious for the protection of other liberties . The Chief Justice may be right to foresee a potential connection between the rights of Exxon and the rights of The Times  --  in the public mind if not in the Constitution . That might be particularly so if The Times should one day acquire oil tankers while Exxon acquires a newspaper or decides to publish handbills at election time . There is a problem here worth thinking about . But for the time , at least , he is not right to drive the issue . It remains possible to distinguish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even from its own parent companies or subsidiaries that mash pulp or bind encyclopedias . ? At the moment , and the press clearly aside , the state has an obvious interest in determining how far it wants to let corporate money intrude into the political process . Corporate opinion is important  --  and it is hardly shy or hidden now . But the weight of money in our politics is also important . Let us distinguish the problems without rushing to embrace indiscriminate solutions .                     