@@733279

txt The Senate Democratic leader , Robert C. Byrd ' of West Virginia , said today that the resignation of Bert Lance , director of the , Office of Management and Budget , *5 " inevitable , " and suggested that ? Mr. Lance should resign after his appearance next Thursday before the Senate Gov*. mental Affairs Committee . Senator Byrd said that Mr. Lance should be able to present his case to the Senate committee , but that then he should step down . President Carter , questioned on a political trip to New Jersey , called Senator Byrd 's statement " balanced . " Mr. Carter also said , " I think it is fair ' to point out that Senator Byrd also emphasized his belief that Bert Lance should have a chance to explain his side of the allegation . " The President 's remarks seemed to take him further than any previous statements toward acknowledging the possibility that Mr. Lance might have to resign . Mr. Carter said that he would hold a news conference Wednesday and would be available then for questions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today were part of a growing chorus of requests for Mr. Lance 's resignation by legislators and other public figures . Meanwhile , the Internal Revenue Service report on the handling of Mr. Lance 's confirmation process by the Office of Comptroller discloses opposition within the office to some of the decisions by senior officials that benefited Mr. Lance . In many cases , according to the report , subordinates had complained that the actions were unjustified or improper . Asked in New Jersey whether he knew of any other difficulties concerning Mr. Lance before nominating him , Mr. Carter said : " No , I did n't . " However , White House aides acknowledged that members of the transition team preparing for Mr. Carter 's assumption of office had been apprised of a Federal Bureau of Investigation report indicating that the former Georgia banker had some problems relating to overdrafts . The bureau report contained information that the Lance family had a total of $500,000 in bank overdrafts in 1973 and 1974 . The initial bureau information was passed to Matt Coffey , a transition team member , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his choice to head the budget office . Mr. Coffey passed the information on to Jack H. Watson , a close personal aide of Carter 's who is now secretary of the Cabinet . But apparently both Mr. Coffey and Mr. Watson regarded the report as being too fragmentary and too late to pass on to Mr. Carter , Senator Byrd , one of the most powerful figures in Congress , said the damage to President Carter 's standing from the Lance affair was " not irreparable " thus far , but could become so by January or February if Mr. Lance remained in office and if Mr. Carter did not force his resignation . But Mr. Byrd indicated that he did not expect that to happen . " Mr. Lance 's effectiveness has been destroyed , " Mr. Byrd told reporters in his Capitol Hill office . " The cloud of suspicion is continuing to broaden and it will not be possible for him to regain his credibility . " It is inevitable that he will resign . I think he should have his say before the committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have discussed the Lance case with the President at the White House Sept. 2 and again in a telephone conversation initiated by the Senator last Tuesday . He would not divulge what he had told . Mr. Carter , saying , " My conversations with the President were private and personal , and I 'd rather leave them in that privileged status . " President Carter responded to Mr. Byrd 's statements at the foot of the ramp of Air Force One , the Presidential aircraft , just before leaving Newark Airport . Asked if the Lance matter was weighing on his mind , Mr. Carter said : " I think about it every now and then . " In response to a question about a report that he had been briefed by Mr. Lance on the latter 's financial difficulties two days before he nominated his longtime friend to be budget director , the President said : " I knew only that there had been a problem with the ' 74 campaign , " when Mr. Lance had been an-unsuccessful candidate for governor of Georgia , " and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Byrd 's statement , Robert Dietsch , a spokesman for Mr. Lance , said : " He has no intention of resigning . He is looking forward to presenting his case before the committee on Thursday . And he certainly is looking forward to answering the allegations raised by Senator Percy . " Senator Charles H. Percy of Illinois , the ranking Republican on the Governmental Affairs Committee , suggested yesterday that Mr. Lance might have backdated $196,426 worth of checks this year in order to take a tax deduction for 1976 . Other members of Congress who have joined in the demand for Mr. Lance 's resignation include Senator Adlai E. Stevenson 3d , Democrat of Ilinois , who called the budget director an " impediment " for the Administration , and Representative William J. Hughes , Democrat of New Jersey , who said that the President should ? " take whatever steps are necessary to remove him . " When Senator Byrd was asked it he believed President Carter knew about finanoial practices that have brought Mr. Lance under attack before he was appointed , Senator Byrd first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then added : " I prefer to believe that the President was not aware of these things . " Asked why Mr. Lance should wait until Thursday to resign if his position had become untenable , the Senator said : " He 's stated that the charges against him have been publicly aired and he wants the opportunity to publicly answer those charges . ' Senator Byrd insisted that in recommending , Mr. Lance 's departure from office he was not prejudging the case . " I do n't know what information , what evidence , the committee or the Justice Department has , " he said . He added that he had " only been able to read the media 's presentation " of the report of an investigation of Mr. Lance 's banking problems , carried out by the Comptroller of the Currency , John G. Heimann . " But I do think , " Mr. Byrd said , " that the O.M.B. should not be impaired by the ineffectiveness of a director who can not carry out his duties . Someone else should take on the responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that although at least one poll had reported some damage to President Carter 's standing from the Lance affair , " I do n't think the damage done is irreparable . " He added that he did not think any " slippage " in Mr. Carter 's capacity for getting cooperation from Congress would be permanent . But with the ratification fight over the Panama Canal treaties clearly in mind , Mr. Byrd indirectly warned the President not to delay a decision on Mr. Lance . He said it was " conceivable that if these things went on for some time , " Mr. Carter could suffer a serious erosion of support on Capitol Hill . " If Mr. Lance did n't go , and if the President did n't force his resignation , then by January or February it could be damaging , " Mr. Byrd said . Those are the months when he expects the Senate to be debating the Panama pacts . Asked if he believed that the disclosures about Mr. Lance constituted " an indictment of the whole confirmation process , " Mr. Byrd said " yes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery " for confirming Presidential nominees , which he called " adequate , " and the process that was usually followed , particularly for Cabinet-level appointments . " I 'd say yes , it is an indictment ? of the process , " he said . " In all too many instances confirmations have been rubber-stamped . This was true of other AdThe New York limes Senator Robert C. Byrd ministrations and I suppose it was true from the beginning . " There is the general feeling that the President should have the people he wants . I have taken that attitude myself , sometimes . But it would appear now that this is not sufficient . I believe our responsibilities go deeper than that . "                     