@@728404

txt President Gamal adel Nasser of Egypt is pressipg ' the Soviet Union for MIG-23 fighter planes and scientific aid to intercept the Israeli bombers that have been flying almost at will over his country . However , he is hesitating about asking for Russian pilots to join the middle east war . This is a delicate question , he said in an interview at the presidential residence here last night . Threatens Retaliation " I have to think about that , but also I have to say something , " he said . " If these air raids reach the industrial centers , this will not only be the industrial centers of Egypt . It will also be the industrial centers of Israel . " ? Nasser took an unyielding position against making territorial concessions to Israel and dismissed a suggestion of limited cease-fires during Jewish and Moslem religious holidays . When the recorded interview was over , he said that the United States would lose its economic interests in the Arab world in less than two years if it , furnished more Phantom jet planes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a government Telex line to assure that an uncensored transcript of his remarks would leave Cairo . He listed the following points : He can not accept giving Israel one inch of Arab territory . He wants peace , but peace means the complete evacuation of Israeli-occupied territories , a solution of the Palestinian refugee- problem , and creation of a nonfanatical , multirsligious Israeli nation . " After that , the recognition of Israel , the right of Israel to exist , the freedom of navigaGamal Abdel Nasser tion in the Suez canal , then there will be peace , " he said . " There will be no need ' of police forces , no need of demilitarized zones , because if we solve the refugee problern and Israel declares about the borders without expansion there will be a solution . " He was sure Israel wants more and more territory , not only everything it conquered in the June , 1967 , war but more in the next generation . He said his central commit . tee has been discussing whether to agree to a partial settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Jerusalem and the west bank of the Suez canal but nobody agreed about that . He said the only border rectifications they had in mind were minor adjustments to accommodate ? villages that were partly one one side of a border and partly on the other . Planned No Attack Nasser said he had no plan for an attack on Israel in June 1967 . " We were not capable to attack Israel at that time because a big part of our army was in Yemen  --  about three divions , " he said . The interview took place in a spare room in the official residence where Nasser lived 20 years ago when he was a colonel . Tho he complained that former President Johnson had tried to dominate him , he had a photograph of Johnson on a table , along with a picture of Kwame Nkrumah , former president of Ghana . He seemed in good health , despite rumors that he has diabetes and circulatory disorders . His language was tough , but his manner was quiet , even modest . His major theme was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconstruction of his country , but that he had been diverted from this to the defense of Egypt thru the aggressive ambitions of Israel , the faithlessness of the United States and Britain , and the determination of the Jews to poison relations between Cairo and Washington . Nasser said he had not tried to get the newest Russian fighter plane , the MIG-23 , until two months ago , but he conceded that , even if Egypt did get these planes , they would not give him the striking power of the American Phantoms in an escalating war . The interview became paradoxical , even contradictory . On the one band Nasser was remarkably frank about Israel 's superior military equipment , technology , and support from the United States . On the other hand , he was defiant of Israel and of the United States and sensitive to any suggestion that his country might be backward and ineffective .                     