@@734487

txt A referendum beginning here today on the new Islamic constitution overshadowed the news of the deposed Shah 's flight from New York to a military hospital in Texas . A check of various areas indicated a light turnout on the first of two days of voting , and there were reports of resistance in several of the outlying provinces where the country 's ethnic minorities live . Neither Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ' nor the Islamic students holding the American Embassy and 50 hostages indicated immediately whether they would change their position because of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi 's having left a private hospital and becoming , in effect , a guest of the United States Government . Constitution Is Much Changed Both Ayatollah Khomeini and the students say that the hostages have been " proven to be spies " by papers they say were found in the embassy and will be tried by an Islamic court unless the Shah is returned here . They have also said . that if the Shah was sent to another country , it would be " a worse crime " by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an Assembly of Experts dominated by the clergy , was drastically different from earlier drafts that gave virtually all power to the Assembly . Its most striking feature is the establishment of an all-powerful leader  --  or a Faghi ? with the authority to dismiss the elected President , name the top military and judicial authorities , declare war and grant amnesty . The leader would serve as a delegate of the 12th or Hidden Imam , who Shiite Moslems believe disappeared in the 11th century and will some day return as a Redeemer . The qualifications for the leader are // that he be " just , pious , enlightened , courageous , sagacious and competent to manage affairs " and that he be " known and accepted as a leader by the majority of people . " The constitution must , for now , center absolute authority in the person of Ayatollah Khomeini . For the past few days the Persian language press , radio and television have been filled with exhortations to vote for the constitution . Last spring , soon after the revolution , a referendum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authorities said was 98.2 percent approval and a turnout considerably larger ? than the projected number of eligible voters . Participation , however , was down sharply in voting this summer for the Assembly of Experts , and there were charges of voting irregularities . The proposed constitution has been criticized by a number of political groups , notably by liberal groups such as the Bar Association and the National Democratic Front , by the guerrilla groups , the Marxist Fedayeen and the Islamic Mujahedeen , and by a number of political parties . Most of these have called for nonparticipation rather than opposition . Other prominent figures , such as former Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan and Ayatollah Kazem Shariat-Madari , have said that people should vote because of the crisis facing the nation , but their endorsements of the constitution have been lukewarm with strong hints of reservations . Khomeini Votes on Television Throughout the , country , ballot boxes have been placed in the open and are tended by volunteers , most of them supplied by neighborhood mosques . The ballot has two parts : a green slip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ green is the color of Islam , it has a certain significance here . When Ayatollah Khomeini cast his green ballot of approval in the holy city of Qum at 9:30 this morning , the scene was televised . A spot check of representative neighborhoods in Teheran indicated that the early turnout was relatively light and it appeared that there were problems among ethnic and tribal groups who have been demanding regional autonomy in the border provinces Ayatollah Khomeini issued a special appeal for the constitution to " Kurdish , Baluchi , Turkoman and other Sunni brothers . " In the past such appeals to brotherhood have been a precursor of violent uprisings . The new constitution would make the Shiite sect of Islam the official state religion , to the discomfort of the followers of the Sunni branch . Hojjatoleslam Hashemi Rafsanjani , the supervisor of the Interior Ministry , warned of " clashes and plots " in Kurdistan and in Azerbaijan , the Turkish-dialect-speaking area in the northwest containing the largest ethnic minority , about 4 million people . In the mountains of Kurdistan , where tribesmen have long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few people voted . In Mehabad , one of Kurdistan 's principal towns , 37 polling places were set up this morning , but the ballot boxes were immediately removed from 36 of them . The remaining ballot box , in an army barracks , was used primarily by members of the Communists ' Tudeh Party , which is supporting the constitution . But as the box was being taken to election headquarters , a crowd attacked and the box was burned . In the southeastern province of Baluchistan , the state news agency reported , Baluchi tribesmen had kidnapped a provincial official and set fire to a polling place .                     