@@730230

txt Sen. Edmund S. Muskie refused today to endorse Sen. George S. . Muskie declared that he remains a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination . At the same time , Muskie urged those delegates and supporters who are committed to his candidacy to continue their support . The Maine Democrat and former front-runner told a standing-room-only audience at the National Press Club that to turn over his delegates to now " would make a mockery of the arduous process by which delegates have been selected and send them to the convention with nothing to decide . " Revives Ills Candidacy Muskie , who withdrew as an active primary participant after defeats in the Pennsylvania and Massachusetts primaries in April , has , in effect , revived his candidacy . Campaigning in New York today , ? said that while he had hoped for Muskie 's endorsement , his decision to withhold support " was the proper one . " Will Be Active Candidate Shortly after Muskie concluded his speech , Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota vowed that he , too , would remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall continue as an active candidate , " he told a press conference in Washington a n d pledged to continue seeking delegates to the convention and work for a platform " that will command the allegiance and support of all major elements in the party . " Like Muskie , Humphrey said there must be " full and free participation " by the delegates to the convention . The decisions , he added , " are not going to be made by the pollsters , pundits , or the press . " In making his decision not to endorse and to continue his bid for the nomination , Muskie said the delegate selection process has not been completed . He cited the New York primary on June 20 with its bloc of 278 delegates , as well as those delegates to be selected at state conventions . Muskie noted that worked hard since the 1988 Democratic convention to reform the delegate selection process so as to make the 1972 convention " an assembly of free delegates , representative of their states and able to exercise their personal judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , power , or influence to give the party 's nomination . That power belongs to the party convention , Muskie said . Muskie also rejected t h e suggestion that by giving his endorsement to , it would unify the Democratic Party and strengthen its chances of winning the Presidency in November . " No man can hand George a united party , " Muskie said . " Party unity is not achieved with the magic wand of the kingmaker , " Would Bypass Reforms He said he could not take that step , a step he declared would bypass the party r e - forms and thus subvert it . " The nominee of the party must be selected in open convention , " Muskie said " The decision should not be made weeks in advance for whatever purpose or for whatever high motivation , " He urged to consult with party leaders and to reexamine and define his positions on the critical campaign issues . " For my part , I will continue as a candidate for my party 's nomination , " Muskie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me to continue to do so . Our numbers are far less signficant than the reasons we stand together . " Not an Easy Course " " I invite uncommitted delegates to join with me in seeking to commit our party to responsible change . " I am perfectly aware that this is not an easy course for me or for my delegates . It is a tempting process to receive the glory and deliver the decisive stroke . It promises a seat of honor in the councils of the candidate from which to chart the party 's course . " But when all is said and done , the seat is on the bandwagon and an honorable man before he mounts must be convinced that his party would enjoy the ride . " Muskie has 165 delegates which were won in early primaries or at state conventions in nonprimary states .                     