@@734146

txt A SUIT FILED Monday by the acting public guardian of Cook County charges that the Illinois Department of Mental Health and the University of Chicago conducted experimental cancer surgery on mentally handicapped persons in the issos and 1960s . The guardian , Patrick Murphy , charged in the Circuit Court suit that an undetermined number of residents of the state mental health facility in Manteno underwent surgical removal of their adrenal glands at a University of Chicago hospital . The suit says the patients were not informed of the purpose of the surgery and their consent to perform the operations was not sought . CHARGING that those actions violated the civil rights of the patients , the suit asks the court for a temporary restraining order preventing the Department of Mental Health and the university from destroying any records of such surgery until Murphy has had a chance to examine them . ' In the suit , Murphy charged that records of the experimental operations still exist in a basement room at Manteno Mental Health Center , adding that he has " reason to believe that mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ h Murphy gave no indication m the suit as to what led him to believe such surgery had been performed , other than to state that he is " responsible for 500 persons presently in mental wards in the state , and that about 100 of these persons were confined in Manteno at the time of the surgeries . " MURPHY SAID he was informed " that'the University of Chicago was doing experimentation on prostate cancer and the effect of adrenaline on such cancer . The apparent reason for such ' surgery was merely to determine the connection between adrenaline and cancer . " A team of consultants would select patients from the so-called back wards at Manteno and transport them to Billings Hospital , where the surgery was performed . " Once the surge ' , was palormed , the patients would be returned to Manteno , but no record of the surgery was included in the patient 's file , nor was there any notation of it on any public record . " The complaint says that results of this surgery could have caused a " deteriorating physical condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " A spokesman for the University of Chicago said , " I understand such a suit has been filed but , because we have not yet been able to examine the contents of the suit , we can not respond at this time . " Attempts by The Tribune to reach Dr. Robert deVito , director of the Department of Mental Health and a defendant in the suit , for comment were unsuccessful .                     