@@733607

txt President Carter 's three-day Western trip next week will test the " new Carter . " The White House has decided to be inure positive , more forceful , more aggressive , according to staff members . The White House has transferred Anne Wexler , considered by some a top political professional , from the Commerce Department to the senior White House staff . Robert . S. Strauss , former Democratic National Committee chairman , has been brought in to deal with management and labor on the anti-inflation front . And at a stock taking with staff and full Cabinet at Camp David at a two-day meeting , Mr. Carter made clear that he wanted better teamwork , improved liaison , and firmer control . The process has already begun , Analysis buoyed by the hard-won victory on the Panama Canal treaties and by the stock market , which , for a time anyway , has been more lively . In three electrifying days it bounced up 60 points . The market may not prove that Mr. Carter has restored " business confidence , " the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will help inaugurate " Sun Day , " a festival designed to promote solar energy , at Golden , Colorado , May 3 . The government 's new Solar Energy Research Institute is at Golden . The President will give an address in Los Angeles May 4 ; hold a regional press conference , according to present plans , in Portland , Oregon ; and , on Friday the 5th , hold a town meeting with a question-and-answer session in Spokane , Washington . President Carter identifies himself with harry Truman , another Democrat who had trouble with Congress and with his image , although Mr. Truman has since become something of a folk hero . Both men fell steadily in the opinion polls . Mr. Carter 's was around -5 percent when elected and is down to 50 percent in the latest CBS/New York Times poll ; the Louis Harris poll reports that 36 percent now approve his performance in office , while 62 percent do not . Mr. Truman was worse than that : Just before the 1948 election , polls showed Thomas E. Dewey a sure winner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 to I against Mr. Truman . That left President Truman cackling happily over the radio next day and holding up an early edition of the Chicago Tribune proclaiming " Dewey defeats Truman . " This year , like 1946 , is a midterm elec*Please turn to Page 14 From page 1 New Carter ' heads for a road show tion year , in which the " out " party , which does not control the White House , normally niakes gains . With the exception of 1934 , this pattern has repeated itself for almost a century . In the great Truman slump at the midterm election of 1946 Republicans gained 56 seats . It as widely believed that he would be a one  --  erm president . Congress 's stripe different There appears to be no such devastating slump for Mr. Carter in 1978 , although his ratings have dropped substantially . The general belief here is that Republicans should pick up 20 to 30 seats this fall . An anomoly is that Mr. Carter is having trouble with a Democratic Congress which , for example , has held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Truman had the simpler situation of being able to denounce the Republican " no-good 80th Congress . " Mr. Carter 's comments about the 95th Congress have been somewhat more tart since the meeting at Camp David . lie has not yet been willing to assume the Truman role of a game fighter who is also an underdog . He called in the full Cabinet April 24 for the first time since the Camp David re-evaluation . A major issue was the still-delayed energy bill . The President must decide whether to go ahead with the package warplane deal with Saudi Arabia and Egypt , over the protest of Israel . Senate majority leader Robert C. Byrd ( D ) of West Virginia recommended April 22 that the White House postpone the plan to give more time to lay the groundwork .                     