@@731524

txt Nearly one year after the October war , Israelis are still reeling from its blows . Confidence in the nation 's future does not go unquestioned anymore . Many an Israeli fears the state can survive only through a series of recurrent wars , with all the human and material loss this entails . The pre-dawn clash Wednesday between an Israeli Army patrol and a group of armed Arab infiltrators from Lebanon served Israelis as a re-minder . It resulted in four Israeli soldiers wounded and two infiltrators killed . The day before , two other Palestinians were killed as they tried to cross from Lebanon into Israel 's western Galilee . Army investigators say Tuesday 's group aimed at taking hostages to force the release of 20 prisoners ' from Israel . But it is not only the security aspect that casts gloom over the mood of Israelis . Contributing to it is the attitude of those very same Israelis who areprepared to give their lives on the battlefield but conduct wage struggles as if they were living in an oasis of peaceful affluence . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Israel today , you can not be sure it will arrive . Telex operators are on strike for higher pay . The strike committee allows only cables that are in the national interest , " the decision being left to the clerk who happens to h. , on duty . Nearly 50,000 undelivered messages are said to have piled up so far . // *Israel : behind vigilance , gloom // Similarly , pandemonium reigned at Tel Aviv 's Ben Gurion Airport for three clays this week when the El Al Israel Airlines maintenance staff , among the highest paid workers in the country , launched without warning a go-slow strike In support of higher wage demands and topped it with totally halting the operations of their national airline for half a day . Official trip The Minister of Transport , Gad Jacobi , had to be rushed home posthaste from an official trip to London to deal with the crisis . He succeeded for one day . But on the morrow , disruptions happened again and only three out of eight scheduled El Al flights took off Wednesday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate four times as high as in Western countries , even according to official figures , which could be manipulated . Israel 's economic leaders have even less success in coping with inflation than their counterparts in Western countries , and they may even be less equipped for it . The Finance Minister , Yehoshua Rabinovitz , was once a teacher who became mayor of Tel Aviv . He missed reelection last December , when his opponent accused him of poor city management . The Labor Party compensated him with a Cabinet post , first as Minister of Housing and then as successor to Pinhas Sapir at the head of the Treasury . The other key economic figure , whose task would be to check inflation , is the Minister of Trade and Industry , Haim Bar-Lev . A distinguished soldier and successful former chief of the general staff , Mr. Bar-Lev is less impressive when it comes to practical experience In the economic field . His expertise is limited to spells of theoretical studies at American and French universities whenever the Army could spare him . The galaxy of successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasional participant in high-level economic policy-making here . In one point , though , the Israeli financial establishment seems to be ahead of other countries . Here the authorities , as once admitted at the trial of an illegal foreign currency dealer , control even the black market . By infiltrating the black market with undercover agents , they have managed to keep the black market rate of the dollar and other hard currencies virtually unchanged over tha past year or so . Brittle majority However one should not be too harsh with the government for shying away from drastic decisions , economic or political-security ones alike . For the Rabin-Peres team , which stepped into the shoes of the Meir- Dayan government less then four months ago , is still fighting for its parliamentary survival . Its majority is as brittle us it is minuscule and exposes it to constant pressure from hawks and doves alike . I t is for this reason that Prime Minister Rabin has been negotiating for several weeks with the National Religious Party on a widening of his coalition through concessions to that party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viability into the government , but at the same time limit its maneuverability in questions of territorial compromise in any Israel-Arab arrangement . Incomplete picture Yet this is not a complete picture of the situation ? but only of its shady side . There is also a growing wave of volunteering for pioneering tasks noticeable here . Some give their time to help new immigrants in settlements and guide them through the early problems of their new life . Others go for teaching spells and welfare work to development towns . Also , there are groups of Israelis , including university graduates , whose aim is to settle in sparsely populated danger and stress areas . These efforts , though , are accepted features of Israeli life and therefore less discussed by the media than the current spate of negative phenomena . Yet many feel they may prove in the long run of more lasting value for this country .                     