@@733298

txt Some liberals , President Carter observed drily last spring , are hard to please : " If they get 95 percent of what they want , they can only remember the other 5 percent . " That problem seems to be afflicting the patient effort to revise and reform the Federal criminal laws . This major undertaking would streamline into 350 pages the 1,500 pages of law that have piled up , with no more logic than coral , since 1789 . It would chip away some of the worst encrustations and introduce some progressive provisions  --  notably a sensibly designed system of criminal sentencing . And , after a checkered 11-year history , the undertaking looks practical . It has , after all won support from spokesmen for such divergent views of crime as Senator McClellan , Senator Kennedy and Attorney General Bell . And yet , just as the criminal law reform bill has at last begun to make headway in Congress , some rifle fire is heard . Lawyers sensitized by the protests of the 1960 's fear some of the new provisions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at The Los Angeles Times have come out against the reform bill , arguing that it " directly threatens and potentially threatens many areas of American freedom . " Such hard words surely applied to the law reform bill that preceded the present one . The 800 pages of the old " S. 1 " were studded with repressive inspirations from the Nixon years ; that bill deserved to die . But we find ourselves puzzled by the heat of some of this criticism of the new reform measure , S. 1437 . The new bill is needed and deserves to be enacted . ? S.1437 is not perfect ; that 's ; mpossible in an undertaking of such size and complexity . We have our own doubts about some provisions , such as a benignly intended limitation on press gag orders . Or a new provision requiring obedience to the public safety orders of any Federal employee in time of fire , flood or riot . Fires and floods are rarely political , but alumni of , say , the New Mobe are entitled to wonder who decides what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the bill , and ample time remains for such detailed objections to be heard and addressed . But not even attentive concern to such details can meet a different kind of objection raised by some critics . This might be called the " lost opportunity " objection : That is , since criminal code revision is rare , objectionable current laws should not be allowed to pass into a new code without improvement . Civil liberties lawyers criticize S. 1437 , for example , because it provides for overbroad prosecutions for conspiracy ; and because it creates an ostensibly new offense called " criminal solicitation . " But these provisions are similar to present law  --  deliberately so . The bill 's sponsors believe the only way its benefits can be enacted is to bypass as many other controversies as possible . ? What are these benefits ? There are many specific ones , such as the enlightened proposal to narrow judges ' discretion in sentencing ? so as to minimize gross disparities in prison terms . Other provisions would abolish the Smith Act , which still makes it a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve laws dealing with rape , civil rights , sex discrimination and the mentally ill . More important than any specific provision is the overall revision . S.1437 would for the first time give the Federal Criminal Code a logical format with consistent definitions , a uniform scale of sentences and a clearer array of offenses . Some may deprecate the whole reform effort as an exercise in empty , perhaps even risky , tidiness . We disagree . S.1437 is not ideal . By all means let the critics and Congress seek to eliminate problems that cause even 5 percent concern . But let that concern not obstruct achieving the other 95 percent .                     