@@732165

txt Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Of Raised Fists and Human Rights To the Editor : Newspaper photos have revealed an unlikely link between three Americans : an assassin , Lee Harvey Oswald ; an abortionist , Dr. Kenneth Edelin , and an urban terrorist , Patricia Hearst . Each has been photographed with the raised-fist salute . What is the meaning of the fist ? Does it reveal some deep bond between these three people who have never spoken to one another ? What does it mean for our society ? The raised fist , that distortion of the human hand and spirit , symbolizes the most serious threat to human society and its progress that has . ever gained away over men 's minds . It is the concept of violence as a legitimate human resource . We see this infection everywhere in the world today and the - lesson is clear to anyone who raises his head above the deafening propaganda . Violence begets violence . Violence defends violence and those who use it for personal or ideologic goals are co-opted into its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together those states that first raised assassination , terror and abortion to the level of civic virtue . These states have not escaped its inevitable totalitarian consequences , nor can we unless we face the problem squarely . The infection can not be controlled unless we reject it completely . Totalitarian control over any individuals will eventually lead to slavery for all , On Punishing a City ? To the Editor : Vincent K. Hubbard letter Oct. 1 has made ? the monstrous suggestion that New York be allowed " to sink " ? in the interests of gaining humility . It seems that Mr. Hubbard , a transplanted Tennessean , has taken umbrage at " the more vocal " New Yorkers who , he claims , have a snobbish attitude toward others living west of the Hudson and have even sought to tell them how to conduct their local affairs . To slap the wrists of these voluble villains , he proposes that the city be allowed to go broke . If Mr. Hubbard knew more about New Yorkers , he 'd know that almost everyone here is vocal : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , . old people , shopkeepers , city bond holders ( large and small ) , and all the other assorted denizens of this great melting pot which has opened its arms in welcome to allcomers , including Tennesseans . Articulation is n't a crime in this country ; neither is having ? nasty thoughts about other parts of the country . Nevertheless , Mr. Hubbard advocates a punishment for those infractions . In his orchestration , all New ? Yorkers , the humble as well as the proud , should suffer because some have seen fit to tell others how to handle their business . A city ca n't be punished  --  only the people living in it , as their schools cease functioning , their stores close , The Right to Bail To the Editor : According to your Sept. 22 news article on Patricia Hearst , the Federal Bail Reform Act provides that the defendant in a noncapital case must be released pending trial unless it is unlikely that he or she will return to face the charges . The description of the statutory provision is , literally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of release " must be allowed even when there is a possibility of flight . In such cases the condition of release usually imposed is a bail bond in a high amount so that the defendant will find it difficult or impossible to obtain a bondsman even if he has the means to pay the premium . But the defendant may not be jailed without any chance of release unless he has been convicted after trial or plea of guilty , and then only it there is a risk of flight or danger if he were allowed to remain free pending sentencing or appeal . The purpose of the Bail Reform Act of 1966 was to encourage the use of methods less onerous than bail bonds to insure the accused 's appearance for trial . The act specifically provides for release on personal recognizance or to the custody of responsible members of the community and several other alternatives to the imposition of a money bond . However , the availability to the accused of bail in a reasonable amount , if some other " condition of release " will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right in Federal noncapital cases . As the Supreme Court wrote in Stack v. Boyle , " Unless this right to bail before trial is preserved , the presumption of innocence , secured only after centuries of struggle , would lose its meaning . " FRANKLIN S. BONEM New York , Sept. 24 , 1975 and the Supreme Court 's decision to classify all unborn children as slaves subject to violent . destruction by the medical profession represents a giant step toward a totalitarian state . The Court can not raise the fist in one area without accepting it in others . If we are to insist on social progress , political change and national security measures free of violence , we can not have millions degraded by a more sinister violence under the guise of personal privilege . The human hand was designed to create , to care , to caress and to heal . Its power is crippled by the fist and individual creativity is trapped by its narrow uses ; just as the real power in any society is stunted and corrupted by violence . America has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the retrogressive trend in human affairs signified by the fist . It is our mission to show the world how to create , to heal , to caress and to care . First , let us restore the Constitution with a human-life amendment , demonstrating our sensitivity for the defenseless and our absolute respect for individual human rights . Then our individual acts and national policy should be guided by the principle that every human life should achieve its greatest potential . This goal is the burden of all free men . BART T. HEFFERNAN , M.D. Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , Sept. 25 , 1975 Ell Mauldin their jobs end , their savings vanish ? and they begin to starve . I wonder how many of these people who are to take the brunt of this disaster , if it occurs , have been guilty of giving advice to other communities . I do n't happen to know any Tennesseans , but judging from the evidence at hand , and borrowing for a moment Mr. Hubbard 's logic mechanisms , it 's obvious that all Tennesseans have enlarged spleens and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital for corrective surgery ? at the individual 's expense . DAVID D. MICHAELS New York , Oct. 1 , 1975 To Sentence a Criminal To ' the Editor : State Senator Ralph Marino 's suggestion that New York City judges are soft on crime , citing the disparities between sentences imposed by upstate and downstate judges , presents a false picture of the criminal-justice system . New York City judges are virtually forced to promise lower sentences to criminals to stave off the collapse of the criminal courts , and they accomplish this by widespread plea bargaining arrangements . Upstate courts are not so crowded and can more often proceed to a speedy trial of major felony cases than can the judges in big cities . Senator Marino 's simplistic proposal to equalize sentences around the state by depriving judges of discretion in sentencing will destroy our civilized concept that the punishment should fit the crime and the criminal . The 2 to 3 per cent disparity in sentences between upstate and downstate courts does not justify comparing apples and oranges , as the Senator has done , and saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more light and less heat is what we need to solve our crime problems . THOMAS RUSSELL JONES Justice , N.Y . State Supreme Court Brooklyn , Oct. 6 , 1975 Citizens ' Examples To the Editor : The Federal deficit is the highest in our history ; many states and cities are nearly broke , while New York City is actually bankrupt and totters on default . My question : By what logic is the individual citizen expected to be solvent ? ALFRED GESCHEIDT Chappaqua , N. Y. , Sept. 30 , 1975 To Teach the Children To the Editor : Ronald Kerwin 's Sept. 30 letter on teachers , jobs and teacher education takes a very shortsighted view of a complex problem . In no other profession has there been , such sharp , immediate and drastic reaction as there has been to teacher supply and demand . In 1966 , when New York City had a teacher shortfall of over 2,000 , I was associate director of an Intensive Teacher Training Program ( I.T.T.P. ) , which attempted to " train " college graduates for teaching positions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but by no means in all areas , Mr. Kerwin proposes in effect the dismantling of teacher education programs altogether and a moratorium on the preparation of new teachers . The hysteria of one decade presses colleges to prepare teachers for certificates and licenses much more rapidly than is prudent . The hysteria of the next proposes to eliminate teacher education programs entirely . Neither approach is sound . Colleges should have the opportunity to deverop sustained standards of excellence to assure effective teaching in urban schools . The various schools and departments of education of the City University ' have undertaken a partnership arrangement with many of the public high schools in a program of mutual help which offers good potential for establishing new patterns of collegeschool-community cooperation . Furthermore , new functions should be undertaken to include the in-service training of teachers , as Mr. Kerwin stiggests , as well as to develop programs for the education of parents in child rearing , the preparation of professionals for day-care centers , the retraining of the unemployed for new positions and the aged for self-enrichment in a systematic approach to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Educational Statistics anticipates that 1.8 million new teachers or " returnees to the profession " will be needed between now and 1981 . Under the circumstances care must be exercised that colleges retain the capacity to prepare teachers and school administrators at a level of proficiency and commitment worthy of the children of this city . GERALD LEINWAND Dean , School of Education Baruch College New York , Oct. 3 , 1975 ? The ' Prdper Challenge To the Editor : When United States Ambassador to the U.N . Patrick Moynihan called Idi Amin of Uganda a " racist murderer , " he was speaking accurately . Amin has murdered thousands of black Ugandan tribesmen , executed the Chief Justice of Uganda , murdered , beaten and tortured many of his political opponents , and expelled some 60,000 Asians by cruel racist decrees . These facts have been documented by organizations affiliated with the U.N . such as the International League for the Rights of Man ; the International Commission of Jurists , and Amnesty . Ambassador Moynihan properly chal .. lenged Amin 's racist speech before the , U.N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Israel , and made insulting , lying statements vilifying the United States , Great Britain , and ' France . Third-world leaders do ' their own cause a disservice by attacking Mr. Moynihan for telling the truth . The aspirations and goals of the African states to overcome the effects of decades of colonialism deserve full support from everyone . Bat that cause does not need ' an Idi Amin , a man who flaunts his admiration for Hitler , suppresses liberties in his own country , murders political opponents and incites racism and violence . JEROME J. - SHESTACK Chairman , International League ' for the Rights of Man New York , Oct. 9 , 1975 ? Support for a Strike To the Editor : On Oct. 3 , James Reston misstated the facts when he wrote that the Newspaper Guild refused to endorse the pressmen 's strike against The Washington Post . The fact is that not only has the executive committee of the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild  --  the local to which those Washington Post employes belong  --  endorsed the strike , but so has the entire labor movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unit declined to concur in this decision does not alter the Guild 's position , which remains in support . It is unfortunate that these members could not see that their short-run gain ( by working during this period ) could become their long-term loss . I will not debate the event leading up to that morning when fire suddenly flared in The Post'spress room , but I do question Mr. ReSton 's statement that " this was no collective-bargaining power play , but a simple , vicious and planned act of sabotage . " Middle-aged men with mortgages , children in school and a history of working long hours at their jobs do not resat to such ac tionS unless pushed to the wall by a management which has proved that it is far from the liberal institution Mr. Reston describes . They do not destroy those jobs at which they have labored for  --  in most cases  --  many , many years . And the Newspaper Guild will never support the kinds of actions that The Post has built into a pattern of unionbusting while pushing one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. HOWARD President , Washington-Baltimore - Newspaper Guild Washington , Oct. 6 , 1975 '                     