@@732615

txt " There 's just no question that Jimmy Carter will help me in November , " says Democratic Sen Frank Moss of Utah " He attracts people looking for morality and a new approach to . government . He 'll keep more Democrats in the Democratic column than anyone else we could have nominated Hell even bring over a few non-Democrats . " " He 's a real plus for me , " declares freshman Democratic Rep Andrew Maguire of New Jersey . " He appeals to very broad groups ? city people and suburbanites. blacks and whites  --  and that ca n't do anything but help me . " " Jimmy Carter is the single most important thing that can help me this fall , " asserts Rep Stephen Neal of North Carolina , another freshman who won narrowly in the postWatergate election of 1974 And David Cornwell , a Democrat seeking a House seat in southwest Indiana , observes . " We 're a kind of Copperhead district , and Carter 'll bring out the vote for the whole ticket People feel he 'll really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that feeling splits over to help me " Thus , almost unanimously , several score Democratic candidates for the Senate and the House  --  incumbents and would-be incumbents , reached over the past two weeks  --  say they expect to benefit from the selection of Jimmy Carter to head their party 's ticket this fall Glasses of an Unaccustomed Color Admittedly , the Democrats are looking at things right now through rose-colored glasses of unaccustomed party unity Republican leaders certainly do n't agree with the Democratic expectations , and they predict major GOP gains in Congress in November Nonetheless , the Democratic optimists are so numerous as to be more than ordinarily convincing Southern candidates are , of course , particularly sanguine : " congressional candidates in the South are comparing the Carter nomination to the invention of the wheel , " says party chairman Robert Strauss . But the Carter-will-helpmightily prediction is also voiced with almost monotonous sameness from New England to the Midwest to California Senate and House hopefuls are convinced that Mr. Carter will ' attract large numbers of citizens who have n't been voting Democratic very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of shrinking coattails and record ticket-splitting , at least a few of these voters will remain in the Democratic column for Senate and House candidates , too . In close contests , naturally , even a few extra votes could make the difference between victory and defeat . " A Lack of Negatives " " Carter may be just as helpful in Southern California or Long Island as in South Carolina , " says Rep. James Corman , who recently replaced Rep. Wayne Hays as head of the Democratic Campaign Committee in the House " He tends to be strong in exactly those areas where Democrats have been having trouble ? the South and Border States , in Protestant areas everywhere , in the suburbs and farm areas and small towns . So many of our critical freshman seats tend to be in places like that . He helps us exactly where we need help most . " " It wo n't be the kind of coattail effect that John Kennedy had , " concedes Sen. J. Bennett Johnston . who heads the Democrats ' Senate campaign efforts . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carter 's appeal is built around acceptability , his image of reconciliation , his middle-of-theroad stance , his lack of negatives . " This last factor points up another attraction that many Democratic candidates welcome in Mr. Carter : Even if his coattails do n't pull strongly , at least he is n't likely to be the weighty millstone around their necks that George was in 1972 and that Hubert Humphrey tended to be in many areas in 1988 . " A Great Relief " " It 's a great relief , " says freshman Rep. Herbert Harris of Virginia , " not to have to be guarding your flanks all the time against Republican attacks on an ultraliberal Democratic presidential candidate . " Rep. Tim Hall , a freshman Democrat from a previously solid GOP area in Illinois , finds that " Carter is someone I can feel very comfort . able with in my diStrict  --  not someone I 'm always going to have to be disentangling myself from . " Of course , Mr. Carter could goof somewhere along the line and become less of a help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urban blue-collar workers and minorities ; for example ? have n't yet shown great enthusiasm for him . And the Democrats are clearly jittery that many incumbents might be hurt ' by recent revelations about congressional sex and expense-account , cheating . But right now , with Mr. Carter running so well in the polls against either President Ford or Ronald Reagan , the Democrats are confidently looking forward to keeping their present solid majorities In the Congress to be elected this fall . In the Senate , which they now control 82 to 38 , they are predicting they will come out plus or minus one or two seats  --  no big change in either direction . That would be an impressive feat , considering that of the 33 seats up this fall , 22 now are held by Democrats and thus many more Democratic seats are in peril than Republican ones . In the House , where Major Democratic lostes ' appeared inevitable biter the party 's striking 43-seat gain in , I974 , Democratic leaders confidently say the worst they can envision is a net lass of a.AoSen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. The Reptiblicans , of course , see November turning out quite : differently  --  though they do have their fingers crossed that the fallout from then- own presidential nominating battle wo n't damage too many GOP Senate and House candidates In any event , they count on unprecedented ticket-splitting. continued economic recovery , a gradual falloff in Mr Carter 's appeal , and a damn-allDemocrats reaction by voters to the recent scandals Thus Senate GOP Campaign Committee Chairman Ted Stevens of Alaska expresses confidence that a fine crop of GOP Senate aspirants will produce ' substantial " net gains i though another GOP strategist privately confesses that " if we can net two seats I 'd be happy as hell " House GOP Campaign Chairman Rep Guy Vander Jagt talks of gaining " 76 in ' 76. " but the committee 's executive director . Steven Stockmeyer. more modestly guesses that - we could do as poorly as a net gain of 15 or as well as 50 or 60 I certainly would be somewhat crushed if we did n't come close to recouping our 1974 losses " He concedes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be tough for us " Aiding the Candidates Mr Carter has already promised to work diligently for Democratic Senate and House candidates in marginal races Frank Moore , a longtime Carter aide , is heading a liaison group to spot the critical contests and arrange for Mr Carter to provide maximum help starring at fund-raising affairs for congressional candidates or local party organizations , meeting the candidates at the airport and having them ride with him in the motorcade , making TV spots with them for hometown use , and dropping not-so-subtle hints that a Democratic Congressman or Senator is likely to bring home a lot more bacon from a Democratic White House " Jimmy feels special affinity for the freshmen , " Mr Moore reports " He feels he helped many of them win when he was campaign coordinator in 1974. and many of them came out for him early " Naturally , Mr Carter 's motives are n't purely altruistic Most critical Senate and House races are in areas where he must run well himself , so he would be campaigning hard there anyway Moreover , confident as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majorities to help him enact his program . The more candidates he helps elect , the more IOU 's he can call in later Says Campaign Director Hamilton Jordan ? " If Jimmy wins big and he campaigns effectively for many candidates it 's going to be hard for them to say ' no ' when he comes to them on government reorganization or tax reform " While the general GOP line is that Mr Carter wo n't make much difference in the individual Senate and House battles , a few Republican candidates candidly concede that he will or might Bobby Richardson Caught Off Base " He 's just changed the whole situation for me , " says Bobby Richardson , the former New York Yankees second baseman who is running for the House from South Carolina " He is very well-regarded and popular in our state , and he 'll bring out a lot of people who otherwise might not bother to vote And our people still pretty much vote a straight ticket " Like many another Southern Republican candidate , Mr Richardson will spend a lot of time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tom Corcoran , the GOP candidate against Rep Hall in Illinois , concedes that Mr Carter 's apparent popularity induced him to get his own campaign rolling earlier than he had planned " When the Carter phenomenon began to emerge , I decided to take what precautions I could to protect myself against a possible Carter landslide , " he relates Mr Corcoran worries that Mr Carter 's conservative image . justified or not , " provides some sort of camouflage " for what he considers Rep Hall 's excessive lib-eralism All GOP candidates agree that they would have greatly preferred an ultraliberal Democratic presidential nominee . " I 'd much rather have had George again , " confesses Ed Young , who is trying to regain the South Carolina House seat he won in 1972 and lost in 1974 Declares Tennessee Sen William Brock , who is up for reelection this fall : " For 20 or 30 years now , Southern Republicans have run for the Sen. ate or House by running against the Democratic presidential nominee . We 're not going to be able to do that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that as the campaign goes on , Mr. Carter will be more widely perceived as a true liberal and will lose appeal among conservatives and moderates . " Back at the time of the Texas primary , Texans thought Carter was a conservative from the South , " says Rep Alan Steelman , who is challenging Texas Democratic Sen. , Lloyd Bentsen , " Now they 're beginning to feel that he may be from the South and all right but that his views are a lot closer to George 's than they thought . "                     