@@732830

txt The Italian Government and the Vatican have reached agreement on proposals for major revisions in the concordat that has governed church-state relations since 1929 . The proposals include abolition of the provision that recognizes Roman Catholi-1 cism as the state religion . It also involves concessions by the Vatican on marriage laws and religious education . The 1929 treaty , which resulted from secret negotiations between Mussolini and Pope Pius XI , has long been regarded as outdated in language and substance . After an equally divided commission of six had carried on negotiations for several months , Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti sent the proposals last night to Parliament , where they will he debated and perhaps changed before the revised treaty becomes final . Declining Church Influence The proposals reflect the declining influence of the Roman Catholic Church in Italy generally and of the governing Christian Democrats in particular . The Christian Democrats , who since the establishment of the republic after World War II have been the channel through which the church has exercised its influence on Italian affairs , have been unable to counter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church-state relations . Such pressures have resulted in defeats for the governing party and the Vatican on such issues as divorce , and could do so on the even more deeply felt issue of abortion . In sending the proposals to Parliament Mr. Andreotti said : " We must not only throw away the dry leaves ; we must give the trees a good pruning and give new life to the trees . " Over the years obvious contradictions and problems have arisen because of the obsolete nature of some provisions . Civil Law Differs on Divorce For example , the concordat outlaws divorce although it has been authorized under Italian law for six years . Under the proposals the concordat would no longer refer to . marriage as a sacrament , and therefore not dissoluble . Vatican officials said that although the . language w would be changed , Catholics would still regard marriage as sacramental and that church marriages would still be acceptable under civil law . Some controversy has also arisen over annulments granted by church courts ; several women whose marriages were annulled by the Vatican have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the proposals church annulments would no longer be accepted without scrutiny by the state , with couples , liable to be called before civil courts to persuade them to ratify annulments before they would have legal status . As for the schools , religious education would no longer be required . The proposals would erase the wording that states that " Italy considers fundamental and the crowning piece of public education the teaching of Christian doctrine . " L'Osservatore Romano , the Vatican newspaper , said today that while religious teaching in the schools would no longer be mandatory , it would still be available and regarded as " possessing values that could not be set aside . " Religion is generally taught , but a parent can ask that his children be excused . It would appear that under the proposals parents who wanted their children to have religious instruction would have to request it . The treaty , which would have 14 instead of 45 clauses , would also lift the church proscription on priests in public office . Church permission would no longer be required for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lose their exemption from jury service . A reference to the sacred nature of Rome would no longer be included in the concordat , which would eliminate the Vatican 's right to protest to the Italian Government when events regarded as blasphemous took place there . There are nu changes in the special tax status . enioyed by the Vatican on its vast holdings in the capital . Parliar , : entary debate on the proposals will begin next week , with the harshest reaction expected to come from the small Radical Party , which has been campaigning for abolition of the concordat . The Communist Party newspaper . L'Unitili , ; : aid the proposals represented " an objective step forward . "                     