@@732032

txt IT IS A PARADOX that China , one of the oldest and most heavily populated nations in the world , has promising new frontiers and inviting open spaces . The Chinese are busily exploring ann exploiting their new frontiers . Leaders of the People 's Republic refer to China as a " developing nation . " ? They deny that they seek influence , living space , or resources beyond their present borders . The unexploiled riches of the Chinese frontier country , like those of the United States nearly two centuries ago , could provide a safety valve to keep the Chinese from embarking on an imperialist course as far as territory is concerned . THERE IS little reason to believe , however , that the Chinese will retreat into isolation of the type that characterized the ancient Chinese empire . They are , in fact , moving aggressively to extend their influence around the world . Much of the power and wealth needed to support this outward reach for influence is coming and will come from China 's exploration of its own land , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation of American editora saw an example of China 's new frontier when we visited Ta'clang in Ileilungkiang Providence Manchuria in the extreme northeast of China . IIERE , IN WHAT had been a barren wilderness in 1950 , the Chinese oil prospectors brought in the first well of a new field in 1959 . It was accomplished with great difficulty . Workers brought to the area had no housing and were forced to live in tents until they could build their own homes , The early development of the field was crippled when Russian technicians , responding to orders from then-Premier Nikita Khrushchev , pulled out and went home in 1960 , revoking coo. tracts to supply pipe and machinery . Within three years , however , Ta'ehing had developed into a producing oil field , and it now ranks among the top producing fields in China . It has its own refinsoy and a pipeline leading to the seaport ArDairen. ? - TATiiiNG IS A sort of case history of fie contribution that new frontier territ Cies are making to the progress of ehina . Twenty years ago it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Today it has a population of 400,000 l settlers brought in from all over China . tTany of them are young unmarried tirkers from crowded big cities such as Stenghal and Peking . an addition to the development of the rit fields , Ta'cliing has a petrochemical plant , food processing plants , fertilizer Prits , and a variety of machinery and 1 ether manufacturing plants , - WIVES AND families of the oil work-a developed an agricultural industry ' ta , support the oil industry . Largely thru woman power they opened up 48,000 acres of land and now raise wheat and Vegetables during the brief five-month wing season . Zs a result , Ta'ching is nearly self-suf , Vent in food . The area , once barren of trees , also is being reforested . Most of ta highways are lined with sapling pop-Ins that soften the harsh landscape .  --  , Recause the area is new , planners de-Pled from traditional city-country arrangements . There is no central city in I Ta'ching . The settlement consists of a axles of what the Chinese call " ogreinclustrial villages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , each with trent 3 to 5 housing complexes and each viiih its own shops , grain mills , small iiniustries , schools , postoffices , and ! with clinics. an all , Ta'ching has 280 schools and a University . Children of school age are in school and 90 per cent of the housewives work on the farms or in the industries of their administrative centers . Most important , Ta'ching is making a contribution to the industry that is expected to propel China to a position of economic leadership in the world . Enormous , amounts of capital will be required to convert China into a truly modern industrial country . Oil from Ta'ching and other developing oil fields is expected to provide that capital . CHINA SURPRISED the experts by bringing in big producing oil wells in Ta'ching . For years geologists had predicted that China 's progress would be hobbled by a lack of petroleum , altho it had a record of producing oil fields as early as 211 B. C. Now China , even the its present output is small on the world scale , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . China does not disclose figures on the production from its 100 oil fields , but foreign observers with Chinese sources put present production at 1.3 million barrels a day , with a rate of increase of 30 per cent a year . Estimates of its reserves range widely . The last Chinese estimate was issued in 1986 , and the total wad 50 billi6n barrels in proved , probable , and potential reserves . This compares with the 40 billion barrel reserve that has been estimated for the North Sea oil field . The Chinese estimate would place China among the first 10 nations of the world in oil reserves . - THE JAPANESE , who have been permitted to visit many of China 's oil fields , have estimated China 's reserves at 33 billion barrels on shore and 50 billion barrels or more off shore . China now exports about 100,000 barrels a day to Japan . It is high quality crude , almost sulfur-free , which is vitally important to pollution-conscious Japan . The Japanese , who are eager to share In the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ing as much as 3 million barrels a day from China in 1980 . Trade of this magnitude could yield foreign exchange of about $4 billion a year to China to finance its Industrial and agricultural expansion . OTHER BORDER regions of China appear to be as promising for development as Ta'ching . One of the richest among them is the autonomous region of Sinkiang , which is thinly populated and has rich deposits of tungsten , wolfram , molybdenum , copper , zinc , coal , uranium , and oil . One of the most remarkable frontier developments in China , however , is happening in such old and long-settled prey-Moos as Henan in the center of China . Here in the Tai Hang Mountains In Hui Hsien County  --  a rocky , arid , wasteland until a few years ago  --  the Chinese are creating new land for agriculture . They are building dams in the rivers to create reservoirs and canals and aqueducts to distribute the water to fields terraced into the mountain slopes . Stones are cleared from the fields and used to construct terrace walls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fill the areas behind the walls . HIGHWAYS ARE being cut thru the mountains to provide access to the new land , and tunnels are blasted where necessary by the peasant members of agric u It u r e work teams . Underground streams have been discovered and dammed to provide additional irrigation water , and hydroelectric power is developed to pump the water up to the surface . Hul Hsien County , which we visited , Is part of a vast reclamation project under way thruout the Yellow River system . From all over China young men and women are being recruited to go to the open spaces of such provinces as Ch'ing Hai , Kansu , Ninghsia , Szechuan , Shensi , and Shansi and develop the waste land that can be reclaimed by clearing and leveling work and by diverting river water . Motion pictures depicting the romance of pioneering in the new lands of the old provinces help stir interest in the frontier . THE " LADS AND Lassies of Peking . " a work brigade recruited in the capital to tackle the harsh labor of reclamation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because their pioneering has been so well publicized . The third frontier blossoming in China is technology . It developed late in China 's history , but because foreign technology can be quickly copied and transplanted by industrious and intelligent workers , China has the prospect of an almost explosive expansion of its technology if it has the financial resources to support it . In Ta'ching and in Hui Hsien it has developed the working models for projects that can generate those financial resources .                     