@@733560

txt Letters ALTEMUR KILICTAYLOR G. BELCHERTHEODORE W. KHEELMATTITYAHU PELEDEUGENE SHAPIRO ... pg . 36 Letters Cyprus Issue : The Arms Embargo Complication To the Editor : Your March 31 editorial " The Way Back From Cyprus " contains a basic contradiction . On the one hand you admit that there were strong justifications for the intervention by Turkey in July 1974 , but on the other you approve of the tendency which you detect in Congress to insist on concessions from Turkey before the arms restrictions are lifted . You seem to overlook the basic factthat it is the embargo decision which has complicated the Cyprus problem and has rendered the resolution more difficult . You also presume that the United States , through its Congress or Government , has the right to pass a moral judgment on policies of an ally and if necessary to apply sanctions against it . But the very essence of an alliance would be negated if one of the members would claim the prerogative to admonish and punish its other partners on the basis of unilateral conclusions . Your editorial errs again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appease Turkey at the expense of Greece . Why should the lifting of the arms embargo on Turkey be considered detrimental to Greece ? Since 1974 our Greek neighbors have been arming themselves on an unprecedented scale , mostly with American weapons , and they maintain their defense cooperation with the United States . What is involved now is just the restoration of normal military cooperation between Turkey and the United States as dictated by the interests of the two countries as well as the security interests of the NATO alUrgent Contracts o the Editor . The prospect that municipal employes will work under their contracts ntil they expire on June 30 is more minous than the transit workers ' ' treat last month not to work after left contract expired on March 31. o gain Federal aid and avoid default , ie city must conclude new contracts oith all municipal unions et once . Un ) rtunately , the chances are remote s a result of what happened last reek . This leads to the only workable olution : arbitration . Arbitration is inevitable in the neotiations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand it nd they will . They say they are entiled to more than the transit workers ot . The Mayor claims " no linkage " or any municipal workers with the ransit settlement and says they should , et less . The coalition of other unions : meted the transit settlement , not surorisingly , with the cry of " me too . " I thought the Mayor should have mbraced the transit settlement as easonable and appealed to Senator ' roxmire and Secretary Blumenthal to upport the city 's claim for Federal aid n the basis of extending the pattern o all city employees . But he did n't nd they have now expressed their opposition to the transit settlement . 7 .. veryone is now in a hind and erbitraion is the only dignified way out . It vill provide an objective determineion of who 's right : the police and firenen in claiming more ; the coalition n seeking the same , or the Mayor in ) ffering less with the Senator and Sec  --  etary now hacking him up . THEODORE W. KHEEL New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential normalization to the consent of Greece is incomprehensible . I think a very important aspect of this whole question is this : If the leading partner of the NATO alliance should insist on a line of action which has proven to be so counterproductive and so grossly harmful to the security interests of the West , the credibility of the United States would suffer even more seriously in the eyes of Turkey and , for that matter , of other allies . ALTEMUR KILIC Minister Plenipotentiary Deputy Permanent Representative of Turkey to the U.N . New York , April 5 , 1978 Washington 's Gamble To the Editor : The decision of the Carter Administration to urge the Congress to lift the arms embargo to Turkey was probably inevitable . The stakes are too high and Mr. Ecevit knows it . He has twice as many divisions as Greece and the Pentagon believes we must keep those 25 bases in Turkey . Let 's face it , in equations like this , Cyprus in a virtual cipher . Human rights for the 200,000 Greek Cypriot refugees who have lost their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crusade for this worthy concept . The Realpolitik of Metternich or Kissinger is what , really counts in this dangerous world . Pragmatism rules in the National Security Council . on the seventh floor of State and in the Oval Office . We can afford To the Editor : Israel Shenker 's April 1 news article ( " Israeli Dove Calls P.L.O . Worst Enemy " ) is evidently a very condensed version of a discussion we had that lasted many hours . In view of the sensitivity of the issues I wish to make the following four comments so as to clarify my position . ? I do n't advocate that Israel should " endow " the Palestinians with a state , but that we , the Israelis , should let them exercise their right of self-determination . ? I do not think " It is not a good idea to invite the P.L.O . to peace talks . " I maintain that in order to be eligible to participate in such talks the P.L.O . should observe in practice the following two principles : ( a ) that all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in peace ; ( b ) that all parties to the conflict should abstain from violence in order to allow peace talks to be conducted . This is the line which the moderates in the P.L.O . have been advocating for some years and which is in fact embodied in Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 . It is now clear that the P.L.O . has finally rejected this policy , and it has therefore become futile to advocate inviting the P.L.O . to participate in any peacemaking forum . ? I do not welcome any plan for " limited self-rule on the West Bank . " I feel , however , that Mr. Begin 's idea of a Palestinian autonomy to be exercised for a number of years on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip can he a useful step toward eventual Palestinian self-determination . ? I think it unfortunate that an article meant to reflect my views on the to crusade for human rights  --  but , it seems , only where the political stakes are not too high . If the pro-Greek forces in Congress do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to face a Greek reaction quite probably involving political ascendancy for Andreas Papandreou and his anti-NATO , anti-U.S . policies . Apparently we are prepared to run this risk  --  and the risk of losing our bases in Greece but not in Turkey . We have made up a balance sheet and the bottom line comes out in favor of Turkey . I hope our abandonment of principle and of the Greek Cypriots will not haunt us as we draw up further balance sheets for the area . On the other hand , there is still a chance that the Congress will see the bottom line In different terms ; after all , it wo n't be the first time or the last that Congress has disagreed with the executive . However , if the Administration is successful and the embargo is lifted , then we shall have yet another test of Turkish intent in Cyprus . If this very grave decision on our part results in another blank in Ankara and there are still no signs of significant concessions in that 40 percent of the Wand under Turkish control , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Surely a reasonable compromise would be for the Congress to limit future arms sales either by date or amount , pending reasonable proposals designed to end the military occupation of 40 percent of the island and to provide a geographical and political settlement . TAYLOR G. BELCHER Former Ambassador to Cyprus Garrison , N.Y. , April 4 , 1978 Israeli-Palestinian conflict has failed to convey my unequivocal condemnation of Israel 's invasion of South Lebanon . I stressed repeatedly that thiS act of aggression committed by us , the Israelis , was uncalled for and completely unrelated to our legitinve ; es* on terrorism MATTITYAHU T'F.LED Cambridge , Mass. , April 2 , 1978 Bribe American ! To the Editor : American corporations spend millions to bribe the agents of foreign governments . Then the agents of foreign governments use part of that money to bribe American legislators . That is n't right . We should take care of our own . It 's bad enough we do n't buy American . Surely we should bribe American . EUGENE SHAPIRO Long Island City , N.Y. , April 4 , 1978 Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Nicaragua : ' Repression Has Not Diminished ' To the Editor : After reading the March 6 Op-Ed article by Anastasio Somoza Debayle , President of Nicaragua , I ask the opportunity to make some remarks . It is a cruel irony that Somoza intends to appear before the American people as a statesman with a fair sense of justice , respectful of the rights of Nicaraguan citizens , when the truth is that Nicaragua has suffered a dictatorship of the Somoza family for the last 44 years , during which a dynasty has been created within a republic . Somoza talks this way because he is trying to regain the favor of the American Government which he lost in previous Administrations because of his constant violations of human rights . Repression has not diminished , and this is another Somoza lie . Indeed it has increased . The latest outburst of repression affected the Indian sector of Monimbo , where a genocidal attack was mounted against people armed with sticks and stones . Also , Somoza 's Government has failed to say anything about the 350 peasants who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a confirmed list elaborated by American missionary priests . If positive steps have been taken to protect human rights , why does Somoza still oppose the visit of the Organization of American States or United Nations Commission on Human Rights suggested by President Carter during his recent visit to Venezuela ? My brother Pedro was jailed , sentenced , fined , exiled and brought many times before civil and military authorities loyal to Somoza . Somoza says that he was " stunned " when my brother was assassinated , even although his Government is considered generally in Nicaragua as responsible for the cover-up of the murder . Somoza says that on many occasions conservative and Communist groups in Nicaragua have tried hard to knock him down and that the recent general strike was a plan of private business and radical leaders . If you consider carefully , you will realize he is telling the truth this time : Somoza is very unpopular and every political force in Nicaragua is opposing him now . Every student , working man , peasant , intellectual , professional end business man In Nicaragua , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Somoza . Even the Conservative Party , which had been a factor in pseudo-opposition , refused to participate in the municipal elections and these elections became a mockery for almost nobody voted , as foreign correspondents could see . The number of votes mentioned by Somoza in his article Is not true and was fabricated by him as in all other elections . Even for those of us who do not accept violent solutions to the Nicaragua problem , it is clear that activities of the Sandinist National Liberation Front have become an acceptable popular expression , because the dictatorship will not allow a democratic and pacific solution of the country 's political problems . To finish my arguments I want to comment on Somoza 's announcement that he will leave office in 1981 . He mentions this as if he had been elected President in a democratic country like the United States , and forgets the fact that his family has ruled this country despotically for 44 years . He has amended the Nicaraguan Constitution many times , in accordance with his political moves . Now he is making another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puppet in the Government to cover a short term in the presidency before he , or sonebody else in his family , reassumes the office and the dynasty goes on and on XAVIER CHAMORRO CARDENAL Director General , La Prensa Managua , Nicaragua , April 6 , 1978                     