@@732177

txt In a rare public appearance , former President Nixon emerged from his seclusion at San Clemente Thursday to play golf in a tournament that has drawn the high command of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and several men linked by law enforcement officials to organized crime . . ? " I 'm just fine , and I 'm going to play good golf today , too , " Nixon said before getting into a golf cart with Frank E. Fitzsimmons , president of the union , at the La Costa County Club , a resort complex here , built largely with loans from the Teamsters ' pension funds . Nixon looked gray and tired and surprisingly old when he alighted from a limousine from his home at San Clemente , 30 mlles north of here , with Jack Brennan , a former military aide who resigned as a Marine Corps colonel to serve Nixon after he left the presidency 14 months ago . NIXON AND 173 OTHER players paid $650 each In entry fees to raise money for The Little City home forretarded children in Palatine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reporter approached him and asked a question , Nixon looked stunned and moved back in what looked like a reflex action . Ignoring the reporter 's questions , he walked away , for the first time showing some spring in his step . Until then , he seemed to walk very slowly and possibly with some effort . Nixon appeared to have gained a considerable amount of gray hair since leaving the White House . The akin and muscles of his face seemed to have lost some tightness , there was little ' color in his face and not much sparkle in his eyes . The other three members of the five-some were Murray W. " Dusty " Miller , executive ' secretary of the Teamsters Union : John W. Murphy , president of Gateway Transportation Co. , who is a trustee of the Teamsters ' pension funds ; and Joseph ' rrertole , an international vice president of the union . MOST OF the other players in the ' three-day tournament , Nixon plannedto play only Thursday are Teamster officials or persons who have close associations with its rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tournament were Anthony Provenzano , a Florida consultant and former ally of James H. Hoffa , the missing ' former president of the Teamsters , who was intensively questioned in connection with Hoffa 's disappearance ; Jack A. Sheetz , a Chicago area businessman who was indicted , but not convicted , of misusing Teamster pension funds . ALSO . ALLEN DORFMAN of Chicago , another one-time Hoffa associate , who is a poweilful figure in investing the Teamsters ' $1.4 billion Central States Pension Fund , much of it In Las Vegas , and who was convicted in 1972 of taking kickbacks in the granting of loans ; Allard Rom , one of the listed developers ' of La Costa , a former Cleveland Teamster pension fund official , who was convicted in the United Chemical and Die Co. stock fraud case in New York several years age ; and Jackie Presser , the son of Cleveland mob figure William Presser.                     