@@733116

txt Letters pg . 20 Letters Of Saudi Arabia , the U.S. Toward a ' Landlord Subsidy ' And a ' Special Friendship ' To the Editor : The Ways and Means Committee has reported out to the House H.R. 7200 , a bill to make a number of changes in the program of aid to families with dependent children . Among its many provisions is one which has been the subject of virtually no hearings or other public inquiry , but which would work a radical change in the A.F.D.C. program and give promise of delivering a multimillion-dollar subsidy to those who rent substandard housing to the poor . The proposal would depart from a requirement which has characterized our welfare law since the Social Security Act was first enacted nearly a half-century ago , that recipients be paid in cash , and authorize state welfare departments to make payments directly to landlords and utilities of up to 50 percent of the grant , where the recipient has " voluntarily " authorized this . Since there is nothing in the proposed bill which attempts to prevent landlords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorize this payment , we should have no illusions about the voluntariness of the request . To the Editor : Emil Lengyel 's May 29 letter about the failure of the United States to ratify the Genocide Convention strikes a sympathetic chord . Our country led in drafting and securing adoption of the convention in the United Nations in 1948 . President Truman sent it to the Senate in 1949 ; it has been pending there ever since . It is now eligible for a place in the Guinness Book of World Records as the oldest treaty awaiting Senate action . For many years , the Senate opponents cited the negative position of the American Bar Association as justifying tailure to act . But in 1976 , by an overwhelming vote , the association recommended ratification . As chairman of its Section 's Committee on International Human Rights , I testified in behalf of the association 's support of ratilication at the May 24 ncarings before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Thus , the matter now is again before the Senate . But unless indifferent senators sense public support , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , memories of the holocaust that brought the convention into being have faded . The treaty has no active constituency . As . Chief Justice To the Editor : I applaud your May 24 editorial ( " Protecting Trade Against Protectionism " ) urging the President to launch " a fuller public campaign for free trade , " and to educate Congress and the public on the true costs of greater trade restriction . But what is needed here is not so much Mr. Carter rallying interest groups hurt by import controls into " a truly open contest " with protectionists ( as you propose ) , but rather a deliberate " free trade " strategy backstopped in domestic policy by a firm commitment to full employment . The nation needs a unifying trade policy that advances the enlightened interests of all workers , all consumers and all citizens who understand the proportions and imperatives of the total national interest . It must also be a policy that appeals dramatically to the enlightened self-interest of all the industrialized countries whose partnership with us in developing a new , More broadly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for which full rental payments are to be made directly to the landlord meet applicable legal standards of safety or decency . Thus , the bill will undercut the law in a large number of jurisdictions which seek to impose on the landlord a " warranty of habitability , " whereby tenants forced to live in substandard houses may pay their rent into escrow or make necessary repairs themselves and deduct the cost from the rent . This unheralded proposal is the opening wedge in what will surely become a large-scale program of governmental subsidy to cost-inflated , substandard housing supplied the poor  --  a " worthy " companion to what has happened to . Medicaid . No consideration of this landlord-subsidy program has been undertaken by the subcommittee on Housing and Community Development of the House Committee on Banking and Currency . This ill-conceived , ill-considered proposal should not be permitted to find its way quietly into the legislative product . ( Prof. ) HOWARD LESNICK Law , University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia , June 7 , 1977 Earl Warren said : " We as a nation should have been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may ? well be the last . . . . " Although it would be a national disgrace , it is conceivable that instead of last it could be never . The United States now seeks to reestablish its moral leadership in the world . Ratification of this convention would be evidence of its claim to that leadership . The American Bar Association urges the Senate to give its advice and consent . BRUNO V. BITKER Milwaukee , June 2 , 1977 $55,882.35 Apartment To the Editor : Your June 2 news article " Manhattan Plaza Get First Tenants and Last Laugh " mentions that the cost of the project was $95 million ? for 1,700 apartments of two bedrooms or less . My calculator tells me that this is $55,882.35 per apartment . It looks as if this needs no comment . JOHN KALMUS New York , June 2 , 1977 more open international economic order beneficial to all peoples is indispensable . The time is now for President Carter to raise the sights of his own country and the world community to the " open world economy " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy initiative , aimed at programmed progress to free trade by the advanced countries in accordance with a realistic timetable spanning the next two decades , need not impair the effort to make as much progress as possible in the current , very limited round of trade negotiations . A basic handicap to such an ambitious undertaking is that most of the U.S. " liberal trade community " has not advocated such a policy and seems unprepared to urge its adoption . DAVID J. STEINBERG President , U.S. Council for an Open World Economy Washington , May 25 , 1977 To the Editor : In his two-day conference with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia recently , President Carter referred to our " special friendship " and " great trade , " even managing to praise " morality , " somehow . Perhaps such rhetoric is expected from a diplomatic host . Yet , a new Administration might reexamine what has been wrought by an old pro-Arab foreign policy . Since Nixon , the world has been victimized by a fivefold increase in oil prices , with Saudi Arabia the kingpin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences , in economic and social instability , have been far more damaging than any actions by the Soviets . And in the third world . millions have been condemned to famine while the promised Arab aid has yet to trickle down . As the world 's wealth flows into the coffers of autocratic oil producers , it Mork Moilwa I is " recycled " mainly into economic imperialism , military hardware and luxuries . Thus , massive investments in international banks and heavy industry yield political as well as economic power , depriving many nations and the U.N . of their freedom of action . Is the U.S. headed in the same path ? Aside from barely concealed efforts to dictate our Mideast policy for the goals of pan-Arab aggrandizement , we a , e also distracted from our legitimate support of democracy . Should we not be concerned , too , with the lack of human rights in the Arab world ? Moreover , the American people have been subjected to an involuntary redistribution of wealth since 1973 . Can the damage suffered by consumers be balanced against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endured record trade deficits because of high-priced oil imports . And as foreign dictatorships reach into our people 's pockets , we are exposed to far more regressive taxation than anything since independence . Such are the humiliating fruits of " special friendship " with Saudi Arabia and OPEC . Perhaps a Congressional accounting is in order now . ( Prof. ) JOSEPH BRANDES History , William Paterson College Wayne , N.J. , May 27 , 1977 To Cover a Candidate To the Editor : " Mrs. Abzug wore a sprightly violet blouse , a wide straw hat and an air of mild-mannered good cheer ... " ( Times report of Bella Abzug 's latest doings in the mayoral race , May 30 ) . What , pray , did Messrs . Beame , Cuomo and Koch wear at their most recent appearances ? Two of them , at least , are dressers as natty as Mrs. Abzug , and their sartorial comings and goings are at least as newsworthy as hers . ( Now if you could get a picture of Mrs. Abzug bareheaded I think we might all agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N.Y. , May 30 , 1977 Genocide Convention : Out of the ' Deep Freeze ' The Nation Needs a Unifying Trade Policy ... ' Mammography and Radiation : On Frightening Patients Needlessly To the Editor : Your May 12 editorial on mammography represented a distortion of current radiological and medical thinking in the evaluation of mammography . The key remarks are those which referred to the fact that mammography is indicated in those women who have symptoms of or a history suspicious for breast cancer . These include : ? Chronic cystic mastitis with or without pain . ? Lumps and thickening in the breasts . ? A personal history of breast cancer . ? A family history of breast cancer on.the maternal or paternal side . ? A family history of breast cancer in sisters . ? Early onset of menstruation . ? No history of pregnancy . ? First full-term pregnancy at age 30 or older . ? Breast surgery for diagnostic purposes . As with any modality , diagnostic roentgenography , including mammography , should be performed only when indicated and only by radiologists who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , any physician can perform an X-ray examination . This is unfortunate . Your editorial should address itself to the indiscriminate use of X-ray by non-radiologists , No responsible medical authority or investigator advocates " shotgun " ma.mmographic screening . However , when indicated , mammography is a useful and indeed may be a life-saving procedure . The dosage to the breast when mammography is properly performed is low . Your editorial neglected to mention that the concepts of carcinogenic radiation exposure to the breast is based on Hiroshima experience and the experience of patients in tuberculosis hospitals who underwent daily chest fluoroscopy during the 1930 's and 1940 's . The dosage levels of these two groups were literally hundreds of times greater than the dosage levels with modern mammography . The effect of an editorial such as yours is to frighten patients needlessly . Indeed , we have seen multiple instances of women in their 60 's , 70 's and 80 's who refuse an indicated X-ray examination because of " the potential hazards of X-rays . " Interestingly enough in several of these patients a malignancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination . The best method of detecting a nonpalpable or unsuspected breast malignancy in women over 50 is by proper utilization of mammography under controlled conditions . In general it would be difficult to document a case of radiation injury secondary to diagnostic procedures in the modern era . RICHARD H. MARSHAK , M.D. DANIEL MAKLANSKY , M.D. JEROLD D. KURZBAN , M.D. New York , May 20 , 1977 The writers , all radiologists , are , respectively , clinical professor , assistant clinical professor and clinical instructor at the Mt . Sinai Medical School .                     