@@733622

txt LOS ANGELES  --  President Carter lectured the nation 's lawyers Thursday , saying they did not serve justice by encouraging confrontations in American society or by delaying legal and social solutions in order to win fat fees . " Those , of us ? Presidents and lawyers ? who enjoy privilege , power , and influence in our society can be called to a harsh account for the ways we are using it , " Carter said . Using the 100th anniversary luncheon of the Los Angeles Bar Association as a forum for his criticism of the legal system , Carter argued that at least part of the problem was the sheer number of lawyers . " We have the heaviest concentration of lawyers on earth ? one for every 500 Americans , " Carter said . " That is three times more than in England , four times more than in Germany , and 21 times more than in Japan . " BUT , HE added , no resource of professional talent was more unfairly distributed because " 90 per cent of our lawyers serve 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overlawyered and unrepresented , " said Carter , turning his political guns on " privilege , " " big-shot crooks " who escape the law , and " excessive litigation " clogging the courts . It did not make pleasant listening for those who heard the President charge : " Excessive litigation and legal teeth // .70 . From page one Carter lays clown the law in criticism of lawyers // erbedding are encouraged . Simple divorces become major legal confrontations . Complete title searches on the same property are unnecessarily repeated with each sale . Routine car accident cases clog our courts while no-fault automobile insurance is opposed . The number of medical malpractice cases skyrockets . . . We do not serve justice when we encourage disputes in our society rather than resolving them . " CARTER CAME to Los Angeles Thursday for the speech and a brief inspection of homes in Watts , the mainly black section of the city , arriving from Denver , the first stop of his three-day Western trip . Gov . Edmund " Jerry " Brown Jr. , who some people think may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President at the airport . IN HIS SPEECH to the lawyers , the President recalled that in the South " lawyers of great influence and prestige led the fight against civil rights and economic justice . They were paid lavish fees by their states and heaped with honors for their efforts . They knew all the maneuvers , and for too long they kept the promises of the Constitution from coming true . " Some civil rights activists have charged that Carter 's attorney general , Griffin Bell , was one of those lawyers . But Bell has argued he was a force for moderation and thus for progress . Carter got sparse applause from his la Wycr audience when he warned against police harassment of MexicanAmericans , an issue in Los Angeles with its large Mexican-American population . Carter said he was also worried about the IBM antitrust case . He noted the government , first filed suit against the computer firm nine years ago , and yet " the trial is not nearly over . " CARTER MENTIONED four " challenges " that must be faced to improve justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fair , faster , more sensible , and more certain . " Second , in holding the law to the highest standards of impartiality , honesty , and fairness . " Third , in ensuring that access to the legal system does not depend on political influence or economic power . " And fourth , in reducing our overreliance on litigations and speeding up those cases that are litigated . " CARTER ALSO returned to the theme he occasionally sounded during the campaign . " I have inspected many prisons , and I know that nearly all inmates are drawn from the ranks of the powerless and the poor , " he said . " A child of privilege frequently receives the benefit of the doubt ; a child of poverty seldom does . "                     