@@734400

txt To the Editor : The Federal Reserve Board 's dramatic move to tighten the money supply and raise interest rates is nothing more than a continuation of the policy it has been following since December of 1968 . The board 's chairman has changed . So has the Administration . But not the policy . Initially , it was intended to stop a 4 per cent inflation . Now it seeks to halt a 12 per cent rise in the cost of living . This policy has failed for the past 11 years and will continue to fait , because tinkering with the money supply ( fine tuning ) can not cure the chronic condition that created the disease . The causes of our troubles are our growing deficits , internal and external . A nation that keeps printing money and facing adverse balances of trade must suffer from inflation . Manipulating the money supply and tinkering with interest rates masks To the Editor : According to Alan Oser 's interesting article " Debating Landmark Designation " ( Oct. 3 ) , certain property owners , real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to landmark designation for the Upper East Side 's commercial areas less on the merits than on procedural ' grounds . No one , happily , appears to favor tolerating damage to historically and architecturally important buildings or countenancing change for the worse in the character of an attractive neighborhood . What people seem to worry about is that the review process , already cumbersome and slow , and the Landmarks Preservation Commission staff , already overburdened , would be hardpressed , if not crippled altogether , in the face of the increased administrative load that designation of the Upper East Side might create . This concern deserves attention : It would indeed be too bad if clerical busywork were to dampen the legitimate commercial vitality of Madison or Lexington Avenue . But must bathwater and baby both be thrown out ? Solving the problem requires not denial of landmark designation but discovery of a way to render the review process responsive and efficient . This might be accomplished quite simply through introduction of clear guidelines , perhaps permitting free design on specified commercial streets and blocks , and through additions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds for 2 Fundamentalists ' Error on Abortion To the Editor : Your long , apparently sympathetic account Sept. 29 of the anti-abortion propaganda of two Protestant fundamentalists , the Rev. Francis Schaeffer and Dr. Everett Koop , says they condemn abortions even in cases of rape , dangerous illness in the mother or defect in the fetus because " it is a sin to take the life of a human being , before birth or after , for any reason whatsoever . " Clearly these are not Old Testament fundamentalists ( the Old Testament is full of killing , often commanded by God ? e.g. , the slaying of all the firstborn of Egypt . ) When they forbid killing " for any reason , " logic requires that they be not only opponents of the death penalty ( have they spoken out on this ? ) but also absolute pacifists , who forbid men to bear arms . If it is a sin to abort a defective fetus , how much greater the sin of killing loved and loving human beings in war . If , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so is legalized abortion . ROBERT GORHAM DAVIS Westport , Conn. , Sept. 30 , 1979 rather than corrects the substantive difficulty . The apparent relief can only be short-lived . The attack on the dollar may stop for a few days and the rise of gold vis-ii-vis the dollar may abate for the moment  --  but not for long . Not only is the high-interest , tightmoney policy ineffective ; it is destructive . It creates its own inflationary spiral . Our private and public debt is at the $4 trillion  --  mark . A 1 per cent rise in interest rates creates a $40 billion increase in the nation 's cost of doing business ? and that cost is inevitably passed on to the consumer . A 2 per cent increase doubles that figure , etc . The Fed 's policy can only create a depression . It can not cure anything . Relief must come from a substantive change in our foreign balance of trade and from controlling and reducing our internal deficits . SAMUEL C. GREENFIELD New York , Oct. 9 , 1979 which could most likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and city governments , corporations , foundations and private institutions . Since landmark designation offers such positive benefits ? some measure of protection for priceless assets and a steady influence for rational development in the interest of longrange economic health ? I believe that all civic-minded New Yorkers will welcome it , if only the mechanism can be made to work . Surely , with good will and cooperative efforts on all sides . it can be . JOAN K. DAVIDSON President , J.M. Kaplan Fund New York , Oct. 8 , 1979 To the Editor : In a Sept. 30 advertisement . Julius Lester , a black writer , denounced the recent insensitivity of leaders of the black community to the moral issue presented by anti-Semitism and eloquently contrasted this position with the moral strength of Martin Luther King 's earlier leadership . He further suggested that the present position of black leaders is a reaction to Jewish opposition to affirmative action . Because Mr. Lester 's statement is profoundly correct , and courageous , I hesitate to criticize a minor point . But to avoid further misunderstanding , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Jewish organizations have been opposing is not affirmative action but a particular set of methods for implementing it . Affirmative action is a concept introduced in a series of Presidential executive orders in the conviction that we can not achieve racial justice by simply eliminating further discrimination : we must also take positive , affirmative steps to speed the reversal of the effects of earlier discrimination . Moreover , it was clearly implied in these orders that these steps would To the Editor : Glyn Jones suggests letter Oct. 2 that OPEC 's oil belongs equally to all the people of the world , as part of our communal inheritance from the past , rather than to some small , opportunistic , accidentally located populations . I could not agree more but wonder whether Mr. Jones realizes the extended implications of his moral stand ? By his principles , all world resources should be shared on a per capita basis , and we would immediately become large exporters of oil ourselves , to oil-poor countries . Further , we would be obligd to distribute our food freely to the worldwide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land , water , fertilizers made from petroleum and minerals , etc. , which are equally the common terrestrial heritage of all mankind ) . Indeed , the wealth that our society has accumulated in the past has mainly derived from our position as " first exploiters " of major resources . What would keep this wealth exempt from the claims of all the world 's poor on a per capita basis ? In short , if any world resource should be taken out of the " ownable " category , why should n't all resources equally support all human beings , regardless of place of residence ? RICHARD WHIPPLE .. archmont , N.Y. , Oct. 3 , 1979 South African Facts To the Editor : Your Sept. 27 editorial " A Step Forward in South Africa " contained two factual errors . ? In South Africa , the best jobs are not reserved for whites only . Job reservation affects less than 2 percent of the work force and is limited to one or two activities . The scrapping of job reservation has been accepted in principle by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . Strong vested interests of white trade unions have made this difficult . To focus on these instances , and not on the 98 percent remainder of the job market , which is completely open , is rather selective treatment . ? Mixed trade unions do exist and have existed for years . There were 41 at the last count . The establishment of more multiracial trade unions has been given high priority by the State Manpower Commission . JOHAN ADLER Deputy Consul General ( Information ) South African Consulate General New York , Sept. 28 , 1979 consist of active recruitment and provision of special remedial education and training so that members of disadvantaged groups would truly have equal opportunity to compete . Subsequently , however , political pressures and bureaucratic decisions led to reinterpretation of affirmative action in terms of reverse discrimination and quotas ? concepts quite different from equal opportunity . Identification of affirmative action with quotas not only does an injustice to those who support the former but oppose the latter , it also jeopardizes the goal by linking it to unacceptable methods . Polls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and even a majority of blacks , are opposed to quotas ; so is the Supreme Court 's statesmanlike compromise on the Bakke case . It would be a tragedy if hostility of black leaders to those who oppose quotas should weaken liberal support for affirmative action . BERNARD D. DAVIS Boston , Oct. 2 , 1979 The writer is Adele Lehman Professor of Bacterial Physiology at the Harvard Medical School . Landmarks on the Upper East Side Blacks , Jews and Affirmative Action Report of a U.S. Couple 's Visit to the Soviet Union To the Editor : My wife and I just returned from a three-week tour of the Soviet Union . We visited Moscow , Leningrad , Tbilisi , Sochi and Volgograd . The country we saw differed a great deal from that depicted in Catherine A. Fitzpatrick 's Sept. 21 letter , " As Moscow Gets Ready to Dupe the Olympic Tourist . " We went wherever we wished . When we did n't go with our Intourist guide , we went by ourselves . We used the urban travel system without hassle or inconvenience and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to . We wandered through the department stores , supermarkets , jewelry stores , children 's stores and numerous . other retail establishments . We made purchases and never had any problems . One can shop in the Beryozka shops ( foreign-currency stores ) or , as we did , in any store in the city using rubles . Likewise , we found the supermarkets , department stores and shops well-stocked and jammed like any in New York City . We met people in the streets who engaged us freely in conversation , either in English or in Russian ( a couple on . our tour spoke fluent Russian ) . We visited the synagogue in Leningrad and the Sephardic synagogue in Tbilisi . While we were at the Tbilisi synagogue , the shoychet ( slaughterer ) arrived to slaughter chickens according to Jewish law . We spoke to the heads of these congregations openly and frankly . We met Jews in all walks of life ? professors , university students in the fields of medicine , engineering , physics , etc ? a member of the . Writers Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met with the Deputy Mayor for over an hour and had a good question-and-answer period , which we taped . We took 21 rolls of 36-exposure film and have over 700 slides and 12 hours of tape recordings . The only places where we were not permitted to take pictures were railroad stations and airports . We saw housing construction wherever we went , including apartment buildings 18 stories high . Miss Fitzpatrick asserts that " housing construction is being halted to make way for Olympic construction . " Because of a labor shortages ? 20 million men were lost during the Great Patriotic War ( World War H )  --  some of the construction crews were taken off partly completed apartment buildings and are working on the Olympic Village . Further , Miss Fitzpatrick says that Moscow and Leningrad are " hermetically sealed . " We did not find this to be the case . Our Intourist guide in Volgograd ( formerly Stalingrad ) was a young Jewish woman . Of her mother 's 10 brothers and sisters , eight gave their lives in the Battle of Stalingrad to stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the heroic defense of the city . We feel that to equate the 1980 Moscow Olympics with the 1936 Hitler Olympics , as Miss Fitzpatrick did , is to sully the memory of the 20 million who died in the war . Miss Fitzpatrick might do well to visit the U.S.S.R. and see for herself . LEO H. WERNER Brooklyn , Sept. 21 , 1979                     