@@733103

txt SPRINGFIELD  --  The Illinois House overwhelmingly passed historic legislation Thursday to abolish the release of prisoners on parole and set longer prison terms for violent criminals . With no debate , and by a vote of 153 to 6 , the House sent the measure to the Senate . Token opposition votes came from a bloc of liberals . Meanwhile in the Senate , the bill to re-establish the death penalty in Illinois was amended , which will delay its ultimate approval by the legislature . Although the amendment was technical , its adoption means that if the Senate passes the bill it will have to be returned to the House for concurrence . The bill , which was sponsored by Rep. Michael Getty D. , Dolton , sets minimum and maximum limits on prison sentences for various crimes . FOR EXAMPLE , persons convicted of murder would be sentenced to a minimum prison term of 20 years and maximum of 40 years unless the criminal should be specifically ordered held in prison for the rest of his life , For armed robbery , the sentence would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminal 's past would be required , and habitual criminals could have their prison terms doubled . Judges would be required to give written explanations for the sentences , which would be subject to review by the Appellate Court . ' The bill will not straitjacket the judge , " Getty said , " because it gives him enough latitude to fit the sentences to the crime . " THERE WOULD be no provision for release on parole , which Getty contends has too often " rewarded good actors and con men . " But convicts could reduce their sentences by a day for every day of good behavior in prison , " With this , a man who is a good prisoner will know precisely when he can be released , " Getty said . The bill would abolish what Getty called the " arbitrary and capricious parole board " in two years and create a prisoner review board to handle questions over good behavior credit , and handie ' requests for pardon . Getty said the effect of this bill would be an increase in the length of prison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average terms of 11,7 years , Getty estimated the terms ' Would be lenghtened by one-third under his bill . The bill is similar to one proposed by former Gov . Dan Walker in 1974 and again by Gov . Thompson .                     