@@732693

txt Prince Bernhard asked Helmut Schmidt , the West German Chancellor and former defense minister , to purchase planes in 1971 produced by the Northrop Aircraft Corporation , according to letters released here today . The disclosure marks a new ' turn in the scandal that has brought disgrace to Prince Bernhard . A Government report last week severely criticized him for " extremely imprudent " I dealings with the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation . The 65-yearold German-born Prince was forced to resign from virtually all his public and official posts . The letters today , released by the Ministry of Information at the request of two Socialist members of Parliament , involved an exchange between Mr. Schmidt and a former Netherlands defense minister , Willem den Toom . The letters dealt with efforts by Northrop to deploy its Cobra combat aircraft as a replacement for the Lockheed Starfighter . The Cobra was competing in the early 1970 's for a $2 billion contract in the Netherlands , Belgium , Germany and other European countries . At one point in his letter Mr. Schmidt , who was then defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says : " Can I use this opportunity to talk about another subject ? His Royal Highness Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands spoke to me briefly about the proposed project of the American Northrop Corporation . " He did not say how the Prince raised the subject of the Cobra . The letter added : " State Secretary of Defense Mommsen had a meeting with Mr. Jones Thomas V. Jones , chairman of BERNHARD PUSHED NORTHROP SALES // Northrop and discussed the possibility with him that it would be of interest to have a joint venture between several European countries and Northrop . " Mr. Schmidt , whose letter was written in German , added , however : " As you know it is difficult for us to change our choice of planes because of our interest in the M.R.C.A. project . But on the other hand I do n't reject immediately the proposal of Northrop for smaller NATO nations . " The multi-role combat aircraft , or M.R.C.A. , project involves efforts by Britain , Italy and Germany to produce a twin-engine two-seat jet fighter . The planes , expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to standardize key defense equipment . A Vague Ending Although Mr. Schmidt indicated in his letter that West Germany might be interested with other nations in producing spare parts and other military items that might need Northrop 's assistance , the matter ends somewhat vaguely . The letter is dated April 27 , 1971 . It is widely assumed here that Prince Bernhard 's links to Northrop , which was Lockheed 's rival in Europe , would be involved in the next step of any investigation into the Prince 's dealings . Several major Dutch newspapers now have teams working on the Prince 's ties to Northrop , whose chairman , Mr. Jones , was one of Prince Bernhard 's closest American friends . It was revealed in the hearings of Senator Frank Church 's subcommittee on multinational corporations that some European agents working for Locks heed were also linked , apparently in secrecy , to Northrop and were providing Northrop with access to Prince Bernhard . No evidence has emerged so far of any Northrop financial offers to the Prince similar to those given by Lockheed . Cryptic Evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued last week of Bernhard 's ties to Northrop , especially in his former role as Inspector General of the Armed Forces . The report said , at one point : " Since H.R.H. occupies positions both in the defense apparatus and in the aircraft industry , it is essential that he does not confuse the two . One wonders whether he has always been successful in avoiding this , notably with regard to Northrop . " At another point the report said that Bernhard was " tempted by initiatives which were completely unacceptable and which were hound to place himself and the Netherlands procurement policy in the eyes of Lockheed  --  and , it must now be added , also in the eyes of others ? in a dubious light . " One source close to the Government said tonight that the three-man commission that investigated the Prince 's financial dealings for six months had failed to investigate deeply the Prince 's links to Northrop because the matter was " too complex and a.little too sensitive . " ' Lobby Very Strong ' Another source said that the DUtch Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northrop had lost its bid to sell the Cobra here , numerous Dutch officials favored the plane and " the lobby for Northrop was very strong . " In-June 1975 a decision was made by five NATO nations ? the Netherlands , Norway , Belgium , Denmark and the United States ? to co-produce the General Dynamics F-16 fighter . In the meantime , Germany , Italy and Britain are awaiting the multi-role combat aircraft .                     