@@731956

txt For the first time since the end of World War II the Japanese are feeling some twinges Of worry about their own security . What has brought these on is'not so much the shock ending of the Indo-China conflict ' as its unhinging effect on the network of American peace-keeping commitments in the rest , of Asia . ? Officially , the government 's policy is to sit tight and watch the drift of events . Asked what Japan should to from here on , Foreign Minister Kiichi Miyazawa replied with deliberate ambiguity , " We should grasp what is the major current in international affairs and form our foreign policy accordingly . " That enigmatic statement leaves . Japan with any number of options . But it is already evident that the strongest persuasion is to hold onto what Japan already has ? a mutual defense treaty with the United States reaffirmed to be still in good working order only . last month by President Ford and Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger . The alternative of a " neutral Japan , " which only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new security-conscious mood . A third course of action , which is for Japan to arm itself with nuclear weapons , has been rejected by all but the extreme Right . Osamu Kaihara , former chairman of the Japan Defense Council , thinks that his country is in no position to strengthen even its conventional forces . " The Self-Defense Forces are still short of 30,000 recruits , and they do n't have the funds to upgrade their equipment , " he said . U.S. Embassy officials declined to make any hard predictions of where Japan will go . " A lot depends on - internal and external conditions , " an embassy officer said . " Right now they are watching the U.S. Congress for any further signs of giving up on Asia . " The best guess of Foreign Ministry officials is that since the security treaty is really all Japan has , it will have to show a greater willingness to ' ake it work . Though the government still assumes , as before , an immediate U.S. reaction in the unlikely event of a direct attack on Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would support a similar response in the Korean peninsula . This is where ' many informed Japanese perceive the greatest danger to the security of the home islands . The recent trip of North Korean leader Kim II Sung to Peking and the belligerent rhetoric that has sprung from it have reminded them of Mr. Kim 's lifetime ambition to communize the whole peninsula . When the North Korean Army first poured across the border in 1949 , Japan was still under American occupation .. Japan is somewhat more exposed now with its Self-Defense Force given only two weeks by experts to withstand a conventional attack by a deter. , mined enemy . As , a result , there is more tacit willingness to provide a backup for an American defense of both Japan and South Korea . Some U.S. bases here were used to assist the Vietnam evacuation without stirring up the customary protests from the Diet . Few questions have been raised either about the alerting of Okinawa-based U.S. Marines when an Amer. ' ican merchant ship was seized off the Cambodian coast . The stock-taking may also have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socialist powers . Since the " China boom " of 1972 , it cautiously has retreated closer to a middle position between them . The reluctance of the Japanese Government to incorporate a controversial ? anti-hegemony clause in the draft of the Japan-China treaty of friendship shows that attitude most clearly . Tokyo does not want to offend the SoViets by endorsing China 's opposition to any superpower dominating the Asian region . A joint statement signed by the Japan Socialist Party ( JSP ) and a Chinese political organ has annoyed the Japanese . Government because it contains an attack on superpower hegemony . But the declaration is unlikely to influence the official position and is apt to give the Socialists more trouble than anyone else . Some Soviet-leaning members of the party are expected to rebuke the JSP chairman , Tomomi Narita , for the gratuitous tilt toward the Chinese . ? Japanese-Soviet ties can not advance further until the territorial issue over four Soviet-occupied northern islands is. settled . The Soviets have another psychological disadvantage in being identified as the No. 1 " theoretical enemy " in Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              