@@730143

txt It 's not just the subway construction that has Washington 's spring traffic-moving an inch a minute . In the zoo section of Connecticut Avenue the snarl is also due to the recent arrival of Ling Ling and Hsing Hsing , the gift of the Peking Municipal Revolutionary Committee to the American people . Despite the fact that the 18-month-old giant pandas seem overwhelmed with the desire to sleep , frequently beating a retreat to their dens , it has not in the least deterred would-be panda watchers . As many as 16,000 people a day file past the glass cages in the National Zoo for their brief 10-second look ? hoping tocatch a AP photo moment when one panda or the other might be nibbling on a bamboo shoot or munching on honey bread . There has even been some commercial cash-in on the arrival with one of Washington 's major food chains now advertising stuffed " cute cuddly alleuropoda malamoleuca " ( pandas ) , complete with a ping-pong ball in paw . Although there was considerable speculation over which of the nation 's zoos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question but that Washington would prevail , according to L , Nicholas Ruwe , assistant chief of protocol for ceremonial affairs and , as such , in charge of gift selection for the President . Oxen not so cuddly The enticements were many . Mr. Ruwe received one call promising that Illinois would be Mr. Nixon 's in the presidential election if only Chicago 's Brookfield Zoo were tapped for the pandas . But all animals given the U.S. people as diplomatic gifts since 1940 have gone to the National Zoo , and tradition was on the side of the nation 's capital all along . Other less publicized gifts brought back from the mainland China summit include an embroidered parasol , tablecloth , trays , and handbags , and are on display in the east wing of the White House . The people 's Republic of China also has numerous U.S. mementos of the February visit . There are Milton and Matilda , of course , the musk-oxen from the San Francisco Zoo given the Chinese by the American people . The fact that these are not nearly so cuddly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has led some here to comment that Peking did not reap a fair exchange in the animal department . // *Palidas and other gifts which governments give // Among the other gifts were a 250-pound porcelain swan sculpture by Edward Marshall Boehm , Inc. , presented to Chairman Mao Tse-tung , a Steuben crystal prism given to Premier Chou En-lai , and redwood saplings planted personally by President Nixon for the people of Hangchow . The procedure of diplomatic gift-giving takes on a special twist in Communist countries where leaders tend to be many and their roles less than clear cut . Thus at the May summit in Moscow President Nixon is expected to give to at least three of the Soviet Union 's top leaders . The choice of presents varies considerably from president to president . President Eisenhower , for instance , was particularly partial to giving Steuben glass , while President Kennedy was fond of designs by David Webb of New York . Gifts tend to fall in the art object category , but the only consistent rule followed is that they must be representative of things American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerous gift possibilities were spread out on the Cabinet table in the White House for the President 's perusal . The President volunteered that if he were on the receiving end , books ? particularly on former Presidents Lincoln , Theodore Roosevelt , and Wilson ? would be welcome . As a result , a handsome five-volume set of Wilson 's papers , as edited by Wilson scholar Arthur Link and bound by the Government Printing Office , rests on the couch in Mr. Ruwe 's office . Chances are they will not go ' to the Moscow summit but will be reserved for someone with a good understanding of English . Each gift is always ' specially engraved with the presidential seal and the name of the recipient . One selection that the President gives often ? though not in China for there it would imply the wish of a limited lifetime ? is Bulova's- Accutron clock . Though it was the only watch movement used in. space and thus something very American , it is usually mounted in some American mineral as well . The clock given Prime , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Canada was enmeshed in a sample of American redwood . Mrs. Nixon on that trip presented Mrs. Trudeau with a pair of framed antique prints of Washington scenes in the 1840 's and set aside a large Snoopy dog for the Trudeaus ' baby son . As one who visits schools , hospitals , and the like in the course of her travels , Mrs. Nixon has been able to offer some practical as well as decorative gifts in her travels . On her recent African trip she dispensed both sewing machines and playground equipment . Sometimes the Nixons have been able to tailor the necessary gift giving to known individual preferences such as when British Prime Minister . Edward Heath was presented with a model of a boat he was having designed and built for himself in New York , and a marine navigator was presented to the late King of Denmark , an enthusiastic yachtsman . Spontaneous offering Protocol office spokesmen stress that each decision is " ad hoc " and sometimes , - admittedly rarely , a bit of spontaneity is involved . When Netherlands officials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mansion against a bright backdrop of tulips , the-President reminded them that the tulips had been a gift from their country and presented the officials shortly afterward with a handsome enlargement of the picture . Mr. Ruwe 's office handles the gift arrangements for the travels of Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew and Secretary of State William P. Rogers as well as the President . Generally the State Department is consulted for both ideas and taboos . There are many of the latter ? ranging from no leather frames for gifts to India where the cow is sacred to no cordial sets to Arab countries  --  and the protocol office can not afford to be less than fully alert . Once two officials have exchanged gifts , there is no need for duplication on future trips . Thus Secretary Rogers carries no gifts ' on his May trip to the European capitals since these are leaders he consults with frequently in the course of his NATO work . Vice-President Agnew will take gifts to Japan for the Okinawa reversion ceremony but not , should such countries happen to be included in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously made official visits . All the same , the exchanges are quite , enough to keep Mr. Ruwe 's office , which also . handles diplomatic dinners and receptions , fully occupied . With the added convenience and speed of jets travel , U.S. officials simply get around a lot more than they used to 10 or 20 years ago . Mr. Ruwe concedes that his office is besieged by businesses who would like to see their products presented as diplomatic gifts , but he insists it is not too much ? " We 're always looking for ideas . "                     