@@733063

txt THE COLLISION with seagulls that apparently caused a private plane to crash Into Lake Michigan off Meigs Field Saturday . killing four persons , also could happen at O'Hare , a federal investigator said Sunday . Seagulls are plentiful year-round al Meigs but are a menace to aviation owl ) in the spring , said William Moore of tit ( National Transportation Safety Board of fire here . Gulls also are a problem al O'Hare International Airport , he said . Moore is in charge of an investigation into the crash of the Jet Commander 690A , which witnesses said collided will hundreds of seagulls on takeoff fronMeigs and , while attempting to turn back to the field , spun into the lake a quarter-mile northeast of the airport . The pilot was warned just prior to takeoff that a flock of birds was on the north end of the runway , according to a Federal Aviation Administration spokes. man . Two of the dead were identified as Bobby Wayne Knight , 91 , of Harrisburg , Ill. , the pilot : and his cousin , Imogene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oak Brook . Two others were identified a ; Alan L. Mete , 34 , a lawyer with flu Chicago firm of lesser &; Block ; ancc , his wife , Jean , of Evanston . THE SEAGULLS " congregate all year but they 're no problem after June . 1 do n't know why , " Moore said . Asked it the same thing could happen at O'Hare , he said , " It sure could . " A four-man team including a representative of the Federal Aviation Ad. ministration begins its investigation Monday , when the wreckage , which lies in 23 feet of water , is to be raised , Moore said . He said manufacturers of the airplane , Rockwell International , and its engines , Pratt &; Whitney of Canada , Ltd. , probably will join the probe . According to witnesses , the plane had just taken off when it struck the gulls and , its engines smoking , started to turn hack to the airport after barely clearing the Adler Planetarium . Mrs. Fran Simik , 2406 S. Hamlin Av. , was standing near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white smoke , " she said . " Then the smoke turned yellow . " Right after that , pieces of birds started coming out of the engine . I heard : his funny sound coming from the plane . " There was no explosion . . . no fire . . . just smoke . It made a nosedive right after it went into the turn . " The Fire Department recovered the victims ' bodies about two hours after the crash . TILE PLANE was owned by the J. D. Barter Construction Co. of Harrisburg . Moore said the plane collided with 150 to 200 gulls .                     