@@728640

txt An economic body representing 22 nations has cautiously suggested that the United States resolve its growing- difficulties in combining high employment with price stability by installing formal wage and price guidelines . The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development thrust itself into the policy debate in the United States with a recommendation made in a 46-page review of Pe American economy . The O.E.C.D . Secretariat prepares studies of all the member countries such as the United States once a year . These reports are put together with the cooperation of the economic authorities of the countries concerned . While discreetly worded , the advice was clear . " Even with the easier demand conditions now envisaged , progress toward price stability and an early return to fuller employment might be enhanced if certain selective measures could be applied in support of continued use of traditional demand management policies , " the report said . It cited among these " selective measures " the exercise of influence by the Government on wages and prices  --  what has come to be known as an incomes policy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States shares membership with Canada , Japan and 19 Western European countries , was all the WAGE-PRICE RULES PROPOSED FOR U.S. // more pointed in view of the split within the Administration over use of incomes policy as a supplemental weapon in the fight against inflation . The survey of the American economy suggested that one way an income policy might be implemented would be to have permanent Government committees set up to analyze market situations in specific industries to determine whether price and wage increases were justified . This is a job that is done in Britain by a so-called prices and incomes board . The report noted that " although progress has been made ( with incomes policy ) in some countries , no country can yet point to any large measure of success . " But it added that " given the nature of the problems involved , progress can hardly be expected to be very rapid . " The official Administration position is that formal income restraint is inappropriate for the United States , but this has been challenged by Arthur F. Burns , chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury officials share Dr. Burns 's views . The O.E.C.D . report , which was approved for publication by American authorities , said that incomes policy is no panacea . But its message was that the instrument should be tried in view of the dilemma facing American policy makers ? " the risk of a serious downswing with a rapid rise in unemployment " on the one hand and the possibility , on the other hand , that " the degree of cooling off of the economy acceptable on the basis of social considerations will ? not produce the expected improvement in price performance . ' Commenting on prospects for the American economy , the report , prepared well before the latest shockwaves hit Wall Street , took a position more or less in line with the official view in Washington . Waiting Period Necessary It saw little if any growth in the first half of this year and some renewal in the second half that would put the gross national product up between 1 and 11/2 per cent by year-end . The gap between actual and potential output would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , and this " should serve to dampen price and cost increases , with a gradual deceleration in the pace of inflation . " While noting that price increases should be retarded in the second half , the report warned that " recent wholesale price trends do not hold out much hope that inflation will slow quickly . " The O.E.C.D . said it was a " reasonable assumption " that Federal Reserve policy would remain " quite tight " in the first half , though somewhat easier than in the second half of1969 . " Having been criticized in the recent past for under-estimating inflationary forces , and easing too soon , the Federal Reserve must wait this time for more concrete signs of success , " the report urged . It saw an over-all growth in the money supply at around 2 to 3 per cent ( at an annual rate ) in the first half and said that if the demand for funds eases somewhat with the economic slowdown , interests rate " could show some further easing . " The report predicted a high incidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , will be heavily influenced by efforts to catch up with past inflation , and expectations of future inflation . On the other hand , it noted , with the decline in the economy and easier conditions in the labor market , there should be " slower increases in hourly compensation . "                     