@@729406

txt A quiet revolution Is under way among the lawyers who are members of Congress . With almost no fanfare  --  but often with a groat deal of personal and f inancial discomfort ? dozens of legislators have withdrawn from their law firms within the last two years . For decades , authorities on congressional ethics and various News Analysis " good government " advocates searched for some means to require members of the House and Senate to divest themselves of outside business Interests , Reform Long Frustrated Lawyers were the principal target of such campaigns , because there are more attorneys than , members of any other single profession in Congress , and because lawyers presumably would have special opportunity to turn public service into private profit . Hut the effort to effect reform long has been frustrated for a variety of reasons : A tradition which tolerated  --  and often encouraged  --  the practice of public officals engaging in extracurricular business activities , Congress 's relatively low I pay scale and part-time work schedule , an unwillingness by legislative leaders to face the ' ethical problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now reform appears to bo. tinder way  --  alum there ore a number of notable exceptions involving memb o r s of the House and Senate Who stilt maintain ? their affiliation with low firms , A racpg:Hurvoy by CongrunMenai Quarterly lists not persons designated as lawyers in the current Congress . But that total includes everyone who ever went to law school and passed n bar examination , some of whom never engaged In private practice . More than half of the practicing lawyers abandoned their private legal interests either early In their political careers often upon election to state office or shortly after election to the house or senate . But others have retained their interest in law firms . There are at least three important , identifiable reasons why numerous legislators have decided to pull out of their law firms : ? The organized bar , in an unprecedented action , has adopted a broad restriction which forbids any public affiliation with law firms by government officials , unless they are engaged in an " active and regular " legal practice . ? Membership in the Congress has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-paying position . The salary is now at least $42,500 . Many members who once claimed the need of " moonlighting " now have discovered that the demands of their official duties are too heavy to allow outside business activities . ? A spate of conflict-of-interest cases in the late 1960s , a number of them involving law firms whose partners were members of Congress , plus the electorate 's demands for a higher standard of ethical conduct caused some legislators to disassociate themselves from their law firms . No Serious Restrictions But Congress never has approved  --  and there is no reason to believe it will do so in the near future  --  any serious restrictions on its members ' outside activities , any broad requirement for financial disclosure or any other legislation to bring about truly substantial reforms . Probably the single most important catalyst in convincing the legislators to withdraw from law firms was an action by an outside group  --  the adoption of the House of Delegates of the American Dar Association on Aug. 12 , 1969 , of a new code of professional responsibility governing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the canons of professional ethics since they were approved by the A. B. A. in 1908 . Disciplinary Rule Included Included in the new code was a little-noticed section , disciplinary rule 2-102 13 , which said , in part : " A lawyer who assumes a judicial , legislative , or public executive post or office shall not permit his name to remain in the name of a law firm or to be used in professional notices of the firm during any significant period in which he is not Rep. John Erlenborn Rep. Robert AteClory actively - and regularly practicing law as a member of the firin , and during such period other members of the firm shall not use his name in the firm name or in professional notices of the firm . " By itself , the A. B. A. code has only advisory status because there Is no national-level enforcement of ethical standards within the legal profession . But it serves as a " model code " for the respective state bar associations-41 of which have adopted it , with minor variations in some cases , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 41 states , the State Supreme Courts also have approved the new code , thus clearing the way for the initiation of formal grievance proceedings against lawyers believed to be in violation of its standards . If convicted , they can be suspended or disbarred from the practice of law . Expect OK by Court In the other 12 of the 41 states , t h e State Supreme Courts are considering the revised code and are expected to adopt it in the coming months . In only nine states  --  Alabama , California , Idaho , Mississippi , . Montana , New Jersey , North Carolina , Texas and Wyoming  --  does the new code lack approval thus far from the state bar association . Not even the most zealous reformer argues for immediate termination of a public official 's tics with his law firm ; disengagement from a legal practice is a prolonged and complex proceeding . Many lawyers believe , for example , that carrying a legal matter to its conclusion Is a highly Important part of their ethical responsibility to their clients . Similarly , if a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  except In the most extreme circumstances  --  to allow 11 lawyer to abandon his client in favor of alternative counsel . What Some Are Doing Here is what some members of Congress are doing ? ? Rep. John N. Ifrlenborn . R. , Ill. is still a senior partner in Erlenborn , Bauer &; Hate , in Elmhurst , Ill. , but says he is in the process of dissasseciation : " I have advised the firm which I founded and have been associated with for almost 20 years that , due to the A. 13 . A.I ruling .. . they must take steps to remove my name from the firm and its notices . " ? Similarly , 11 e p . Robert McClory R. , Ill. reports : " Immediately following tit e adoption of the amended code of ethics by the A. B. A. , the name of the law firm with which I am affiliated was changed from MeClory , Lochnar a n d Nordigan to Lochnar and Nordigan . Accordingly , my name no longer appears in the firm name , " The Martindale-Hubbel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's lawyers and firms , lists MeClory as a senior partner of the law firm , with a notation that he currently is " on leave . " ? On the other hand , Sen. Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania , the Republican minority leader , maintains a " counsel " relationship with a Philadelphia law firm , altho an aide says the senator 's involvement with the practice is limited to the fact that he " just has his name on the door . " In order to comply with new restrictions adopted by the A. B. A. for attorneys who are also public officials Rep. Louis C. Wyman R. , N. il. , says he considers himself to be " actively and regularly " practicing law as a senior partner in a Manchester firm . Listed as On leave For Wyman , senior partner in Wyman , Bean and Tefft , the crucial element is the A. 13 . A. exemption for lawyers who are " actively and regularly practicing . " He puts himself in that category , altho he says the next edition of Martindale-Hubbell will list him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rep. William V. Chappell Jr. , D. , Fla. , has an unusual suggestion for his colleagues in Congress who like him , are engaged in private legal practice : ' ' The best way to keep off the welfare rolls is to keep your outside business interests intact . " Altho few members of the Ilouse and Senate appear to be facing any imminent threat of poverty , Chappell is outraged about attempts by leaders of the organized bar to force public officials to disassociate themselves for their law practices . " Instead of criticizing us , the American liar Association ought to be protecting its own profession , and keeping members of the bar in Congress , " says ' Chappell , senior partner in the Ocala , Fin , , Fla. law firm of Sturgis Chappell . N. Y. , Florida Top 1 , Ist The congressional delegations from his home state and the State of New York lead all others ill the number of legislators who continue to maintain their affiliation with law firms . In Florida , both senators and five of the 12 House metnbe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , one senator and 10 of the 41 1101180 members  --  Including the dean of tile delegation , Democrat Emanuel Celle ? , - practice dual roles . In both states , the bar association and the State Supreme Court have adopted a new A. B. A. code of professional responsibility which includes the restriction that : " A lawyer who assumes It judicial , legislative , or public executive e r administratIva post or office shall not permit his name to remain In the name of a law firm or to be used In professional notices of the firm during any significant period 111 which he is not actively and regularly practicing law as a member Of the firm , and during such period other members of the firm N111111 not 11811 1115 name In the firm name or professional notices of the firm . "                     