@@729479

txt A governmental offensive to stimulate exports , now under Administration study , could help strengthen the dollar if properly carried out . Peter G. Peterson , President Nixon 's new assistant for international economic affairs , is right in arguing that the best way to spur exports abroad is to speed lagging technology and industrial growth at home . But this response to pay. - ments imbalances is unlikely by itself to reverse the present dollar outflow . If implemented incautiously , the export drive could even boomerang badly . The immediate danger lies in the kind of pressure and self-righteous carping against allied countries that have characterized statements over the past year by the Agriculture , Commerce and Treasury Departments and their chiefs . Typical is Treasury Secretary Connally 's recent suggestion that the United States should pull the Sixth Fleet Out of the Mediterranean to retaliate against Common Market preferential trading arrangements there . In the Pacific , Mr. Connally proposes " to get tough " with Japan . There undoubtedly are trade and investment restrictions both in the Common Market and in Japan that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is by negotiating mutual concessions ; the allies have equally valid complaints against U. S. restrictions . The United States ran a $2.7-billion trade surplus last year , much of it with the Common Market . American exports to the Common Market have tripled and even farm exports have doubled over the past decade . The picture is much less favorable with Japan , where an American trade deficit of $1.3 billion was registered last year . But in both cases , American security could be undermined , while American economic interests would hardly be advanced , by a threat to withdraw American military backing from these critical areas . S Moreover , recent economic studies bring into question the belief that exports can be the complete answer to the American balance-of-payments dilemma in the future , as in the past . The economy of the United States is increasingly weighted toward the service-producing industries , which are growing faster and now employ almost twice as many persons as the goods-producing industries . Lawrence Krause , a former senior economist of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , points out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industries that grow fastest at home are also most able to compete in export markets abroad . The result , Mr. Krause argues , is that " the United States might well become more specialized in service exports ; and the most important service export might be management services . " American-managed manufacturing companies abroad , which also are largely American-owned , now sell two and a half times as much as is exported in manufactures from the United States ? $68 billion as against $27 billion a year . American investments abroad are contributing almost $6 billion a year to the United States balance of payments  --  more than twice last year 's trade surplus ? in the form of net remittances of dividends and interest . If other countries are to remit net sums of this dimension and larger to the United States in the coming years , Mr. Krause argues , they will need the trade surplus  --  and the United States a trade deficit  --  for these transactions to be financed . For the moment , of course , a trade surplus remains vital to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political interests to be negotiated with the chief trading partners of the United States abroad . Monetary questions , treatment of American investments and earnings abroad , coordination of business-cycle and interest-rate policy , levels of subsidy to agriculture ( which will remain an important American export due to high productivity ) ? have become far more important to the American balance of payments than trade barriers . A coherent over-all policy addressing these issues is essential . Secretary Rogers is in Paris today to launch joint studies to this end with tho free world 's other two economic giants , Japan and the Common Market , includinn Britain . Together , the Big Three can solve the free world 's economic problems . Separately , their competition could quickly devolve into economic warfare .                     