@@734123

txt ELK CITY , Okla. ? President Carter charged Saturday that " too many business leaders " have failed to comply with the administration 's anti-inflation campaign and he vowed to take " firm steps " against companies pasting unjustified mice increases . As one of those steps , the President threatened to publicly expose such firms . Saying he is " deeply concerned " with the latest surge in the cost of living  --  the biggest one-month jump in 41 ; : , years ? Carter singled out " medium sized and smaller " businesses for special criticism . " TOO MANY BUSINESS Traders seem to feel that the fight against inflation is not their responsibility , " he told a town A small town in Oklahoma has a big event : a visit by President Carter . Page . 12. hall meeting here . " The result is higher prices for us all , " Carter said he was encouraged by " the willingness of working people to join in this crucial battle " and observed that " most of our largest corporations " appear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very disappointed that many medium-size and smaller businesses are not showing the same sort of restraint , " he said . CARTER SAID that to combat prier 's rising above the administration 's volun // Carter hits businesses on unjustified price hikes // tory wage and price guidelines , the council on wage and price stability will get regular reports on price increases from firms in problem industries , and he will " substantially " increase the size of the staff monitoring prices . " We will also be working with labor and consumer groups in a national price-monitoring effort . " The government , he said , has Identified several firms " which appear to have broken the guidelines with unjustified price increases , " and will Identify more in the future , he added . " THESE COMPANIES will he given a chance to respond to our findings , " Carter said , " but will not hesitate to Identify those irresponsible firms and individuals to the people of this nation . " While Carter said he was " surprised " by the 26.4 per cent jump in company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 29 years  --  he declined to blame business for Inflation . Carter told a questioner at the town hall meeting In this western Oklahoma town of 10,000 that there were economic forces at work that no company could control . Carter blamed " a large part " of the steep rise in consumer prices on world oil prices , the severe winter , and " other factors beyond our control . " " BUT THOSE factors do not account for the sharp price increases we saw in many goods and services , " added Carter . " That inflation level Is unacciptatile . And those figures are a warning and a message to government , business , labor , and consumers : This must be a time of restraint ? ' Although Carter praised working people for joining the anti-inflation effort , he noted the country still faces a series of major labor negotiations .                     