@@728446

txt The Carnegie Commission on Higher Education proposed yesterday a national program designed to insure that by the year 2000 no American is deprived of the chance to go to college by barriers of race , geography , income , age or quality of early schooling . As an interim goal , the 19-member commission recomExcerpts from Carnegie report are printed on Page 24 : mended that by 1976 , the 200th anniversary of American independence , all economic barriers to college and university attendance be removed , along with all features of college curriculums and policies that now tend to hinder ethnic minoriles . The 41-page package of H. STEVENS unanimously adopted conclusions and recommendations was made public at a news con. ference at the Carnegie Corporation offices , 437 Madison Avenue . It is the second in a series of interim reports the commission is producing before its final review of American higher education is published in 1972 . The first interim report , issued in December , 1968 , proposed that a multibillion-dollar Federal program be set up to finance the college education of students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that recommendation was introduced in Congress last year by Representative Ogden R. Reid , Republican of Westchester , but has not been passed . Yesterday 's report , titled // " A Chance to Learn : An Action Agenda for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education , " deals with what Dr. Clark Kerr , the commission chairman , described as " the second half of the problem " of equal opportunity  --  policies , attitudes and programs . Dr. Kerr said yesterday that although 40 per cent of Americans between 18 and 21 years of age attended college there was still a long way to go in providing equality of opportunity . " But the distance still to go is well within our grasp , and we can achieve these goals within the foreseeable future , " he said . The commission estimated that if all students with the motivation and ability to go to college could do so , one million additional students could be brought into higher education by 1976 ? one-quarter to onethird of them from minority groups . The Carnegie Commission , according to yesterday 's report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some college within his state or locality but that not all institutions should have open-admission policies . The commission is against racial quotas , which , its report says , are not the same thing as open access . " There are those today who talk about open access as something new , " Dr. Kerr said . " But there has always been open access . The question now is whether wer'e going to close the door . " " We do not believe that each young person should of necessity attend college , " the report said . " Quite the contrary . Many do not want and will not want to attend , and it can not be shown that all young persons will benefit sufficiently from attendance to justify their time and the expense involved . " The commission endorsed more flexible standards of admission , coupled with compensatory programs , so that students of potential college ability could overcome the effects of early educational deprivation . It emphasized , however , that standards for academic degrees should not be compromised . It said that if its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compensatory programs should be necessary in colleges by the year 2000 . Among measures the commission proposed to achieve equal opportunity , it placed first priority on improving the quality of pre-elementary , elementary and secondary scilools. so that deprived students would be adequately prepared to go to college . It recommended , among other things , that colleges and universities take the lead in helping to improve pre-college education by doing the following : 9Establishing experimental programs for developing the verbal skills of deprived children . Developing curriculum materials and teacher training programs directed toward the particular needs of the deprived . ilSetting up " educational opportunity centers " where college students would tutor and counsel deprived elementary and secondary pupils who plan to attend college . According to Dr. Kerr , yesterday 's commission report , besides attempting to state a coherent set of goals and policies to achieve them , contained three new elements . One was a proposal that incoming college students be given the option of spending a " foundation year " at , college in which they would be given intensive counseling and wide latitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Second was a recommendation that colleges commit enough resources to students who require compensatory work so that such students could be brought up to academic standard in no more than two years after entering college . Third was a provision for a 19-item " equal opportunity checklist " whereby an institution could test whether or not its programs and policies fully met the needs of minority groups . The checklist focuses on financial , educational , cultural and social needs . At yesterday 's news conference , some members of the commission took sharp issue with a suggestion by Daniel Patrick Moynihan , counselor to President Nixon , that there should be a period of " benign neglect " of talk about the race issue . " This commission is against neglect , whether it be benign or cancerous , " Dr. Kerr said . " Progress does n't just happen , " said the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh , president of the University of Notre Dame , chairman of the United States Commission for Civil Rights , and a member of the commission . " The progress of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attention to it . We need goals . And this report on equal opportunity does set down goals . " The commission was established in the spring of 1967 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and is financed by a sister foundation , the Carnegie Corporation . Its purpose is to study how Americans can obtain the quantity and quality of higher education they are likely to demand in the future . Dr. Kerr , former president of the University of California , is its fulltime chairman .                     