@@730574

txt Robert F. Strauss of Dallas was elected chairman of the Democratic Party today after the resignation of Mrs. Jean Westwood , who had headed the party since the July convention . The Texas attorney , backed by conservative leaders and organized labor , defeated George Mitchell of Maine and Charles Manatt of California when a liberal coalition to create a deadlock failed to materialize . Strauss , 54 , moved immediately to ease the tension and divisiveness his election could cause among the party 's more liberal factions , and to ease fears that he might roll back the party 's reforms . He pledged to increase representation of blacks on the national committee , and personally added the name of Mrs. Westwood to the party 's new 100-member charter commission . Mrs. Westwood Wins Test Strauss had 1061/2 votes to 711/2 for Mitchell and 26 for Manatt . Strauss ' total was only 41/2 votes above the 102 votes majority needed for election . His election came 4 ' hours after an Robert Strauss ef:ort to impeach Mrs. Westwood failed by five votes . Within an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promise to step down voluntarily . Routinely calling to order the Democratic National Committee after a noon recess . Mrs. Westwood calmly outlined the agenda and said she planned to offer her resignation . The committee reacted in stunned silence , but later gave the embattled party chairman a standing ovation after her resignation speech . " I did not accept leadership of this party merely to be a leader , " she told the group . Opposition Falls Apart Mrs. Westwood and other forces hoping to block the election of the conservative Strauss continued thruout the afternoon attempting to assemble a formidable opposition force . The effort began to fall apart , however , when former party chairman Lawrence F. O'Brien refused to allow his supporters to place his name in nomination . Anti-Strauss forces had hoped O'Brien would actively enter the contest and increase chances of a deadlock . In the final vote , several O'Brien supporters such as New York party leader Patrick Cunningham and Don Anselmi of Wyoming , cast their votes for Strauss and may have provided the winning margin . Similar efforts to coax Sen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice Presidential nominee , into the race were initiated in the afternoon but never materalized . The Strauss support held along the same lines broken earlier on the resolutions to out Mrs. Westwood . The Illinois delegation , for instance , voted 5 to 2 in favor of Strauss and by similar margin in favor of ousting Mrs. Westwood . The two " no " votes on vacating the chair were cast by Margaret C. Gordon of Glencoe and Penny Lee Severns of Decatur . Both women voted for Mitchell while the rest of the delegation went for Strauss . Start Day Evenly Tho Manatt and Mitchell began the day in similar battle positions , the Maine committeeman emerged late in the day as the strongest Strauss challenger . Mitchell picked up strong support within the committee 's reform and women 's caucuses  --  two groups which feared Strauss would curtail newly instituted party reforms . Mrs. Westwood , who considered Strauss a symbol of the right wing of the party , cast her vote for Mitchell . After the election of Strauss , Mitchell pledged his support to Strauss and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election of Strauss , Mitchell pledged his support to Strauss and urged that the election be made unanimous . Some Bitterness Remains Manatt , appearing at the press conference with Strauss , also pledged his support during the next four years . The Strauss victory left some signs of surface bitterness among some party elements . Millie Jeffries , the choice of the women 's caucus for vice chairman , declined the nomination . Close friends said she did not want to be a part of the Strauss regime . Caroline Wilkins , Oregon party chairman , was elected to the post , giving the party two national vice chairmen . Basil Paterson of New York retained the post he won following the convention . Strauss won with solid backing from border and southern states and showed surprising strength in the normally liberal northeast . Lobbyists Are Experienced ? His floor fight was carried on in the old Democratic Party tradition of cajoling and arm twisting by experienced floor lobbyists . After the initial count on the vote to vacate the chair , Strauss found himself one vote short of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Washington1 chairmanship , presided over attorney , and Joseph Cole , a the d the caeftionlarsof the charStrauss operative from Ohio , a and ter single black delegate abruptly commission switched her vote in favor - of the Strauss effort . Carol McClendon , a Cleveland city councilwoman , said she made the switch for " the good of the party . " A friend of Mrs. McClendon 's reported later that Mrs. Mc-1 Clendon said she was " under , tremendous pressare by the interests in Ohio supporting this motion . " Strauss , after assuming the The committee agreed to postpone the election of 25 new national committee members until a later date .                     