@@733995

txt Anti-Zionism is one of the truths of the Islamic revival which is sweeping through this part of the world . That is evident here in Iran , where Islamic leaders played a key role in toppling a ruler who seemed impregnable only a few months ago . The point has been reached where any Iranian government , the present one or any which may follow , will have to pay attention to the popular feelings now aroused in this country by the march of the mullahs . Israel is viewed as an enemy of Islam , not just of the Arab world . Thus Islamic leaders here view opposition to Israel as being almost a jihad , or religious war . There are political implications stemming from this swing from a low key , almost pro-Israel stance taken by Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi to a fanatically anti-Israel Iran . This country , of course , already has announced that it will sell no more oil to Israel ( and South Africa ) . It will support the Palestine Liberation Organization very strongly in the future . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit Iraq to focus its military strength in Israel 's direction rather than both eastward and westward . Iran 's shift also means one more step in the direction of isolating Israel . a goal of Arabs and of devout Moslems for years . * * The Islamic world has always resented the loss of old Jerusalem to Israel in the war of 1967 . Arab politicians over the years paid much lip service to the sentiments of the mullahs and ayatollahs of Islam . But , except for Saudi Arabia , the depth of feeling of politicians came nowhere near that of religious leaders . Over the years , the question of Jerusalem 's future has become blended with that of the rights of Palestinians in the area and to the more obvious geographical claims of Egypt and Syria . To a religious Moslem , however . Jerusalem is the key , and the other matters important but peripheral . Why Jerusalem ? To the devout Moslem , Jerusalem is one of Islam 's three holy cities , ranking close to Mecca and Medina as a place of reverence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Century birth of this dynamic religion . Except for less than a hundred years when crusaders made Jerusalem a capital of a feudal Christian state in the late 12th and in the 13th Centuries , Jerusalem was Islamic from that first Moslem conquest until 1918 . It was then that Great Britain took charge of the former Turkish possession , including Jerusalem . Early in that long historical period . Moslems said their prescribed prayers facing Jerusalem , not Mecca . Later Mecca became the center of Islam . Still , Jerusalem remained as a venerated spot . With the shah in charge , religious leaders were held in tight control in Iran for years . And the shah showed a surprising partiality towards Israel . There are - reasons for this , just as there are strong reasons for the shah 's friendship with South Africa . The latter country gave the shah 's father a haven after the old man abdicated in 1941 . Israel was Iran 's anti-Communist partner against radical Arabs such as those in Iraq and Syria . The shah viewed things in a strategic political light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position here , which if not strongly supportive , was at least benevolently neutral . Israel 's El Al used to run frequent flights between Tel Aviv and Tehran , flying over the Mediterranean and across Turkey . Often these flights were jammed with business travelers on the way to Iran to sell Israeli goods , or on the way back with orders . Israeli technicians found jobs in Iranian projects , proffered military advice . That 's all over . In Parts , the Ayatullah Rouhalla Khomeini , the Moslem divine who appears to be a leading force in the present anti-shah revolution , has called for " the elimination " of Israel , terming it a sore in the Mideast . His condemnation of Israel has been picked up within this country and numerous groups are parroting Khomeini 's position . In Abadan , one oil workers group said in a statement : " We will never permit any of our oil to be loaded for shipment to an anti-Islamic state such as Israel . " ? * * Prime Minister Shahpur Balchtiar has his political ear close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program in his early days in office in order to win backing for his government . In the present climate , it is easy for a government leader to be anti-Israel since Israel has no constituency in this country . He has promised to cut off oil to Israel . There are those here who believe that Libya 's Khadafy helped- to finance the revolution waged by the Ayatullah Khomeini with the PLO providing training to Iranian terrorists . The ayatollah does n't deny the close ties to Libya sometimes attributed to him . It does appear , though , that some of the men around the religious leader have been more than willing to collaborate with the PLO and radical Arabs In the campaign to overthrow the shah . In any case , the PLO now is well positioned to ask for and to get considerable help from the new Iran , sources here say . Already PLO leaders in Beirut are talking about using these ties as a means to strike at American interests throughout the Middle East . Iran does not have any borders with Israel , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It does , however , have a substantial military force , with ultramodern equipment provided by the U.S .. including some of the most modern jet fighters . Nobody has yet threatened to use Iran 's military machine against Israel . But friendlier relations between an Islamic Iran and surrounding Arab countries may enable such countries as Iraq to shift their own military forces westward to place increasing pressure on Israel . Thus the geopolitical shift in Iran 's stance has ominous implications for Middle East peace . Mr. Vicker is the Journal 's senior international correspondent .                     