@@731930

txt The governing Labor party voted today against continued membership in the Common Market in a new blow to Prime Minisiter Harold Wilson . The special party conference rejected pleas by Mr. Wilsonl and others in favor of remain-1 ing in the European Economic Community and overwhelmingly - voted to urge Britons to say " no " on membership in the referendum on June 5 . The antimarket margin was 2 to 1 . The day-long meeting in a sports arena in the Islington district of London demonstrated the deep divisions within the Labor party on the issue . Some Government officials said privately in the corridors that the whole exercise was clearly a mistake because the position taken by the party today undoubtedly would be repudiated by British voters in June . " The party is now against its own Government , " remarked one official . " And now the people will be against the party . We could have done , without this meeting . " A majority of the members of Mr. Wilson 's Cabinet , which is not . hound by the conference decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remain in the nine-nation community . But seven of the 23 Cabinet ministers and more than half the Labor party members in the House of Commons are opposed . Those fighting membership were clearly delighted today after more than 1,000 delegates cast their votes on behalf of the millions of people they represented . The vote was 3.724 , - 000 against the Market to 1,986,000 in favor . Although local party organizations were represented , unions bitterly opposed to the Market held the greatest voting power . The delegate representing the Transport and General Workers Union , for example , alone cast one million votes nity has its headquarters . These were among the themes , for example , underscored by Bryan Stanley , general secretary of the Post Office Engineering Union , who delivered the main speech against the Market . He noted that Mr. Wilson and his ministers had managed to get some changes in the Market during the year-long British effort to win easier terms . But he insisted that the changes did not go far enough , and that too much power remained with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go out to the British was : " Vote ' No ' on June 5 to defend your rights and your future . " The vote against the Market was largely expected , but the debate made up in passion and emotion what it lacked in suspense . James Callaghan , the Foreign Secretary , had his speech interrupted by shouts of " Rubbish ! " after he argued that Britain had won important changes from the Market on budget payments and farm policy . Roy Jenkins , the Home Secretary , also made an impas , sioned appeal for Market membership , denying that it would slow the march toward greater socialism . But another Cabinet minister Michael Foot , the left-wing Sec ? retary for Employment , tore into the pro-Market arguments and appealed for a " No " vote in the referendum " to save the freedom of our country . " He received a standing ovation , a gesture of acclaim the delegates declined to give Mr. Wilson . The debate became so repetitive on both sides that delegates demanded that the voting be held earlier than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Market , wondered whether the trip to London had really been worth while , particularly in view of the predicted outcome of the referendum . The latest poll , published in The Evening Standard yesterday , indicated that nearly seven out of 10 voters had made up their minds to vote " yes . " Among Labor party supporters , the pro-Market forces held a 6 to 4 lead . against the Market . It was a rather bizarre event . Government ministers for and against membership took to the podium to argue against one 1 another . Some Cabinet mem- 1 bers who favor the Market ! were heckled . And beneath the ! surface was the feeling among ! many in the hall that what i they decided would be largely irrelevant in view of the I Government 's commitment to Europe and the forthcoming national vote . Moreover , the main speaker against the Market generated more applause than Mr. Wilson , who argued that " my judgment is that it is best for the future of Britain , best for the Commonwealth , best for Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wider world , that we remain in the community . " The Prime Minister acknowledged that he had never been " emotionally a Europe man " but declared that he saw nco other course now . The left wing of the party ' was in full cry in opposition arguing that membership would prevent Britain from extending her socialism and would leave vital decisions affecting the na. ? tion in the hands of bureaucrats ; in Brussels , where the commu. ?                     