@@731296

txt WILLIAM LINDQUIST , 33 , stood silent and seemingly unperturbed before the bench yesterday as Criminal Court Judge Philip Romiti sentenced him to 3 to 10 years in prison . The prison term was four months short of meeting the maximum sentence that Lindquist could have received for involuntary manslaughter and aggravated battery stemming from the 1972 fatal beating of his son , Johnny , 7 . Lindquist was found guilty on both counts on March 15 by a Criminal Court jury . " The court is limited by statute on the amount it cart impose , " said Judge Remit ' . " It is obvious that the minimum sentence is neither acceptable nor warranted . The maximum sentence is proper and will be imposed . " Lindquist stood mute during sentencing , refusing an opportunity to make a statement to the court . HIS TWO attorneys , Assistant Public Defenders William Murphy and Larry Suffredin , said Lindquist , who has served 21 months in jail already , will be eligible for parole in nine months . Before sentencing , Murphy argued for Lindquist 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his family and the maximum sentence will not be a deterrent . It would serve no purpose to institutionalize him . " Lindquist was tried on charges of murder and aggravated battery , but Judge Remit had informed the jury before it retired that it could also consider the charge of involuntary manslaughter . Lindquist 's wife , Irene , 28 , is months on charges of murder and conspiracy to commit murder in connection with her son 's death . During Lindquist 's trial , defense attorneys argued that she was the one who administered the fatal beating while Lindquist was outside the apartment talking to his sister . Mrs. Lindquist did not testify in her husband 's trial . the Lindquist home at 4729 W. Erie St. by police July 28 , 1972 . He remained in a coma at St. Anne 's Hospital until he died Aug. 31 . During the trial , Asst . States Attorneys Patrick Driscoll and William Oberts argued that Lindquist beat his son because he wet his pants and refused to call him " daddy . " Johnny had been removed from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parents , Robert and Florence Earvanek of Tigerton , Wis . A major piece of evidence in the trial was a tape-recorde/ phone conversation betweet Lindquist and police in which he said he had just beaten his son . Lindquist broke down several times when he took the stand , weeping at the mention of Johnny 's fatal beating .                     