@@730476

txt The House Agriculture Committee approved today a bill that would partly compensate farmers in Texas , Oklahoma and Kansas who sold their early wheat at low prices while unaware of the magnitude of Soviet wheat purchases that ultimately sent prices soaring . The vote on the bill , which is vigorously opposed by the Nixon Administration , was 23 to 10 . Twenty Democrats and three Republicans voted for the bill ; all 10 negative votes were cast by Republicans . There is considerable doubt whether the bill will do anything except score political points against the administration and Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz . Last week the Senate Agriculture committee rejected an identical bill , 7 to 1 . The three Republicans vetmg for the bill , all from wheat states , were Robert D. Price of Texas , Keith G. Sebelius of Kansas and John M. Zwach of Minnesota . Only the constituents of Mr. Price and Mr. Sebelius were likely to have suffered from low-priced sales of early wheat . In the Dakotas , Montana and Minnesota , where the harvest occurs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases stimulated by the Soviet purchase of 400 mil'lion bushels in July and early August . The bill was sponsored by Representative Graham Purcell , Democrat of Texas , who is in a close election contest with Mr. Price in a district that has been formed by combining their former districts . Mr. Price 's vote for his rival 's bill was regarded as an indication that the charges that grain exporters reaped windfall profits from the Soviet-United States grain deal have become a political issue in Texas and other early harvest states . The only Senator voting for the Senate bill on the voice vote held last week was its sponsor , Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota , although he had the proxy of Senator George of South Dakota , the Democratic Presidential nominee , available for any record vote . The votes in the Senate Agriculture Committee against that bill came mostly from Democrats in cotton and tobacco states . However , two Republicans representing states where many farmers sold early at low prices  --  Robert J. Dole of Kansas , the Republican National Chairman , and Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans from grain states were not present to vote ? Carl T. Curtis of Nebraska , Jack Miller of Iowa and Milton R. Young of North Dakota . Senators Bellmon , Curtis and John G. Tower of Texas have drafted a substitute bill that would give the Secretary of Agriculture optional authority to make payments he deemed " apropriate to correct inequities . " Estimates vary as to the cost of reimbursing farmers who sold at prices so low that , with an increment of Federal payments , they did riot get a parity price  --  a theoretical fair price that takes account of farmers ' costs . Mr. Humphrey estimated the cost at $50-million ; the National Farmers Union , in a statement yesterday , estimated the cost at $68.4-million . In another development , The Washington Post disclosed today that Clarence D. Palmby , former Asistant Secretary of Agriculture for International Affairs , who left the department last June 8 to become vice president of the Continental Grain Company , had written a letter to Representative Purcell providing what he called " supplemental details " to the chronological account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday . The letter said that on April 3 or 4 he purchased a cooperative apartment at 45 Sutton Place , New York City , and gave as credit references four officers of Continental . This date was four or five days before Mr. Palmby and Clifford G. Pulvermacher , head of the department 's Export Marketing Service , accompanied Secretary Butz to Moscow for preliminary discussions on credit terms for a possible grain purchase . Last week Mr. Palmby told the Purcell subcommittee that Continental first approached him about a position in early March , " but I did not take this really seriously . " Resignation Submitted The April talks with the Russians were unproductive , he said . He added that Continental made another offer , and on May 12 , he advised Dr. Butz that he wished to resign . On May 23 , he submitted his resignation , with a request that President Nixon relieve him of his duties on June 8 . Mr. Palmby told the subcommittee that , before joining the company , he stipulated that he could not talk with Continental officials about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and could not participate in any negotiations with the Russians or in any discussions with his former department colleagues . One Soviet delegation came to Washington on June 28 to renew talks on credit terms : another delegation went to New York at the same time to dis cuss purchases with grain ex port ers . Mr. Palmby told the subcom mittee that on July 5 Conti nental and the Soviet delega tion signed a purchase contract for four million tons of wheat and four and one-half million tons of feed grains . This was three days before President Nixon announced the $730-mil lion , three year grain deal , Mr Palmby added that on July 11 another contract was signed for one million tons more of wheat . Thus , the total wheat purchase was about 185 million bushels                     