@@730958

txt Like an anxious mother saying " Tut , tut , boys , do n't fight ! " the seven-man U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia unanimously urees President Nixon and Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox to settle their differences over the White House tapes recordings without a constitutional showdown . The court takes a rare judicial action in an unprecedented historical situation which involves the role of the presidency itself . Always in the background is awareness that an unresolved three-way clash among Congress , courts and executive could precipitate impeachment proceedings . Almost pleadingly the court , in an unsigned memorandum , says that it would be in the " national interest " to achieve a voluntary out-of-court agreement . At issue is Mr. Nixon 's contention that it would destroy the executive 's privilege of confidentiality to yield up the nine disputed tapes called for by subpoena for the Watergate grand jury . Mr. Nixon has hinted that he might release the tapes if allowed to do so voluntarily . Prosecutor willing Prosecutor Cox promptly signified his willingness to attempt an out-ofcourt settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprise proposal . // *Rare court move : Will it work ? // It tactfully reminded Mr. Cox and the President 's lawyer , Prof. Charles Alan Wright , of their " stature and character , " which , it said , " enhanced " the possibility of compromise . It noted that if Mr. Nixon goes along he will act voluntarily , so that compliance will not set a precedent for yielding to court order . And it noted that Messrs . Cox and Wright each were selected " directly or indirectly , by the Chief Executive himself " with the inference that the dispute is , to some degree , within the executive branch . Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson named Harvard Professor Cox after the President gave him authority to select a prosecutor . The heart of the court 's proposal , which appears to have risen spontaneously from the judges , is for " a voluntary submission of such portions of the two tapes to the two counsel as satisfies them . " The court says it will not " presume to prescribe the details of how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The court ordered respective counsel to report , by September 20 , , whether its memorandum " had been fruitful , " and added that it is n't going to let its proposal interrupt the regular schedule of the case . This is the second effort by courts to reconcile the momentous issue . Federal District Judge John J. Sirica on Aug. 29 appealed to both sides to let him read the tapes in camera ( privately ) to determine which parts could be transmitted to the grand jury . Now comes the Appeals Court with a proposal which bypasses the Sirica solution . Without exactly saying so , each court seems to be asking whether the legal battle is worth the risk involved . Inevitably , the courts ' approach puts pressure on President Nixon since he is the man who made , and 1s , withholding , the tapes . Mr. Nixon repeatedly has explained that he is withholding the tapes not because they involve him with Watergate , but because they are privileged documents , the forced revelation of which would break down the rule of confidentiality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his decision in moderate terms in what wasdesCribed as a " compromise " but which , in major details , rejected the Nixon position . Face-saving device ? Now the appellate court offers what may be regarded as a face-saving device if contestants want to avoid a constitutional showdown . A decision by the Appeals Court would almost certainly go to the Supreme Court which reassembles here Oct. 1 . Lawyers for former Attorney General John N. Mitchell and former Commerce Secretary Maurice H. Stans are trying to subpoena the Watergate tape recordings and White House records insofar as they involve transactions of financier Robert L. Vesco . A government affidavit backing a motion to quash the subpoena , however , described the move as " a broad-ranging blunderbuss fishing expedition . " The two ex-Cabinet officers are under indictment in New York on charges of obstructing an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Mr. Vesco , and of then concealing facts from a grand jury .                     