@@728734

txt Government based on the consent of the governed must give to the governed an adequate means of registering that consent . While the American system may do this as a general rule , so many exceptions have developed over the years that an overhauling of the voting machinery is clearly in order . At the Federal level , the Electoral College has always been a threat to successful exercise of the popular will . It is true that only in three out of 46 elections has a candidate with fewer popular votes than his opponent been declared elected  --  and one of those was chosen by the House of Representatives . Even three such instances are too many , of course , but the system always presents the possibility that in a close election'a third-party candidate could bargain in the Electoral College and so handpick a President . George Wallace came close to doing just that in 1968  --  and he may well succeed in 1972 unless action is taken . Simple , direct election of the President would eliminate the evils that attend the Electoral College @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be debated in the Senate , has already passed the House with encouraging ease . It deserves enactment and ratification  --  preferably in time for the next national election . Two other changes at the Federal level  --  extension of the Voting Rights Act and lowering of the voting age to 18 ? have already been adopted . They should promote the health of American democracy . At the state and local levels , where government is supposed to be closer to the people , the consent of the governed is modified more often and less defensibly . New York 's recent Democratic primary exposed electoral flaws that are common throughout the country . With no provision for a run-off race , the Democrats are now in a position of presenting a Senatorial nominee who won less than 40 per cent of the primary vote . Since only 26 per cent of enrolled Democrats turned out for the primary , the party will offer the voters in November a candidate chosen by approximately 10 per cent of its enrolled membership .. The fact that his opponents would have had even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The question is : how small a percentage can a plurality be and still carry with it a democratic mandate ? The same question might have been put after New York City 's Democratic mayoral primary last year . It is plain , too , that some better way has to be found to finance election campaigns now grown prohibitively expensive . New York Democrats nominated Arthur J. Goldberg for Governor and Richard L. Ottinger for United States Senator  --  both , as it happens , excellent candidates . But the law , which in this case did not preclude *a fortunate result , is nevertheless dangerously inequitable . In order to win , the first of these candidates had to be the nominee of his party 's bosses ; the other had to bring to the contest his own personal fortune . Two potentially excellent nominees for Governor , Nassau County Executive Eugene Nickerson and former United States Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau , had neither the support of the party bosses nor a source of sufficient funds . Before the campaign had even warmed up they had to withdraw . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than this . Until Federal law requires television stations to devote more free time to statewide political candidates , the separate states must attempt to put some ceiling on TV spending , help candidates meet this principal cost of campaigning , or both . New York Democrats have suggested that the state provide $3 million for the general election campaign ahead . Without effective regulation and subsidy , nomination and election will continue to go to candidates favored by party organizations or endowed with family fortunes , regardless of what other attributes they have . The flaws that exist at all levels of the American electoral system are weakening the foundations of popular government . In these times of instability and stress , when the very legitimacy of government is under attack , the need to enact genuine election reforms must be considered especially acute . figures . The continuing impact of these old rivalries is still evident in that Dr. Salk has never been elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences . Now that the victory over polio  --  in which Dr. Salk played such a key role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for those involved to forget past rancor and for the Scientific Establishment to honor all who made possible this great human achievement ? Conauest of Polio Gratitude , a cynic once remarked , Is the expectation of future favors . Perhaps that is why so little attention has been , paid to the remarkable news that last year there was not a single death from polio in the United States , while there were only nineteen cases of paralytic polio in the entire country . What these data mean is that this once dread disease has been almost entirely eliminated , and that victims in the future will stem only from failures to provide adequate vaccinations for young children or from the rare appear.ance . of Immunological anomalies . This news may not mean much to high school youngsters who have only heard of polio , if at all , as an unusual and increasingly negligible disease . But to everyone who is in his late twenties or older today , the fact that polio has been virtually completely conquered must seem like a miracle . They remember when every spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would strike , worry that turned to terror in the epidemic areas where hundreds or thousands died or were left permanently crippled . It is sobering to remember that in 1952 about 1,400 people died and 21,300 were paralyzed by polio , most but not all of them children . Credit for the victory over polio must go to many persons . Basil O'Connor and the National Foundation organized the research efforts and collected the funds that made triumph possible . John F. Enders made the basic scientific breakthrough which Jonas Salk then ' exploited to produce the first successful vaccine . Then Albert Sabin developed an alternative vaccine which is now more widely used than Salk 's . It is unfortunate , however , that this major triumph of medical research was marred by bitter personal animosities and jealousies among some of the key                     