@@728943

txt Charging that Vice President Agnew was " dividing this country with his inflammatory rhetoric , " Senator Charles E. Goodell called on President Nixon yesterday " to ask the Vice President to cool his rhetoric . " Responding to Mr. Agnew 's attacks on him as a radical liberal who has left the Re- publican party , Mr. Goodell , seemingly calm and unruffled , said at a news conference that the Vice President was trying ' to bludgeon his opposition , into submission . " Mr. Goodell , who has frequently been at odds with the Nixon Administration since his appointment to the Senate byh Governor Rockefeller two years ' ago , declined to say whether he would criticize the President if lit did not " step in and deal with " the Vice President . " Let 's see what Mr. Agnew does in the future , " he said . The President and his principal spokesmen are in Europe and the White House had no comment . The Vice President , who had returned to Washington after his controversial cross-country campaign tour , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a speech in Minot , N.D. , and Salt Lake City on Wednesday and Thursday , and yesterday it was Mr. Goodell 's turn , at the Drake Hotel here . Facing a cluster of microphones , eight television cameras and a score of newsmen , Mr. Goodell charged that Mr. Agnew was trying to " purge " him from the Senate but that the main issue was the right of a Senator to disagree with the Vice President . Mr. Goodell , who is seeking election to a full term , said Mr. Agnew was suggesting that " people who question the Administration 's views are somehow dangerous and irresponsible , have no place in public life and should be discredited in the public eye . " He said that Mr. Agnew 's tactics were similar to , and in some ways " more dangerous " than , the tactics of the late Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in the early nineteen-fifties . Comparing Mr. Agnew and the Wisconsin Senator , Mr. Goodell said that the Vice President " does not say they are Communists or that they do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform on which they would I speak . " Mr. Goodell said what Mr. Agnew " is attempting to do to the country " should be discussed by every candidate for high office . " I 'm not going to take lying down what he is attempting to do to me , to purge me , and beyond that , what he is doing to the country , " the Senator declared . The next round could come Monday when Mayor Lindsay , who has been silent - so far on the Agnew-Goodell controversy , is scheduled to go to Buffalo to campaign with the Senator . In 1968 Mr. Goodell was a prime mover in the effort to persuade Mr. Lindsay to oppose Mr. Agnew 's nomination for Vice President . The Mayor declined and instead seconded the Agnew nominaiton . While Mr. Goodell was counterattacking yesterday , Governor Rockefeller was trying to mediate the fracas . He has gotten in touch with Attorney General John M. Mitchell to seek his support in an effort to persuade Mr. Agnew to stay out of the New York campaign . Mr. Mitchell was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Attorney General had been cordial to the Governor , but it was not certain that he would heed the Governor 's request . Mr. Rockefeller alluded to his peacemaking efforts last night when he told reporters in Albany that " all I 'm looking for is a cease-fire and a stop to the long-range bombing . " The Governor also said : " On this Republican ticket we represent a total range of interests in New York State . Senator Goodell and I have n't always agreed but we 've had the freedom to say so . He gives our ticket a representation which we ' would n't have without him . This is a winning ticket . " As for Vice President Agnew , the Governor said : " I 'm not telling anybody what to do . But I 'm not looking for someone else to tell me what to do . " Anger Over Agnew . Visit , ' The Governor , who has been walking a political tightrope because of widespread Republican opposition to his running mate , is concerned that the AgnewGoodell bitterness could spill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to some of his top aides . They say he is also concerned that an increasingly isolated Mr. Goodell might turn on the Governor . The Rockefeller camp is also angry over a fund-raising ) luncheon at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel that Mr. Agnew is scheduled to attend . A high state G.O.P. source said the Rockefeller camp was convinced that the funds were earmarked for James L. ' Buckley , Mr. Goodell 's Conservative party opponent . State Republican officials said that , contrary to political protocol , they had not been informed of the luncheon or Mr. ' Agnew 's visit here . Scott 's View Mr. Goodell continued to maintain that President Nixon had not tacitly approved Mr. Agnew 's attack on him . " It would be a great mistake to assume that the Vice President speaks for the President , " he said . Rockefeller aides agreed with that view , although many New York Republicans believe otherwise . The Senate minority leader , Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania , appeared to support this theory when he said in Washington that he would be happy when Mr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is away , those who are not President are disposed to piay , " Mr. Scott said . " It 's , been - a fractious week . " Mr. Goodell 's assistants , and many Republican politicians , agreed it was-also a week that put the floundering Goodell campaign on the road . " Now he has a windmill to break his lance on , " said a politician friendly to the Senator . There was , : wide agreement , even among political enemies of Mr. Goodell , that the Agnew attack had given him needed exposure and a potential Sympathy vote from liberal Democrats . But several G.O.P. leaders , including one friendly to the Senator , said the over-all impact would be " to chase away the few Republicans still for Goodell . " ' He added that " the real Republicans like Ag. new . "                     