@@728559

txt The revolution of April 21 , 1967 , completes its third year with an unquestioned grip on the country and with Premier George Papadopoulos as the accepted leader of the group of colonels who acted to start a new era for Greece . Operating on the basis of a well-planned blueprint whose drafting and implementation commenced in the late ' 50 's , the colonels have managed to consolidate their position , although many had thought they would never survive this long . Indeed , the indications now are that they will continue in power for some time . With military precision the coup leaders won legality through compromise with King Constantine during the first eight months of the revolution . They completely established themselves after the King 's abortive counter coup in December , 1967 , and his flight from the country . But the Army-backed regime presents a dilemma for the West . Internally , Greece continues to offer the foreign visitor the same enchanting attraction as in the past . But an unspoken fear lurks of the sort which prevails in police states . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of submission or conforrinity will be required . // ? On the one hand , European efforts to build a bridge over which Greece can " come back to Europe . " ? On the other hand , alleged Atherican efforts to keep Greece a safe place for bases linked to Western defense in Europe . These are the two most striking and conflicting features of the drama which has unfolded round the latest meeting of the Council of Europe at Strasbourg . In this meeting the 17-member ministerial committee voted to charge the Greek military government with violation of the European Human Rights Convention . It published a 1,200-page report detailing alleged tortures and maltreatment of political prisoners by the Greek regime . The vote was called " unanimous , " But two members of the council , France and Cyprus , abstained from voting . Some European leaders consider the council 's action to have been too severe . But the purpose beyond the move is twofold : It is hoped that the Athens government will heed the international opinion so strongly voiced in the Council of Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to return peacefully to nonmilitary democratic government and a full role in the Council of Europe . // *Greek military regime shows no sign of easing its grip // For all the unpleasantness , however , the Greek public still is predominantly apathetic and more interested in economic progress and materialistic gains than opposition against its rulers . The country 's financial condition has improved during the last year with an increase of 8.3 percent in national income . Foreign investments also have increased , while.foreign exchange reserves are close to $300 million , which is considered comfortable . The deficit in the balance of payments continues to remain a sensitive point , but it has been solved , for the time being , through government loans arid suppliers ' credit . But the state of the economy has never been cited as justification for the revolution , since the country fared just as well or better before the 1967 coup . The justifications most frequently ad-. vanced by those who seized power in 1967 have been the fear of communism , irresponsibility of the politicians , and anarchism . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Andreas Papandreou ; looked ? where the crowd was going so they could lead it instead of acting like responsible administrators . International abhorrence Also , there was agreement on the necessity of constitutional reforms , long overdue . Finally , Communist infiltration could be said to have been reaching alarming levels , especially in view of the country 's recent history and geographical position . But even those who justify the intervention of the military now argue that the revolution could limit its heavy-minded presence to the minimum of time required for the necessary changes . They say that the rest could be left to posterity instead of to the revolution 's leaders , bent on perpetuating themselves in power . A revolution led by the military is not something alien to the Greek scene . The Army has moved many a time during periods of crisis since the country 's independence in 1821 . But the military has not ruled for longer than just over a year before . The regime has not fared well in the international sector , seasoned observers feel . Some argue that Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community . The world generally believes the regime has used brutality and torture against its opponents . Foreign Affairs Minister Panayiotis Pipinelis was forced to preemptively announce Greece 's withdrawal from the Council of Europe on Dec. 12 , 1969 , in order to avoid its ? expulsion . As anticipated , the ministers ' committee in the Council of Europe has just concluded ? overwhelmingly that Greece violated 10 articles of the European Human Rights Convention . But the present government obviously is not geared to take any setbacks gracefully . Mr. Pipinelis was quick to state in Athens April 15 , " I repeat my deep concern for the future of Western Europe . Those at Strasbourg lose their time in a vain attempt to force the Greek people to return to the pre-1967 political chaos when a wave of revolutionary anarchy is shaking the foundations of many Western nations , when strikes are checking their economic recovery , when their representatives are assassinated by gangsters who go unpunished , and when NATO member nations are talking about appointing Red generals as staff officers . " Many fear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be long in spreading to the Common Market . This country could be economically asphyxiated if the Common Market nations decided to impose duty on Greek exports or discourage tourism to Greece . While some measures of democratization have been introduced and some suspended articles of the Constitution have been put into application , martial law essentially continues to remain in force three full years after the revolution . Premier Papadopoulos recently announced the creation of a National Guard which is eventually planned to number about 30,000 . Many suspect that the guard will serve the function of a security force strictly loyal to those in power . Power struggle ? To be sure , a type of Orwellian system which keeps tabs on all those under suspicion is already in full swing . This , in fact , is beginning to force to the surface the first rumblings in the solidarity of those who made the revolution . One of the coup leaders , retired Col. Demetrius Stamatelopoulos , editorially made some pertinent points on March 28 , 1970 . Criticizing the government for not announcing a time limit for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand when President Nixon , as a true leader who rec ognizes his obligation for the timely enlightenment of his people , offers a schedule of troop withdrawals from Vietnam during a time of war ? The present government , he added , is taking the old beaten path of past governments with all the shortcomings of nepotism , self-interest , and inefficiency . Finally he indicated that the present government had only been authorized for a definite and specific mission by the revolution . Reputedly , the revolution protagonists had agreed to reach their objectives within two years and not move into politics . Be that as it may , observers feel that a power struggle already has commenced within the revolution . An observer cited some unique contradictions attributed to the present rulers . In spite of repeated government assurances about the independence of the judiciary , a number of Supreme Court justices were fired last summer and banished to remote villages because they ruled on a case contrary to government wishes . Some of the lawyers connected with the case were also banished . But one of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two of the leaders mostly responsible for the turbulent events of the ' 60 's , leftist Andreas Papandreou and self-acclaimed Communist Mikis Theodorakis , have been allowed to leave the country . On the other hand , many valiant officers and proven conservative leaders have been mistreated or imprisoned and their passports revoked . What is more , Mr. Theodorakis was liberated by French politician , Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber who , upon arrival in Paris , stated that Greece is ruled by the Central Intelligence Agency and the United States military . Future assessment ? No wonder many Greeks , faithful listeners to European newscasts in Greek , take it for granted that Americans helped the present rulers into power . Any assessment of the future can only be a matter of conjecture . The two predominant theories are : I. Barring unforeseen developments in and out of Greece , Premier Papadopoulos and his loyal followers in the revolution will continue to rule indefinitely even if they apply controlled liberalization along the way . 2 . Martial law will eventually be abolished and the Constitution applied , and there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliamentary rule . *Greece . Europe ' bridge ' or U.S. pitfall ? // ( One reason given for French abstention was France 's desire not to widen the gap already existing between " Europe " and Greece . ) Reactions from Athens , however , are far from encouraging . There was official disappointtnent in the Greek capital because the Council of Europe had not taken more account of Greek announcements on the eve , of its meeting . These said that 330 prisoners were being released . Also the release of the . Greek composer Mikis Theodorakis apparently ? made no difference to the council 's vote . The composer himself appeared at , a press conference in Strasbourg . This was arranged by Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber , former editor of the French news magazine L'Express . Mr. Servan-Schreiber is building up a political image as the liberal-minded leader of the old French Radical Party . He went to Athens at the request of a Greek students ' ? association to intervene on behalf of political prisoners . He return bringing with him the famous Mr. Theodorakis for medical treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Mr. Servan-Schreiber who has raised the question of a possible conflict . between American and European interests in the Greek situation . After his Athens visit he stated that the United States Central Intelligence Agency was backing the Greek junta . He said he would have more to say on that when he went to Strasbourg . At his Strasbourg press conference he repeated the charge . He said . that everyone knows this . Reports from Strasbourg April 16 quoted him as saying : " In Greece the basis of the problem is Atlantic and military . No one is unaware that the United States has made Greece its principal strategic base in Europe and that it has installed there its principal missile bases . " " With Spain , Greece is an anchorage point of the American military system in Europe , and the CIA plays a role there all the more dangerous because the organization there is often self-governing and personal , as in Southeast Asia where its role has even more dramatic consequences . " Because of the self-rule of these services the United States is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace of the world . " Comment mixed He said that the United States should abandon its continental military bases and quit Greece , and added : " One day at Strasbourg will be born the force which will make a counterweight to the American all-power . " French comment on Mr. Servan-Schreiber 's Athens and Strasbourg visits is mixed . He has been called a " new pilgrim of European morale " by the Paris paper L'Aurore . Some political opponents , however , thought they saw too much political opportunism in his Athens visit coupled with the events at Strasbourg . Meanwhile , the Paris paper Le Monde printed a cartoon showing Mr. Servan-Schreiber using a battering ram on Greek prison doors already standing open . This underlined a statement by Foreign Minister Maurice Schumann after the regular weekly Cabinet meeting that several approaches of a humanitarian character already had been made by the French Government toward the Greek Government concerning all the trials going on . Mr. Schumann spoke of contacts already made before Mr. Servan-Schreiber 's visit . Active response At Strasbourg Mr. ServanSchreiber said he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a human being responding to requests to help Greek prisoners . Other French political leaders also have been asked by Greek sources in Paris to aid the prisoners . It appears that Mr. Servan-Schreiber was the one who gave the most active response . One result , however , is that the building of a unified Europe appears for the moment to be an effort in conflict with American aims for Europe . But American sources stress there is no conflict .                     