@@734418

txt SCORES OF records on crime syndicate activities have vanished from the Chicago Police Department 's intelligence division , seriously weakening the department 's efforts to combat organized crime , The Tribune has learned . Several police officials said the missing files indicate that in the past the super-sensitive intelligence division was penetrated by someone with links either to mobsters , or to politicians , businessmen , or labor leaders friendly to the mob . Joseph DiLeonardi , acting police superintendent , confirmed that an undetermined number of files are missing , but declined to speculate on what happened to them . AFTER DILEONARDI became acting superintendent last summer , he reorganized the intelligence unit and ordered it to " put pressure on the mob " ? something it had n't done in'more than a decade . To carry out his order , DiLeonardi named William Duffy the new deputy superintendent to oversee Intelligence operations and Louis Sabella the head of the intelligence division . Both are experienced and dedicated enemies of organized crime . But their efforts have been hampered because records are missing that outline suspected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . DURING TILE LAST 11 years . mob'watching by the Intelligence division has been conducted almost on a casual basis . The last time really close tabs were kept on activities of the crime syndicate was between 1960 and 1958 when Duffy headed the intelligence unit . Under Duffy , Intelligence division detectives followed top mobsters wherever they went , learned who their friends were , and how they invested their money . But Duffy was abruptly demoted to a district watch commander in 1968 by then Supt. James Conlisk . It was reported that powerful politicians with secret links to syndicate leaders forced Duffy 's removal . BETWEEN TILE time Duffy was removed and the time DiLeonardi elevated him to deputy superintendent , some members of the intelligence division did their best , but the fight against organized crime here was waged almost entirely by the federal government . Policemen in other cities have disclosed privately that they avoided dealing with the Chicago intelligence division on crime syndicate matters because they feared leaks . Among the clues to the intelligence vision 's success In mob watching was its ever-changing crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their various responsibilities . " It was disgraceful , " DiLeonardi said of a recent chart . " It was outdated and had punk burglars on it instead of big time hoodlums , " A policeman disclosed that once in the past he noticed that the name of a powerful syndicate figure who supervised South Side gambling operations had disappeared from the chart . He said when he asked about the omission he was told that the man had made a generous political contribution and could no longer be listed . Since then , Duffy and Sabella have been working with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to upgrade the chart , so that it lists the real sydnicate leaders , without exception .                     