@@733517

txt Letters CHARLES L. GUETTELLAURENCE REICHS . TED ANTHOLESERNESTO C. PINEDADOUGLAS CAMPB ... pg . A28 Letters On the Impotence of Global Law Of Philippine Elections And Freedom of Speech To the Editor : I am not concerning myself here with Prof. Julius Stone 's allegation that Secretary Vance as a " mediator " in the Mideast " peace process " has been prejudicial/ to one side in view of the Secretary 's comments against the Israeli settlements letter Feb. 24 . But I am concerned that Professor Stone indicates the Secretary 's action involves " some delicate points of international law " by emphasizing what international law prohibits and permits and " what flouts clear international law and practice . " In political war/peace relations , international law is a form of primitive law . It may be violated by any nationstate party when it is in its national interest to do so and has been violated many times with disastrous results . It is only what national sovereign parties say it is , and they attempt to be the judges of the conflicts between , themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its general principles or specific rules . International law is a babe compared to the development of Western domestic or municipal law . It is a " system of power politics , open or disguised " ( Georg Schwarzenberger ) and " proTo the Editor : The two views on alimony  --  the one favoring it by Joan Anderson , the other opposing it by Name Withheld letter March 3 ? agree on one essential point : Many of our judges and apparently most of our legislators feel that divorce itself is a tort , or a civil wrong . While a complainant is no // Alexa Grace longer required to prove his or her spouse at fault in order to obtain a divorce , many judges still require evidence of fault in dispensing alimony . What 's worse , in too many cases the decision to award or not to award alimony is often entirely capricious . It 's obvious that the laws governing divorce require clarification . They need to be purged of the ambiguity that places litigants at the mercy of a judge 's irrational bias . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was upheld though she was living with a man  --  her status could have no relevancy if the basis of her alimony was vides for its own destruction by the mere force of its own subjects " ( Julius Stone ) . Only by increasing the effectiveness of the United Nations by providing specific U.N . procedures for thirdparty involvement in the dispute ' settlement process can progress be made . Some of these could be : ? A highly trained U.N . conciliation and mediation service , which would attempt to mediate international disputes . ? U.N . panels of arbitrators that would be available to make nonbinding arbitration decisions on boundary disputes o ? other conflicts . ? Procedures for any disputing party to request mediation or nonbinding arbitration . ? Procedures for the U.N . Security Council to request binding ' arbitration in the event of a threat to international peace and security . These , along with the repeal of all national reservations to the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice , would bring international law to its first step beyond adolescence . CHARLEF L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her husband 's breach of their marital contract ; however , if that basis were need  --  hers and the children 's ? then her status would be a relevant consideration . The law to protect divorced men proposed by Assemblyman Vincent F. Nicolosi offers little hope in clearing up the confusion . At best it is retroactive , meddlesome and most likely unconstitutional . The only way justice in divorce matters will be gained is if the estimated 35 percent of the adult population who 've gone through the experience will join hands and begin lobbying for their rights and get a bill that would be clear and fair . LAURENCE RETCH New York , March 3 , 1978 Koch and the Disabled To the Editor : The Times reported that the blacks and Hispanics do not have the same representation in the Koch administration as in the previous administration . However , the physically disabled , a cross section of society , have not had representation in any administration . The disabled population in New York City numbers over-One million , and there is an unemployment rate exceeding 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped to create this condition , and it is this legacy that will test the resolve of the Koch administration . Ed Koch had one of the finest records in Congress on the disabled . The question is , will that same caring and determination be demonstrated in City Hall ? S. TED ANTHOLES Executive Director , P.R.I.D.E . Ridgewood , N.Y. , March 1 , 1978 To the Editor : Your March 2 editorial " Handcuffed , in the Philippines " indicates that there is something amiss in your political and historical perspective on the Philippine scene . On Aug. 25 , 1977 , you headlined an editorial " Promises , Promises , " disparaging President Marcos 's announcement that a national election would be held in 1978 . Now that the election is imminent you see " discouraging " signs because President Marcos would not accept the demand of former Senator Benigno S. Aquino to be released from his detention cell to campaign " even in handcuffs and leg-irons . " It ' is unfortunate that you should base your editorial on a transparent political ? ploy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of subversion and murder . He has actually been found guilty and convicted of subversion , murder and illegal possession of firearms by a military tribunal . Mr. Aquino has appealed that decision to the Supreme Court of the . Philippines , arguing , among other things , that the military tribunal had no business trying him . The Times is also aware that the case dragged on for years because Mr. Aquino fully and freely exercised all the rights of the accused during his trial before the military tribunal and in his continuous appeals and petitions to the Supreme Court . To ease your " discouragement , " I suggest you consider these encouraging facts : ? President Marcos 's pledge last year , which ' you mockingly called " Promises , Promises , " is , now close to fulfillment , and the only fly in the ointment you could dig up is Mr. Aquino 's continued detention . ? Except for Mr. Aquino , all the political opponents of President Marcos are now roaming the countryside , freely campaigning and speaking their minds under the watchful and critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Freedom of speech and of the press was exercised to get to you the handcuffs-and-leg-irons bit . ERNESTO C. PINEDA Consul General of the Philippines New York , March 211978 Salesman 's Prerogative To the Editor : The current squawking over the proposed supplying of Military aircraft to various foreign . countries seems petulant and out of place , as when children whine because somebody else got some of the candy and they did n't get more . The Administration appears to have based its decision on what it considers to be best for the interests and security of the United States , which is as it should be . Let us hope that Congress , if it feels that it must get into the act , will examine the matter from that same standpoint , since that is the only sound basis for supplying our top-performance weapons to anybody . DOUGLAS CAMPBELL Cos Cob , Conn. , Feb. 27 , 1978 Toward Justice in Divorce Matters Humphrey-Hawkins Bill : ' An Essential First Step ' To the Editor : Your Feb. 21 editorial on the Humphrey-Hawkins bill concludes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of publicly supported jobs it is a sham and should be rejected by Congress . This conclusion , in my opinion , indicates a failure to understand what the bill is intended to accomplish , the detailed policy commitment and economic policy process which , it establishes , and the subtle relationship between the political process and national economic policy . For years , the Congress has enacted legislation providing a few more public service jobs , a few more public works jobs and tax cuts designed to generate employment . Yet despite these efforts , the average unemployment rate over the last two decades has continued to rise . One more direct job-creating program , without the fundamental policy and procedural reforms contained in Humphrey-Hawkins , will not make much difference . The changes called for In this landmark legislation will alter the basic political framework within which economic policy decisions are made . Such a fundamental reform is not a miracle cure for the problem of the unemployed . We do not claim that it is . But we are convinced that it is an essential first step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment and vigorous , stable economic growth . This view , which I fully shared with my late husband , persuaded me to introduce the revised full employment bill as my first legislative proposal after being appointed to the Senate . Frankly , the kind of thinking reflect , ed in your editorial reminds me of the reaction voiced in many quarters to the Environmental Policy Act and the Budget Reform Act . Opponents of these measures argued that because they were policy bills dealing with commitments , objectives and procedures  --  rather . than with dollars  --  they were weak and diversionary and would have no impact . Time has proven decisively the fallacy of that viewpoint , as it will when the Humphrey-Hawkins bill becomes law . The Humphrey-Hawkins bill will establish an orderly procedure through . which national economic goals and policies can be rationally formulated . Today , we have no such focus , direction or coordination . The poor performance of our economy is , in part , a result . This legislation would hold Congress and the President accountable , for the first time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals . In addition it would : ? Commit the Federal Government to the goal of reducing unemployment to 4 percent within not more than five years . ? Affirm in law , for the first time , the right of every American willing and able to work to useful employment paying fair wages . ? Require the President annually to propose to Congress short- and medium-term employment , production , productivity and real income goals , for a five-year period , together with the comprehensive and coordinated mix of policies and programs necessary to achieve these objectives . ? Require the Federal Reserve to report annually its intended monetary policy for the year ahead and to design such policy in a manner supportive of achieving the economic goals established as national policy . ? Give first priority to encouraging job creation in the private sector . ? Establish in law , for the first time , the achievement of reasonable price stability as a major objective of national economic policy . ? Recognize , in law , that unemployment and inflation feed upon each other and , as a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinforce their achievement and do not sacrifice progress on one in the name of achieving the other . ? Call for the use of a series of significant anti-inflation initiatives . ? Provide needed flexibility by allowing the President , subject to Congressional approval , to propose modification of the five-year employment goals . ? Require the . President to establish direct job-creating programs to fill any gap that may exist between the goals established under the bill and the actual performance of the economy . If our economy is to perform in a way that satisifies the legitimate aspirations of our people , if it is to give hope to those who are without it today , national economic policy and the means for its development must be changed . That is exactly what the Humphrey-Hawkins bill is intended to do and , I believe , will do . MURIEL HUMPHREY U.S. Senator from Minnesota Washington , March 3 , 1978                     