@@728974

txt A Hanoi government publication devoted to problems confronting light industry contains new admissions of economic trouble in North Vietnam . " Our people 's living standards have become even lower as a result of the protracted war , " says Nguyen Van Tran , Communist Party Secretary for the city of Hanoi . Mr. Tran made the statement in an article he wrote calling for greater emphasis on development of light industry to produce more consumer goods . Western experts say the main problem with North Vietnam 's industrial development is a shortage of skilled and experienced workers , aggravated by the reluctance of peasants to switch to an industrial way of life . Target : trail Now that the rains have let up , traffic is picking up on the Ho Chi Minh trail in Laos . American bombing has stepped up accordingly . The trail has become all important to the Communists , as a result of Hanoi 's loss of the Sihanoukville supply channel and its sanctuaries in eastern Cambodia . To counter what it expects will be a particularly heavy seasonal movement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said to be prepared to carry out one of its heaviest ever bombing campaigns against it . This could involve , if necessary , hurling virtually all available B-52 bombers against the trail over a sustained period . Needling the U.S. Nixon officials have become annoyed by the numerous pin-prickings administered by Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gandhi . Last spring India closed five USIS cultural centers in India . In July the Indian Government accorded Mrs. Binh , the Viet Cong political leader , a red-carpet welcome . Latest needling is a threat by the Indian Government to present the privately operated American-International School in New Delhi with a whopping $400,000 bill for back taxes on the salaries of the school 's U.S. teachers . The original agreement was that the teachers would pay only U.S. taxes on their salaries . If India persists in its demands , serious repercussions in Washington are expected . Watching the watchers Of all the nameless experts who " watch " Communist China professionally from such outside vantage points as Hong Kong , Taipei , Tokyo , Moscow , London , and Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , no formal yardstick for measuring excellence in assessing what mainland China is up to . But for what it is worth , one experienced Hong Kong source ranks Americans definitely first , British next , and Japanese third . Despite the importance of the Sino-Soviet rift  --  or perhaps because of it  --  the Soviets are rated no better than fourth best . Asian door-opener A combine of New Zealand engineers is spearheading a new departure in their country 's Asian aid program . ENEX  --  Engineering Export Association of New Zealand  --  was set up a year ago to mobilize a wide range of technical skills behind a campaign to win contracts in developing countries . Already its activities are worth $16 million ( N.Z. ) . ENEX itself is a nonprofit ? organization . But member firms started it in the belief that it would open doors in Asia that would otherwise remain closed . Pick and shovel again Ceylon , on the other hand , is doing the reverse  --  canceling contracts . Its new Minister of Irrigation is terminating agreements with foreign consultants on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many developing countries , is burdened with an army of unemployed persons . It needs jobs for a million people . Hence it is now considering minimum use of sophisticated machinery and maximum use of manpower on development projects .                     