@@731825

txt Portugal , which cascaded carnations on its soldiers and sailors after last year 's military revolution , is living through tense moments as the officers who carried out that revolution prepare for elections without surrendering their grip on political power . Political parties and the 200 officers of the Armed Forces Movement have been meeting over the weekend to discuss proposals put to the parties by the officers Feb. 21 . The parties have not yet finalized their attitudes , nor have the officers , apparently , although a civilian politician characterized the proposals as a " blueprint for military dictatorship . " The Socialists , the Popular Democrats , and the Communists have been in uneasy governmental harness with each other and with the Armed Forces Movement since the revolt April 24 that toppled Marcello Caetano , successor to the 40-year dictatorship of the late Antonio de Oliveira Salazar . " Our officers are not going to go the way of Peru , " Dr. Mario Soares told this correspondent soon after his // *Portugal nears elections , uncertain under junta rule // return from exile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He meant that the officers would not remain permanently in power as a left-wing revolutionary government but would hand over power to the civilians . Visit canceled Dr. Soares is leader of the Socialists and easily the most popular civilian in Portugal . But today he is not so sure of the officers ' intentions . He had to cancel at the last minute a trip to a Socialist International meeting in West Berlin to evaluate the armed forces ' latest proposals . " Portugal today feels insecure because it does not know where it is going or by what road , " Dr. Soares was reported as saying publicly recently . " The country has a right to know this . " Along with Francisco Sa Carneiro , leader of the Popular Democrats , Dr. Soares expressed fears that the country might be headed for civil war unless a program acceptable to all major parties could be worked out . The concern of the Socialists and of the Popular Democrats arises from the position of strength achieved by the third coalition partner , the Communists , led by taciturn Alvaro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time Dr. Soares came back from Paris . The Communist Party controls the trade union movement and has a strong disciplined membership throughout the country . Mr. Cunhal 's tactics have been to assert complete solidarity with the Armed Forces Movement and to accuse other parties of trying to drive a wedge between his party and the officers . In this tactic he has had the explicit support of Moscow . Elections for a constituent assembly are to be held April 12 , and 22 parties have already announced plans to field candidates . Campaigning is to start March 3 . But the Armed Forces Movement has threatened to delay this date until its proposals for the future have been discussed and accepted by the political parties . The proposals , reportedly in seven points , call for the armed forces ' right to choose the ministers of defense and of the economy , to approve candidates for the presidency , to turn the Council of State ( which the officers control ) into an upper house , and most important , to remain in power indefinitely as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faithfully . This specifically breaks the officers ' pledge to return to barracks after the election of a civilian government . In an emotional speech Feb. 20 Brig . Gen. Vasco Goncalves , Premier of the 17-man Cabinet ( of whom nine members are military ) acknowledged : " I am the same man who in a speech Oct. 5 last year hoped the military would return to their barracks once new state organizations had been established . But the experience of the last several months has convinced me of the contrary . The armed forces will remain the guarantors of the Portuguese revolution . "                     