@@733655

txt An important segment of the financial community has apparently resigned itself to another recession later this year or next . These analysts see a recession as the only remedy for a disturbing inflation rate and they think a recession sooner will hurt less than a recession later , when the inflation rate might again be above 10 percent . Therefore they want Washington to manipulate fiscal and monetary policy to slow the economy 's growth rate  --  and incidentally throw millions of people out of work . And they are applauding the Federal Reserve Board which , under its new chairman , G. William Miller , has in recent weeks sharply forced up short-term interest rates . They hope the cost of money will continue to rise until it produces the great purgative , another recession . Is that really what Mr. Miller wants ? We hope not . A recession may indeed bring a temporary restraint on prices , but at enormous cost , particularly in unemployment . A recession may he unavoidable , but it would be tragic for the Fed to engineer one before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's voluntary program to hold down wages and prices deserves a chance . So does the tax cut that is being considered for next year , which could be shaped to counteract inflation by reducing Social Security rather than personal income taxes . The Fed 's governors , of course , are not extremists . They hope to chip away at inflation with gentle reductions in the growth of the nation 's money supply . They talk of putting a light foot on the monetary brakes to produce a relatively painless slowing of economic activity . But that trick has been tried before and it has not worked . As Otto Eckstein , a leading economic conReproduced sultant , has observed : " There is not a single instance of success in raising interest rates to moderate the economy without creating a major disturbance . The Fed has carried the policy too far every single time . " Unfortunately , hope seems to die hard in the breasts of Fed chairmen . In his first few months in office , Mr. Miller enthusiastically accepted his predecessor 's low growth targets for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . That was one reason why President Carter recently felt compelled to delay and reduce his proposed tax cut . The Fed chairman thereupon thanked the President because he knew it would mean less borrowing by the Federal Government next year and less turmoil in the money markets and perhaps less pressure on hint to keep pushing interest rates . We hope that Mr. Miller 's comments were the prelude to a pause in the Fed 's drive for tighter money . Shortterm interest rates are the tail that can wag the entire economy . They are already so high  --  above 7 percent ? that they threaten to hobble economic growth . Monetary policy is one tool for retarding inflation , but only one , and historically there is reason to fear the Fed 's zeal . The economy 's recent performance has puzzled the experts , with a surprising boom in employment and an unexpected rise in the rate of inflation . That is why the tax cut needs to be reconsidered and why the Fed should let some time pass before it further tightens the screws on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fast fading  --  that political action and voluntary restraint can combine . to contain inflation and prevent the boom from plunging us into the seventh recession since World War H. The Fed should hot dash the hope that remains .                     