@@729236

txt The strange malaise which grips the Philippines at the moment is a compound of many items . " Leftists arrive at political rallies or demonstrations in their shiny Mercedes cars , " a foreign observer points out as one apparent non sequitur . " There 's a tremendous leadership vacuum , " he adds , " but no viable alternatives . " When Filipinos compare their own country with the other nations on the fringe of Asia , they can only conclude they are " not going places too well , " as one Manilan put it . They have had no war since 1945 , no massive minority problem , and plenty of American help . But their economy and overall progress still does not compare favorably with that of Japan , South Korea , Taiwan , Thailand , Singapore , Malaysia , or Hong Kong . Lack of discipline felt Philippine leaders are bothered by this . They iecugnize a need for more discipline here . They are disturbed by what is called " institutional decay , " and sheer lack of law and order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nobody starves  --  but many lead permanently marginal existences . It is difficult to absorb the masses of university students now being produced , so some of them wind up in what are called " scratchy jobs , " underemployed and underpaid . The Sunday papers are full of want ads and employment opportunities  --  for skilled people . The trouble is many students insist on taking the wrong courses ; too many want to be lawyers and then work their way into politics . Consequently there are not enough chemists , geologists , or other professional men , due to the insatiable Philippine preoccupation with politics . It is sometimes alleged that the great curse of the Philippines is this obsession with politics In the days of American control , when Washington was taking care of foreign affairs , defense , and much of the nation 's business , this was a luxury Filipinos could perhaps afford . Nov : that there is no such paternal figure in the It ings , they are finding that devoting time to the fascinating game of politics is more than the government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ *Malaise in Philippines // The Marcos government 's credibility gap is repeatedly cited as a contributing factor to the lack of progress . But experts regard the Marcos opposition as unfocused and expect no dramatic , short-run changes . Disenchantment with the regime appears greater among the upper classes and intellectuals than at village level . They are more critical of the government 's willingness to allow foreign economic domination and American military bases to continue . Peso freed last year Just a year ago , the government took one firm step , setting the peso free to seek its own rate . In relation to the U.S. dollar , the peso went down from 3.92 to 6.43 . It is hovering aronud the latter figure . The so-called " floating peso " is considered quite a success by the government and international bankers . After the Marcos spending spree during his second-term election campaign in 1969 , the International Monetary Fund and other creditors insisted upon a strict stabilization . Restrictions were introduced on spending . Luxury imports were banned . Limitations of foreign borrowing went into effect . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1 billion in 1970 , Plenty of problems remain , however . Domestic prices soared 22 percent between December , 1969 , and December , 1970 , and people felt poorer . In fairness , some of this inflation took place before the peso devaluation went into effect . Other factors converge But there were other national depressants at work . Such as student demonstrators in the streets and national disasters in the form of earthquakes , a flood , and three typhoons which happened to hit Manila . The old Huk guerrillas surfaced again after a considerable period of dormancy . And the New People 's Army , a fresh pro-Peking manifestation , appeared . Corruption , stemming from institutional decay , seemed on the increase , involving ever larger sums . Stalled in traffic , my taxi driver jovially hailed a passing policeman on the sidewalk . A moment later he explained : " He 's a friend of mine ? I pay him off . Why ? " he looked at me in half-disbelief . " So I wo n't get tickets for parking violations outside your hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent , with 25 percent underemployed . The latter people may be sitting beside a tray of cigarettes or candies all day long , making few sales Among young people and in the cities , actual unemployment may run as high as 25 percent . The national rate of growth was 6 percent until various restrictions were imposed ; now it is down to about 4.5 percent . " All in all , this community is strung tight as a drum right now , " an economist told me . " But if the government will stick to the present sane policy instead of sliding back into free spending , then things gradually will improve here . " He gave the government credit for the difficult and courageous turning-around of the economy by means of tightened credit and devaluation . " Foreigners commend it , but Filipinos do n't . They are only critical of its impact on them , " he said .                     