@@729981

txt British industry was severely crippled today when several hundred thousands of workers were suspended from their jobs as Government orders limiting the use of electricity in factories went into effect . With the coal strike now in its 36th day , the nation shivered and stumbled through another day and night of blackouts . Many workers did not learn that they were laid off until they reported at factories this morning . Others , who , might have worked , never arrived because of canceled electric train service . Tonight , an official of the Department of Employment put the number of those left jobless at roughly 800,000 . Prime Minister Heath called labor mid business leaders to meetings tomorrow at 10 Downing Street on the repercussions of the strike . And a court of inquiry , charged with proposing a compromise wage settlement , agreed to try to report by Friday . Miners and officials of the National Coal Board are to begin testifying tomorrow . Political bitterness over the dispute erupted in the House of Commons after the Government sought approval of its emergency measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members took the opportunity to denounce the Conservative Government 's handling of the strike , charging officials with incompetence and " incredible complacency . " " Britain now faces the most serious industrial crisis since the war , " said Mrs. Shirley Williams , the Labor party spokesman on domestic affairs . " The emergency is of the Government 's own making . " " Why did the Government hopelessly miscalculate the resolution and determination of the miners and suggest that they Would collapse after a couple of weeks ? " she asked . " The miners are not made that way . " As the debate droned on into the night , marked by the expected shouts of " resign " from Labor members , the House itself was plunged into darkness for several minutes , The building 's generators started up again shortly after batterypowered lights had been brought into the chamber . Speaking for the Government , Reginald Maudling , the Home Secretary , made another appeal to the miners to go back to work while the court of inquiry is sitting . He insisted that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ striking miners should return to the pits . Mr. Maudling , with the Prime Minister sitting at his right , acknowledged that the emergeny measures had come quicker than had been expected because of the inability to tap stockpiles . He said that picketing , ' some of it unlawful , " had prevented alreadymined coal from reaching power stations , aggravating the crisis . The Home Secretary argued that the Government could not meet the miners ' demands , saying that to do so would mean abandonment by the Government of its fight against inflation . The miners are asking for pay increases averaging about 25 per cent . Move Is Passed , 315.276 After seven hours of debate , punctuated by what often resembled schoolboy antics , the House backed the Government 's emergency moves by a vote of 315 to 276 , a Conservative margin of 39 . Labor members sneered , jumped up and down , shouted abuse and pointed fingers ; Conservative members across the aisle replied in kind . When one Government spokesman referred to the difficulty of deciding an issue " in the heat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was trying to " illuminate the House , " Labor members made no effort to restrain their laughter . Concluding the Government 's defense , John Davies , the Secretary for Trade and Industry , said that if the strike continued , there would be no more coal for industry or homes in about two weeks . Even after it was settled , Mr. Davies said , restrictions would be necessary " for weeks " until stockpiles could be replenished. 20,000 Factories Affected Under the emergency regulations , which took effect today , more than 20,000 factories are forbidden to operate more than three days a week . Larger companies , such as automobile and steel plants , were ordered to cut consumption of electricity 50 per cent , hut their production days were not limited . Reports on the number of those laid off today , or placed on part-time work , were still coming in tonight . Estimates put the number of those suspended from their jobs today at 12,000 steel workers , 50,000 automobile workers , 40,000 in textile plants and perhaps up to 300,000 employes of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and elsewhere .                     