@@731863

txt The Government decided today to recommend to the British people that they vote in a referendum this summer to remain in the European Economic Community . The decision , announced by Prime Minister Harold Wilson in the House of Commons , came after his Cabinet had split deeply on the issue . Of 23 ministers at a fourhour meeting seven argued that it was time for Britain to withdraw from the nine-nation bloc . Despite widespread predictions that a Cabinet majority would favor remaining in the Economic Community , or Common Market , Mr. Wilson 's appearance generated a sense of drama , with members crowding into the chamber to hear the announcement . . " Her Majesty 's Government have decided to recommend to the British people to vote for ' staying in the Community , " Mr. Wilson said at the outset of a rambling speech that reviewed Britain 's efforts to win a relaxation in the terms of her imembership. 1 The decision was cheered by members of the Conservative ' party but was largely greeted in silence by Mr. Wilson 's colleagues in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cjivisions on the issue and the prob .. kerns he has faced in trying to prevent his Government ' from breaking up over it . As part of the attempt to keep the Government together , Mr. Wilson again noted that 2 members of the Cabinet who disagreed with the decision would have the right to speak freely . He termed this Waiver of " collective responsibility " unique in British history . " Because of this occasion , it ' would be ridiculous to say to Cabinet ministers this time that either you toe the line or get out , " Mr. Wilson said later in a radio interview . " The Cabinet will continue to act effectively on other issues . " The announcement is the culmination of one of the most controversial aspects of Mr. Wilson 's political life . His critics have often charged him with twisting and turning on the is- , sue , largely to unify his party and recapture power by , tapping the large reservoir of anti-Market sentiment . As Prime Minister before his defeat in the 1970 election , Mr. Wilson gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one stage that he would not " take no for an answer . " When his Conservative successor , Edward Heath , was able to take Britain into the Common Market in January , 1973 , Mr. Wilson shifted strategy and denounced the terms as humiliating . He returned to power a year ago pledged to " fundamental renegotiation " of the terms , including Britain 's contributions to the budget . For years , too , he was opposed to the idea of a referendum  --  something never held in Britain . Before the 1970 election he said that Parliament should make the decision . Today , with tongue in cheek , Jeremy Thorpe , leader of the Liberal party , congratulated Mr. Wilson " for the consistency he has always shown on European matters . " Even some Labor members laughed as Mr. Wilson rose , thanked Mr. Thorpe for his comments and insisted that the Labor party had always said it would judge the Community on the terms of entry . The Prime Minister and his , supporters have argued that his , basic position " has never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joining on the right , conditions and that his strategy , succeeded in keeping down the , Labor voices opposed to membership no matter what the terms . He argued again today , that no one ever said that Britain should join on any terms . In any event he made it clear that he was satisfied with the changes granted in a year of negotiations : lower payments , improvements in ' the common market 's farm policy and other concessions . Although Mr. Wilson declined to say who the Cabinet dissenters were , a Government source said they included Anthony Wedgwood Benn , Minister for Industry ; Peter Shore , Minister for Trade , and Michael Foot , Secretary of State for Employment . The others were said to be Barbara Castle , Secretary for Social Services ; William Ross , Secretary for Scotland ; Eric Varley , Secretary for the Environment , and John Silkin , Minister for Planning and Local Government . Mr. Varley and Mr. Silkin are not expected to take an active role in the opposition campaign , which will cut across party lines and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of Britons favor retaining membership with the balance held by the " do n't knows . " There is no certainty that Mr. Wilson 's recommendation will be enough to swing the vote , given the widespread inclination to blame the Common Market for many of the country 's economic ills .                     