@@734309

txt Letters THOMAS M. FRANCKEUGENE V. ROSTOWLEON ILUTOVICHJOHN B. DONOVANBRENT C. BROLINF ... pg . A24 Letters Toward a ' Hands Off ' Doctrine for Superpowers To the Editor : On May 2 , 1965 , after landing the vanguard of a military force in the Dominican Republic that eventually peaked at about 25,000 , President Lyndon Johnson went on television to enunciate the Johnson Doctrine . It stipulated the unilateral right of the United States to intervene militarily in any sovereign state of the hemisphere if , in our opinion , it was in danger of falling to the Communist " international conspiracy . " Three years later , the Soviet Union invaded Czechoslovakia . On Sept. 25 , 1968 , Pravda published the Brezhnev Doctrine , which stipulated that whenever " anti-socialist and revisionist elements " are " not duly rebuffed inside " a socialist country , then the " socialist community " may act  --  jointly to suppress such " anti-socialist forces . " Having enunciated a Johnson doctrine of intervention , the U.S. was poorly positioned to criticize its echo , the Brezhnev Doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draconian doctrine , in fact if not yet in words . Last year , the Carter Administration // Duncan Hannah helped insure a peaceful transition in the Dominican Republic to an elected , more radical regime . More recently , Washington conspicuously refused to " save " Nicaragua from the Sandinistas , despite their substantial Marxist component . Perhaps it is time to put this strategy into words : a Carter Doctrine expressly stating that times and mores have changed , that superpowers no longer have a divine right to use force to safeguard the ideological purity of their neighbors . Having itself acted with exemplary self-restraint , the Administration should put the Soviet Union on notice that it believes the rules of the game have changed , that by rejecting the advice of the interventionists , it has deliberately made itself hostage to an understanding that these new rules will be observed reciprocally . At the very least , Moscow should be left in no doubt of the consequences for stable systemic relations between our two countries ? SALT and all ? if President Carter 's repeal of the Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Brezhnev Doctrine ? say , on behalf of the discredited Marxist regime of Afghanistan . THOMAS M. FRANCK Professor of Law New York University New York , July 30 , 1979 Rights That Survived The Neglected Legacy of Raphael Lemkin The Palestine Mandate To the Editor : My esteemed friend Professor Mailison ( letter July 16 ) raises an important point about the status of the Palestine Mandate and its relevance to the problem of peace in the Mideast . There is no doubt that the mandate expired as an administrative institution with the departure of Great Britain as mandatory and the establishment and recognition of Transjordan and Israel some 30 years ago . My contention is that the rights created by the mandate as a trust were not and could not be abolished by these events , taking into account the provisions of Article 80 to the Charter and the opinions of the International Court of Justice in the Namibia case . Neither the recommendatory Resolution of the General Assembly of Nov. 29 , 1947 , which appealed to the Security Council ( in vain ) to impose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Israeli Declaration of Independence are inconsistent with the view that rights arising from a mandate survive the administrative end of a mandate and must be respected in international law until fulfilled . In my view , this is the central theme of the Namibia judgments : that while the Security Council ( not the General Assembly ) has terminated the mandate , neither South Africa nor any other state can annex the territory , whose future must be determined in accordance with the trust embodied in the mandate . This is the policy we are trying to carry out in Namibia . EUGENE V. ROSTOW Professor of Law , Yale University New Haven , July 29 , 1979 In Praise of Oil Profits To the Editor : Why is n't everybody celebrating the rise in oil company profits ? They are the only efficient means of finding and producing the energy of the future . The alternative proposed by the Presi  --  dent , increased government control , will mortgage our economic future to a civil service with no incentives toward either excellence or efficiency . JOHN B. DONOVAN Larchmont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Editor : To help save energy and alleviate discomfort , why does n't President ' Carter propose that all new buildings have windows that can be opened ? BRENT C. BROLIN New York , July 29 , 1979 To the Editor : In recent weeks , newspapers throughout the state have carried articles concerning the new health data system that has been developed by the New York State Office of Health Systems Management , called the Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System  --  SPARCS . Since many of the charges that have been leveled against the new system are rooted in misinformation and misconceptions about its scope and purposes , I would like to set the record straight . SPARCS is designed to collect and store in a single data base financial and medical information about all inpatient hospital services delivered in the state . This information will be used in analyses of hospital finances , in the calculation of reimbursement rates and in monitoring ? by the state , by peer review organizations and by other third-party payers ? of the quality and appropriateness of hospital services and state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources : bills submitted to various third-party payers , data abstracts for each patient prepared by hospitals and hospital financial reports . The confidentiality provisions built into SPARCS are among the most stringent ever included in any data system of this type . No patient names and addresses are included . Social Security numbers are collected only on Medicare patients , for whom collection of such numbers is already mandated by Federal law . Physicians will be identified only by license number . Access to records will be strictly limited . All requests for individual patient data , including requests from . government agencies , will be screened To the Editor : A significant anniversary has just passed unnoticed . Thirty years ago , on June 16 , 1949 , President Truman submitted to the Senate for ratification the United Nations Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide ? the U.N . ' s first human-rights document , adopted a year earlier by the General Assembly . Aug. 28 will mark another anniversary ? 20 years since the death of Dr. Raphael Lemkin , a prominent jurist from prewar Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for making it part of international law . A Jewish refugee from Nazi persecution , Dr. Lemkin , by now a forgotten man , was the prime mover in winning support of the Western powers for the Genocide Convention and thus succeeded in having it placed on the agenda of the U.N . General Assembly . At the invitation of the U.N . Social and Economic Council , he prepared the draft of the convention , and major elements from it were subsequently incorporated into the final version passed by the U.N . To a large extent , it was due to his personal efforts over the years that the Genocide Convention came into being . This was a historic accomplishment by a single individual who did not represent any governTo the Editor : The July 20 letter by the Surgeon General of the Air Force , " The Air Force Study of the Hazards of Herbicide Orange , " warrants a response . Lieut . Gen. Paul W. Myers writes : " We have not had a single complaint from Ranch Hand members about any lack of substantive action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering from Agent Orange poisoning . Upon hearing of the Air Force study , I immediately called the Surgeon General 's office to give the names , addresses and telephone numbers of the many Ranch Handers in our files who are suffering and , above all , need help and are n't receiving any from the Veterans Administration or the Air Force . A spokesperson for the Surgeon General told me , " We do n't want your veterans . We have the names and numbers of everyone involved with operations Ranch Hand ; if we need them , we have them . " Perhaps the Air Force has heard no complaints because it does n't want to hear the complaints . General Myers also stated that in by an independent panel of physicians , hospital representatives , other health professionals , attorneys and consumers before being acted on by the Office of Health Systems Management . No information released to outside parties will include any identification of individual patients . SPARCS information will be an important resource for the state , for the hospital industry , for professional standards review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve the quality of hospital care while at the same time controlling its costs . In providing this resource , we have endeavored to strike a balance between the legitimate need of regulatory agencies for information and the patient 's right to privacy . We believe we have been successful in that effort . RICHARD A. BERMAN Director , Department of Realm Office of Health Systems Management Albany , July 23 , 1979 ment , not even a nongovernmental agency , but whose relentless struggle for a great idea has made a dream come true . Although by the time of Dr. Lemkin 's death more than 80 countries had ratified the convention , he died a bitter man , deeply disillusioned with the one country to which he looked for moral leadership in the postwar world ? the United States of America , whose Senate balked at ratification . Today the convention has still not won Senate approval . These lines are not merely an expression of tribute to the memory of an old friend who devoted a lifetime in the defense of humanity . They are a reminder to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20th anniversary of Dr. Lemkin 's death would be an appropriate occasion for the United States to take a long overdue , if only symbolic , step and ratify the Genocide Convention . In the days of the new holocaust on the seas in Southeast Asia and in the bloody shadow of genocide in Cambodia , the Senate 's vote would carry our message to the world . LEON ILUTOVICH Executive vice Chairman Zionist Organization of America New York , July 30 , 1979 October of 1978 Air Force testimony before the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee advised the committee that a questionnaire would be given to Ranch Hand personnel to determine their health status . To my knowledge , not one of the thousands of victims in our files has received this questionnaire . Perhaps it was sent only to Ranch Handers who are not suffering . The Air Force study is inappropriate unless it includes a cross section of all Vietnam veterans exposed to Agent Orange . What about the ground combat soldiers , who make up the majority of veterans suffering ? They drank the contaminated waters in defoliated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defects . These veterans are dying from rare and undefinable cancers . During Vietnam Veterans Week , President Carter , whom I spoke with , agreed that a proper epidemiological study of Vietnam veterans was necessary . Our group will make sure that General Myers carries out the wishes of the President , and it is our hope that you ? and specifically your reporter Richard Severn ? will continue the excellent job you are doing in informing the American public . FRANK McCARTEY President Agent Orange Victims International New York , July 27 , 1979 To Save a Life To the Editor : I recently heard of a 70-year-old lady who saved the life of a golfer stricken with a heart attack by administering mouth-to-mouth resuscitation until the arrival of an ambulance . A doctor who came to the scene was so impressed with her procedure that he advised her to continue . How valuable it would be if every high school student were required to take a first-aid course . Surely this would serve as useful a purpose in life as any of the academic courses often so soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this in its physical education program ? EDITH STERNFELD Belle Harbor , N.Y. , Aug. 1 , 1979 Anatomy of a State 's Patient Data System Agent Orange Victims in Need of Help                     