@@732302

txt The new standards for admission to the City University could cut minority enrollment in next fall 's freshman class by more than two-thirds and eventually leave the university with the same racial composition it ? had before the open-admissions policy was begun five years ago , according to a study by the Board of Higher Edu cation . . The study was drawn up to gauge the effects of the ' board policy , adopted as a money-saving device on Monday , that would require all new students to *demonstrate a minimum of an eighth-grade read- , ing and mathematics ability for admission to the university . Its conclusions indicate that ; on the basis of the record ' of students who entered in. 1971 , about . 40 percent of the ' students who would normally enter next year 's freshman class Would fail the test ,  --  and that most of them would be minority students . But at the same time , the study stresses , 44.1 percent of the students who entered the City University with scores below the eighth-grade level in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still enrolled in the university three years later . In the intense behind-thescenes dispute over the new admissions standards that is now raging at , the university 's headquarters , this conclusion is being cited by opponents of the rules as proof that the stricter admissions standards are likely to exclude large numbers of poorly prepared students of all races who would , if admitted , manage nevertheless to stay in college and earn a degree . The nine-page study is entitled " Effects of New Admissions Criteria Upon the Ethnic Composition of the City University of New York . " It was drawn up by David E. Lavin , professor of sociology at Lehman College and the City University 's Graduate Center , and Richard A. Silberstein , a doctoral student in sociology at Columbia University who is br . Lavin 's assistant . Dr. Lavin is on temporary assignment to the Board , " of Higher Education headquarters to study the record of open enrollment at the City University. , He is the author of the so-called " Lavin . Report " . of March 1974 on over-all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , guaranteed a place at the City University to any New York City high school graduate . It , wap the fact that a growing number of city high school graduates were entering City University with reading or math skills below the eighth-grade level , and therefore in need of expensive remedial training once in college , that prompted the Board of Higher Education to adopt the new admissions standards to save money during the current city fiscal crisis . The university spends $30 milt lion on remedial programs each year . The study 's conclusions are based on the record of a large sampling of students who entered City University colleges . in the fall of 1971 . The sample , which according to ' Dr. Lavin 's figures in the-study represented a true racial ' cross section of the . total class , was tested on reading and math ability and grouped by ethnic category . Test Scores by Race The results of the test scores ' , by race , which were withheld at the time because of their obvious sensitivity , found that 72 percent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reading ' or math ability , that 65 percent of Hispanic students similarly scored below that level and that 20 percent of the whites did . In gauging the effect of the new admissions ' standards on next fall 's entering class , the study assumes a similar failure rate by race for students who will come out of the city 's high schools and apply to thel City University for admission later this year . Officials at the Board of Higher Education who have studied Dr. Lavin 's report as ' - serted that this method was , fair and that if the predictions of test failures by blacks and Puerto Ricans erred at all , it Would probably be on the low side since , they said , reports from colleges indicated that English and math ability among entering students had declined since 1971 . Hypothesis Supported This hypothesis is supported , for example , by a recent report from Bronx Community College , a respected two-year institution , indicating that the proportion of students at the college recommended for remedial raining in English increased from 60 percent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent in math in 1971 to 68 percent this fall . The ethnic breakdown of the class entering in ' the fall of 1974 was 28.8 percent black , 13.4 percent Hispanic and 57.8 percent white , Asian and other . The breakdown of the class that entered in the fall of 1969  --  the last to enter before open admissions  --  was 13.8 percent black : 5.9 percent Hispanic and 80.2 percent white and other .                     