@@732393

txt NEARLY 12 HOURS of searching for a month-old boy taken from his bospital crib ended late Thursday when the baby was returned to Children 's Memorial Hospital , apparently in good health . The baby , named Willie , was taken from the hospital , at Lincoln and Fullerton Avenues , by a 13-year-old girl who told police she thought the child was her son , according to a spokesman for the hospital . The child was returned to the hospital an hour after a doctor warned that the baby is allergic to regular baby formula or cow 's milk . The child has to be fed a special formula or be will develop severe diarrhea which in a 6112-pound baby could be fatal , the hospital spokesman said . POLICE RECOVERED the child in an apartment at 714 W. Division St. , after the girl who had taken him and the girl 's roommate made some phone calls to Children 's Memorial . It was unclear what was said in the calls . " I feel good  --  better than I have for a long time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of 1702 N. Dayton St. after her baby was recovered . Earlier Miss Watkins had collapsed in the Belmont area police station . She was treated at Swedish Covenant Hospital , police said , but returned to the police station after hearing her son had been found . TILE TEEN-AGE girl who took the child was not identified by police because of her age and not immediately charged with any crime . She gave conflicting stories about why she took the baby . She is being held for questioning . Investigators said the slrama apparently began when the girl entered Chil dren 's Memorial and asked where " new babies are kept " According to the hospital spokesman , the girl was directed to the fourth floor where she inquired about a baby named Willie . A nurse who was questioned at the Belmont station told reporters that the girl " fed the baby from a bottle for quite a while . " Then the girl left the hospital carrying the baby without checking with anyone or being noticed by anyone . NURSES AT THE hospital told police they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquired about him by his first name . The baby was cliscoverd missing around noon  --  shortly before the real mother arrived at the hospital to visit her son . U. Nickels said that when police recovered the boy be was still wearing the hospital shirt . The baby was identified through footprints and other records in the hospital , according the hospital spokesman . Nickels said the girl told police she had a sick baby of her own in Grant Hospital and was informed there that her child might be transferred to Children 's Memorial . She said the thought the child she had taken was hers , However , Nickels said Grant Hospital could find no records early Friday on any child belonging to the girl . He said the girl might have given birth recently to a stillborn child . THE BOY 'S FATHER , Willie Houston , 24 , who said he lived at 510 S. 23d St. , Bellwood , said afterwards : " It 's been a real long day . It seems like something you see on television , but does n't happen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lot of money or something like that . " Earlier the parents had rharged the hospital with lax security . Houston said be was at the hospital three times to visit his son and added : " I never saw a security guard . It seems like you could walk in without any identification and take out a baby . " The hospital staff released a statement denying the charges of lax security , saying there was no indication of negligence on their part . But the spokesman admitted that in a large hospital it is sometimes impossible to screen all visitors . The hospital requires that visitors check in at an information desk to get a pass . But the spokesman said nurses on the floors generally do not check for passes because it is hospital policy to encourage parents to visit their children . TEE SPOKESMAN said that , in light of the incident , the hospital would reexamine its security procedures to determine what changes could be made . The disappearance recalled the kidnaping in 1964 of a baby from Mich-N.1 Reese HospitaL A woman dressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fronczak in the hospital 's maternity ward and told her a doctor wanted to examine her baby . That was the last seen of the child , although the Mr. and Mrs. Fronczak adopted a baby boy two years later that had been found abandoned in Newark , N.J. That youngster appeared to be the same age as their son , and the parents believe him to be their natural child .                     