@@733477

txt The Federal Government will help finance abortions for improverished women who are victims of rape or incest provided they or " anyone ' reports the crime within 60 days to a law enforcement or public health agency , Joseph A. Califano Jr. , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , announced today . The new regulations interpret compromise legislation enacted last month after a bitter five-month stalemate between the House , in which a majority wanted to forbid any Federal financing of abortions unless the mothees life was in danger , and the Senate , which sought a more liberal measure . Senate conferees had originally sought Medicaid financing , of any abortion that was " medically necessary . " The House conferees refused to go along with that term , calling it deliberately vague . The regulations under which the law will be carried out pleased the supporters of the original Senate position and drew criticism from the author of the ban on Medicaid abortions . Regulations ' Reflected ' . Legislation " We worked hard in the last six weeks not to write liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said Peter . Libassi , general counsel of the ; department , who directed nine lawyers in writing the regulations . They will take effect in 12 days . The legislation prohibits - the use of Federal funds for Abortions for low-income women , with three exceptions : abortions when the mother 's life would be endangered or when severe and longlasting physical damage , in the judgment of two physicians , would result froth her giving birth , and for such " medical procedures " that are considered necessary for the victims of rape or incest , provided the crime was reported " promptly . " The legislation gave INr . Califano leeway in determining what constituted " prompt " reporting of rape or incest ; who was required to do the reporting , and the meaning of the phrase " medical procedures . " Hyde Preferred Seven Days Representative Henry J. Hyde , Republican of Illinois , the author of the ban on Medicaid financing of abortions , ' said that Mr. Califano had been too liberal in allowing 60 days for the reporting of the crime . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eliminate fraud . " Mr. Hyde said . " Therefore , I would have preferred a report no later than seven days after the incidence of rape or incest . " However , Senator Edward W. Brooke , Republican of Massachusetts , who opposed the ban , said that the regulations were consistent with the intent of Congress . " The regulations give , the nation a more reasonable and more humane national policy on abortion than we had last year , " Mr. Brooke said . " I commend the Secretary for issuing his regulations promptly as required by Congress . " A law that took effect in July 1977 forbade any use ? of Federal funds for abortions , though it was not fully enforced for months because of court challenges . Before that , the Department of Health , Education and Welfare helped ) lay for about 1.1 million Medicaid abortions a year . Officials said today that they had no idea how many would be financed under the new law . Secretary Califano , who opposes abortion , said : " My personal views are of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended and writing regulations that embody that intent . " He said that he had enlisted the aid of the ' Justice Department in promulgating the regulations . A report accompanying the , regulations explained why victims of rape or incest , or anyone with knowledge of those crimes , was given 60 days to report them to a law ' enforcement agency or public health service : " The 60-day period , " it said , " was arrived at by balancing the competing in , terest.of providing sufficient time to permit victims of rape ' or incest to make reasoned decisions as to how and whether to report these incidents ; with the necessity to protect against fraudulent reporting . " An H.E.W . spokesman said the report need not name or describe the assailant or provide the details of the incident , not even its date ; ' it must say only that the incident took place within 60 days of the date on the report and that the woman named in the report was the victim . Because the law uses the general term rape , rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of consent would he considered .1-0 have been raped , the spokesman added . The report said . " The department has concluded that Congress intended that anyone max report on behalf of the victim . " The regulations , defining health service - agencies to which the crimes could be reported ; said they would include New ' York City 's municipal hospital system , for example , but would exclude abortion clinics and " any facility whose principal function is the performance of abortions , " The Department believes that permitting reporting to abortion clinics would be inconsistent with the concept of rigorous enforcement , " the report said . Mr. Califano turned to the Justice Department ' foi : a determination of whether the phrase " medical procedures necessary for the victims of rape or incest " included abort ion : Attorney General Griffin B. Bell replied in a memorandum that , taking into consideration the Congressional debate on the , subject , it was his opinion that the phrase " medical ? procedures " included abortions . The H.E.W . report defined " medical procedures " as encompassing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perr formed for the purpose of preventing or terminating a pregnancy arising out of an incident of rape or incest . " The 62-page report made frequent reference to the Congressional debates . For example , Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois , the Republican whip , was quoted as saying in a House debate , ' , ' Pregnancy is a fact which can not obviously be . known until the raped victim has missed her first period . So it seems to me that ' prompt ' embraces a period that is at least in the 30-day range . "                     