@@731365

txt The body of a sixth member of the Symbionese Liberation Army , Identified as Camilla Hall , 29 , was found here today in the charred ruins of the terrorist group 's hideout . Dr. Thomas Noguchi , Los Angeles County coroner , said the identification of the burned and mangled body was made from dental charts of Miss Hall . Noguchi made the identification within hours after the body was found , quickly dispelling reports that it may have been Miss Patricia Hearst , the 20-year-old missing publishing heiress kidnaped Feb. 4 by the S. L. A. The coroner said the Hall woman died of gunshot wounds . WITH THE discovery of Miss Hall 's body , investigators behove there may be only two end possibly three surviving members of the S. L. A. Specially trained units of the Los Angeles police department intensified a massive search today in the same area of the burned-out hideout in the southcentral area of the city . A second-floor apartment was raided just six blocks away , but police found the flat empty . Two bloodhounds were brought Camilla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agents . The dogs are trained to pick up Miss Hearst 's scent . BESIDES Miss Hearst , objects of the manhunt arc William Harris , 20 , his wife , Emily , 27 , and an unidentified black man . Miss Hall was considered one of three leaders of the small but violent group . She is the daughter of the Rev. and Mrs. George Hall of Chicago . The Rev. Mr. Hpil is a Lthiteran minister . Miss Hall was a social worker in Minneapolis before moving to Berkeley , Gal. , in 1070 . Previously identified as dying from gunshot wounds and smoke inhalation were the other two S. L. A. leaders  --  Donald Defreeze , 30 , an ex-convict who adopted the title of field marshal and the name of Cinque , and Nancy Ling Perry , 20 . Three other S. L. A. members , William Wolfe , 22 , Patricia Sollysik , 24 , and Angela Atwood , 25 , died from smoke inhalation and burns late Friday from a fire that engulfed the hideout after a two-hour shootout with police . POLICE TODAY completed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss Hall 's body was found in the rear of the home , authorities announced that there were no other bodies and all evidence had been removed . Included in the arsenal discovered in the rubble were three .30 caliber automatic Irifles , eight 12-gauge sawed-off I shotguns , an M-1 carbine , a high - powered rifle equipped with a special sight , two .39 caliber revolvers , two .280 mauser handguns , a .45 caliber pistol , a 0 nun . pistol , three bayonets , and at least a hundred rounds of ammunition . Hundreds of other rounds of ammunition exploded during the fire . The discovery of the 0 mm. pistol and the two .39 caliber revolvers has led investigators here to seek a possible link between the S. I , . A. and the assassination of policeman Michael Edwards here on May 11 . EDWARDS disappeared after completing work on the night shift at a local police district . His body was found the next day In a burned out abandoned building . He had been handcuffed , his coat w a s pulled over his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the head with a 9 mm. gun . Missing was his .38 caliber service revolver . Investigators believe the S. L. A. had , moved its base of operations to the Los Angeles area at the end of April or in early May . The FBI also , issued an alert today asking anyone who may have sold a van-type vehicle in the last three days to contact the agency or local police . The ! remises have been known to use vans for transportation . In Hillsborough , Cal. , Pat  --  icia 's parents , Inc itanctoipti A. Hearsts had slept late following a day of high emotion waiting to hear whether their daughter was among the ruins of the house . Hearst , editor and president of the San Francisco Examiner , had whispered , " Thank God , " on learning the news late yesterday . Mrs. Hearst began crying . BUT TODAY the agonizing wait . resumed when the FBI informed them of the sixth body . It had been a wrenching two days for the Hearst family who have known 105 days et unhappiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the newspaper executive , his wife , Catherine , and their daughters , Vicki , 17 , anti Ann , 18 , had silently watched Friday as authorities and S. L. A. members exchanged gun fire televised live from Los Angeles . " I have never seen him like that  --  he looks absolutely terrible , " family spokesman John Lester said of Hearst .                     