@@732348

txt A treaty extending American use of four military bases on Spanish soil but withdrawing 10 United States missile-firing submarines from their Spanish port was signed Saturday by Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and Foreign Minister Jose Maria de Areilza . U.S. officials , while insisting the agreement is not a commitment to defend Spain , acknowledged that it brings the two countries closer together as well as edging Spain toward the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . In , case of attack against the West , the United Nations Ambasador Daniel Moynihan is finding his relationship with Henry Kissinger strained . Page 4 agreement said , the U.S. and Spain will hold " urgent consultations . " Also , there will be a combined military staff for planning pm-poses and a U.S.-Spanish council chaired by Kissinger and Areilza . The treaty , signed In a nationally televised ceremony at the Spanish Foreign Ministry , will be submitted to the U.S. Senate for ratification . It needs a two-thirds vote for approval . FOR THE USE of the bases for five more years , the U.S. will give Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands for withdrawal of the nuclear submarines from Rota , a naval base near Cadiz in southern Spain . U.S. officials said they could meet that demand because the Polaris submarines in the American fleet will be replaced by longer-range Tridents beginning in 1979 . The 10 . Polaris submarines are to be withdrawn between January and June of that year . " Spain , which has contributed so much to the Western civilization , " Kissinger said , " must in our view be an integral part of all Western relationships . " The U.S. has backed Spain for NATO membership , but most of the Western European democracies opposed the drive during the authoritarian era of the late Gen. Francisco Franco . The agreement , signed with the new government of King Juan Carlos , " brings Spain closer to NATO , certainly in a psychological sense , " said a key U.S. official .                     