@@733723

txt Letters Foreign Policy : The New Saber-Rattlers To the Editor : The recent essays of Norman Podhoretz on your Op-Ed page underscore the dangers in the new wave of muscular foreign-policy rhetoric . It is astounding to hear spouted once again the myopic and moralistic prattle about the international situation that led 50,000 Americans to needless death in Vietnam and contributed to the steady erosion of domestic liberties in the 1950 's and in the Nixonian 70 's . Mr. Podhoretz should well know that the Soviet Union does not embody world Communism and that indeed nothing of the sort exists today in a Communist world dominated by longstanding national rivalries and strategic interests . To argue otherwise is to concede to the bankrupt Soviet leadership precisely the ideological halo it claims . It is paranoid and politically irresponsible to equate the growth of Communist parties in Europe with a global " Red Menace . " The Soviet threat , such as it may be , should be understood in the context of traditional world power politics instead of as an open call to a moral crusade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and learned their futility . But the confusion on the American right between Soviet power and the political balance in Europe reveals a key thrust of the new militarism . What Mr. Podhoretz apparently fears , more than Soviet warships and weapons , is some " insidious ideological challenge to our own political culture " that Communism is said to pose . This is the saber-rattling of yesteryear , full of sound and fury , signifying little . There are today many challenges to our political culture , but I would submit that Communism is not prominent among them . The challenges are . largely internal : the future of the capitalist welfare state ; the stability and growth of the American and Western economies ; the ability of our political structure to formulate and execute wise policy decisions , both domestic and foreign ; a rational and farsighted energy plan , to name but a few . We are witnessing , as James Reston has said weeks ago in this newspaper , a time of great frustration and uncertainty in American life . We will have learned tragically little from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exaggerated external demon . Our political culture can be defended abroad but maintained only at home . PETER DWORKIN New York , June 25 , 1978 In Defense of Macho and Sex Utility Poles : One For the Front Yard ? To the Editor : I have read your recent editorial applauding the revival of the wooden telephone pole in New York City . I find it absolutely appalling that this travesty upon the cityscape is welcomed , but am most dismayed that it should be on esthetic grounds . Those of us who have worked to eliminate overhead utilities from streets and roads in the country and especially in this state can only be dismayed that we should lose the battle to a nostalgia trip . Can you imagine Madison Avenue or Fifth Avenue festooned with overhead wires again ? Have you so quickly forgotten what a succession of storms have perpetrated upon utility customers in Long Island and Connecticut in the past few years because their overhead service was brought down by ice or by storm-tossed trees . Has the vulnerability of overhead transmission not been adequately demonstrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you really find them attractive ? Would you like to have one in your front yard ? It is unfortunate that costs and sometimes certain other considerations make it impossible for us to eliminate the ubiquitous utility poles because , unlike your editor , the public , which expressed its opinions to us , finds them disfiguring and there are many practical advantages to having underground utilities . FRANK B. BURGGRAF . JR . Chief , Transmission Facilities Office of Environmental Planning State Department of Public Service Albany , June 28,1978 Of School Finance And the Constitution To the Editor ; Your July 3 editorial on school financing notwithstanding , it would be irresponsible indeed for the State Attorney General not to appeal Justice Smith 's decision in the Levittown case , quite apart from the obvious impropriety of permitting trial courts to be the final adjudicators of important constitutional questions . The state 's school financing system , of course , is inequitable . The issue in the Levittown case was whether , in a complex and imperfect world , the system is so arbitrarily and unconscionably inequitable as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We argue that the evidence presented by the multiple plaintiffs demonstrates that it is extraordinarily difficult to satisfy all the various school-finance needs simultaneously : the property-poor districts , like Levittown when it filed the suit ; the districts that have experienced sharp drops in enrollment , like Levittown now ; the big cities other than New York , and New York City , which is a case unto itself ( as always ) . Each of these faces very different fiscal circumstances , and the Legislature has struggled to balance them . In fact , the state 's school financing sys- ? tern has been improved appreciably since the suit was filed . To be sure , the Legislature has not done nearly as much to achieve equity as I would prefer , or as much as Governor Carey has recommended . But an unsatisfactory political compromise is not automatically unconstitutional in this country . Finally , The Times is in error in characterizing expert opinion in regard to " municipal overburden . " Public-finance economists are close to unanimous in considering the " municipal overburden " argument to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they are saddled with fiscal responsibility for welfare , pay high salaries and fringe benefits to non-school employees or choose to engage in a host of marginal activities , then those problems should be addressed directly , by state assumption of welfare costs , tough collective bar- , gaining , better management , or whatever . It makes no sense to increase school aid to offset deficiencies in welfare finance or city budgeting . DICK NETZER Dean , Graduate School of Public Administration , New York University New York , July 3 , 1178 To the Editor : Geographer Arthur Getis 's extraordinary definition in his recent letter of pop culture to include macho games and sex-stimulated interpersonal relations deserves some sort of unbelieving comment . If maleness ( which is what " macho " means ) and sex were somehow ( as geographer Getis seems to want ) removed from humanity , we would be dealing with another species , as yet uncreated . Without these qualities , humankind would not exist . Maybe things are different when one deals with land masses and mountain ranges , but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and undesirable features of contemporary culture is a conceit that boggles the mind . Bandello is the first man we know of to write down the story of Romeo and Juliet , rewritten in English by Broke and later by Shakespeare , and then in other media by Berlioz and Gounod and lately appearing as " West Side Story . " Can the good geographer imagine this theme with maleness and Arafat 's P.L.O . To the Editor : The recent U.S. condemnation of Yasir Arafat but rejection of a blanket condemnation of the P.L.O . is still another example of State Department fuzziness . If there are other organizations and individuals under the P.L.O . umbrella who do not advocate or condone terrorism , why have they not been heard from ? Why do these moderate leaders not represent and speak for the P.L.O . in the councils of the Arab League ? Why were these moderate leaders not invited to address the United Nations on behalf of the P.L.O. ? Unfortunately , it is Mr. Arafat who has been thrust forth by the other Arab leaders to represent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear . The voices of these other P.L.O . leaders have been muted . Therefore , it is those Arab states which are responsible for his leadership position that must share in the blame for terrorist actions . To disassociate the actions of Mr. Arafat from those of the P.L.O . is analogous to saying that the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing . ALBERT ESTEROW Fresh Meadows , N.Y. , July 5,1978 To the Editor : Your issue of July 1 reported that the Pentagon is " more eager than ever " to preserve its counterinsurgency school in Panama " as a way of maintaining contact with military colleagues in Latin America . " Officers of the U.S. Army are said to be traveling around the continent to recruit students for this enterprise . It is time for higher political authority to blow the whistle . Counterinsurgency was a growth business in the salad days of the Kennedy Administration . But a funny thing happened to it on the way to Camelot . As for maintaining contact with the military in Latin America , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13 military dictators who reign south of the border . It is questionable how long we can retain the good will we buy at this high price . And above all , it is undignified for a great power to beg for military clients the way clothing merchants used to pull customers off the sidewalks of Canal Street . Let us pray that the Carter Adminissex excluded ? Or does he consign all this as part of the pop scene ? It violence ( which Getis seems to equate with the pop culture ) is to be the criterion for deciding when programs are to be seen on TV , when will they air " Hamlet " ? At three o'clock in the morning ? Sports are also viewed by Getis as part of the pop culture ; if he had lived in the times of classical antiquity , I can imagine his letter to the Athens Times condemning the Olympic Games , not to mention Aeschylus . Getis will either have to change his definition of pop culture or , if he is to have his way , we 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiet way , of course , so as to not offend the geographer 's horror of violence ) . Then , if we have the foresight to kill all life on earth before doing away with ourselves , there 'll be nothing left but land masses and mountain ranges and sterile seas . Unfortunately , there will be no geographers to contemplate them . NORMAN D. ARBAIZA 51oatsburg , N.Y. , June 30 , 1978 A Public Servant To the Editor : The recent attention and praise accorded Richard Nixon by his loyalist Kentucky friends was long overdue . Although the former President has not ingratiated himself with the press or public by remaining coy and enigmatic about the events leading to Watergate and his resignation , society has nevertheless given warmer , more forgiving embraces to convicted murderers than they have to Mr. Nixon . Ignoring his decades of popular service to the country , climaxed by a landslide election victory in 1972 , the country had so completely ostracized and ridiculed Mr. Nixon , prior to the Kentucky tribute , that one can only suspect many people of throwing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consciences and lives of late . A former President , even though disgraced by near impeachment and resignation , and in some quarters viscerally detested for longstanding political grievances , deserves some public tolerance and a significant measure of respect for his constructive accomplishments as a public servant . KENNETH HUDSON Bronx , July 9,1978 tration will quash this one forcefully and soon . ( Prof. ) LAURENCE I. RADWAY Department of Government Dartmouth College Hanover , N.H. , July 4 , 1978 Pass-Along Tax Break To the Editor : The savings in real estate taxes by California companies should lower costs to consumers since the full taxes had been taken into account in determining prices for goods and services before Proposition 13 . This would be a major roll-back of inflation and would educate many as to the effect of all costs on prices . It would also point up the fact that real property can not pay taxes , only people can . Taxes companies pay are charges against those people who work or invest in the companies or buy their products . WADSWORTH W. MOUNT Warren , N.J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 