@@773423

txt The First Overseas War 24 The war that began in August , 1914 , brought to an end a century of relative peace , apparent democratic progress , and European domination of the world . It helped to bring about the first Communist revolution . For the United States it ushered in a period of economic world power and political isolation . It brought far greater steps toward governmental direction of the economy than most progressives had dreamed of . All this drastic innovation produced intense emotional confusion : Americans moved in a rapid zigzag from neutrality to crusading excitement to disillusion and revulsion . THE WAR AND AMERICA In 1914 , most Americans found it hard to understand why all Europe went to war over the murder by a Serb of the heir to the throne of AustriaHungary . Actually , the European great powers , all heavily armed , had long been engaged in a struggle for empire and prestige . They were organized in two huge , approximately equal alliances , each fearful of the other . One consisted of the two Central European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Italy ) ; the other consisted of Britain , France , and Russia . When Austria-Hungary , afraid of the disintegration of her multinational empire , demanded severe punishment of Serbia , Germany backed her ally 's demands . Russia felt it necessary to assist Serbia , and France was linked to Russia . When Germany invaded France through Belgium ( whose neutrality had been internationally guaranteed ) , England came somewhat reluctantly into the war . Later the Central Powers were joined by Turkey and Bulgaria : the Western Allies by Italy , Japan , Greece , Rumania , and other countries . When war broke out , most Americans believed their country could and should stay out of it . Many quoted , or misquoted , the founding fathers on the subject of foreign entanglements . To many progressives , war was asso-300 The First Overseas War 301 ciated with reaction , and to the socialist minority it was a product of dying capitalism . Yet few managed to follow completely President Wilson 's advice to remain neutral in thought . Most of the eastern , Anglo-Saxon elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicists , deeply valued British law and literature and identified their own values with Western European civilization . Still larger groups felt a vague traditional sympathy with France and a genuine moral outrage over the invasion of Belgium . Some influential individuals argued , on less emotional grounds , that American safety depended on British control of the Atlantic Ocean . The drift of American foreign policy for two decades had been toward cooperation with Britain . Thus much Allied war propaganda fell on already friendly ears . Not all Americans , however , favored the Allies . Many , including most Irish-Americans and many Midwesterners , continued to associate Britain with empire , aristocracy , and oligarchy . To the well-organized and articulate German-American minority , the Fatherland was an innocent victim of Allied encirclement . Even more clearly than in Jefferson 's day , real neutrality was made difficult by America 's economic importance and geographic position . In 1914 , the country was entering a depression , and war orders promised recovery . From the beginning , America took the traditional and legally correct position that all belligerents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power , only the Allies could tap American resources , which they desperately needed . Originally inclined to insist on cash sales in the interests of neutrality , Wilson and Secretary Bryan early withdrew their opposition to loans and bank credits . By 1915 , American industry was booming , and American prosperity was bound up in Allied success . A German victory , an embargo on munitions , a prohibition of loans , or a sudden peace would have meant financial crisis . Undoubtedly this economic involvement influenced some American opinion . Yet business , and particularly big business , was by no means dominant in the formation of American foreign policy . Some progressives were against whatever business leaders supported . And the President , who bore the responsibility for foreign-policy decisions , had demonstrated in the Mexican crisis a deep hostility to " selfish interests . " While Wilson loved British culture and disliked German militarism , he was determined to maintain peace . He was also determined , as always , to defend America 's national honor and her power . Both were essential to the overriding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's most influential advisers , including his close friend Edward M. House , tended strongly in a pro-Allied direction . Thus the forces affecting American policy were fairly evenly balanced . Most Americans wanted to stay out , and most hoped for Allied victory . Neither economic interest nor Allied sympathy was strong enough to coun302 A Synopsis of American History ter the traditional dislike of becoming involved in Europe 's troubles . Perplexed by conflicting emotions , many Americans responded most clearly to surging nationalism . Only a direct challenge to American rights and feelings could tip the balance toward war . This challenge arose out of a familiar problem : neutral rights at sea . Once again , as in the time of Napoleon , a great land power and a great sea power were fighting an all-out war . Each preferred to remain on good terms with America , the world 's most powerful neutral . Yet neither , in the long run , could afford to give up any weapon necessary to victory . The British , as expected , used their navy to blockade Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut off British supplies , turned to a new weapon , the submarine . Enormously effective , the submarine was also vulnerable . Traditionally , a blockading warship was supposed to warn an enemy merchant vessel and remove passengers and crew before sinking her . If , however , a submarine surfaced to warn its victim , it could fairly easily be sunk by an armed merchant ship . In at least one famous case , a German submarine that had surfaced for this purpose was sunk by a British decoy ship , disguised as an American merchant vessel . Thus the Germans , throughout the war , faced a difficult choice . They could not use their only effective sea weapon in the only effective manner without killing civilians . Yet killing civilians , in 1914 , was still regarded by world opinion as illegal and brutal . Submarine warfare , which might bring Germany victory , could at the same time add to Germany 's enemies and thereby bring defeat . In dealing with blockade and counterblockade , the Wilson administration had three possible choices , none of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , favored by Bryan , by many congressional Democrats , and by much midwestern opinion . Of the many methods proposed to implement such a policy , the most plausible was to prohibit American citizens from traveling on armed ships and thus to prevent the most dangerous kind of incidents . Under this plan , protests against both German and British blockade excesses would be filed for postwar negotiation . This policy , or any policy of abandoning or diminishing American neutral rights , was rejected by Wilson on grounds of national honor . The opposite extreme would have been to intervene , early and frankly , on the Allied side . This would not only have ended the dilemma about neutral rights , it would have shortened the war and given America a more decisive voice in the peace . It was advocated by Theodore Roosevelt , which hardly recommended it to Wilson . Such a choice was completely contrary to tradition and would have divided the country disastrously . The third choice , and one that attracted Wilson from time to time , was American mediation , either to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took two forms . The first was an effort to induce Britain to modify her blockade or cease from arming merchant vessels in return for German The First Overseas War 303 abandonment or modification of submarine warfare . The second was the attempt to persuade both belligerents to state negotiable war aims . Both kinds of effort at mediation , sporadically pursued and probably illusory , had clearly failed by 1916 . Neither side was willing permanently to abandon weapons it considered essential and neither would abandon the prospect of victory . As the bloodshed mounted , so did fear and hatred , until compromise became impossible even to imagine . For America to force peace before this process had gone too far , she would have had to threaten both sides with losing the war . Only a threat to cut off munitions could have compelled Britain to abandon her own war aims . To make such a threat and carry it out might have resulted in German victory . It was clear that the Wilson administration , in a showdown , was unlikely to take such action against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace , on the other hand , it would have been necessary to threaten actual intervention on the Allied side . Only a heavily armed America , with a united or docile public opinion , could have made such a policy work . Really effective mediation was made impossible by the whole nature of the American political system . Thus the policy actually adopted was , and perhaps had to be , a constantly shifting compromise among the three alternatives : neutrality , intervention , and mediation . NEUTRALITY TO WAR IN FOUR ACTS The first stage of American policy , from the outbreak of war to February , 1915 , was characterized by benevolent neutrality toward England . After the shocking invasion of Belgium , the Germans gave little direct offense , while the British blockade became increasingly rigid . Contraband of war was gradually extended to cover most commodities , neutral ships were stopped at sea and taken to port for search , and trade with other neutrals who might transship to Germany was severely rationed . Yet American protests were moderate in tone , British concessions considerable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States accepted without much ill-feeling even the British proclamation of a mined war zone in the North Sea , where few American ships went . The second stage , running from February , 1915 , until May , 1916 , was dominated by German submarine warfare . In February , Germany proclaimed a submarine war zone around the British Isles , cutting the main Atlantic sea lanes . From this point on , the U.S. administration refused to accept the legality of submarine warfare and announced that Germany would be held to " strict accountability " for American losses . On May 7 , 1915 , the liner Lusitania , unarmed but carrying some war cargo , was sunk off the Irish coast . Of the 1198 passengers drowned , 128 304 A Synopsis of American History ? yyere Americans . In a series of very strong notes , Wilson demanded that Germany accept.responsibility for these losses and abandon her methods of Submarine war . After repeated warnings , partial or temporary German concessions , and further sinkings , Wilson , in March , 1916 , made it clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break in German-American relations . This clearly implied war , and Germany , somewhat grudgingly , promised that henceforth her raiders would warn before sinking . This seemed a major American victory . The nation was , however , practically committed to go to war if and when Germany changed her mind . To give some meaning to his implied threats of force , Wilson gave his backing , in late 1915 , to a preparedness program including increased army and navy appropriations and heavy new taxes . The third stage , from May , 1916 , to February , 1917 , brought somewhat less tense relations with Germany , increased irritation against England , and the peak of Wilson 's efforts for a negotiated peace . In this period Britain , hard pressed in war and confident of American tolerance , stepped up her enforcement of the blockade . American mail was searched , and American firms believed to have dealt with Germany were black-listed and barred from British trade . Wilson found these actions almost intolerable , and Congress made gestures of retaliation . In November , Wilson narrowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressive running with the support of a reunited ( and largely conservative ) party . In the campaign Wilson was attacked by both isolationists and interventionists . His own partisans , however , pointed to his success in keeping America out of war , as well as to his recently increased domestic progressivism . Once reelected , Wilson made his most ambitious effort at mediation , a public request to both sides for a statement of war aims . When this effort failed , and it became clear that neither side was interested in compromise , Wilson became increasingly disillusioned with the Allied cause . On January 22 , in an eloquent speech , he declared that the world 's only hope lay in a " Peace without Victory " for either side . The fourth and final phase started a week later when Germany , where military pressures had finally defeated civilian resistance , announced the resumption of unrestricted submarine warfare against neutral and belligerent vessels alike . Wilson had no alternative but to break relations , , yet he still refused to , ask for war . On March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German note proposing , in the event of war with the United States , an alliance with Mexico to recover lost territories and an effort to persuade Japan to switch sides . Meantime Wilson , despite a filibuster by Robert M. La Follette and other antiwar progressives , started arming American ships . Only at the beginning of April , - after a series of new sinkings did Wilson finally ask for and get from Congress a declaration of war against Germany . The First Overseas War 305 AMERICA AT WAR : PATRIOTISM AND DISCONTENT Though many Americans had expected limited , almost painless participation in the war , the state of the Allied war effort in 1917 made this impossible . Germany was sinking British ships faster than they could be built , the French army was exhausted and mutinous , and Russia was convulsed by revolution . The first Russian Revolution in March , 1917 , had caused America to welcome Russia joyfully into the ranks of democratic and constitutional states . In November , however , the Bolsheviks with their slogan of " land , bread , and peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Soviet road . In March they signed a treaty with Germany , surrendering large territories and freeing German troops for a one-front war . Germany thus began a series of immense offensives which threatened to defeat the Allies before American help could become effective . Faced with this desperate necessity , the United States built a conscript army of more than 3,500,000 , and by November , 1918 , had shipped 2,000,000 men overseas without losses . American naval forces greatly reduced the submarine menace . American ground forces in France played a distinguished and probably decisive part in the bloody operations of 1918 , in which the German offensives were finally met and the German armies rolled back . To do all this , it was necessary to regiment to a new degree the vast economic power of an essentially civilian country . Money for huge loans to the Allies as well as for America 's war effort was raised by a fairly democratic system of war finance . About one-third of the total needed was raised by taxes , as against about one-fifth in the Civil War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxed at unheard of rates . In 1918 , incomes of over $1 million were assessed a total tax of 77 percent . ( In 1913 , a top rate of 7 percent had seemed high . ) Federal war bonds were sold to sixty-five million customers in four great drives . Even so , the war was financed partly by inflation and mostly through expansion of bank credit by action of the new Federal Reserve System . After fumbling with various regulatory devices in the first war winter , Congress in the spring of 1918 gave the President almost dictatorial powers over the war economy . Under him , five hundred war agencies policed the productive effort . The War Industries Board allocated raw materials , determined priorities , and standardized products . The War Labor Board opposed strikes and lockouts , but promoted union recognition , the eight-hour day , and uniform wages . The Food Administration under Herbert Hoover guaranteed the purchase of and set the prices for major farm commodities , thereby greatly increasing food production . The Fuel Board and the Shipping Administration similarly increased production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiently run by the Railway Administration . 306 A Synopsis of American History By 1918 , the United States had a fairly efficient regulated economy . Some advanced progressives talked cheerfully of war socialism and prophesied that these gains for collectivism would not be lost . Most citizens , however , were probably restive under this new system and were held in line only by wartime patriotism . Businessmen objected to high taxes , resented labor 's gains , and in general disliked being told what to do . Farmers , faring well , resented the fixing of prices that had never been set in periods of depression . Yet despite its widespread unpopularity , governmental direction of the war economy marked a momentous step in a generally continuing direction . There was no return to laissez faire , if indeed laissez faire had ever existed . After the war , the government was to act as a partner to business , and later under the New Deal , wartime precedents were to be invoked for other kinds of intervention . Equally great steps , with equally momentous consequences , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of public enthusiasm , the government was apparently disquieted about national unity . The Committee on Public Information blanketed the country with pamphlets and speeches about the goals of the war . Cracking down on opposition , the Post Office barred antiwar publications from the mails . A Sedition Act passed in 1918 forbade abusive language about the American form of government , flag , or uniform and acts bringing into contempt the form of government or the Constitution . About 1,500 persons , including most of the leadership of the Socialist party , were imprisoned for sedition . States and private organizations went much further than the federal government in war hysteria . The German language was driven from the schools , German music was eliminated from concerts , and religious pacifists were physically abused . In some places , the slightest criticism of the administration or the Allies was considered punishable disloyalty . To all this emotion , a reaction was inevitable . For the future , both the possibilities and the dangers of mobilizing emotion had been demonstrated . Even considering measures of compulsion , popular support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity lay discontent . This was indicated in the congressional elections of 1918 when Wilson , calling for the election of a Democratic Congress as an endorsement of his war leadership , received instead a Republican majority in both Houses . THE FAILURE OF A WILSONIAN PEACE On her entry into the war , America , democratic and free from either war guilt or aggressive ambitions , was recognized as the most effective Allied spokesman . Wilson became the worldwide prophet of a democratic peace . On January 8 , 1918 , he outlined to Congress his famous Fourteen Points . The First Overseas War 307 The first five of these were general liberal formulae : open treaty-making , freedom of the seas , removal of trade barriers , and impartial adjustment of colonial claims in the interest of the natives . Most of the rest of the Points were concerned with the readjustment of boundaries in the interest of the Wilsonian principle of national self-determination even for small nations . The final Point , the most important to Wilson , provided for an association of nations to maintain the peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions in the secret treaties already negotiated among the Allies . Wilson knew of these treaties but ignored them , doubtless believing that he could force the Allies to abandon them . On October 6 , Germany , her military situation hopeless , asked Wilson for an armistice based on his announced program . Despite Allied objections , the Fourteen Points were accepted as the basis for peace , with some reservations . On November 11 , military authorities finished negotiating an armistice that disarmed Germany and made further resistance impossible . In January , 1919 , at Paris , the victorious Allies started negotiating among themselves the peace terms to be imposed on Germany . Accompanied by an undistinguished peace delegation and a large corps of experts , Wilson left for Paris . Frantic ovations throughout Europe apparently convinced him that it was his mission , alone , to force a just peace on the world . Actually , his power was limited by two powerful opponents , the Allies and the Senate Republicans . Like Germany , Wilson had to fight a two-front war . Insisting from the outset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Treaty , Wilson made a quick trip to Washington and found more than a third of the Senate lined up against the Covenant in its negotiated form . Returning to Paris , he had to face the Allied leaders with weakened bargaining powers . These statesmen , bound by the secret treaties , were also understandably determined to secure their nations against further attack and to make Germany pay for the long struggle . Despite a courageous fight , Wilson had to make many concessions . To Italy he had to concede sizable German-speaking border areas . Japan secured not only Germany 's island colonies ( which were to play a crucial part in World War II ) , but also , against Chinese opposition , German interests in the Shantung Peninsula . To France , who desired the actual dismemberment of Germany , Wilson had to concede very severe terms regarding the defeated nation . Germany was stripped of colonies and merchant marine , disarmed , and forced to surrender border areas . Perhaps more important , she was required to admit her guilt for the war as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later by the Allies . With hindsight it is easy to see the inadequacies of the Versailles settlement . Too harsh to be a reconciliation , it was illusory as a restoration of Anglo-French world hegemony . Japan was thwarted , China chaotic , the colonial world restive , and all nonwhites irritated by the failure of a clause affirming racial equality . Bolshevik Russia was proclaiming world revolution , 308 A Synopsis of American History and Communist revolutions seemed to threaten both Asia and Central Europe . With somewhat confused aims and limited American participation , Allied forces invaded Russian territory during her years of upheaval and civil war . To Wilson , exhausted and implacable , all the faults of the Versailles settlement were made up for by the gains for self-determination and above all by the establishment of the League of Nations . This would , he hoped , supervise the administration of former German colonies by their new masters under the mandate system . It would secure the reduction of armaments , preserve the independence and integrity of all nations , mediate disputes , and even use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope , Wilson came home to fight . At first , the Treaty 's chances looked good . Wilson 's prestige was still great , and the idea of a League of Nations had long attracted American support . Yet the Treaty aroused many kinds of opposition . Among its enemies were the disappointed minorities of German , Italian , and Irish descent , isolationists who feared that the League would involve America in European affairs , liberals who objected to the compromises of democratic principle , and , vaguer but crucially important , many Americans already reacting against wartime enthusiasm and sacrifice . The Senate , where the struggle centered , was divided into three groups : ( 1 ) Loyal Wilsonian Democrats , in favor of the Treaty and the League ; ( 2 ) A group of about a dozen Senators including La Follette , Borah , and Johnson of California , who were " Irreconcilable , " all-out foes of both issues ; and ( 3 ) " Reservationists " who were inclined to accept the Treaty with certain changes defining and restricting the authority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty was marshaled by Henry Cabot Lodge , an enemy of Wilson and a master tactician . In order to attract the crucial Reservationists , Lodge proposed not rejection but alteration of the Treaty . The changes were carefully calculated to sound plausible , but to be unacceptable to Wilson . Lodge knew his opponent . Wilson forbade Democrats to accept the reservations , thus making impossible a two-thirds majority . Without reservations , the Treaty was opposed by Irreconcilables and Reservationists ; with reservations , by Irreconcilables and loyal Democrats . Refusing to accept defeat , Wilson embarked on a nationwide speaking tour . The people , he said , must not allow the Senate to " break the heart of the world " by rejecting the Treaty . Prematurely aged and emotionally exhausted , Wilson broke down in the midst of his tour and had to be taken back to Washington . There he suffered a severe stroke and was partly incapacitated for the rest of his presidency . Sick , isolated , but grimly determined , he continued to forbid his followers to compromise . Though the Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's loyal followers rejected them , and the Treaty failed to get ratification . The First Overseas War 309 Once more Wilson appealed to the final authority , announcing in the spring of 1920 that the coming presidential election would constitute a " solemn referendum " on the Treaty . In the campaign , the Democratic candidate , Governor James M. Cox of Ohio , supported the Treaty and the League . The Republican candidate , Senator Warren G. Harding of the same state , opposed it only ambiguously , and some of his supporters favored it equally vaguely . Harding won by the most sweeping majority since Monroe . It is impossible to prove that the election constituted a real referendum on foreign policy . It was certainly affected by many domestic issues , including the breakdown of the President and , to a considerable extent , of his administration . In another sense , however , the election of 1920 was a major decision ; the campaign and much press comment as well as the results indicated that the American people wanted a president as little like Woodrow Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States , a country with a long isolationist tradition , had been moving for a generation toward world leadership . Now her efforts had decided a world war , and her leader had dominated a world settlement . In 1920 , the people , exhausted by this break with the past and disillusioned by its results , determined to do their best to return to familiar , cherished ways . CONFLICTING HISTORICAL VIEWPOINTS 12 . Why Did America Enter World War I ? Contemporary accounts of United States intervention in World War / were generally favorable to Wilsonian policies . The war was a noble and necessary war , many first-hand observers agreed , and Americans could take pride and satisfaction in their role in it . Reinforcing this initial view were two semi-autobiographical publications : Burton Hendrick , ed. , The Life and Letters of Walter H. Page ( 3 vols. , 7922 ? 26 ) and Char/es Seymour , The Intimate Papers of Colonel House ( 4 vols. , 1926-28 ) . Both House and Page had helped shape American policy and neither questioned the wisdom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not long in developing . Disillusioned by the failures of Wilson 's peace and threatened by the gathering clouds of war in Europe and Asia , many Americans in the 1920s and 7930s traced the nation 's involvement not to idealism or self-interest , but to folly , sentimentalism , and greed . Scholarly advocates of this view included Harry E. Barnes ( Genesis of the World War 1926 ) , C. Hartley Grattan ( Why We Fought /1929 ) , and C. C. Tans/ll ( America Goes to War 1938 ) , all of whom argued that Wilson 's policies were neither wise , 310 A Synopsis of American History necessary , nor beneficial to the United States . In their accounts , United States intervention was attributed to the pernicious influences of misguided Wilsonian Anglophiles , skillful British propagandists , and grasping American munitions makers and international bankers . Although the revisionist view was in many ways an accurate reflection of popular , or a least congressional , sentiment during the postwar and depression years , it has not been widely accepted by historians . A more satisfactory argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War I ( 1934 ) has been called " the first historian 's history of intervention . " Treating American involvement as an historical problem rather than a moral issue , this Yale professor asserted that Wilson , although pro-ally , struggled valiantly to remain neutral . Anticipating such relatively recent interpretations as Arthur Link 's Wilson the Diplomatist ( 1957 ) and Ernest May 's The World War and American Isolation ( 7959 ) , Seymour concluded that Wilson had little choice but to lead the nation into war . In the final analysis , he believed , the German submarine was the cause of American intervention . In close agreement , Link and May have stressed the tragedy of Wilson 's dilemma and the limited range of his alternatives . While they , too , endeavored to avoid judgment , their studies stress the essential correctness of presidential policy . Also critical of revisionism were such " realist " historians as George Kennan ( American Diplomacy 7950 ) and Robert Osgood ( Idealism and Self-Interest in America 's Foreign Policy 1953 ) who argued that in 1977 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Having experienced the Second World War , realists doubted that the United States could have avoided the First . Their primary complaint , then , was not that Wilson carried the nation into war , but that he did so in the name of morality and legality , not national security and self-interest . Radical historians , on the other hand , denied that American intervention could be attributed to altruism and idealism . In their view , the war was waged not to make the world safe for democracy , but to make the world 's markets safe forAmerican economic expansion . A/though perhaps best argued in William A. Williams 's The Tragedy of American Foreign Policy ( 7962 ) , a subtle and challenging variation on this theme is presented in N. Cordon Levine 's Woodrow Wilson and World Politics ( 7968 ) . According to this young scholar , it was Wilson 's aim to build " a new rational international-capitalist order , safe from war and revolution and open to American commercial and moral expansion . " FOR FURTHER READING The social history of the home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Crusade and After , 1914 ? 7928 ( 1937 ) . The wartime state of civil The Twenties : Prosperity and Social Change 25 The postwar decade is thought of today in at least three ways . It was the Jazz Age , the roaring twenties , the romantic heyday of flappers and flivvers . It was also the period of Republican prosperity , conservatism , and isolation . Further , it was the period of Hemingway , Fitzgerald , and T. S. Eliot , a time of literary experiment and creation . These paradoxical elements are not entirely the inventions of historians ; even at the time , America looked different to different kinds of people . Businessmen and farmers , Freudians and fundamentalists were all reacting at different rates and in different ways to a changing social and economic order . Some changes , like industrialization and urbanization , had been going on a long time and were now accelerated . Others , like the importation of challenging new ideas ( among them psychoanalysis and relativity ) , had begun before the war . Still others were direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break with national tradition . Some Americans accepted change willingly ; others fought every departure from the good old ways . Still others , perhaps most notably Henry Ford , accepted innovation in some areas , like technology and transportation , and fought it in others , like manners and morals . Even for the most conservative , however , tradition seemed hard to define , let alone restore . Fortunately , this time of flux was cushioned by good fortune . For many Americans , the 1920s were years of peace and prosperity ? the last to occur for a long time . // The first postwar years were by no means placid . The fight over the Treaty was only one aspect of a frustrating struggle to liquidate the war . In 1919 , many advanced progressives and labor leaders were talking about planned 314 The Twenties : Prosperity and Social Change 315 and masterful nationwide reconstruction and even predicting the nationalization of basic industries . Actually , nothing was farther from popular demand or administration intent . From the Armistice on , government contracts were canceled , employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discharged with only minimum provisions for reemployment . Congress abandoned regulation and reform less rapidly than the administration . Immediately after the war , two progressive causes reached nationwide victory . The Eighteenth ( prohibition ) Amendment , pushed hard by the Methodist Church and the Anti-Saloon League , was passed through a combination of moral zeal , desire to conserve resources , and dislike of GermanAmerican brewers . In October , 1919 , the Volstead Act , passed over Wilson 's veto , ended forever ( most of its friends and enemies thought ) the manufacture , sale , transportation , or possession of intoxicating beverages . In the same year , the Nineteenth Amendment made woman suffrage a nationwide reality . In dismantling controls , the postwar Congress had a mixed record . The railroads , returned to private hands by the administration , were placed under stringent regulation by the Esch-Cummins Act of 1920 . This law 's purpose , however , was partly to promote rather than prevent consolidation into fewer systems . From then on , the railroad industry , threatened with truck and bus competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invalid and less as a tyrannical giant . The government-built merchant marine was returned to private interests , and here too subsidy was more needed than control . In the vital area of water power , Congress , in 1920 , established a new regulatory agency , the Federal Power Commission , to license development and operation . For the most part , however , the wartime directed economy was dismantled without planning and without disaster . In the spring of 1919 , after a very brief postwar slump , business began to pick up . At the time , the upturn was credited to unsatisfied consumer demand , but today economists point to government spending , temporarily continued in the form of loans to the Allies and European relief operations . Rapidly , recovery turned into speculative boom , as wholesale prices rose by about 30 percent . Instead of Imperial Germany , the main public enemy in 1919 seemed to be the high cost of living . Salaried people were badly pinched , and labor was restive about the possibility of maintaining wartime gains in organization and real wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took part in strikes . In most of these , including a coal strike and a bitter and bloody steel strike , the unions were beaten . Government and articulate public opinion sided strongly with employers . Along the nation 's troubled racial front there was also violence and disorder . Beginning with the savage East St. Louis riot of 1917 and climaxing with a violent eruption in Chicago during the Red Summer of 1919 , Ameri316 A Synopsis of American History can cities began a painfully uneasy adjustment to the growing presence of new waves of black migrants . Pushed out of the South by discrimination and violence and drawn to northern industrial centers by wartime employment and the promise of a better life , Negroes by the thousands came to occupy the blighted slums of Buffalo , Chicago , Cleveland , Detroit , New York , and other cities . In time , these black newcomers found somewhat better economic , political , and educational opportunities . But during the war and its aftermath , their presence was bitterly resented by whites who feared social equality and job competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Red Summer , and in Chicago alone a chain of white violence , black counterviolence , and official repression left twenty-three Negroes dead and thousands more homeless . Outraged by these bloody encounters ? and the eighty-three lynchings of 1919 ? the NAACP and allied organizations launched a campaign that resulted in 1921 in the first antilynching bill ever passed by the House of Representatives . In the Senate , however , a Southern filibuster prevented its passage . During the postwar decade , lynch mobs killed at least 330 Americans , nearly all of them Southern Negroes . Many white citizens blamed racial unrest , strikes , the high cost of living , and foreign crises on one simple cause : radical conspiracy . The Third International , calling from Moscow for world revolution , was echoed by the two new tiny American Communist parties . A few bombings , believed to be of anarchist origin , roused public emotions . Many conservative citizens feared , and a few ardent radicals hoped that revolution was at hand . In the fall of 1919 , Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of raids on alleged foreign radical organizations . In the worst of these , thousands of people were arrested with little regard for legal procedure and sometimes treated with considerable brutality . Practically no evidence of dangerous revolutionary activity was uncovered , but many zealous individuals , organizations , and governmental units turned their hostility from Germans to radicals . The New York Legislature expelled five duly-elected Socialist assemblymen , and a drastic sedition bill , carrying the death penalty in certain cases , was introduced ( but never passed ) in Congress . In one of the last episodes of the Red Scare , two philosophical anarchists named Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were arrested for a robbery and murder that few liberals believed they had committed . Despite impassioned agitation for their release , the two men were finally executed in 1927 . Well before this , in fact before the end of 1920 , the Red Scare had begun to ebb . For several years , however , fear of the alien , the dissenter , and the nonconformist showed itself in other ways : in race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against alarming ideas , and above all in suspicion of foreigners . All these tendencies played a part in the growth of the Ku Klux Klan , a new , secret organization founded in 1915 in imitation The Twenties : Prosperity and Social Change 317 of its Reconstruction namesake . The Klan , stronger in the West than the South and with surprising strength in some of the nation 's larger cities , was militantly anti-Catholic , antiforeign , and antiliberal . At its height in the early 1920s , thousands joined in sheeted parades , perhaps five million enrolled as members , and at least two states came under its political control . Only in the mid-1920s , when most kinds of hysteria gave way to complacency , did the Klan lose strength . In 1919 ? 1920 , many Americans came to associate Wilsonian idealism with frustrated hopes and divisive emotions , with the unsolved problems of Europe , with war propaganda and foreign entanglements , and with the high cost of living and the Red Menace . Even the most devoted Wilsonians had to admit a shattering contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1917 and the sick , stubborn , old man of 1919 , presiding over an administration zealous in hounding radicals but helpless in dealing with social or economic problems . It is not surprising that the country turned with relief toward a leadership as different as possible . // Warren G. Harding was a small-town editor , a regular McKinley and Taft Republican , and a handsome , genial man with a modest intellectual endowment and undemanding moral standards . Conceivably , he was more forceful and able , and less the bumbling misfit , than several generations of historians have portrayed him to be . But even his most sympathetic biographer concedes that his term of office was scarred by gross mismanagement . To his credit , he announced a plan to staff his administration with his party 's " best minds . " A few of these were secured , including Charles Evans Hughes , the new Secretary of State ; Herbert Hoover , Secretary of Commerce ; and possibly Andrew Mellon , the Pittsburgh aluminum king who became Secretary of the Treasury . In too many cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and presidential cronies in a manner reminiscent of the Grant Era . A major center of power was the famous " little house on K Street " where members of the so-called " Ohio Gang " played poker and avoided Prohibition . Harding 's heterogeneous group of the talented and the tawdry made decisions of great importance , most of them highly popular in their time . In his campaign , Harding , whose oratory rarely rose above the platitudinous , avoided defining his foreign policy . Much of the Republican party was bitterly isolationist , yet an important faction , including ex-President Taft , insisted that a new administration work out a less offensive substitute for the League of Nations . Whatever the election really meant ( and clearly it was no " solemn referendum " on the League ) , Harding drew from it the conclusion that American entry into the League was a dead issue . United States 318 A Synopsis of American History membership in the World Court , which Harding and his Republican successors favored , was blocked by ultraisolationist forces in the press and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolation was impossible . In the Far East , the original home of the Open Door Policy and the traditional center of Republican foreign interest , a new settlement was urgently necessary . During the war , Japan had taken large steps toward the domination of China and military hegemony in East Asia . Traditional American commitments to Chinese territorial integrity and the Open Door still ran well beyond America 's military power . In the winter of 1921 , an international conference in Washington , sometimes referred to as a Republican Versailles , struggled with the related problems of disarmament and the Far East . In a series of interlocking treaties the United States attained the following objectives : ( 1 ) Japanese expansion was rolled back ; ( 2 ) the embarrassing Anglo-Japanese Alliance was terminated ; ( 3 ) the status quo in the Far East and the integrity of China were guaranteed by all major powers concerned except Russia ; ( 4 ) the major naval powers agreed to curtail construction of capital ships , with Japan limited to three-fifths of the naval power of each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In return for these advantages the United States surrendered the possibility of naval superiority and agreed not to fortify her possessions in the Western Pacific . Much later , in an age of renewed Japanese aggression , these concessions were to be denounced . At the time , however , the United States was in no mood either for an arms race or for contesting Japan 's control of the Western Pacific area . The Washington Settlement seemed a great success , and Japanese-American relations relaxed . It proved impossible to remain aloof even from Europe . The United States had made huge loans to the Allied nations both during and right after the war . These were viewed by Europeans as American contributions to the common struggle and by most Americans as legitimate business obligations . Not without recrimination , the United States negotiated a series of funding agreements extending payment over twenty-five years with rates of interest scaled down according to ability to pay . Payment by any scheme turned out to present almost insoluble problems . Sufficient gold was not available , and large imports of European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , formed during a period of infant American industry and devoutly upheld long after , Congress , in 1922 , enacted the steeply protective Fordney-McCumber Tariff . To many Europeans , debt payments to the United States seemed inseparably connected with German reparation payments to the former Allies . But in 1923 , the Germans , racked by inflation and resentful of the sole war guilt principle on which reparations were based , defaulted . France promptly occupied the industrial Ruhr and was challenged by passive resistance from The Twenties : Prosperity and Social Change 319 the German population . This situation , clearly threatening prosperity and peace , was a major test for the new foreign policy , and the test was passed . An international commission of experts , headed by an American banker , negotiated the Dawes Plan in 1923 , and six years later a like group worked out the similar Young Plan . The basis of these plans was ( 1 ) successively scaled-down German payments , ( 2 ) stabilization of the German currency , and ( 3 ) an international loan to Germany to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , now also the greatest creditor , could not stay aloof from world affairs . Instead , private investment was substituted for other forms of intervention . American investors , acting more or less in response to State Department suggestions , sustained the German Republic , helped the relatively moderate banker and industrialist regime in Japan , contested Near Eastern oil areas with the British and French , and supported congenial government in Latin America . Because this was done in the name of profit rather than politics and , above all , because military force was invoked only in minor Caribbean instances , the administration could quote with satisfaction the antientanglement advice of the founding fathers . Antiforeign emotions were appeased by a drastic change in immigration policy . Well before the war , fear and dislike of " The New Immigration " from southern and eastern Europe had been spread by alarmist propaganda , and pseudoscientists continued to cite head measurements of Slays and Latins to demonstrate " criminal tendencies . " Unions had long opposed the admission of cheap labor , and the advance of technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrialists . The war and the Red Scare had spread suspicion of aliens , and Congress in 1921 ? 1924 took a series of actions designed both to decrease sharply the number of immigrants and to swing back the balance to a majority of north European peoples . In its 1924 version , the new legislation established a quota system limiting immigration from each country to 2 percent of its proportion of resident aliens according to the census of 1890 . To the anger of the Japanese , a special provision totally excluded Orientals as " aliens ineligible to citizenship . " This decision , which reduced immigration from a flood to a trickle , broke decisively with a major American tradition and wounded the feelings of important minorities . In the long run , however , its results were far different from those intended by some of its supporters . The end of free immigration , like the disappearance of the frontier , lessened the wide-open , competitive , mobile tendencies of American life . It also speeded assimilation . Without the familiar flood of desperate , exploitable new arrivals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing force on a full place in American life and politics . The economic policies of the Harding administration were developed in a time of instability . Late in 1920 , the postwar boom turned into depression as government supports of basic commodity prices ended and European 320 A Synopsis of American History demand temporarily fell off . In the face of plummeting prices and mounting unemployment , government policy was simple : to do everything possible to encourage business leadership . Secretary Mellon called for strict economy and proposed sharp cuts in taxes on profits and high incomes . ( Interestingly , Congress gave him only part of what he asked . ) The administration continued the Wilson policy of withdrawal from all forms of government economic enterprise and cooperated still more fully with industry 's drive to " discipline " organized labor . Hoover 's Department of Commerce strove to further foreign investment and encouraged the formation of trade associations to prevent price cutting and other " unfair " competition . Pro-business appointments to the courts and the new regulatory commissions ended any threat of unsympathetic regulation . Whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1922 and became well-established in 1923 . The fact that this depression ended quickly , without government action except for encouraging business , was to affect the thinking of many people at the outset of a greater depression a few years later . One major exception to the encouraging economic tendency was the plight of the farmer . Once more production was far outrunning effective demand , and prices were falling disastrously . During the war , with demand unlimited and prices regulated by the government , farmers had prospered . Right after the war , a land boom had sustained at least the more fortunate . But in the 1920s , with bumper crops to sell , mechanization putting a premium on efficiency , and European and world competition increasing sharply , most farmers were in trouble . Large sections of the country were again confronted with the familiar problems of unpayable mortgages and rapidly increasing tenancy . A series of farm organizations , from the semisocialist Non-Partisan League of North Dakota to the more conservative Farm Bureau Federation , once more voiced demands for relief . In Congress the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as encouragement of cooperatives , facilitation of credit , and regulation of packers and speculators . Farmers were not the only people to show their discontent with the Harding policies . Prewar progressivism , with its underdog sympathies and anti ? big-business emotions , lived on in the hearts of millions of teachers , preachers , social workers , unionists , and others . In the new postwar circumstances , however , both high morale and unity seemed hard for progressives to attain . In 1922 , the most promising of a series of progressive coalitions took shape in the form of the Conference for Progressive Political Action , a federation of farm organizations , discontented labor groups , moderate Socialists , and assorted Bull Moosers and other progressives . In the congressional elections of 1922 , the C.P.P.A. scored some startling successes . The Twenties : Prosperity and Social Change 321 Harding Republicans lost many seats both to Democrats and progressive Republicans . In the new Congress , investigations disclosed a series of scandals equaled only in the Grant administration . Harding cronies in the Veterans ' Bureau and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial inducements . The worst revelation was that government oil lands , held for naval needs , had been transferred in a series of maneuvers to a group of private speculators . Still popular but grievously betrayed by his own friends , the President fell ill in the course of returning from an Alaskan junket . On August 2 , 1923 , he died of a stroke in San Francisco . To his party 's good fortune , he was replaced by Vice President Calvin Coolidge , a traditionminded Yankee who seemed the perfect incarnation of conventional Republican morality . In all fairness , this taciturn Vermonter ( the most cruelly caricatured of presidents ) was not entirely the political cipher of the Coolidge joke . He was , in fact , conventional , uninspiring , and perhaps even mediocre . But there was much in his public career that was both virtuous and admirable and he brought to the office more knowledge of domestic and foreign affairs than has often been conceded by his critics , then and now . In 1922-1924 , many people thought that the Harding scandals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C.P.P.A. backed the redoubtable Robert M. La Follette as a " Progressive " presidential candidate . The La Follette platform had , to be sure , a rather old-fashioned ring for 1924 : antimonopoly , public ownership of railroads , conservation , farm relief , and curbing of the Supreme Court . The Wisconsin Senator , whose antiwar record was now an asset in his own section , looked formidable enough to frighten conservatives . The Republicans , renominating Coolidge on a status quo platform , denounced La Follette and his supporters as extreme radicals . Meanwhile the Democrats , deeply divided by their old agrarian-urban split , bogged down in a deadlocked convention and emerged with an unpromising conservative candidate , John W. Davis . The result of the election was a Coolidge landslide . La Follette , without adequate organization or large funds , scored 16.5 percent of the popular vote and ran ahead of Davis in many western states . Yet after the election , his disparate coalition fell apart . Progressivism , for the moment , seemed negative and old-fashioned . The election seemed a green light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ERA AND ITS CRITICS For the rest of the decade , American prosperity was the center of attention both for complacent natives and jealous or admiring foreigners . The principal basis for the good times was an increase in productivity based on advances in technology and management . Between 1923 and 1929 , the output 322 A Synopsis of American History per man-hour in manufacturing rose 32 percent . The basic industrial plant and transportation systems were by then largely adequate ; much of the expansion could go into the kind of production that people notice most easily . The most spectacular advances took place in production of electric power and light and of durable consumers goods , and in construction , both of suburban houses and urban skyscrapers . By 1929 , one American in five had an automobile . Radios , household appliances , and prepared foods were almost equally part of the new way of life . Changing patterns of consumption , stimulated by mass advertising and assisted by time payments , seemed to render obsolete the old " Puritan virtues " of hard work , abstinence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but almost obligatory . From perplexing foreign problems and dull domestic politics , public attention turned to the lives of movie stars , the exploits of athletes , or the heroism of aviators like Charles Lindbergh who flew the Atlantic alone in 1927 and immediately became the most popular American . The new prosperity brought with it a new ideology . Business , according to its spokesmen , had accomplished the dreams of past radicals without coercion or hatred . Poverty and war were both overcome and cutthroat competition had been replaced by cooperation and service . The new businessman was committed to high wages and deeply interested in employee welfare . Thus there was no further use for divisive labor unions or impractical political radicalism . Actually the results of the new prosperity were less than Utopian . While farm prices rose a little from the postwar depression level , farmers as a whole , whose per capita income in 1929 was roughly one-third that of the national average , failed to regain their prewar purchasing power . Real wages rose sharply , but not in proportion either to productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made less than $1,500 a year , and 71 percent of all American families got less than $2,500 . ( By contrast , the combined income of the richest 0.1 percent equaled that of the poorest 42 percent . ) Even if these figures are multiplied to represent post-World War II purchasing power , they fall far short of universal well-being . Large groups , as coal or textile workers , southern small farmers , and Negroes , remained in real poverty . Later , many critics were to point out that the New Era 's prosperity was as unsound as it was uneven . Business consolidation , though it did not usually attain the outright monopoly that had alarmed people earlier , often led to dangerous practices . Prices were often inflexible , and insider groups sometimes built crazy pyramids of holding companies . In the late 1920s , too much money was going into outright speculation in land or stocks and not enough into genuinely productive investment . Worst of all , there was a serious maldistribution of income that put too little money in the pay checks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Change 323 Even at the time , important minorities refused to join in the chorus of complacency . Surviving congressional progressives , led by Senator George Norris of Nebraska , prevented the administration from turning over to private interests the government-built nitrate plants on the Tennessee River . ( In turn , Coolidge and his successor were able to block Norris 's own plan for a government-run Tennessee dam and power system . ) Prodded by the Farm Bloc , Congress passed ambitious farm relief laws . Of these , the most discussed was the McNary-Haugen bill , vetoed in 1927 . This was a complex scheme providing for government purchase and sale abroad of surplus farm commodities . Perhaps the most important dissenters in the Coolidge era expressed themselves in ways that had nothing to do with politics . Many people of rural and small town upbringing were uneasy about the new free and easy ways of living and appalled by the alleged wildness of the younger generation . Some called for a return to sobriety , simplicity , and tradition ; some swelled the ranks of Protestant religious fundamentalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Tennessee passed a law against teaching in the schools that man descended from " lower animals . " In 1925 , when this law was challenged by shocked liberals in the famous Scopes trial in the mountain community of Dayton , no less a public figure than William Jennings Bryan appeared to champion a literal interpretation of Genesis . At the opposite extreme from the Fundamentalists but equally hostile to the dominant business ideology , were the literary intellectuals and their followers . With the war , their exuberant rebellion against moral and esthetic conventions had turned to a far deeper kind of alienation . Repelled by postwar intolerance and equally disgusted by what seemed to them the materialism and conformity of the Coolidge era , many of the most literate Americans worried out loud about the fate of American civilization . Some roundly denounced the country and withdrew to the sophistication of Paris or the primitivism of Mexico or Spain . The most intelligent of the discontented realized that more was at stake than any set of national mores . Old questions , put in new forms , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems common to all men , but particularly distressing to those who inherited a tradition of individual freedom . To some popular behaviorist psychologists , man was a bundle of predictable and controllable responses to physical stimuli . To Freudians , he was ruled by emotional drives far below the level of consciousness . Neither view seemed to offer much hope to those who cared most for individual freedom . Squarely confronting these and other intellectual challenges , some Americans produced excellent and profoundly serious novels or poems . Others laid the foundation for a deeper and richer criticism of contemporary civilization than had yet been possible . Perhaps no group indulged more fully in this spirit of national self-criticism and personal reevaluation , and no group more fully explored the fail324 A Synopsis of American History ures of American society , than Afro-Americans . The black literati of the Harlem Renaissance shared the discontented white intellectuals ' distaste for bourgeois values and joined their insurrection against traditional literary forms . But the alienation of the Negro artists seemed more firmly rooted in the day-to-day realities of American life . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emergence of a " New Negro " ? race-proud and militant , impatient with white injustice , determined to fight for basic human dignity . Joined by a confident new generation of black musicians , dancers , painters , and actors , they struggled to work out a new attitude toward blackness and the cultural heritage of their African past . In a parallel development , the inarticulate black denizens of the nation 's industrial slums found a symbol of race pride in the exotic figure of Marcus Garvey and his Universal Negro Improvement Association . Unlike either Booker T. Washington or W. E. B. Du Bois , Garvey stirred the imagination of the impoverished black masses . His back-to-Africa movement , like his dream of an African Empire , died in embryo . But his immense popularity ( estimates of his following range from one to four million ) exposed as perhaps never before the depths of Afro-American despair . The discontent of some of the nation 's intellectuals and the dissatisfaction of much of its black minority were not widely shared by other segments of the population . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exaggerated the degree and the depth of alienation and dissaffection among even the most discerning and sensitive elements of society . Everybody was not happy or rich in the mid-1920s , but prosperity was still a substantial fact , and those who were the most satisfied were also the most influential . More people than ever before moved to the suburbs , drove to the beach , or dreamed of a summer in Europe . Prosperity could be measured not only in baseball gate receipts but in such substantial terms as houses , schools , and hospitals . What civilization , complacent citizens could legitimately ask , had ever done so much for so many ? Ignoring his critics , President Coolidge continued to issue his laconic and reassuring statements , take his afternoon naps , continue the probusiness policies but without the corruption of his predecessor , and remain generally popular . The federal government persisted in trimming its costs . ( States were spending more and more on highways . ) In 1926 , Secretary Mellon was finally able to put over his full program of tax relief for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusive . In Europe , the mid-1920s were an era of apparent economic stabilization , of Franco-German rapprochement , and of increased prestige for the League of Nations . Despite congressional suspicion , the administration was able to develop a habit of unofficial cooperation with the League for many purposes . In Mexico , where conflict between the forces of social revolution and American business interests dragged on , the Coolidge administration managed to compromise serious differences over subsoil oil rights . The Twenties : Prosperity and Social Change 325 Americans of the New Era believed that they could attain not only permanent prosperity , but lasting international peace . Barred by Congress from toying with collective security , the Coolidge administration made further but generally unsuccessful efforts to negotiate disarmament in 1927 , an effort carried on by Hoover with somewhat more success in 1930 . In August , 1928 , largely through American efforts , fifteen nations signed the Kellogg-Briand Pact renouncing war as an instrument of national policy . Like Prohibition , this innocuous measure was widely popular among the hopeful . Nearly all nations adhered to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AND HOOVER Neither foreign policy nor domestic economic argument played a major part in the presidential campaign of 1928 . On the surface , the issues of this contest were personal ; at a deeper level it involved the most divisive group loyalties . Herbert Hoover , the Republican nominee , was presented as a self-made engineer , a nonpolitical expert administrator , and a major spokesman of the new business outlook . The Democratic candidate , Alfred E. Smith of New York , though no radical , was known as a friend of the underprivileged , and a champion , during the Red Scare , of civil liberties . The only major issue on which the two sharply differed was Prohibition . This issue symbolized the real division between supporters of the two men . In many rural and Protestant areas , Prohibition was still regarded as at least a hopeful attack on a great evil , demanding the support of all respectable people . To many city dwellers , on the other hand , it was associated with lawlessness , gangsterism , and puritanical prejudice . Hoover had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a Catholic , a wet , and a city product with a New York accent . Without concrete issues , the campaign was fought to a large extent in terms of stereotypes and prejudices . On the surface , the result was another Republican landslide . Hoover carried several states of the Democratic , but Protestant and rural South . Yet later students have noticed that the big cities voted far more heavily Democratic than in previous twentieth-century elections . Despite his religion and his origins , Smith also scored significant Democratic gains in a number of discontented western farm regions . In the Smith votes , some historians have found the beginnings of the unbeatable Democratic coalition of the New Deal years . However , recent scholarship questions the concept of an " Al Smith Revolution " of 1928 as the necessary precursor to the " Roosevelt Revolution " of the 1930s . Although the Smith vote was impressive , the Depression still remains the primary explanation for Roosevelt 's victory in 1932. 326 A Synopsis of American History In 1929 , to most people , the new administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ framework of the Harding-Coolidge policies . Yet Hoover , the ablest of the three postwar presidents , encountered disaster at home and menace abroad . Whether one looked at the 1920s with nostalgia or distaste , they were soon to seem a strange interlude in the tragic and turbulent history of the twentieth century . It was perhaps just as well that the United States had enjoyed an interlude of peace and prosperity , however illusory , between two times of appalling and challenging crisis . CONFLICTING HISTORICAL VIEWPOINTS 13 . Were the Twenties Roaring and Reactionary ? Few decades in American history have suffered more superficial analysis than the 1920s . In popular thought and in all too many serious works of history , the years between the armistice and the crash have been described ? after a contemporary newspaper advertisement for a motion picture ? as years of " beautiful jazz babies , champagne baths , midnight revels , and petting parties in the purple dawn . " Most studies of the postwar decade , like the talkies , are animated by stock characters typecast as " flaming youth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Babbits . " This conception of the 1920s as the ' jazz age " of a " lost generation " was the work of many hands . But its chief architect was the self-styled " retrospective journalist " Frederick Lewis Allen , whose Only Yesterday ( 1931 ) is probably the most readable and most read account of the decade . In Allen 's view , " The Twenties " was a unique segment of American life , with an atmosphere and style of its own . Isolated somehow from its past and curiously unconnected to its future , the decade was a frivolous interlude in which a nation , on the rebound from Wilson/an idealism , plunged into " a revolution of manners and morals . " Allen 's portrait , however impressionistic and superficial , profoundly influenced a generation of historians who viewed the period ( when they viewed it at all ) as an unfortunate interregnum between progressivism and the New Deal . The two best overviews of the period , William E. Leuchtenburg 's lively social history ( The Perils of Prosperity 1958 ) and John D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ascendancy 1960 ) , emphasize the decade 's more frivolous and retrograde impulses . In the late 1950s , however , more subtle and complex images of the 1920s began to emerge . While in the popular mind , the decade remained the The Twenties : Prosperity and Social Change 327 " fantastic interim , " " the era of wonderful nonsense , " growing numbers of scholars became skeptical about conventional emphasis on the spectacular , the bizarre , and the unique . Upon close examination , many found continuity as well as change in the postwar decade . Parting the traditional curtain of speakeasies , marathon dances , and raccoon coats , they provided what Arthur Link has called " the exciting new frontier of American historical writing . " A good example of this new view is Roderick Nash 's Nervous Generation ( 7970 ) , which did much to mute the roar in the " roaring twenties . " A survey of forma/ thought and popular culture , this recent study pointedly deemphasized the degenerate bohemian and the flagpole sitter and argued that the period was notable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent political and diplomatic histories no longer teem with one-dimensional political Philistines and resolute isolationists . Arthur Link ( American Historical Review fluty 1959 and Clark Chambers ( Seedtime of Reform ) 7963 ) , for example , revealed powerful reform currents at work in a decade once presumed to be pervasively conservative . Robert K. Murray ( The Harding Era 7969 ) , Donald McCoy ( Calvin Coolidge 7967 ) , and Harris Gaylord Warren ( Herbert Hoover 7967 ) , among others , have offered provocative new studies of these Republican presidents that help dispel familiar , oversimple notions and that differ sharply in important particulars from earlier and markedly less sympathetic biographies . And foreign relations specialists , most notably William A. Williams , have challenged " The Legend of Isolationism in the 1920s " ( Science and Society Winter 1954J ) . Thus , in the past decade or so , historical perceptions of the 7920s have been altered . Although many areas of sharp disagreement remain , there is now broad scholarly discontent with " Jazz Age " stereotypes . However enjoyable and enchanting , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and complexity historians now bring to their analyses of the 7979 ? 7929 decennary . FOR FURTHER READING ? The works mentioned above by Allen , Leuchtenburg , and Hicks , however flawed in emphasis , are still useful introductions to the period . Francis Russell 's Shadow of Blooming Crove ( 1968 ) and William Allen White 's Puritan in Baby/on ( 1938 ) are readable biographies of Harding and Coolidge . Economic history is excellently summarized in George Soule , Prosperity Decade ( 1947 ) . * Irving Bernstein , The Lean Years ( 1960 ) , * is a revealing footnote *Available in paperback edition . Depression and Social Experiment 1929-1938 26 In the summer of 1929 , while stock prices rose beyond all relation to earnings or dividends , most industrial and financial experts predicted nothing but permanent prosperity . Signs of trouble , including declines in both construction and automobiles , the two key industries of the New Era , were generally ignored . In September , the market hesitated nervously , and then , in late October , a devastating series of crashes canceled 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continuing optimism of government and business leaders , the crash of 1929 was not a mere correction of inflated values . Like the panics of 1873 and 1893 , it turned into severe and prolonged depression . In the years from 1929 to 1933 , as stock prices fell ever lower and confidence evaporated , manufacturing production was halved and building nearly stopped . Banks and businesses failed , farm income , already low , was cut in half , and , worst of all , unemployment grew steadily . By 1932 , it was variously estimated at from thirteen to seventeen million . American prosperity , and with it the spirit of the New Era , had disappeared . The impact of the great depression on those who lived through it is hard to exaggerate . At the lowest economic level , the unemployed faced the threat of actual starvation when charities , cities , and states ran out of relief funds . Apple selling and breadlines became common sights ; shanty towns sprang up on the edge of cities ; men and women were sometimes seen pawing through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some respected financiers were caught misusing investors ' funds . Only a few killed themselves or fled to Europe , but both bankers and big businessmen in general rapidly lost public prestige . In the large , previously contented middle class , people unused to disaster lost savings , houses , jobs , and hope . Even those who suffered no personal privation found it hard to dispel fear . Anyone might be the next victim of a disaster nobody understood . 332 Depression and Social Experiment , 1929-1938 333 Why did catastrophe paralyze the richest and most productive country in the world ? At the time , many blamed some of the more obvious weak spots in the economy : the loose and ill-coordinated banking structure and the irresponsible financial manipulation that had piled one holding company on another . Later , New Dealers insisted that Republican policies had crippled foreign trade , encouraged inequality and concentration , fostered the boom and then clung doggedly to financial conservatism after the crash . On the other hand , President Hoover was always to believe that the depression was almost beaten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the long run , many historians have concluded that the fault lay in the unsoundness and inadequacy of the previous decade 's prosperity . In the 1920s , prosperity depended as never before on mass consumption . Yet inequality and a too rigid price structure limited consumption . By 1929 , effective demand for automobiles and some other products was apparently about filled . Attractive outlets seemed to be lacking for really large-scale investment . In other words , the prosperity of part of one country in a poor world could not continue . The New Era picture of liberal and progressive American capitalism , while not without truth , was not true enough . HOOVER AND THE DEPRESSION On coming to office in 1929 , President Hoover found himself confronted by two familiar problems of the twenties , farm relief and the tariff . Each of these grew more difficult with the coming of depression . Like Coolidge , Hoover fought off Farm Bloc proposals that seemed to involve subsidy and price fixing . In their place , Hoover secured the passage of a complex measure establishing a Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marketing . By 1930 , the " Stabilization Corporations " also created by this law were buying and storing surplus wheat and cotton . Already the government was up to its neck in undisposable surpluses , and prices were still going down . As part of his farm program , Hoover proposed another old panacea , tariffs , on agricultural products . This led in Congress to further demands for industrial protection and the enactment of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff , signed by Hoover despite the protest of more than a thousand economists . The high rates of this measure ended all prospects of reviving foreign trade . In his measures , specifically designed to fight the depression , President Hoover , the elected representative of New Era know-how , broke sharply with the past . When Secretary Mellon recommended that the government allow prices and wages to fall until recovery set in according to traditional laissez faire formulae , Hoover decided that such a drastic purge might kill the delicate patient . His first action , following New Era doctrine rather than 334 A Synopsis of American History nineteenth-century economic theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged employers to maintain wages and production . When this proved ineffective , Hoover used available government machinery to cut taxes , liberalize credit , and prop farm prices . By 1930 , the administration turned to more drastic remedies . In that year , however , the long-brewing revolt against the Republicans was speeded by depression and Hoover lost the support of Congress . Many administration measures failed , but the President managed to secure large public works appropriations and measures to refinance home mortgages and further stimulate credit . A new agency , the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , lent large sums to banks , railroads , and businesses and also eventually to states , cities , and agricultural credit corporations . To stem international financial disaster , Hoover called successfully in 1931 for a one-year moratorium on German reparations and Allied debt payments . Thus , in a major break with the past , the Hoover administration assumed governmental responsibility for fighting an economic crisis . Yet the Hoover measures , sweeping and large scale as some of them seemed by the standards of the twenties , were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President flatly refused to meet two widespread demands . First , he declined to countenance currency inflation . Second , he fought all measures designed to provide direct federal responsibility for unemployment relief . Either of these actions , he sincerely believed , would have grave effects on American tradition and character . As the plight of the unemployed became desperate , Hoover was wrongly seen as heartless . By 1932 , dejection , apathy , and bad luck seemed to have destroyed the administration 's earlier vigor . In that year , a " Bonus Army " of unemployed servicemen assembled in Washington to demand immediate cash payoff of twenty-year insurance policies provided for World War veterans by legislation in 1924 . Panicking at a minor threat to order , the administration had the Army destroy the veterans ' camp with tanks and tear gas . This episode helped to make Hoover , a sensitive man , the worst-hated president since Cleveland . His reelection was obviously unlikely . The Democratic candidate to succeed him , Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt of New York , was little known to most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic branch of his family , he had been influenced by his cousin Theodore as well as by Wilson , whom he had served as Assistant Secretary of the Navy . After a sacrifice campaign for the vice presidency in 1920 , Roosevelt had been crippled by poliomyelitis . Nonetheless , he had remained active in Democratic politics , and in 1928 , bucking a Republican trend , had succeeded Smith as governor of New York , where he had tackled depression problems with considerable energy . The trait the public immediately saw in the new Roosevelt was a gay , jaunty confidence that seemed a welcome opposite to Hoover 's dogged gloom . What lay beneath the confidence is a question on which observers Depression and Social Experiment , 1929-1938 335 never agreed . To Roosevelt 's critics , his cheerful nonchalance , his willingness to try anything , his tolerance of contradictions and his impatience of theory meant superficiality and arrogance . To some of his admirers , his flexibility seemed to rest on a bedrock of courage and to be complemented by a genuine humanitarian and religious concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close convention , Roosevelt pledged drastic action to end the depression . What sort of action was not clear ; while Roosevelt called for public power development and other progressive reforms , he also pledged a 25 percent cut in spending and evaded the tariff question . Hoover , meanwhile , asked the people to sustain his own battle with the depression and grimly predicted disaster if his opponent won . The result was hardly in doubt ; the Roosevelt landslide approximately equaled the Hoover victory of 1928 . During the interregnum before the new administration could take over in March , Hoover tried hard to persuade the president-elect to commit himself to a balanced budget , maintenance of the gold standard , and other central Republican policies . Roosevelt committed himself to nothing and was blamed by Republicans for a further economic downturn . In February , the Governor of Michigan announced a bank holiday to prevent financial collapse , and other states followed suit . By Inauguration Day , all banks were shut and some cities turned to issuing temporary currency . In the Midwest , farmers resorted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milk trucks were overturned and mortage sales forcibly halted . Unemployed vagrants , many of them boys , were roaming the country . As never before , the stage was set for masterful presidential action . THE FIRST NEW DEAL In his arresting inaugural , Roosevelt promised that he would , if necessary , ask for powers to fight the depression equal to those given presidents in wartime . America 's resources were adequate for the task ahead ; the only thing she had to fear was " fear itself . " Resounding with confidence and vigor , the speech committed the administration to no single course . For a while , nearly all Americans , from bankers to tenant farmers and unemployed , counted on Roosevelt to give them their demands . The New Deal , taking various forms through the next years , is best understood as a continuing experimental response to these demands . Back of each measure demanded by the President lay group pressures , party needs , presidential advisers , and congressional blocs . To understand fully the New Deal , one would have to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the spring of 1933 , Congress passed a series of administration measures with unheard-of speed . Roosevelt later summarized his objectives as 336 A Synopsis of American History " Relief , Recovery , and Reform , " and this First New Deal can be described in terms of these " Three R 's . " Relief for the country 's most urgent needs started with legislation to open and sustain the sounder banks , leaving-the weaker  --  ores  --  shut . Direct federal help for the unemployed began with the Civilian Conservation Corps , which set young men to work on reforestation and other conservation projects . Larger unemployment relief programs included federal grants to states and plans for vast public works . Relief for home and farm owners was the main purpose of further legislation to refinance mortgages . Recovery of the economycalled forth the most spectacular measures of /the First New Deal measures that demonstrated its lack of consistent economic theory . Approaches to recovery included the Economy Act , which reflected the traditional belief that government spending somehow caused economic decline ; the Trade Agreements Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to revive foreign trade ; and even the Beer Act , which legalized one promising industry . ( By the end of the year , the Twenty-first Amendment swept away Prohibition completely . ) The most important recover . ro : .11 ? ? - .. - New- Deal , however , relied on two main methods ; first , raising prices by restricting output and controlling competition ; and second , inflation , now irresistibly demanded by ' ' western Democrats . During the campaign , Roosevelt and some of his advisers had declared that the expansion of the American economy , like that of the frontier , was finished . In the future , better distribution and planned production would replace violent competition . This theory owed something to Herbert Croly and the Bull Moose movement and something to Herbert Hoover and the trade associations of the twenties . The ambitious National Industrial Recovery Act gave industry the legal right to agree on binding codes of common practice . These codes would , it was hoped , end sharp practice , unfair treatment of labor , and unjust , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices to rise was never clearly settled . To make such agreements possible , the antitrust laws were suspended . To compensate for this favor to industry , workers were promised in the famous Section 7A of the NIRA the right " to organize and bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing . . . free from the interference , restraint or coercion of employers ... . Reflecting a somewhat similar purpose , the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 sought primarily to raise farm prices by many and complex methods . Its most striking feature was a system of subsidies to be given farmers who agreed to decrease production . Such payments were to be financed by taxes on the industries that processed agricultural products . Inflation , the other principal recovery device , was provided for in an amendment to the AAA , sponsored by Senator Elmer Thomas of Oklahoma , who remembered Bryan 's crusade against gold . The Thomas amendment // gave the President power to inflate the currency in many ways . Moving reluctantly at first , Roosevelt took the dollar off gold , sanctioned special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stabilized the currency at about 60 percent of its former value . Reform , that is deliberate effort to render the social system more just or humane , could be seen in the new programs to regulate stock exchanges and investmen banking , in the labor clause of the NIRA , and , most clearly of a in the Tennessee Valley Authority . This daring project , bringing to fruition the long frustrated dreams of Senator Norris and other progressives , was designed to remodel a whole river system by building a series of dams . Among its objectives were cheap power and fertilizer , flood control , soil and forest conservation , the improvement of inland waterways , and new recreational areas . Reform and recovery were both objectives of the National Housing Act of 1934 , which provided insurance of loans to promote repair and modernization of homes , farms , and small plants . NEW DEMANDS AND // Through these and other laws , the First New Deal seemed to have scored a qualified success . Its first actions brought a sharp rise in production and prices . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the depression had not disappeared . The elections of 1934 , increasing the already large Democratic majorities , showed clearly that a majority approved the administration 's efforts . Yet more was needed ; the First New Deal had brought to light a whole series of new demands . Farmers had benefited from price rises , but were still distressed . Some of them had been disturbed by the destruction of crops and animals undertaken as an emergency measure in time of surplus . Then in 1934 , the worst drought in the nation 's history threatened to change surplus to shortage . Thousands of tenants and sharecroppers were driven from the land and left destitute . In part caused by the drought , this also seemed in part to be caused by the AAA , which encouraged landlords to mechanize and cut acreage . So far , it seemed to many angry small farmers , the New Deal farm program had helped the richest most . The unemployed demanded faster relief than was provided by the cautious handling of public works . Organized labor , which had reached a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7A with its guarantees of freedom to organize . But as new millions rushed into the ill-prepared unions , hard problems arose . Employers , many of them still hostile to " outside " organizations , thought that Section 7A had authorized them to form more or less docile company unions . Workers insisted that only national organizations could be effective . The National LaborBoard , formed by the President 338 A Synopsis of American History to arbitrate multiplying controversies , lacked both authority and consistent policy . Business and industry , at first eager for New Deal help and willing to promise drastic reform , had become restless with partial recovery . Despite gains made through NIRA codes , many businessmen resented excessive government interference in the details of their operations . Some hoped to exclude the government altogether and make the program into one of simple business self-regulation on the Hoover pattern . On the other hand , progressives were charging that big business already dominated the codes and gouged consumers . Worried liberals , looking both at NIRA and AAA , doubted increasingly whether raising prices and cutting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration , which had tried to please everybody , found itself attacked from right and left . Conservatives looked back with nostalgia at the probusiness policies of the Republican years or lamented the end of laissez faire and traditional individualism . Just below the surface of some of the most fervent complaints ran an undercurrent of fear that the balance of power in the country was shifting away from those who ought to be in charge , in the direction of the shiftless , the irresponsible , and the foreign born . Not a few outraged citizens concluded that the whole New Deal was a conspiracy against free enterprise , sound money , and American tradition and even that it was secretly aiming at ushering in socialism or communism . At the other extreme , the tiny Communist party of the United States had made some progress . It was aided in 1935 by a sharp change in the international Communist line . Instead of denouncing all non-Communist efforts at reform as insipid and useless , Communists were now to call for a " United Front " and to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antiFascists . " During the period from 1935 to 1939 , while this line endured , the Communist movement achieved some influence among American intellectuals and among some elements of labor . More important than actual Communist gains , which remained numerically small , was the conviction , or half-conviction , fairly widespread among intellectuals , that capitalism could not recover . Still more important in practical politics was the rapid spread of economic panaceas . Most of these appealed , as in the past , to disgruntled rural and small town people , and most involved a combination of currency tinkering and old-fashioned anti ? big-business rhetoric . Among them were the Townsend Plan for liberal old-age pensions ; the inflationary suggestions of Father Coughlin , the radio priest who denounced international bankers in speeches with anti-Semitic overtones ; the sweeping production-for-use plan of Upton Sinclair in California ; and the glittering , enticing , " Every Man a King " proposal of Huey P. Long , a talented , ruthless spokesman of the dispossessed who made himself governor and near-dictator of Louisiana . All these plans , however illusory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the richest country in the world had too many poor people . Second , the New Deal had not yet edy. truths . First , the richest country in the world had too many poor people . Second , the New Deal had not yet produced a convincing remedy . In response to all these pressures , the President , supported by new advisers , backed a new set of measures . This Second New Deal , often seen as more radical than the first , was not really aimed at systematic alteration of the economic or social system . Indeed , one important group of young men who prepared it were under the influence of Louis D. Brandeis , who had helped to prepare Woodrow Wilson 's " New Freedom " program and had imbued his followers with a dislike of bigness and a fervent belief in competition and diversity . The Second New Deal contained no measures aimed at direct regulation of business on the scale of the NIRA and none whose objectives were as sweeping as those of the TVA . Its main object , like that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to correct in the process some obvious injustices . Some of its measures had the further , highly traditional purpose of breaking up concentrations of power . The new measures were sometimes proclaimed in combative tones . Often they were carried through with hard-boiled political efficiency . Quite obviously , some of them reflected the demands of newly articulate groups . It is not surprising that some businessmen , remembering the placid 1920s , were both resentful and alarmed . To many young people and to believers in social experiment , on the other hand , the Second New Deal brought a time of heady excitement , when almost any goal seemed possible , and almost any method worth a try . In the sphere of unemployment relief , the administration committed itself to the principle of providi workrather than handouts . A special agency , the National Youth Administration , provided employment for unemployed youths and assisted students to stay in college . The Second New Deal 's principal relief agency was the gigantic Works Progress Administration administered by the former social worker Harry Hopkins , a devoted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built roads , schools , parks , and countless other projects . In addition to construction workers , it employed actors , painters , musicians , and writers . Astounded conservatives and delighted liberals found the federal government sponsoring symphony concerts , excellent guidebooks , colossal murals of varying quality , and the production of plays , some of them experimental and some left-wing . Existing farm programs were supplemented by efforts to help the neglected poorest farmers . The Resettlement Administration tried to move families from submarginal land , and the Rural Electrification Administration brought power lines to areas not served by private utilities . In the Social Security Act , the United States , entering the field much later old-age , unemployment , and disability insurance financed largely by employer and employee contributions . The Revenue Act of 1935 , though whit- tied down in Congres , - sharply increased taxes on high incomes , corporations , and estates The Banking Act of 1935 increased the power o the Federal Reserve Boar to buy and sell government securities in the open market for stabilization purposes , and the Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company on another In the fashion popular in the 1920s . Finally , as the new labor problems became more and more pressing , the President , in 1935 , gave his backing to a bill long advocated by Senator Robert F. Wagner of New York . The Wagner Act outlawed employer coercion and support of company unions . Henceforth an employer was required to bargain with the union chosen by a majority of his employees in government-supervised , secret-ballot elections . Sweeping changes in the size and shape of organized labor were partly cause and partly an effect of new government policies . Since NIRA days , organizers had turned their attention to the long-unorganized millions in such great industries as steel , automobiles , rubber , and textiles . Inevitably , swelling numbers and this change of direction strained the traditional craft organization of the American Federation of Labor . Led by John L. Lewis , the colorful and domineering head of the United Mine Workers , a group of rebels formed within the A.F. of L. a Committee for Industrial Organization . This group , expelled in November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industrial Organizations . In a series of hard-fought , sometimes bloody , strikes , the C.I.O. attacked the long-defended bastions of American heavy industry . This time the outcome of labor warfare was a sweeping union victory . Beginning with the surrender of United States Steel and General Motors in 1937 , America 's most powerful corporations were to make agreements with C.I.O. unions . Already , by that year , organized labor had grown from a depression low of under three million to more than seven million , and it was still growing fast . Not only the size but the nature of the American labor movement was changed . Most of it , unlike the labor movements of other industrial countries , continued to accept the capitalist system of production . ( An important faction of the C.I.O. , later to be expelled , was under Communist influence . ) But American labor by the mid-1930s was far more deeply committed to political action to further its social objectives than it had been before . In 1936 , the Republicans , sharply denouncing the New Deal , nominated Alfred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to oppose Roosevelt . In a victory that surpassed all but Harding 's , Roosevelt got more than 60 percent of the popular vote and carried all states but Maine and Vermont . In this election , the Democrats were supported for the first time by an emerging , powerful , but unstable coalition consisting of labor , most farmers , recent immigrants , Negroes , and the South ; while the Republicans had the support of most businessmen . Though this pattern was to vary from election to election with changing circumstances , it would affect American politics for a generation . Depression and Social Experiment , 1929-1938 341 // Despite this resounding election victory in 1936 , the New Deal in 1937 and 1938 ran into a series of partial defeats . The first was in its conflict with the Supreme Court . In its sessions of 1935 and 1936 , the Court had overturned a number of important New Deal statutes , sometimes in five-votes-to-four decisions . These included the National Industrial Recovery Act and the processing tax of the Agricultural Adjustment Act . According to a majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unconstitutionally delegated detailed legislative power to administrative agencies ( as in the NIRA ) and had gravely misinterpreted the taxing power , the interstate commerce clause , and other parts of the Constitution . To the President and many New Dealers , the Court majority seemed to be interpreting the Constitution in a rigid and reactionary manner . Concluding that it would be impossibly slow and difficult to amend the Constitution , Roosevelt in February , 1937 , unveiled a drastic proposal for changing the Court 's personnel . One justice was to be added for every member who failed to retire after seventy-years-of-age . Some people were shocked by this attack on the Court , and many disliked the President 's unsuccessful attempt to present his plan as part of an innocuous program for judicial efficiency . While argument raged fiercely , the Court itself took a hand in the struggle . A number of important New Deal statutes were suddenly sustained , and one conservative justice voluntarily retired . This made Court reform seem less urgent , and despite the President 's refusal to compromise , the bill was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the change in the Court 's attitude constituted a major NDeal victory and ushered in a long period of increase in the government 's power for social and economic legislation . Yet the prestige of the Court as an institution survived ; that of the President was sharply damaged . It was further injured by the onset of a new depression . In the summer of 1936 , production , profits , and wages ( though not employment ) edged toward the levels of 1929 . Apparently this was partly because of large government spending for New Deal purposes and for payment of the veterans ' bonus ( finally provided by Congress over Roosevelt 's veto in 1936 ) . The President , worried about deficits and mounting debt , acted to tighten credit and cut the budget , particularly WPA funds . In the fall , a sudden collapse seemed to bring back conditions of 1932 . Farm prices headed down again , unemployment grew , and some critics concluded that the administration had failed to find a solution for the depression . Whether this was true or not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost its energy . Expenditures were sharply increased for relief , public works , and , under the Wagner-Steagall bill , for public housing . Whereas earlier governmental expenditures had usually been defended only as humanitarian necessities , now spending was advocated partly as a means of inducing recovery . This reflected the increasing influence among econo342 A Synopsis of American History mists , in and out of the administration , of the theories of the English economist J. M. Keynes . Keynes argued impressively that in time of depression , deficit spending by government was necessary in order to induce recovery and " prime the pump " of private investment . Partly to further recovery by breaking up price fixing ( a direct reversal of the First New Deal 's objective ) , antitrust prosecutions were vigorously increased . A new Farm Security Administration tried hard to help the tenant farmers and migratory workers who were still America 's most povertystricken people . A new AAA sought to raise all farm income by many devices , including new measures for crop restriction and government loans on stored surplus crops . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1938 , made possible by the Supreme Court 's new attitude , established modest minimum wages and maximum hours for most employees and killed that old and tough enemy of American progressives , child labor . Some of the innovations of this last New Deal , including compensatory spending and wage regulation , proved to be among the most permanent and substantial changes brought about in the whole period . THE MEANING OF THE NEW DEAL The 1938 congressional elections ended the New Deal period . Not only did conservative Republicans gain sharply in the West , but conservative Democrats in the South beat off the President 's daring attempt to defeat them , and thereby turn the Democratic party into a clear-cut New Deal organization . Though Roosevelt remained popular and existing New Deal measures remained in effect , further concerted or rapid reform action was impossible . For the next quarter-century , the same conservative coalition was normally to control Congress . Why did the New Deal lose momentum in 1938 ? Most obviously because foreign , crisis began to draw the country 's attention away from domestic reform.sYet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own shortcomings , particularly its shifting approach to economic problems , its effort to combine incompatible groups of supporters , and its dependence on Roosevelt 's personal leadership . It had certainly failed to solve one of the country 's most serious problems ; in 1938 , there were still ten million unemployed . Government spending seemed to be the only really successful way of stimulating recovery , and agriculture still depended on heavy subsidies . Yet when Americans looked abroad , they could feel some reason for pride . No country had solved the problems of modern industrial society with complete success , and several , struggling with those problems , had lost political freedom . Without revolution , without even major constitutional change , the American republic had taken on a big new responsibility . So far , its function had been at most to provide a favorable environment for private Depression and Social Experiment , 1929 ? 1938 343 economic action and to regulate when necessary . Now , in the face of economic collapse , first Hoover and then Roosevelt had made the government responsible for reaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes brought about by the New Deal were social rather than economic and incidental rather than programmatic . Domination of American society by an elite made up of the native , urban upper-middle class , a domination never secure and never official but long partially effective , had become impossible . To many who remember these years , however , the most important fact was neither the big accomplishments , the big failures , nor the hidden social changes . It was rather the revival of creativity , daring , and hope , qualities that were to be badly needed in the decades just ahead . CONFLICTING HISTORICAL VIEWPOINTS 14 . How New Was the New Deal ? To many conservative observers , the New Deal was a destructive experiment in socialism . Al Smith angrily denounced the " Brain-Trusters " as Marxists in Jeffersonian clothing and Herbert Hoover shuddered when he contemplated the horrors of " New Deal collectivism . " Yet , with the exception of Edgar Robinson ? whose deprecatory The Roosevelt Leadership ( 1955 ) is read largely for its novelty ? this contemporary judgment has found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholars generally agreed , the New Deal was not socialism . Richard Hofstadter ( Age of Reform 1955 ) called it the " New Departure " and Carl Degler ( Out of Our Past 1959 ) termed it the " Third American Revolution . " They both agreed that the New Deal departed in fundamental ways from the American reform tradition , but neither viewed it as particularly radical or dangerous . The New Deal was something of a break with the past , these liberal scholars argued , but it was also an essentially constructive and healthy response to the challenge of the Great Depression . The argument for benign discontinuity was widely , although not universally , accepted . Many distinguished historians , including Arthur Link , Henry Steele Commager , and Eric Goldman , believed that Roosevelt 's programs evolved naturally from traditional American reform impulses . In Rendezvous with Destiny ( 1952 ) , Goldman discovered the New Deal 's antecedents in the ideas and policies of Theodore Roosevelt , Woodrow Wilson , and even Herbert Hoover . The roots of the New Deal , he concluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values . 344 A Synopsis of American History A/though once heatedly debated , the revolution-evolution controversy is no longer an issue dividing the scholarly community . In recent years , historians have worried less about the origins of the New Deal and more about its effectiveness . Liberal sympathizers , most notably Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , have cast the Roosevelt administration in a most favorable light . Sharply contrasting New Deal dynamism with the static " Old Order , " Schlesinger 's brilliant Age of Roosevelt ( 3 vols. , 7957-60 ) portrayed FDR as a common-sense democrat who spurned " dogmatic absolutes " and sought a middle way between the extremes of " chaos and tyranny " laissez faire and collectivism . Other liberal scholars , including lames MacGregor Burns ( Roosevelt : The Lion and the Fox ( 7956J ) and William E. Leuchienburg ( Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal /1963 ) , however , were less laudatory . Although generally favorable , Leuchtenburg focused on the limited effects of New Deal recovery and reform measures ; and Burns , though not without sympathy for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Keynesian economics and to recast his party as the party of reform . More recently , radical scholars offered vastly more damning analyses . Such New Left scholars as Howard Zinn ( ed. , New Deal Thought ( 7966 ) and Barton / . Bernstein ( ed. , Towards a New Past ( 7967 ) attempted to expose the poverty of the New Deal imagination and the essential conservatism of its leadership . In their view , Roosevelt was the creature of corporate capitalism ; he failed to solve the problems of the depression and he made no effort to create an equitable society . The radical interpretation has won much support among younger historians who find little that was bold or innovative in the New Deal record . Many older scholars , however , have attacked the New Left for measuring the past with the yardstick of the present . fOR FURTHER READING : President Hoover 's revealing Memoirs ( 3 vols. , 1951-1952 ) describe his own administration well and comment without admiration on the policies of his successor . Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , The Crisis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Republican leadership . The 1929 debacle is illuminated by J. K. Galbraith , The Great Crash ( 1954 ) * ; and The Bonus March ( 1971 ) is analyzed by Roger Daniels . Hoover 's long lameduck period is the subject of Jordan A. Schwarz , The Interregnum of Despair ( 1970 ) . The Roosevelt literature is exceptionally full . Frank Freidel 's Launching of the New Deal ( 1973 ) , the fourth and latest volume in his *Available in paperback edition . The Reversal of Foreign Policy 1931-1941 27 During most of the 1930s , American attention was centered on domestic problems . Yet foreign events , occurring in the same period , were to affect the United States even more profoundly than the New Deal . The fragile international order established at Versailles and propped by prosperity broke down . Aggressive military states threatened to dominate Europe and . Asia . To meet this challenge , America moved from relative disarmament to colossal military power , and American opinion swung from an extreme of isolationism to unprecedented acceptance of worldwide commitment .. This commitment was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and society were to be profoundly altered . // When Hoover took office , he intended to carry on , with only slight revision , the foreign policies of the New Era . More internationalist in outlook than Coolidge , he carried much further the policy begun under Coolidge of substituting conciliation for intervention in Latin America . Cautiously , the Hoover administration moved closer to cooperation with the League of Nations . In any efforts to preserve world peace , however , he was determined to stick to noncoercive political or economic methods . At the London Conference of 1930 , the administration worked hard , with some success , to reduce further naval armament according to the pattern set by the Washington Conference of 1921 . This was the last victory for disarmament . The effort to limit land armies at Geneva in 1932 ? 1933 resulted in complete failure . By that time , the very idea of arms limitation was rejected by several powerful states . The Versailles order in Europe had always been unstable . With American power withdrawn , France and England confronted Fascist Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . If these discontented powers were to be united and armed , their strength could outweigh that of the defenders of the status quo . In the late 1920s , the Central European order was upheld to some extent by American investment . In 1931 , partly because of the withdrawal of American funds , a major Austrian bank failed , and panic threatened to spread to Germany . To prevent further collapse , Hoover suggested a oneyear suspension of payments of both German war reparations and Allied debts to the United States . After a damaging delay caused by French suspicions , this " Hoover moratorium " was accepted . Frightened by the growing power of the aggressive Hitler movement in Germany , the Western Allies finally , in 1932 , agreed to cancel almost all reparations ? but they were too late to save the German Republic . The United States refused to cancel war debts in a parallel manner . While most countries paid the first installments due after the end of the moratorium , these were , in most cases , the last payments made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economics , found it necessary to abandon the gold standard for a managed currency , and many other countries promptly followed suit . Hoping to restore currency stability , the United States helped plan a World Economic Conference that would give first priority to exchange stabilization . The most dramatic collapse of international order occurred in the Far East . Since the Washington Conference , Japan had been ruled by conservative cabinets , and American-Japanese relations had been relatively good at this time , however , the Japanese military were becoming increasingly angry at arms limitation and civilian control . Since Theodore Roosevelt 's Treaty of Portsmouth , Japan had possessed railroad and port rights in Manchuria , where many Japanese saw an opportunity to acquire raw materials and living space . In 1931 , taking advantage of incidents in Manchuria produced by rising Chinese nationalism , the Japanese army embarked on a program of conquest in this vast , nominally Chinese region . This action , carried out apparently against the will of the civilian government in Tokyo , violated not only the League Covenant but also the Republican security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kellogg Peace Pact . The Open Door and Chinese integrity , moreover , were part of Republican tradition . Thus Hoover had to act ; but once more American commitments in the Far East outran American power . Furthermore , the deepest beliefs of the Quaker President ruled out either military reprisal or cooperation with the League in economic sanctions . In addition , England , whose collaboration would have been necessary for effective action , had no wish to provoke Japanese threats to her own huge Asian holdings . Resorting to purely moral force , Secretary of State Stimson announced that the United States would not recognize any situation brought about by force in violation of the Open 348 A Synopsis of American History Door or Chinese integrity . After much hesitation , the League took a somewhat similar stand , advising its members not to recognize the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo . Neither the so-called Stimson Non-Recognition Doctrine nor world disapproval deterred Japan in Manchuria , although she did withdraw from a brief military occupation of Shanghai undertaken in 1932 in retaliation for a Chinese boycott . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international action , the United States had become further involved in the defense of the crumbling international order . // In the first years of the New Deal , American isolationism reached its peak . To the disillusion of the 1920s was added the new disillusion of the depression . A host of plays , movies , and novels depicted the horrors of war , and in 1935 a Senate investigation seemed to show that munition makers caused most wars for the sake of sordid profits . Many Americans believed that European propagandists had made a sucker of the United States in 1917 and were trying to do it again . At the same time , our former Allies were defaulting on their obligations and failing to sustain their own League . ( Throughout the decade , European appeasement and American isolationism were called on to justify each other . ) Traditional suspicion of Europe was only one of a number of components , all powerful and some mutually contradictory , of the isolationist frame of mind . Many young people were deeply affected by pacifism , and some liberals wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the other hand , conservatives were suspicious of foreign threats to American tradition . Many Midwesterners and most Irish-Americans maintained their historic suspicion of British imperialism . In the early years of the New Deal , Roosevelt failed to challenge the dominant isolationist creed , though as a follower of Wilson and his cousin Theodore , he could hardly accept it . He was primarily concerned with getting his program of national economic reform through Congress and into action , and he badly needed the support of midwestern isolationist progressives . Thus he refrained from opposing such measures as the Johnson Act of 1934 , which forbade loans to nations in default . As Japanese expansion slowed down to assimilate its gains , AmericanJapanese relations seemed to improve . And though nearly all Americans disliked the brutal Hitler regime that took power in Germany in 1933 , few proposed to do anything about it . In cooperation with some isolationists or continentalists , Roosevelt backed a modest program of naval building and continued the program of cementing good relations with Latin America . The nonintervention policy was not only restated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // of intervention in Panama and Cuba . Expropriation by Mexico of the property of United States oil companies was accepted and compensation agreed on . At the Inter-American Conference of 1936 , intervention by one state in the affairs of another was condemned , and mutual consultation provided for in case of threats to the peace of the hemisphere . This Good Neighbor policy , though it by no means ended all Latin American suspicion of the United States , was to produce good results in wartime when most of the Latin American countries were to be first friendly neutrals and then allies . In economic matters , the main drive of the early New Deal was nationalistic . In order to save his own program of raising prices through currency inflation , Roosevelt abruptly reversed his early approval of exchange stabilization and , in so doing , broke up the World Economic Conference in London . On the other hand , Cordell Hull , the new Secretary of State , had a deep southern-Democratic belief in lower tariffs , and Roosevelt succeeded in getting congressional backing for the Hull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used authority to negotiate mutual tariff reductions through reciprocal trade treaties . Hope for a revival of international trade was also involved in Roosevelt 's decision in 1933 to recognize Soviet Russia . This action , long prevented by ideological hostility , was supported by political realists and by some businessmen who prophesied ( mistakenly ) a major expansion of Russian-American trade . American isolationist policies were little changed by the new challenges to world order that occurred in the mid-1930s . In 1935 , Mussolini 's Italy invaded Ethiopia , and in the same year Adolf Hitler felt strong enough to remilitarize Germany in defiance of the Versailles Treaty . In the next year , German troops marched into the Rhineland where the same Treaty prohibited their presence . In July , 1936 , Francisco Franco opened a Fascist rebellion against the republican government of Spain , and in 1936-1937 the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo axis united the major dissatisfied , essentially aggressive states . All these actions were dealt with ineffectually by the Western European powers . In the Ethiopian affair , the League invoked only half-hearted sanctions , England condoned German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a policy of " nonintervention , " denied munitions to the Spanish government . Turning increasingly to the left , that government got some aid from Russia while the Spanish rebels were more effectively supported by Germany and Italy . American policy toward these crises was dominated by a determination to keep , out of war rather than to keep war from occurring . The neutrality legislation of 1935-1937 was designed to prevent the particular kinds of mistakes that were believed to have drawn America into World War I. The first neutrality law , passed in 1935 , forbade arms shipments to all belligerents , rejecting an administration wish to discriminate between aggressor and victim . In the Ethiopian crisis , this was supplemented by a " moral embargo " on oil , the commodity most needed by Mussolini . American refusal to take stronger action gave an excuse for the League to refuse an outright oil embargo . The second neutrality law ( 1936 ) forbade loans to belligerents . In 1937 , a congressional resolution , requested by the President , extended the application of the neutrality system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus shutting off American arms from the Loyalist government and helping to ensure Franco 's success . Finally , the neutrality law of 1937 made the existing prohibitions permanent and , in addition , forbade American travel on belligerent ships . It also gave the President power , for two years , to list commodities other than munitions that belligerents would be required to pay for and transport in their own ships ( the cash-and-carry provision ) . Thus the United States had reversed the policies of Woodrow Wilson and returned to something like those of Jefferson . Neutral rights were waived in order to stay out of war . It seemed clear to the aggressive nations that they had little to fear from American counteraction , as long as America herself was not attacked . DEEPENING CRISIS AND // Once more , a shift in American policy was brought on by events in Asia , not Europe . Japan , which had continued to press from Manchuria into North China until 1933 , made a truce in that year . In 1937 , fighting broke out again near the Peiping-Tientsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ensuing war , though full scale , was undeclared , the American neutrality legislation was not automatically applied . Partly in order not to cut off arms to China , and partly to keep some anti-Japanese action in reserve , Roosevelt refrained from invoking the neutrality laws , and America shipped some war materials to each belligerent . However , in October , 1937 , Roosevelt expressed his feelings about Japanese action with new vigor . Referring to a " spreading epidemic of world lawlessness , " he suggested that aggressors be " quarantined . " Alarmed isolationist reaction made it plain to the President that he had moved beyond public opinion . The United States joined in League of Nations condemnation of Japanese action but opposed sanctions . In December , when Japanese planes sank an American gunboat on the Yangtze , apologies were accepted without much excitement . Once more , world disapproval without action failed to deter Japan , and her forces proceeded to bomb and occupy the principal Chinese cities . By 1938 , she had set up a puppet government in China and committed herself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia . Lacking a clear European policy , the United States played only a minor role in the major European events of this period , periodically and fruitlessly appealing for moderation and conciliation . In 1938 , Hitler absorbed Austria and began threatening Czechoslovakia . This led to the Munich Agreement among Britain , France , Italy , and Germany , which forced Czechoslovakia to surrender certain strategic frontier districts inhabited by German-speaking people . This settlement was brutally nullified in March , 1939 , when Hitler took over the rest of Czechoslovakia . During the same spring Italy invaded Albania , while Hitler seized the Lithuanian town of Memel and unmistakably began threatening Poland . This time , however , Britain and France guaranteed the prospective victim , and it became evident to nearly everybody that major war was imminent . Roosevelt , who shared this opinion , believed also that Britain and France could win with American material help . He therefore called for a cautious and moderate program of rearmament mainly on the basis of continental naval and air defense . He also asked Congress to repeal the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to buy American munitions on a cash-and-carry basis . Though most press opinion favored this action , it was defeated by isolationists in Congress . This was to be their last major victory . In the summer of 1939 , while Britain and France were making a halfhearted effort to make a defensive alliance with Russia , Stalin instead suddenly concluded pacts of trade and nonaggression with Hitler . This apparently left Germany free to attack Poland without becoming involved in a major two-front war , and on September 1 , Hitler 's troops crossed the Polish frontier . France and England , this time , declared war as they had promised . Poland , destined to be the most tragic victim of World War II , was quickly overrun . As German troops advanced through western Poland , Russian troops occupied the eastern part of the country . Now that war was a fact , Roosevelt was able ( in November , 1939 ) to prevail on Congress to repeal the arms embargo and place shipments of both munitions and other commodities on a cash-and-carry basis . Once more , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come and get American arms , provided that they could pay cash and provide shipping . This seemed enough to assure Western victory without further American commitment . Most observers predicted that the major belligerents would settle into a long stalemate , confronting each other in " impregnable " Maginot and Siegfried lines . CATASTROPHE AND THE END OF // In the spring of 1940 , the stalemate war came to a sudden end as the Germans conquered first Denmark and Norway and then the Low Countries . In a lightning assault from Belgium , mobile German units poured into France and in a month had crushed and demoralized the French army , supposed by many to be the world 's strongest . It seemed as if there was no possible                     