@@773766

txt 6o ROAD TRANSPORT BEFORE THE RAILWAY AGE tolls might account for another two-fifths of total expense and waggoners wages at least a quarter more.84 After 1815 the firm of Pickfords began to exploit the opportunities for faster and safer road transport made possible by the better springing of vehicles . Their new caravan on springs and guarded ' reduced the journey time from Manchester to London to 35 hours.85 Their example was gradually followed by other firms which introduced flying waggons ' in greater numbers in the years after Waterloo . All the same , road haulage remained so expensive that a majority of the goods were despatched by water carriage until , by the early 1850s , the combination of an adequate basic railway network with a rational classification of goods by the Railway Clearing House , gave an increasing advantage to land carriage . 3 Coastal Shipping I On account of the remarkable length of coastline in relation to the land area the British Isles are particularly favourably placed for the development of coastal shipping . The eleventh edition of Baldwin 's London Directory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wales to which goods could be sent by water . Although it was necessary to use canal as well as sea to reach some of the places mentioned , the overwhelming majority were small seaports whose prosperity largely depended on the continuance of the coasting trade . The great economy of coastal shipping over land transport for the carriage of many types of goods was fully understood by Adam Smith , who wrote that it required only six or eight men to bring by water to London the same quantity of goods which would otherwise require fifty broad wheeled waggons , attended by a hundred men , and drawn by four hundred horses ' . The transport of coal has dominated the business of coastal shipping for at least 350 years . At the end of the sixteenth century Shakespeare 's Mistress Quickly kept a sea-coal fire in her Dolphin chambers and , ever since , the coal trade has figured largely in London 's shipping . Between 1670 and 1750 the capital imported more than 40 million tons of coal . By the middle of the eighteenth century so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city on his way to America , noted that the statues to James I and Charles I and Charles II looked just as if the image of a nigger or crossing sweeper . . . had been set up in royal costume ' .2 So completely did coal dominate coastal shipping that the trade in all other minerals taken together could not match it in volume . It was as true of the mid-eighteenth century as of the midnineteenth and mid-twentieth , that the tonnage of coal carried coastwise exceeded the weight of all other cargoes combined . Not only was it the case that , but for this trade , many thousands more would have gone cold in the winter months , but also a number of important industries would have been starved of one of their essential raw materials . Large quantities of coal were required in brickmaking , glassmaking , brewing and in the manufacture of salt , lime alum and a wide variety of metals . Second only to coal in importance in the eighteenth century was the coastwise trade in corn . Daniel Defoe claimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counties of England near the sea coast ' ; but the counties of East Anglia provided the greater part of the imports of grain into the metropolis . ' In 1735 for example Lynn supplied 62,410 quarters of all types of grain to the London market besides sending over 10,000 quarters to Newcastle in exchange for coal.4 Four major centres of woollen cloth manufacture received an important part of their supplies of raw wool through coastal shipping . The West Riding gained some of its supplies through Hull ; the West Country depended upon the port of Bristol ; Devon used Exeter and its outport Topsham and the Essex bay and felt manufacturers depended upon supplies coming through Colchester . The British coasting trade was predominantly in raw materials and agricultural surpluses ? commodities of low value in relation to their bulk which were unable to stand the high charges of land transport . The more valuable manufactured goods , which required prompter delivery , were more frequently sent by land or , increasingly after 1760 , by inland waterway . Coastal shipping in the days of sail provided a means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be imagined , though its use was generally confined to the period between April and October inclusive when the risks of storms and wrecks were much reduced . Perhaps the most frequented route was from London to the Kentish seaside resorts , especially Margate and Ramsgate . In 1757 the fare by hoy ( a kind of sloop ) from London to Margate was only 2s , but by the end of the century it had risen to between 5s and 10s 6d , depending on the type of accommodation . ' Both Leigh Hunt and Charles Lamb chose this method of getting to Margate at different times in 1801 and it is clear from their accounts of the journey that the vessels , which were of 80 ? 120 tons , were well appointed below decks and that meals were provided for the travellers . ' According to one Kentish source , as many as 18,000 persons used the hoys to reach the Kentish resorts in 1792 . ' The Leith smacks made a regular practice of taking passengers on their voyages to London ; James Nasmyth , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring him to London at the start of his career in 1829.8 It was not uncommon for travellers between the counties of the south-west and London to use sailing vessels rather than road transport to make the journey as the fare by water was so much cheaper . When William Lovett , the Chartist , came to London to seek employment as a rope maker in 1821 he travelled all the way by sea.9 Nevertheless there were severe limitations to the use of coastal shipping in the days of sail . Although corn and coal carried coastwise could help to eliminate local scarcities and thus even out regional differences in prices , these beneficial results could only be achieved if the winds and tides combined to make it possible . On 5 May 1782 // Horace Walpole noted that an east wind has half starved London , as a fleet of colliers can not get in ' .10 In consequence coals were selling at famine prices . It was not uncommon for the collier brigs from Tyneside to be held up for weeks together , with the inevitable result that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchased by the poor . Such times of dearth alternated with short periods of abun-dance ? a sudden change in the wind to a more favourable quarter would bring dozens of brigs into the pool of London , flooding the market with coal and precipitating a collapse of prices . The limitations of coastal and cross-channel passenger travel in the days of sail were just as serious . It was a great inconvenience but , alas , a wholly un-avoidable one , that travellers from Dublin could never be sure whether the voyage to Holyhead would take eight hours or more than three times as long . Between 5 October and 25 December 1818 there were eight occasions when the voyage was completed in less than eight hours but 14 others when it took over 24 hours.11 On September 1727 Jonathan Swift , desirous of travelling to Ireland , waited five days at Holyhead for a favourable wind and had not been at sea an hour before a sudden adverse wind compelled the captain to put back to harbour.12 But those who needed to travel between the Scottish and English capitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more predictable , journey by coach and the cheaper , but less predict-able , journey by sea . Where saving of time was all-important , there-fore , the land route was chosen . In 1743 one of the Leith ? London sailing packets took 20 days to reach only as far as Holy Island off the coast of Northumberland . By the end of the eighteenth century the clumsy , buff-bowed brigs formerly employed on this route had largely given place to the faster and more manoeuvreable smacks , but the voyage still had many uncertainties . In time of war there was the threat of attack from enemy vessels , as on 23 October 1804 when one of the Leith smacks , the Britannia , was attacked off Cromer by a large French privateer . The British ship sustained many shots through its canvas but inflicted more severe damage on the French vessel which eventually dropped astern , smarting from its wounds.13 The danger of similar attacks inevitably predisposed travellers to take the safer land route at least for the next ten years while England remained at war with France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken as a measure of comparison , coastal shipping had a greater importance than the shipping engaged in trade with the colonies and foreign countries throughout the whole of the nineteenth century . In 1841 coastal shipping entries , at over 121 million tons , excluding ballast , were // approximately three times the tonnage entering from foreign and colonial trade ( 4,649,039 tons including ballast ) . It was not until 1906 that tonnages entering from overseas trade ( 66 million ) for the first time exceeded the tonnage of shipping entering from British ports . What helped to maintain the supremacy of coastal shipping for so long was the earlier and more thorough exploitation of steamships in the coastwise trade than in the overseas trade . In coastwise shipping steam tonnage exceeded the tonnage of sailing ships as early as 1866 . A similar turning point was not reached in the overseas trade until seven years later.14 Although there was a substantial time lag between William Symington 's successful experiment in steam navigation at Dalswinton in Dumfriesshire in October 1788 and the launching of the first commercially successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in July 1812,15 subsequent developments in the use of passenger steamboats were extremely rapid . In 1814 , only two years after the appearance of the Comet , no fewer than nine steamboats were launched on the river Clyde alone.16 By 1821 there were 188 steamships , aggregating 20,028 tons , in service in the coastwise trade of Great Britain . By 1853 there had been a spectacular increase to 639 vessels ( 218,266 tons ) .17 It is true that a handful of these ships were exclusively confined to the carriage of goods , but the overwhelming majority of them carried at least some passengers . When Queen Victoria came to the throne in 1837 there was no shadow of doubt that the revolution in coastwise shipping which had taken place in the previous 25 years was due to a quite unprecedented growth in the use of the steamship for personal travel . Because of the small size and low average horsepower of the early steam vessel they were at first largely confined to the more important river estuaries where they were employed as ferries , excursion boats or tugs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gravesend grew with great rapidity after the Mar ; ery of 70 tons opened the service on 23 January 1815 . By 1842 there were 16 steamboats employed on this route , landing and embarking over 1,141,000 passengers annually at the Town and Terrace Piers at Gravesend . " On Tyneside the Tyne Steam Packet was ferrying passengers from Newcastle to Shields as early as May 1814 although more important in the early history of steam navigation in this region was the employment of steam tugs to tow vessels , especially collier brigs , out to sea when the prevailing wind made it impossible to leave harbour with the aid of sail alone.19 On the Clyde , steamboats linked Glasgow with the suburbs and the holiday resorts of the estuary . By 1822 there were six steam packets sailing daily between the city and Helensburgh.21 For many decades to come those commuting to work in the Scottish commercial capital did so by steamboat rather than // by short stage coach or gig . Those seeking recreation on the beautiful banks of the river or at Rothesay or Dunoon used the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Runcorn were started by the Elizabeth in 1815 and similar links to Birkenhead were established in March 1817.21 An event as important for the development of coastal passenger services as the Rainhill trials of 1829 were for the triumph of the steam locomotive , was the voyage made by Mr George Dodd in the 75-ton paddle steamer Thames , between 28 May and 12 June 1815 , from Glasgow to London via Dublin . Until this time steamboats had rarely ventured into the open sea , but Dodd 's 758-mile-long journey included treacherous passages through the St George 's Channel and round the Lizard without serious mishap . At his ports of call his ship aroused intense interest , awakening mariners ' understanding of the potentialities of steam navigation . The pilots from Wexford who caught sight of the trail of smoke from the Thames , mistook her for a vessel on fire and were disappointed in their hopes of exercising their right of salvage . Among other things , the voyage proved that it was possible for a steamer to sail direct in the wind 's eye ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time schedule , even though a heavy gale was blowing.22 Following Dodd 's remarkable demonstration , entrepreneurs were emboldened to establish open-sea coastal steamship services . Even before his voyage , as early as June 1813 , the Rob Roy provided a bi-weekly passenger service during the summer weeks between Glasgow and Belfast.21 Summer services between Glasgow and Liverpool started in the following year . In June 1821 the London and Edinburgh Steam Packet Company employed the 400-ton City of Edinburgh and her sister ship the James Watt to carry passengers between the two capitals . They experienced competition from other steamers from the start.24 Further up the east coast , earlier that same year , the Leith and Aberdeen Steam Yacht Company 's vessel the Tourist began passenger services between Leith and Aberdeen , calling at intermediate ports . " On the south coast the Plymouth , Devonport , Portsmouth and Falmouth Steam Packet Company began regular summer sailings in 1823 , its ships sometimes calling at Torquay and Cowes en route between Plymouth and Portsmouth.26 A Brighton steamer , the Swift , had started weekly services to Ryde , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steamers on the Cork ? London station were also calling at Plymouth , Portsmouth and Cowes.21 All the same , passenger services , apart from pleasure cruises , never achieved the same prominence on the south coast as they did in other regions , because coach services had the advantage of inner lines of communication , the passages round the Cornish coast were notoriously difficult and the arrival of the railways at Southampton in 1840 , Brighton in 1841 // and Folkestone in 1843 further emphasised the superiority of the land routes in this region . In the early 1820s none of the steamship companies had sufficient confidence in the seaworthiness of their vessels to maintain sailings throughout the winter months . The 1823 season of the London and Edinburgh Steam Packet Company 's vessels , for example , extended from 16 March to 12 November . It was not until 1829 ? 30 that the company kept its ships in service in winter on this wind-swept east coast station.29 What helped to persuade steam packet companies all round the British coast to establish continuous services was the bold decision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ packets for the important Holyhead ? Howth station from the end of May 1821 , to maintain similar arrangements for the mail routes between Milford and Dunmore ( for Waterford ) from April 1824 , between Portpatrick and Donaghadee from May 1825 and between Liverpool and Dublin from August 1826 . Whatever may have been the shortcomings of the vessels employed in respect of creature comforts , there is no doubt of the superior regularity and punctuality of the sailings of the Royal Mail steamboats . Through the 1820s the Post Office established higher standards of efficiency which the steamship companies were at pains to emulate.30 British coastal passenger steamship services achieved their greatest extent and importance in the early 1840s when there were over 1,400 route-miles of regular sailings linking ninety ports and harbours.31 From extremely busy arteries of water communication like the lower reaches of the Clyde and Thames , to the infrequent but vital links with remote ports like Lerwick in the Shetland Islands and St Mary 's in the Isles of Scilly , the steamboat had become an essential link in the communications of the British Isles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic was ever taken in the nineteenth century it is impossible to give any precise figure of the number of persons who used this means of travel each year . But by adding together the estimates given by witnesses before parliamentary committees on railway and harbour bills it is possible to give some indication of the extent to which steamboats were used by the British people in the early years of Queen Victoria 's reign . Apart from the estuarial services on the Thames and Clyde which carried at least a million and a half passengers each year and the short steam ferry services in the Mersey , the Humber , the Tyne , the Bristol Channel and the Solent , which probably accounted for as many more , steamers on the east coast at various points between Aberdeen and Margate carried about 250,000 persons annually . As late as 1849 only 5,792 passengers were booked by the North British Railway from Edinburgh to London in a year when 11,584 persons took the sea route . On the other side of the British Isles 53,456 passengers were // carried between Glasgow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15,000 persons were travelling by steamboat to the Merseyside port from Annan in Dumfriesshire . On the other hand the traffic round the south-west coast was less important . An estimated 12,000 persons sailed between Bristol and Exeter in 1836 , a number which fell dramatically after the opening of the Taunton ? Exeter stretch of the Bristol and Exeter Railway in May 1844.32 The popularity of passenger steamship services in the second quarter of the nineteenth century is explained by their much greater speed and reliability when compared with the sailing ship , and by their cheapness compared with coach travel . Margate hoys frequently took more than two days to reach London ; but as early as 1818 the average time taken by the steamers was only eleven hours.33 Whereas sailing packets took at least two days on the journey between Glasgow and Liverpool , steamships , by the early 1830s , were completing the journey in 24 ? 26 hours . In mid-December 1834 , at a time of the year when coastal sailing smacks rarely ventured out to sea , the steam packet Manchester made the return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an achievement for speed and turn-round considered quite remarkable at the time . Passenger fares for the single trip of 240 miles were only ? 1 5s , or less than 12d a mile compared with 2d a mile for an outside seat on a coach or twice that amount for an inside seat.34 Already by the early 1820s the inhabitants of the remoter parts of the kingdom were experiencing the advantages of more frequent and speedier contact with the more populous centres . Before the dawn of the steamship era it took three days , even with the most favourable winds , for sailing packets from Glasgow to reach Rothesay on the Isle of Bute . When winds were adverse it was thought not wonderful ' for the journey to take as many weeks . In 1823 steamships were making the journey to Rothesay and back comfortably in a day . At the beginning of the nineteenth century sailing smacks made the journey between Edinburgh and Aberdeen only once in three weeks with a very uncertain time of arrival . From the summer of 1821 the steamships Velocity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reliable hours of departure and arrival . Steamboat proprietors were in a position to undercut coach fares because each steamboat was able to carry many times the number of persons that could be accommodated on the most overcrowded stage coach . In 1833 the General Steam Navigation Company 's steamship Monarch , employed on the Leith to London station , had berths for 140 persons , dining-room accommodation for 100 and room in the steerage for many more . By contrast the legal limit for a stage coach was four inside ' and eleven outside ' passengers . There can be little doubt that it was for reasons of cost that so many persons chose to travel by steamboat rather than by coach even // though the coach was generally quicker on the journey . It was , as a rule , much cheaper to take the sea route.35 In the mid-1830s the deck passenger on the Leith ? London packet paid ? 2 10s for his fare , including his food . Cabin passengers paid ? 4 4s , also inclusive of full board , for the two days and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the outside ' passenger by coach was ? 3 10s whilst for the insides ' it was ? 6 15s , both fares being exclusive of board and lodging . Moreover , for the long-distance coach traveller the payment of his fare was but the beginning of an extended agony , both physical and financial . His travelling costs were inflated by all kinds of incidental expenses . Ordinary inn charges for food and drink were : breakfast 8d to Is ; dinner is 6d to 3s 6d ; supper 1s to 2s 6d ; wine 6d a glass ; tea 10d to Is ; porter 2d to 3d a glass . When a traveller stayed the night at an inn candles might be charged up at the rate of anything from 3s to 5s a night . These charges were considered a sighting shot ' on the part of the innkeeper : if the guest submitted to this form of fleecing he was thought ripe for other forms of exploitation , and bills for fires and rushlights , stabling and carriage cleaning would follow in quick succession . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the local poor . He could well be excused for wondering whether he would not himself join the ranks of the destitute by the time his journey was completed . For it was not only at the inns that he had to dip his hands into his pockets . When each coachman had completed his stage of the journey his head would appear through the window and he would say I go no further gentlemen ' . This would be the signal for the simultaneous dipping into the pockets of the inside passengers for the expected 2s tip.37 The guard would not fail to give passengers a similar reminder at the end of his spell of duty . On a long journey such impositions inflated the cost of coach travel up to half as much again as the fare . By contrast the sea traveller , though sometimes unlucky enough to be subjected to physical agonies even worse than those of coach travel , had the great consolation that he was free from all further financial harassment once he had paid his fare and boarded his steamer . Among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for water transport than for transport on land were the lower initial capital costs involved in starting a steam packet service than starting a railway . It could even be cheaper to establish a long-distance steamer service than it was to provide for stage-coach travel over the same distance . When the above mentioned Thames steam packet was built for the London ? Margate service in 1815 it cost the nine proprietors a total of ? 4,050 , or ? 450 each.38 The steamboats Superb and Robert Bruce which provided the first reliable service between Glasgow and Liverpool , cost together less than ? 16,000 . Many of the Clyde steamers were built by the small engineerCOASTAL // ing firms of the locality , the cost of construction being met by friends and business associates and being divided up into sixty-fourths in the tradition of the ship-building industry . In the early years of the steamship boom their cost rarely exceeded the cost of the pioneering Thames . When the Post Office ordered two steamships of the most up-to-date design to man the Holyhead station in 1821 the cost came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be compared with the six- or even seven-figure sums required to launch a railroad . The capital expended on the Newcastle and Carlisle Railway up to the date of the opening of the line was ? 950,000.39 The steamship proprietors had the enormous advantage over the owners of railways that they did not have to incur any track costs . They had the advantage over coach proprietors that they did not have to pay passenger duty or licence fees for their captains as licences had to be paid for coachmen ( not to mention coaches and horses ) . It is true , that as the technology of marine engineering advanced and the simple side-lever engines gave place to the simple inverted and then the compound engines , and as first iron and then steel replaced wood in the construction of ships ' hulls , the cost of construction soared and it became ever more difficult to establish a steamship service with small capital . Nevertheless steamship concerns , unlike railways , could start up by venturing remarkably small capitals , and by the ploughing back of profits , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their activities . In 1823 Charles Wye-Williams , with the assistance of a few business friends in Dublin and Liverpool , launched two steamers for the Dublin ? Liverpool trade at a cost of ? 24,000.40 These later became the first ships of the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company incorporated in 1828 with a capital which had been rapidly enlarged by further calls on subscribers and by mergers with other companies to ? 174,50041 The early history of the passenger steamship services is one of the keenest competition between small concerns anxious to capture a share of an increasingly popular means of transport . From the summer of 1831 on the east-coast route the ships of the London and Edinburgh Steam Packet Company were in fierce rivalry with the London , Leith , Edinburgh and Glasgow Shipping Company which in that year introduced the brand new steamers Royal William , Royal Adelaide , and Victoria to challenge the earlier established Soho , James Watt and United Kingdom regularly plying on the Leith ? London station . The usurpers claimed of the Royal William that it was admitted by all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accommodation ' and that she had established a decided superiority in speed over all the other vessels ' . When faced with this serious challenge , the rival company , in its newspaper advertisements . assumed an attitude of superior disdain . Of the Soho and James Watt it asserted that the well known // character of these vessels supersedes the necessity of any comment as to their speed , safety and comfort ' .42 On the Cork ? Milford station in 1826 the Superb , owned by a group of Cork businessmen , was at daggers drawn with the Severn of the St George 's Steam Packet Company . The Superb solicited custom by parading a brass band through Cork ; the Severn retaliated with the announcement that its deck passengers would get a loaf of bread gratis ' .41 Competition of this fierceness was accompanied by ruinous rate-cutting , followed by the inevitable truce . On the east-coast the London and Edinburgh Steam Packet Company was bought up by the General Steam Navigation Company in 1836.44 The damaging rivalry between the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade was soon brought to an end when a pooling agreement for an equitable division of the traffic was signed on 30 June 1826.45 By the mid-nineteenth century the companies in the steam-packet business were often large concerns with a capital that went into six figures . III In the coastwise trades , as in the ocean-going services , steam power was adopted more slowly for goods than for passenger traffic . Until competition between the railway companies established new standards for speedy delivery there was not the same sense of urgency in the delivery of goods as there was to complete a , frequently unpleasant , passenger sea voyage . Furthermore , a much greater amount of capital had been invested , before the age of steam , in cargo vessels than in ships primarily designed for passenger transport , and men who had spent a lifetime in learning how to man sailing vessels were reluctant to change to a new-fangled medium . Moreover , the initial capital cost of building and equipping a steamship was greater than that for a sailing vessel of comparable size . In the mid-nineteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ screwpropelled steam collier cost around ? 10,000 , but so numerous were the sailing brigs engaged in the same trade and so lengthy was their life-span that second-hand sailing vessels could be bought for ? 1,200 and the first cost of buying six new collier ( sailing ) brigs of 300 tons capacity each was no more than that of one new screw collier suitable for carrying 600 tons of coa1.46 Nevertheless the distinction between the two types of coastwise traffic was often blurred . Few passenger steamships carried no merchandise and the master of a cargo steamer was generally willing to augment his ship 's revenue by carrying passengers . This mixing of passenger and cargo transport was most apparent on the traffic of the Irish Sea where on the bargain ' trips steerage passengers were // accommodated along with the cattle and therefore got wet not only from the spray of the sea and the rain.47 Before the early 1850s , by which time the essential framework of a railway system had been constructed , coastal shipping was employed not merely for the movement of bulky low-value raw materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods of high value in relation to their weight . In this transitional period between the appearance of commercially viable steamboats in the 1820s and the setting up of satisfactory conditions for the through transit of goods by rail some quarter of a century later , British businessmen were very open-minded as to which form of transport they used . Many of them resorted to a very mixed bag of road waggon , canal barge , coastal steamer and , where possible , railway , for different stages in the haulage of their merchandise . In 1836 , Mr B. Redfern , a general merchant and factor of Birmingham , who did ? 20,000 worth of business annually with Scotland , sent his goods first by road waggon , then by canal south to London for transhipment by steamer to Edinburgh , as he found this cheaper than dispatching his goods all the way directly north by road waggon or partly by land and partly by canal to Hull and then the remainder of the journey by sea . Other Birmingham manufacturers sent their goods to Scotland via canal to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by canal to Edinburgh.48 George Hudson , during his early career as a draper and furnisher at York ( before he achieved renown as the Railway King ) found it cheaper to have his Kidderminster carpets sent first to London for dispatch by steamboat to Hull before they were carried by inland waterway on the final stage of their journey to his warehouse.49 The use of such a diversity of forms of transport greatly decreased when the railways , increasingly during the second half of the nineteenth century , were able to carry goods direct to their markets in a much shorter space of time than had been possible in the 1830s and 1840s . By this time coastal shipping had largely reverted to its traditional role ; the movement of bulky low-value raw materials and farm produce . Throughout the nineteenth century London 's predominance over the coastal trade of the British Isles was unchallenged . Although the tonnage of shipping involved and the quantities of merchandise carried both increased until the First World War , the pattern of the trade was not dramatically altered . In 1824 of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the capital , 1,870,425 tons , or 83.7 per cent , were coal and 312,653 or 13.9 per cent were food grains . The tonnage of all other commodities was remarkably small and took up less than 22 per cent of the imports into the region . Metals , rapidly rising in importance with the growth of engineering , amounted to 41,865 tons or 1.9 per cent of the total , leaving less than // one per cent for all other items such as provisions , spirits and textiles . In contrast with what she brought in from other British ports London sent out , coastwise , a much greater variety of produce , though foodstuffs , textiles and alcoholic beverages took the lion 's share . Except for places within a short radius of the capital , foodstuffs could be supplied more cheaply by sea than by land . The quantity of tea ( 32,882 tons ) consigned from London to other British ports in 1824 was more than double the amount of all other groceries combined . The 3,200 tons of wool loaded on outgoing ships completely dwarfed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flax , though the predominance of England 's basic staple was rapidly shrinking . Without the wine , of which 143,299 gallons were sent out , the trade in alcoholic beverages would have been very small . Only 2,275 gallons of rum and 285 gallons of brandy left the Thames by sea that year ( although an allowance must be made for an indefinite quantity smuggled round the coast ) . so At the beginning of the twentieth century coal still completely dominated London 's coastwise imports ; the quantity entering the Thames , in 1905 , 8,494,234 tons , having more than doubled over the previous 80 years 51 ( see Fig. 4 ) . At the same time imports of grain from British ports declined sharply in the last quarter of the nineteenth century so that in 1895 they amounted to 36,588 tons or little more than one tenth of the amount of grain brought in in 1825.52 However there was , in compensation , a remarkable growth in imports of hay to feed the ever-growing horse population of the metropolis . The fodder was brought up the Thames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their decks . In the heyday of this traffic , just before the First World War , hundreds of vessels were employed in this trade which stretched from Harwich to the Pool of London . On occasions as many as thirty stackies ' could be seen sailing up river . The trade was a profitable one for there was an assured return cargo of horse manure shipped from such harbours as the appropriately named Mucking , on the Essex shore of the Thames estuary , to the farms further up the Essex coast which supplied the hay.53 After the all-important trade in coal from Tyneside to London and the substantial early nineteenth-century shipments of grain the east coast trade in livestock and dead meat became important by the early 1830s . To overcome the severe disadvantages which sprang from the necessity of driving cattle and sheep on the hoof ' from Aberdeenshire and Kincardineshire to Edinburgh and London , wholesale meat salesmen soon took advantage of steam navigation to bring the livestock more speedily to the two capitals without the damaging loss of weight associated with the land journey . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 10,000 sheep were being sent south by steamboat each year . Opinion in the trade was that if the ships got through in calm weather and in good time the meat from animals coming by sea cut better than the produce of the land-driven animals . On the other hand , if the sea voyage was unduly prolonged and stormy , the animals suffered from the sea air and the spray , they arrived very unsightly in appearance ' and sold at a reduced price . Despite these risks , the trade in both live and dead meat grew rapidly until the 1850s when the railways began to take away a good deal of the business . Because of the greater importance of speed in this trade the railway managed over 95 per cent of the dead meat traffic . The steamships clung to a larger share of the livestock . Between 1856 and 1865 they carried 32.6 per cent of the total or an average of 5,340 animals a year.54 Cattle dealers and arable farmers in the western part of Scotland also took advantage of the facilities offered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cattle dealers paid farmers for their stock in bills because there was a long interval of time before they could realise cash by the sale of the animals in England . Travelling corn dealers used the same means of payment for the same reasons . As the dealers ' trade was very precarious their bankruptcy rate was higher than that of almost any class , and because of their frequent defaults the Scottish farmers were reluctant to part with their produce for sale in such distant markets . With the coming of steam , however , and the opening of regular services between both Annan and Dumfries and Liverpool , the cattle and grain could be re-sold within , at the most , a few days of purchase , the dealer was in a position to pay cash to the farmer who in turn acquired a new confidence to sell more of his produce in distant markets . " s For south Wales the rapid expansion of steam navigation at one and the same time both increased the demand for the bituminous coal with which the region was so richly endowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bristol Channel , to Liverpool and the south coast , quite apart from a booming trade in export coal . Coastwise shipments of coal from Cardiff rose from 171,978 tons in 1833 to 826,044 tons in 1874 and 2,644,520 tons in 1911 . Although this Welsh coal had superior thermal qualities , when seaborne it was unable to compete with the Newcastle coal in the London market because of the greater cost of the longer journey round the Cornish peninsula and along the English Channel . " ' In the period between the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 and the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846 the population of the United Kingdom grew from 13 million to 20 million persons , but the importation of corn and meal from foreign countries was severely restricted because of the import duty . The development of steam navigation on // the Irish Sea made it possible for Ireland to fill this important gap in the food supplies of the rest of the kingdom . Table 1 shows the remarkable growth in shipments over a 25-year period : The tonnage employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased by 250 per cent between 1801 and 1849 but the increase was much more rapid in the period of predominance of steam than in the pre-steam era . The increase from 1801 ? 26 was only 62 per cent , or two per cent annually . From 1827 ? 49 it was 188 per cent , or eight per cent annually.58 Although the increased passenger travel played a part in this rapid expansion the increase in shipments of farm produce was also of great significance . With the disaster of the great famine 1845 ? 7 and the opening of British ports to foreign corn from 1846 , the cargo ships of the Irish Sea gradually changed their role from being suppliers of corn and meal to suppliers of livestock and livestock produce . From an average of under 200,000 head of cattle shipped from Ireland to the UK in the 1820s the number increased to over a million annually by the 1860s.59 Steam shipping , with its reliable and greatly faster sailing times , had made the marketing of livestock across the Irish Sea a much more attractive proposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it profitable for the first time to carry on a large business in the sale of Irish eggs in England and Wales . Before the establishment of steam navigation in the ports of Southern Ireland the price of eggs fluctuated sharply , depending on // the progress of sailing vessels on the voyage to England , and the consequent glut or scarcity of supplies in markets such as Cork . With the greater regularity of sailing of steam vessels the Irish markets were at first in short supply and prices were higher . But with the greater certainty of sales more poultry were reared and a great expansion of the trade took place.60 IV The rapid expansion of the passenger steamboat services round Britain 's coasts had an important impact on other forms of transport . Long before the arrival of the railways gave the coup de grace to the long-distance coach traffic the activities of the steamship companies , particularly on the east coast , were causing alarm to coach proprietors . Mr Charles Collins , a coach proprietor on the London ? Blackheath Road , told a parliamentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of regular steamship services on the Kentish coast he had been obliged to halve the number of coaches he maintained on the route . The steam vessels ' , he said certainly took away nearly all our profit . ' Formerly the coach proprietors had counted on making most money in the summer season : but this was just the time of year when there was the greatest competition from steamboats.61 At that time the steamship fare charged for cabin passengers travelling from Hull to London was only 4s . The steerage fare was a mere 2s . The coach passenger duty payable per seat on coaches making the journey from York to London was double the cabin fare by steamer and the coach proprietor had other taxes to pay before he could begin to look for any profit.62 Further north the revenue of the East Lothian , Berwickshire and North Durham turnpike trusts had all diminished in consequence of the steamboats ' .63 When , in 1838 , the stage-coach proprietors of the Great North Road petitioned parliament for exemption from assessed taxes on guards and coachmen and from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in steam navigation ' which caused many persons visiting the north to prefer the journey by water rather than that by land.64 In the heyday of the coaching age , Barnet , the first important stage on the Great North Road , found stabling for 800 horses . By 1845 , principally because of the diversion of traffic to steamships , there were no more than 40 coach horses in the town and the value of property had fallen , in some cases , by more than half.61 Once a railway system had been created , the business of the steampackets was increasingly threatened ( except , of course , in the case of cross-channel and island services ) and this sector of coastwise shipping began to fulfil a different role . The inevitable reaction to an // extension of the rail passenger services was fare-cutting by the steamship companies which endeavoured to dissuade their customers from deserting to the railway . When through rail communication was established to Edinburgh in 1846 the General Steam Navigation Company reduced steamship fares between the English and Scottish capitals for first class cabin passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class cabin passengers from ? 2 10s to ? 1 15s . Three years later there were further reductions to ? 2 10s and ? 1 10s , presumably because the earlier changes had not arrested the passengers ' growing preference for speedier journey by land . By 1885 , fares , including the steward 's fee in the chief cabin , were down to 22s , and in the second cabin to 16s . It was possible to buy a return ticket for as little as 24s 6d.66 By this time all but the wealthier steam packet companies had been squeezed out . The General Steam Navigation Company , which gained its main revenue from the short sea routes on the North Sea , kept a reduced passenger service on this station mainly to act as a feeder to its more lucrative north European traffic . The continued existence of a very cheap passenger service by sea , in financial terms , if not in speed , highly competitive with the railroad , helped to keep down rail fares on this and on other routes such as that between Glasgow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passenger and cargo steamship and sailing ship services combined with the development of the railways to make both urgent and profitable the construction of new and improved harbours , jetties and piers . When steamships began to ply regularly further out from Glasgow into the Firth of Clyde in the 1820s , the want of a proper harbour at Largs , an increasingly popular resort , was a great obstacle to further development of the traffic . In this case improvement followed the initiative taken by Sir T. M. Brisbane , Bart. , who secured an Act of Parliament and contributed shares , along with 30 other investors , for the ? 4,275 needed for a new harbour , opened in 1832 . The investment yielded a steady six per cent return.61 Partly in order to deal with the emergent steam packet business to London , a new chain pier was built at Newhaven ( for Leith ) in 1821 . While the steam-packets were small ships of under 200 tons it served its purpose very well ; but a decade later the more powerful ships coming into service drew more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tide and they were obliged either to await a favourable tide or to anchor out to sea . The Duke of Buccleuch then sponsored the construction at Granton of a new pier to which the steam-packets resorted . Meanwhile the cargo trade of Leith was developing rapidly and in 1847 the Government granted ? 135,000 for a new dock ( the Victoria Dock ) which was opened in 1852.69 // In the southern half of the kingdom piers were constructed at a large number of seaside resorts to cater for the growing steamship traffic . Southend was just one example where it was the building of a pier rather than a railway which gave the initial boost to popularity and rapid growth of population . Although the small town achieved notoriety with the visit of Princess Charlotte of Wales in 1801 the New Pier ' , built opposite the Royal Hotel in the following year , stood in water too shallow to accommodate the steamships which began to call from the season 1819 onwards . Visitors to Southend in those days needed to possess a stoical patience . When the steamers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wait by the hour together ' for the small vans , capable of carrying no more than 17 persons , to cross more than a mile of sand to their rescue . The alternative , much preferred by aspiring young maidens , but shunned by the older generation , was to be carried ashore on the backs of sailors . These romantic opportunities ceased in 1830 when steamers started to call at the second new ' pier . Once the problem of landing visitors was resolved ? at least for some years ? there was a great increase ' in the number of visitors coming from London , some 7,000 people making the sea voyage in 1834.70 As the railway became more ubiquitous in the second half of the nineteenth century it became clear that , if the coastwise cargo trade was to continue to grow , the efficiency of the vessels engaged in it would have to be improved by the enlargement of their carrying capacity , the adoption , where necessary , of steam power in the place of sails and the quicker turn round of ships so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land transport . However , these innovations could not have been introduced without the enlargement and deepening of harbours . Admittedly the even more rapid expansion of overseas trade was sometimes a more compelling reason for harbour improvement ; but there is no doubt that the requirements of the coastwise trade were a significant and sometimes , decisive , influence on the side of modernisation and extension of berthing capacity . One area which from the 1820s experienced a very rapid growth in the coal trade was south Wales . To make possible the rapid increase in the quantity of coal seaborne from the Welsh valleys , river mouths were deepened and wet docks were opened at Llanelly in 1828 , Cardiff in 1839 , Newport in 1844 and Swansea in 1852.71 Under the Harbours and Passing Tolls Act of 1861 , the government authorised the Public Works Loan Commissioners to lend money at low rates of interest to harbour authorities carrying out works of modernisation and improvement . In the following twenty years nearly a million pounds was thus advanced to supplement local effort at Aberdeen , Belfast , Falmouth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ COASTAL SHIPPING ( see Table 2 ) . In the same 20 years over ? 22 million of private and municipal capital was invested in new harbour works.7 " On Tyneside , Teesside and the Wear the coastal trade in coal was the great all-pervasive influence for dock and riverside improve-ments . In Sunderland the leading developments in the harbour , paral-leling the growth of coal shipments , is summarised as follows:73 From the time the first iron screw collier vessel , the John Bowes , entered the Thames in July 1852 the proportion of coal coming from the north-east in steamships of this type rapidly increased . But because they cost more to build and run than the sailing brigs they replaced they could only be kept in service economically if they were able to discharge their cargoes quickly and complete 30 round trips between the Tyne , Tees or Wear and London each year , compared with the eight to ten trips which was the most that could be managed by the brigs . These innovations , however , provided a most powerful incentive to the authorities responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide modern cranes , deep anchorages and extended berthing space . As late as 1860 the River Tyne was not suitable for navigation by large vessels . The bar at the entrance was covered with only six feet of water at low tide and swift and dangerous currents swept round obstacles along the river banks like Bill Point and Whitehall Point . Qn either side of the harbour were the dangerous rocks known as the Black Midden at Tynemouth and the Herd Sands at South Shields . A significant milestone in the improvement of the shipping facilities of the region was the passing of the River Tyne Improvement Act in 1850 , providing for a joint control over the river by the Admiralty and the four municipalities of Newcastle , Gateshead , Tynemouth and South Shields through a Tyne Improvement Commission.74 Within the next 20 years the navigability of the river was transformed through a massive campaign of dredging . The quantity of earth removed from the river bed to widen and deepen the channel of navigation and increase harbour acreage rose from 496,402 tons in 1859 to 1,864,544 tons in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvements the more than five-fold increase of coal shipments from the Tyne ? from 3,805,633 tons in 1850 to 20,299,955 tons in 1913 ? would have been quite impossible.76 Here was the supreme example of the truism that the continued growth of coastwise shipping was dependent on massive investment in major harbour improvements on the part of railway companies , river commissioners , the government and private investors . Port authorities which failed to meet the challenge provided by the larger steamships and lagged behind others in the investment of capital for the improvement of navigation in their district soon fell behind their more enterprising rivals . For a time coal shipments from the port of Blyth declined after 1873 because harbours on the Tyne could provide deeper water and better facilities ' for the screw colliers . Only after the businessmen of the port were shaken out of their apathy by the decline in their basic source of livelihood was there a reversal of the downward trend . In 1883 they secured an Act of Parliament which provided for the appointment of commissioners for the management of Blyth harbour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Following the opening by the North Eastern Railway of two new coaling berths in 1888 coal shipments doubled , topping the two million ton mark in the short space of three years 77 V Throughout the greater part of the nineteenth century the conditions of employment of the merchant sailors who manned both passenger and cargo vessels were largely determined by the free play of market forces . Wages were fixed by individual bargaining though there were recognised rates of pay on each type of ship . Given the fact that passage times , even of steamships , were not precisely predictable , the limitation of hours of work was regarded as quite impracticable . On passenger vessels many of the journeys , as for example those from Glasgow to Liverpool or Edinburgh to London , took much longer than the nine , ten or 12 hours which at different times in the first half of the nineteenth century were regarded by landlubbers as constituting a normal working day . Even on the regular-plying short-distance passenger packet boats wages were paid at infrequent intervals . Sailors employed by the crack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1850s were paid once in three weeks.78 On cargo vessels payment was more commonly made at the end of each voyage . On the collier ( sailing ) brigs of the north-east captains received ? 8 9s , mates ? 5 6s , able seamen ? 4 ? ? 4 10s and cooks ? 5 to ? 5 10s , with the right to collect and sell the slush , i.e. the scum from boiled beef // and pork . Apprentices , taken on for a period of five years , started at ? 8 and rose by ? 1 a year until their time expired.79 Payment by the voyage meant that earnings were liable to fluctuate violently according to the season of the year and the state of the weather , but the typical collier brig rarely averaged more than ten trips annually . Even more unpredictable were the earnings of those who worked the collier brigs from the port of Sunderland . In 1854 a sliding scale of wages was adopted , varying with the freight charge per ton of coal carried to London . When coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages were ? 3 15s a voyage ; with coal at 12s a ton wages were ? 6 15s . Thus a man 's yearly earnings fluctuated according to two variables ; the state of the weather ( and hence the number of voyages completed ) and the state of the coal market . Men employed on the early screw colliers at this time were more fortunate . Though the rate paid them per voyage ? ? 2 15s ? was less than the payment per voyage to the men employed on the sailing vessels , their annual earnings at ? 80 8s were approximately double because the steamships could count on completing 30 round trips a year to the sailing ships ' ten.80 The great increase in the number of screw colliers in the third quarter of the nineteenth century served to aggravate the differential in earnings in the two types of ships . As both the speed and the carrying capacity of the steamships increased so the freights they charged were lowered . To stay in business the masters of the collier brigs were obliged to lower their freights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reducing expenditure on maintenance and cutting down their wages bill ( which usually took up a third of running costs ) . Apart from questions of financial reward , the conditions of service varied enormously between the different types of ship in coastal service . Men employed in the steam packets could count on a more regular rhythm to their working lives . Times of payment as well as the duration of voyages were more predictable than they were on sailing ships . Because their main function was to carry passengers , the ships they worked were cleaner and more seaworthy and their living quarters more civilised . But the labour of able seamen as well as of firemen on these vessels could be very exacting . After their ship was tied up in harbour the crew of the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company 's Prince Arthur were at regular intervals employed blacking the funnels , scraping the soot off the masts , cleaning the steam pipes , coating the ship 's bottom or lending a hand to the painters . The crew was not even at liberty to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 26 December 1852 the master of the ship wrote Ship 's company sent to church ' .81 On board the colliers which employed a majority of the sailors engaged in the English coasting trade living conditions were often grossly overcrowded and indescribably filthy . // Walter ( later Viscount ) Runciman , who owned a number of them , described what life was like in the crew 's quarters under the topgallant forecastle . When the weather was the least bit rough the men 's hammocks thumped against each other . A large part of the limited space available was littered with lumber . . . ropes , blocks , tar barrels , water casks and all sorts of spare gear ' , while the stench from the anchor chain , covered with the mud and filth of the Thames ' was intolerable until one became seasoned ' . As the owners of collier brigs gradually lost out in the unequal struggle with the relentlessly efficient screw colliers and the wear and tear of their ships increased , it was the painter rather than the carpenter who was brought in to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good , seasoned , timber.82 One inevitable result of this skimping was that casualties among the ships were alarmingly high . The latterday vessels were described by one authority as a sorry fleet of floating death traps ' , an assertion borne out by the fact that no less than 675 collier brigs went to the bottom in the winter season of 1865 ? 6.83 Among sailors on this coast it was a common saying that if the North Sea were to dry up it would be found like a green field with Wilson 's boats of Hull ' ? all of which were painted green.84 For the greater part of the nineteenth century collective efforts by the sailors to improve their wages and living standards were spasmodic and generally ineffective . In the packet service there is evidence that on 19 June 1861 eight men employed on the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company 's vessel Munster made a collective protest against being obliged to work in the graving dock in Dublin after normal working hours on their ship and they were rewarded for their pains by being given the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned not to employ them.85 In 1879 men employed on the Tyne , Wear and Tees formed the North of England Sailors and Seagoing Firemen 's Union , but they failed to persuade the shipowners of the district to negotiate collective agreements . Eight years later one of the members of this union , J. Havelock Wilson , convinced of the ineffectiveness of an organisation which was confined to one region , established the National Amalgamated Union of Seamen and Firemen . In the trade boom of 1889 ? 90 he succeeded in recruiting 65,000 members and in securing some improvements in wages ; but the employers were adamant against any form of collective bargaining and set up the Shipping Federation for the express purpose of preventing it . The Federation Ticket ' was only issued to those men who undertook not to refuse to work with non-union labour.86 Shipowners also gave financial backing to William Collison 's National Free Labour Association formed in 1893 to maintain a pool of free ' labour available for filling the place of strikers . Quite apart from the employers ' resistance to union recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade unionism , being either self-employed or working closely alongside the ship 's master . In this category were the small crews of the stackies ' and stumpies ' which plied between the East Anglian ports and the Pool of London and those who manned the sailing vessels out of Appledore on the north Devon coast . Improvements in conditions on board ship were the product partly of changes in technology and partly the result of legislation . The design of coastal ships began to be modified in the early years of the twentieth century . Because of strong incentives for the quicker loading and discharge of ships and the requirements of the Merchant Shipping Acts of 1875 , 1876 and 1890 in respect of the load line and for the better trimming of cargoes , holds were cleared of pillars and cantilever brackets were introduced. $ ' At the same time the crews ' quarters in the forecastle were raised to the level of the main deck with consequent benefits in improved lighting and ventilation . In the 1930s there were far more radical changes in design when the crews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , well above the load line , while the forecastle head was confined to storing ship 's equipment.88 Although the tendency to move the bridge , funnel and crew 's quarters has been attributed to changing economic and strategic conditions ? the need for larger holds to facilitate the carriage of guns , steel plates and bulky machinery ? it was also the outcome of the improved bargaining strength of the unions . It certainly made life at sea far more civilised . The interventions of parliament in respect of the seaworthiness of ships were closely related to the occurrence of major disasters to shipping in the same way as the nineteenth-century legislation on public health followed closely in the wake of epidemics of cholera . Furthermore , as was the case with the railways , legislation designed to prevent accidents was at first primarily concerned to protect the lives of passengers rather than employees , as passengers were generally more articulate and they , or their next of kin , better able to exact compensation . After 1815 the demand for steam vessels was so great that there were neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledgeable enough about steam engines to ensure safety at sea . The situation was summed up admirably by a Hull shipbuilder in 1839 : Steam navigation has advanced more rapidly than men of experience and knowledge of machinery can be found to conduct it ; hence we often find . . . in river packets in particular men advanced to the post of engineer who are mere automatons ignorant of the first principles of the machine over which they preside.89 The earliest steamboats put to sea without being subject to any government regulation as to the safety of their machinery , the number of passengers they were permitted to carry or the rule of the road // they should follow when encountering other vessels . It took the destruction of the Telegraph steam packet at Norwich on 4 April 1817 , and the death of many of its passengers through the explosion of its boilers , to persuade parliament to appoint a Select Committee on Boiler Pressures later that year . Although the Committee reported in favour of the appointment of inspectors to check the safety features of steamboats and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of Commons saw no occasion to panic and failed to give the measure its approval . The Bill 's opponents pleaded that it was folly to legislate principally on the basis of one accident and that in any case steamboat proprietors were the best guardians of the safety of their own ships . But if Westminster did not recognise any urgency in the problem the shipping authorities on the Clyde soon did . Congestion of steamships on that river was so acute by the early 1820s and collisions and explosions so frequent that the Clyde Trustees were given power in 1825 to inspect steamboats and enforce regulations concerning the number of lifeboats they carried , how they were to be lit at night and how they should tie up when taking on and landing passengers . A Tyne Association of Steam Packet Owners assumed similar powers for the shipping of Newcastle and district from 1835 onwards . Meanwhile the Aldermen and Council of the City of London had found it necessary to limit the speed of steamboats plying in the Pool of London to half their normal rate because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craft . Parliament did not stir again on the question until the number of shipwrecks reached alarming proportions in the early 1830s . It apparently required another major dramatic disaster , this time the sinking of the Rothesay Castle off Beaumaris on 17 August 1831 , with the loss of over 100 lives , to convince the majority of MPs that a further enquiry into steamboat accidents was desirable 90 Undoubtedly what persuaded the Commons to appoint a select committee on steamboat accidents later that year was the fact that an influential member of the House , Col. Sibthorp , had lost two relatives in the Rothesay Castle , and pestered the Government to take action.9 ' Although , under Col. Sibthorp 's chairmanship , the committee recommended such reforms as the professional examination of masters and mates , the registration of vessels and the introduction of masthead and other lights , its labours were as fruitless as those of its predecessor in 1817 . Some of the recommendations of Col. Sibthorp 's committee were embodied in the Steam Navigation Act of 1846 which for the first time required all sea-going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to uniform regulations , after dark . At the same time parliament acknowledged the disadvantages of locally enforced rules of the road ' ? Liverpool 's ships passed each other on the starboard side , ships registered elsewhere passed on the port side ? and enforced a // standard practice throughout the country . The Board of Trade for the first time obtained powers to receive reports on all accidents at sea and to appoint inspectors to check whether vessels were seaworthy . Gaps in the Act of 1846 were partly made good by the Steam Navigation Act of 1848 and the Mercantile Marine Act of 1850 and further legislation in the following year . By the mid-1850s passengers boarding a coastwise steamship were much better protected against disaster at sea than were their predecessors of the 1820s and 1830s.92 Insofar as sailors were employed on passenger vessels they too benefited from the better training of ships ' officers and the more adequate provision of lights , lifeboats , etc . But most British seamen served on cargo vessels and the Board of Trade displayed a much greater reluctance to intervene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous book Our Seamen . An Appeal , which appeared in 1873 , Samuel Plimsoll pointed out the outstanding abuses which made it inevitable that employment in the merchant navy was highly dangerous and second only to coalmining in terms of its annual mortality figures . Ships were sent to sea overloaded and with cargo piled so high on the decks that sailors were unable without great difficulty to reach the rigging in times of storm ; cargo was carelessly , even dangerously , stowed ; unseaworthy ships were sent from port over-insured so that , in the event of their sinking , they brought their owners a substantial profit ; crimps entrapped drunken men into the service and kept them in their grip . Plimsoll gave further evidence of these malpractices when he spoke as a witness before the Royal Commission which was appointed to examine his charges in 1873 . Eventually Parliament passed the Merchant Shipping Act in 1876 introducing a compulsory load line ? the Plimsoll line ? on all British registered ships and greatly strengthening the powers of the Board of Trade inspectors ( first appointed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it proved to be the most important legislative contribution to the improvement of the working conditions of the sailors employed round British and foreign coasts . In at least one other respect the coastal shipping service was made less hazardous as an occupation before the First World War : the chain of lighthouses , lifeboats and rocket stations round the coasts of Britain was greatly extended and the quality of service provided vastly improved . Most of the early lighthouses were privately owned and , apart from the inadequacies of the kind of illumination provided , were sometimes administered with an eye more for the profit of the owners than the greater safety of ships at sea . The owners of the Skerries lighthouse on one of Britain 's main trade routes near Anglesey , earned a net profit of ? 87,673 on total receipts from light dues paid by ships of ? 102,595 in the years 1827 ? 33 inclusive.93 From 1680 onwards the corporation of Trinity House had gradually taken over a number of // privately owned lighthouses , but by an Act of 1836 it was given ownership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as supervisory powers over those of Scotland and Ireland which were more directly administered by the Commissioners of Northern Lighthouses and the Dublin Ballast Board ( from 1867 the Commissioners of Irish Lights ) . The corporation of Trinity House saw to it that money raised from light dues was devoted exclusively to the maintenance and improvement of the lighthouses and not , as had previously been the case , to a wide variety of other purposes like street lighting and paving as well . Meanwhile , in the first half of the nineteenth century candle lighting was replaced by , first , vegetable oil and then sperm oil lamps . In 1865 the first gas-lit high-candle-powered lighthouse was put in service in Dublin Bay . This example was followed by other stations round the British coast , although petroleum oil was more frequently used than gas as a source of power until , in the last two decades of the century , electric power began to be used , particularly after its successful installation at St Catherine 's Point , Isle of Wight , in 1888.94 Where lights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last hope was that there might be a rocket line or lifeboat to bring him safely ashore . Until the later 1830s his chances of being saved by life line were slim as the number of rocket stations were few and very indifferently manned . In 1858 control of rocket and mortar apparatus was assumed by the government and placed first under H.M. Customs and then , from 1857 , under a department of the Board of Trade managing the Merchant Marine Fund . Under this new energetic direction the number of rocket stations increased rapidly from 198 in 1857 to 298 in 1886 . Paralleling these improvements there was an impressive increase in the number of lifeboat stations established by the voluntarily supported National Institution for the Preservation of Life from Shipwreck ( 1824 ) , renamed in 1854 the Royal National Lifeboat Institution.95 Although the number of deaths from shipwreck remained distressingly high , many more lives were saved in proportion to the number of sailors employed in the 1880s than had been the case in the 1850s . In the nine years 1878 ? 86 inclusive 5,592 lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 96,360 by the boats of wrecked ships and by other ships.96 The enormous wastage of the human resources of the industry was , at last , being substantially reduced . 4 The Foundation of the Railway System I The British railway system came into being through the efforts of the first generation of engineers to meet the needs of the rapidly expanding mining and textile industries . A modern railway has been defined as a publicly controlled means of transport possessing the four distinctive features of a specialised track , mechanical traction , the accommodation of public traffic and the conveyance of passengers . ' The need for a more efficient method of carrying coal from the pithead to the waterside staith led to the development of a specialised track or railway ; the need for a more efficient means of pumping water from tin and coal mines gave rise to James Watt 's improvement in the steam engine in 1769 ; and the need of both cotton and coal industries for a more economical and rapid means of locomotion than the horse led to the adaptation of the steam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railway had been brought together the two other salient characteristics of a modern railway ? the accommodation of public traffic and the conveyance of passengers ? quickly followed . Between 1574 and 1674 the quantity of coal carried coastwise from Newcastle to London rose by over 20 times . ' As the best British forests became increasingly denuded to supply the navy and the charcoal industry of the Weald and Severn Valley the price of timber rose alarmingly . In the second half of the sixteenth century it rose at least twice as fast as the general rise in prices . ' The increasing scarcity and high price of wood for domestic heating persuaded ever growing numbers of householders to use coal as a substitute . At the same time important industries such as brewing , salt- , glass- and brick-making either switched to the use of coal alone or used greatly increased quantities in the process of manufacture . The excessive cost of land transport meant that most coal sold in the market was carried by sea or by river . The business of marketing was largely confined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with greater certainty to make the return journey to London , or other ports . From November to April the prospect of heavy gales on the east coast kept the sailing vessels in harbour at the same time as the rains and frosts transformed the land routes from the pits to the staiths into impassable quagmires . There were strict limits to the quantity of coal that could be stacked near the pit heads pending the improvement of the roads in spring . The staiths could easily take // much greater quantities . What was urgently needed , then , was a satisfactory means of moving coal over land in winter . It was to remove this bottleneck that the wooden railway began to be introduced from the first decade of the seventeenth century . At some date between October 1603 and October 1604 the first wooden rails were laid down at Wollaton in Nottinghamshire by Huntingdon Beaumont , lessee of coalpits from Sir Percival Willoughby , a substantial landowner of the district.4 A few months later , in the course of 1605 , the first wooden rails were laid down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1660 others followed in Shropshire and Scotland and at other places in the Severn Valley and the north-east . With the aid of these early wooden railways coal could be moved more speedily and cheaply to the sea or river bank . Undoubtedly the need for them was greatest on Tyneside where coal production was expanding more rapidly than in any other part of the kingdom . It was estimated that some 20,000 horses were employed in the Newcastle coal trade in 1696 and that one group of pits at Whickham employed over 700 wains daily before the construction of railways made such a prodigal use of road transport unnecessary.5 At first the railway was given different names in the different regions of the country where it was employed . In the north-east the earliest lines were called waggonways . But it was the terms in use in Shropshire , railroad or railway , which ultimately gained general acceptance not only in preference to waggonway , but also to groove , the word used by Tennyson in Locksley Hall ( Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been made under cover of darkness and in ignorance of the nature of the track.6 Although the carriage of coal by wooden railway was greatly superior to the early methods of haulage , the wear and tear of the track made necessary the frequent renewal of the rails . At best , with light traffic , rails would have to be replaced within three years ; with heavy traffic annual replacement was essential . The improvements in the methods of manufacturing iron during the latter part of the eighteenth century , particularly the patenting of the reverbatory furnace in 1766 and the puddling process in 1784 , made it a feasible proposition first , to add a cast iron plate covering to the part of the wooden rail most exposed to wear and tear , and then to replace the wooden rail entirely by an iron one . A cast iron bar was laid on a wooden rail for the first time at Coalbrookdale in Shropshire in 1767 . Rails made entirely of cast iron began to appear in the 1790s , their use being greatly encouraged by the growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty in obtaining imported timber because of war time interruptions to British shipping . More durable wrought iron rails began to be produced in 1808 , by which time wooden rails // had practically disappeared . These were changes which were stimulated by the scarcity prices of oats and hay and by the necessity to make the most effective use of extensive horse power . By the first decade of the nineteenth century , when the first experiments in steam locomotive haulage were being conducted , the British Isles already possessed an impressive total of 300 miles of railway track. ? Fortunately , from the viewpoint of the transport needs of the coal industry , the Boulton and Watt patent for the manufacture of the steam engine expired in 1800 and the early engineers , who were well aware of the pressing need for improved methods of mechanical haulage of coal and tin , were free to adapt the steam engine to higher boiler pressures and locomotive motion . As a result of the boom in the tin-mining industry and the need to pump water from the deeper workings there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county at the end of the eighteenth century . Richard Trevithick ( 1771-1833 ) , who made the greatest contribution to the adaptation of the steam engine for tractive purposes , was born in the heart of the tin-mining area , the son of the manager of Dolcoath mine and , in his early twenties , himself the manager of a mine near Penzance . In 1800 he moved to Camborne where on 28 December in the following year he tried out a steam road carriage he had designed and built . Early one summer morning in 1803 he and his cousin drove another steam carriage at a speed of eight miles an hour up Tottenham Court Road in London , accidentally breaking down a garden fence at the end of the run . ' These exploits attracted the attention of Samuel Homfray , proprietor of the Penydern colliery , near Merthyr Tydfil in Wales , who invited Trevithick to design a locomotive specifically for the 94-mile long railway which ran from Penydern to Abercynon . Both there and at Torrington Square near Euston , London , where he ran the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cornish engineer demonstrated the practicability of the steam locomotive . But his lack of commercial acumen and the variety of his other mechanical interests led to his ceasing his labours on the locomotive just when he should have redoubled them ' .9 Nevertheless his achievements were impressive . They were aptly summarised in a leading technical journal a generation later : Trevithick was the real inventor of the locomotive . He was the first to prove the sufficiency of the adhesion of the wheels to the rails for all purposes of traction on lines of ordinary gradient , the first to make the return flue boiler , the first to use the steam jet in the chimney and the first to couple all the wheels to the engine.10 The problems which Trevithick had left to be solved were how to strengthen the rails ( which had frequently broken under the weight // of the early engines ) , and how to increase the power of the locomotive in relation to its weight so that it could outclass the best horses in speed . Improvements in the railway track came gradually as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1830s and as refinements in design , such as the fish bellied pattern , first used extensively on the Liverpool and Manchester Railway in 1830 , were more widely adopted . Apart from three designed by Trevithick , only 25 other locomotives had been built by 182311 and not one of them was decisively superior to horse traction . The slow progress in achieving a decisive breakthrough in the performance of the locomotive resulted in the Stockton and Darlington Railway using a mixture of stationary engines , locomotives and horse traction for working the regular traffic of the line after its opening in September 1825 . Steep gradients precluded the use of locomotives on the Cromford and High Peak Railway in 1830.12 The seal of the Newcastle and Carlisle Railway , opened in 1835 , depicted a horse-drawn waggon , indicating that the triumph of the locomotive was not everywhere complete even ten years after the Stockton and Darlington line started in business . Commercial conditions in Lancashire provided the occasion for the resolution of the outstanding uncertainties about motive power . The rapid growth of the cotton industry resulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1760 to an estimated 163,888 in 1824 . Over the same span of time the population of Liverpool grew from 25,000 to 135,000 . The customs receipts of Liverpool rose by at least eight times between 1770 and 1825.13 In their prospectus , issued in 1824 , the promoters of the Liverpool and Manchester railway complained that the merchants of the two cities were obliged to depend on the Mersey and Irwell Navigation and the Duke of Bridgewater 's canal for the movement of their merchandise . These canal establishments ' they wrote , were inadequate to the regular punctual conveyance of goods , at all periods . Strong in the enjoyment of their monopoly ' they were charging 15s a ton for the conveyance of goods over the 301 miles , on occasion taking as long to get the goods through to Manchester as it did for the faster sailing ships to reach Liverpool from New York.14 In 1829 , with their Bill safely through parliament and the greater proportion of the track already laid , the directors determined to settle once for all the disputed question of the mode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered a prize of ? 500 to the designers of a locomotive which did not exceed six tons in weight but which proved able to pull a load at least three times its weight , at a speed of not less than ten m.p.h . In the Rainhill Trials Robert Stephenson 's Rocket was the only locomotive which complied with these conditions . Attaining a speed of 30 m.p.h. , it gave a conclusive demonstration of the // superiority of the steam locomotive . Through the introduction of the multi-tubular boiler the production of steam was enormously increased so that speeds were raised from about those of a carthorse to more than those of the fastest racehorse ' .15 This technological triumph is one reason for regarding the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway on 15 September as marking the beginning of the railway age . But this concern was also the first to combine all the features of modern railway mentioned in the opening paragraph of this chapter . As long ago as 1801 the Surrey Iron Railway had been open to the public use but it did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarter of a century later , did not fully qualify as it was not given over exclusively to mechanical traction and it carried few passengers . The Liverpool and Manchester Railway was unique in at least two important respects . From the date of its opening it was worked entirely with steam locomotive power and it was managed and run solely by the company which made all the arrangements for carriage of both goods and passengers . II What interested the investor after September 1830 was the 92 per cent dividend paid out with monotonous regularity by Britain 's first inter-city railway company . An even higher dividend could have been distributed but this would have involved , under the terms of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway Act , a downward revision of charges . It so happened that in the years immediately following the opening of the new line other conditions also conspired to persuade the propertied classes that new railway projects offered the most promising rewards to the investor . The good harvests of the years 1832 ? 5 helped the balance of payments and made credit easier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1830 and 1834 reduced the attractiveness of this outlet for spare money . Railway shares seemed to offer more favourable prospects , with as much security as was found in Government funds . In the years between 1825 and 1835 a total of 54 Acts had been passed authorising the construction of railways and resulting , by the end of 1838 , in the opening of over 500 miles of track . ' ' The most important component was the London and Birmingham Railway , opened in 1838 , with its links via the Grand Junction Railway to Liverpool and the North Union to Preston . Britain 's economic growth was at its maximum rate in the 1820s and 1830s and there were ample funds available for investment . Under the impetus of the favourable financial conditions of the early 1 ' 830s the pace of railway promotion quickened . Between 1836 ? 7 44 more // Acts were passed with the result that income-creating expenditure on railways rose from ? 1 million in 1834 to ? 9 million in 1839 . It was the first British railway boom . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Table 3 Number of companies , mileage and capital sanctioned by Railway Acts 1833 ? 40 Year No. of Mileage Capital Railway share companies sanctioned authorised index sanctioned ( ? millions ) ( June 1840 = 100 ) 1833 4 218 5.5 69.3 1834 5 131 2.3 67.8 1835 8 201 4.8 71.1 1836 29 955 22.9 111.1 1837 15 543 13.5 81.4 // 1839 2 54 6.5 79.9 1840 2.5 86.4 Source : R. C. O. Matthews : A study in Trade Cycle History , 1954 , p. 107 . A violent trade recession in the USA in 1837 which depressed British exports to that country and a very poor harvest in 1838 with deficient harvests in the following three years pushed up the bank rate , severely reduced the availability of credit and undermined business confidence . In consequence there were very few new railway companies launched in 1838 ? 9 and none at all in 1840 . This does not mean that railway building came to a halt . On the contrary , these were years when the building of the more important lines , sanctioned earlier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Birmingham in 1838 , with Bristol and Southampton in 1840 , with Brighton in 1841 and with Dover in 1843 . In Wales , Merthyr Tydfil was linked with Cardiff in 1841 , and in Scotland a railway built right through the heart of the industrial lowlands connected Edinburgh with Glasgow , Greenock and Ayr in 1842 . By 1844 there was a railway network of 2,000 miles , three-quarters of which had been built since 1839 . By 1844 the time was ripe for a great revival of promotional activity . Good harvests in 1842 and 1843 , Peel 's reduction of tariff duties , and the Bank of England 's offer in January 1845 to make liberal advances on a wide variety of securities at the remarkably low rate of 22 per cent were the preconditions of expansion . A fever of unbounded optimism in the future of railways swept the country . The railway mania of 1844 ? 7 overshadowed in its magnitude the boom of a decade earlier . Impressive though they are , the figures in the above table do not tell the whole story . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were as many as 600 other schemes which did not get as far as a first reading.18 At the height of the mania many extravagant schemes for railways were canvassed which stood little chance of ever becoming viable undertakings . These were the days of the traffic takers ' , employed by the promoters of new railways , to discover the potential traffic of the district through which the intended line would pass . Edward Watkin , a railway magnate , second only in importance to George Hudson the Railway King , gave a witty account of the kind of methods sometimes used by these early Victorian adventurers : Between 1837 and 1845 inclusive , there were gentlemen who rode in their carriages and kept fine establishments , who were called traffic takers ' . He stumbled over one of these gentlemen in 1844 , who was sent to take the traffic on a railway called the Manchester and Southampton . It did not go to Manchester and it did not go to Southampton ; but it was certainly an intermediate link between these places . This gentleman went to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there took the number of sheep on the fair day , and assuming that there would be the same number all the days of the year , he doubled or trebled the amount for what he called ' develop-ment ' ( Laughter ) and the result was that he calculated that by sheep alone the Manchester and Southampton line would pay 15 per cent.19 // Bearing in mind that much promotional activity was of this character it comes as no surprise to find that a substantial proportion of the railway building authorised in the mid 1840s was never carried out . A Parliamentary Select Committee in 1853 estimated that about 2,000 miles of railway involving an outlay of upwards of ? 40 millions have been sanctioned by Parliament and afterwards abandoned by the promoters without the leave of Parliament ' . ' Nevertheless the lines which were laid down as a result of projects launched during the years of the railway mania brought the total of route miles open to just under 7,500 by 1852 . At least in respect of railways north of the Thames there is a remarkable degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ envisaged by Dr ( later Lord ) Beeching under his 1963 scheme for the rationalisation of the railway network . By the early 1850s there were two through routes to Scotland ; a relatively close network in the Midlands , Lancashire and the West Riding of Yorkshire ; a line to Norwich and Yarmouth via Colchester , and railways through to the coast in both north and south Wales . The biggest remaining gaps were in the south and south-west and in mid-Wales . But , by and large , most promotional activity in the second half of the nineteenth century was for the construction of branch and feeder lines which pushed the total route mileage to 23,441 by 1912 . The only major through route to be laid down after mid-century was the Great Central , an alternative route from London to the north , which was only completed in 1899 and was never very profitable . III After the superiority of the locomotive had been demonstrated on the Liverpool and Manchester Railway in 1830 the promoters of new lines had little difficulty in raising the necessary capital . Whereas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal of persuasion , through advertisements in the press and widely publicised promotional meetings , to place their savings in railway ventures , all that was normally required in the 1830s was the publication of a prospectus with invitations to the public to apply for shares . Applicants would then be sent letters of allotment indicating the number of shares to which they would be entitled , with a request that a deposit should be paid to the railway company 's banker . The subscriber was thereafter able to exchange the banker 's receipt for a scrip certificate which he held until the company gained its Act of Incorporation . Once Parliamentary authorisation had been obtained the investor could be called upon to pay instalments up to the full nominal value of his shares . ' Since the industrial north-west was the principal source of new wealth in Britain in the early decades of the nineteenth century it is // scarcely surprising that this area provided most of the capital for the early railway projects . Very nearly half of the 4,233 ; shares issued for the Liverpool and Manchester Railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liverpool and Manchester . A thousand of the remainder were paid for by the Marquess of Stafford who , as chief proprietor of the Duke of Bridgewater 's Canals , had a major stake in the prosperity of the area.22 Over 78 per cent of the initial capital for the Manchester and Leeds Railway , opened in 1841 , was held in the three counties of Lancashire , Yorkshire and Cheshire , more than half coming from Manchester alone . Lancashire supplied 98 per cent of the share capital of the Bolton &; Preston Railway in 1837 and 96 per cent of that of the Blackburn , Darwen and Bolton Railway in 1845.23 Outside the north-west , Lancashire capital was dominant in such widely scattered concerns as the Canterbury and Whitstable ( 1830 ) , ' London and Southampton ( 1840 ) , Great Western ( 1841 ) and Eastern Counties ( 1841 ) railways . " With the development of the electric telegraph after 1846 and the predominance of its stock exchange , the London area grew in importance as a source of supply and marketing of railway capital . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country from the early 1830s and although it could truly be said that there was a national market for railway capital by the mid-1840s , there were still the exceptions of railways mainly backed by local men of property . The subscription contract of the Furness Railway signed on 25 January 1844 reveals that the Duke of Buccleuch and the Earl of Burlington , the two principal landowners of the district , opted for ? 30,000 of the total of ? 56,500 initial capital of the new undertaking . ' A little to the north , the Maryport and Carlisle Railway likewise was run entirely by local gentry and coalowners ' , apart from a freakish period ' of some 15 months when it came under the control of George Hudson , the Railway King.27 In the far north of Scotland in 1853 the 182 shareholders with a local interest in the newly launched Highland Railway contributed ? 48,710 of the ? 80,000 capital initially raised . ' On the other hand with the more important North British Railway in 1844 the largest block of shares was held by Londoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines was largely paid for by the local gentry it would be entirely misleading to suggest that this was a characteristic of the national pattern of railway finance . At least for the important group of companies which merged to form the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway in 1 ' 847 , it has been shown that nearly two-thirds of the capital came from trade and industry whereas the landed interest only subscribed eight per cent of the total . ' Despite the claim by a distinguished historian of transport that during the railway mania from 1845 ... the rage for shares infected all classes from peer to peasant ' , 31 there is little evidence that wageearners held any significant proportion of railway capital . A recent researcher has found that in the north-west the impecunious clerk ... was comparatively unimportant ' as an investor and that there were // likewise very few poor widows who were persuaded to risk their all on railway ventures ' One result of the extravagant promotion of many uneconomic railways and excessive competition between companies in the years of the railway mania between 1845 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The average dividend on share capital which had been 5.48 per cent in 1845 fell to 3.31 per cent in 1850 . " Both the Midland and the Lancashire and Yorkshire railways declared their lowest dividend ? two per cent in each case ? in 1850 . In consequence the investor was no longer eager to subscribe to ordinary shares . He demanded the greater security offered by preference shares and debentures . By 1868 Henry Ayres was noting that The ordinary paid-up Share Capital , which ought to constitute the foundation upon which all the other descriptions should be secured , has been overwhelmed by the united claims of Preferential Shareholders , and the holders of Debenture Bonds , in many of our leading Railway Companies . " In 1863 Richard Moon , the chairman of the London and North Western Railway ? the largest railway company in Britain ? lamented that there were no proprietors willing to come forward to make a railway . They are made by contractors , engineers and speculators , who live on the fear of the companies . ' The contractors did indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . In the hectic days of the mania they had brought together huge armies of navvies with all the paraphernalia of shovels , planks , barrows , explosives , waggons and horses that went with railway building , and when the boom was over they were reluctant to disband resources so painstakingly assembled . But at the same time investors were , far more reluctant to part with their savings , and the railway companies were short of funds . A bargain was therefore struck between the contractors and the companies . Parliamentary authorisation for new railway building was obtained and the contractors were offered continued employment provided they were willing to accept payment in the form of the mortgage bonds of the railway company rather than in cash . Thus the best known of all the contractors , Thomas Brassey , undertook building for the North Staffordshire Railway in return for payment of ? 45,000 in the company 's bonds . Another contractor , E. L. Betts , was given ? 60,000 worth of the securities of the West End and Crystal Palace Railway for which he undertook the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of construction to continue through the cooperation of the banks . When the railway lacked the means of immediate payment the contractor would be given an acknowledgement under seal ' that he would be paid at a subsequent date . These Lloyds Bonds ? so called // from the name of John Horatio Lloyd , the barrister who devised the way out of the impasse ? enabled the contractor to obtain an advance from his banker and therewith to pay for the men and materials he needed to use . ' Such risky methods of building the contractors ' lines ' like the Metropolitan , the London , Chatham and Dover , the Metropolitan District and the Cambrian , were abruptly halted with the disastrous collapse of the leading London discount house of Overend , Gurney and Company in May 1866 . But recovery was rapid . The railway capital market was more buoyant in the later 1860s and early 1870s when little difficulty was experienced in raising fresh funds . However , between the later 1870s and the first World War , the enormous growth in British overseas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raise fresh capital , especially after 1905 , except on markedly more disadvantageous terms . The evidence from at least two of the major companies , the North Eastern and the London and North Western shows that their capital accounts went increasingly in the red before 1914 to the detriment of some of the engineers ' plans for modernisation of equipment ' For all their vicissitudes British railways before 1914 never needed to call for government help in the raising of capital . Government funds were provided for railway building in Ireland but the Irish case was always considered a special one . The only instance of financing other than from private sources on the other side of the Irish Sea was Hull Corporation 's contribution of ? 100,000 to the capital of the Hull and Barnsley Railway in 1862 37 IV When comparison is made between the capital costs of railways in Britain , the USA , and the leading European countries it would appear that the British railway system was expensively and extravagantly built . An estimate of costs up to the end of 1884 gave the average cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with ? 36,508 in Belgium , ? 27,704 in France , ? 21,236 in Germany and ? 11,000 in the USA . " Even when allowance is made for the fact that land was remarkably cheap in the USA ( and sometimes given to the railway companies by the government ) and that France and Germany were , at that time , less densely populated and less industrialised than was Great Britain , there can be no gainsaying the fact that the building of British railways was characterised by a wasteful use of time and resources . It was certainly the view of many contemporaries that landowners held railway companies up to ransom before they would part with any portion of their property . J. C. Jeaffreson , in his life of Robert I00 THE FOUNDATION OF THE RAILWAY SYSTEM Stephenson , published in 1864 , wrote that arty amount that could by any means be squeezed from the funds of a railway company under the name of compensation public opinion decided to be legally and honourably acquired ' . ' The chairman of the Eastern Counties Railway told a Parliamentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 600,000 , out of a total of capital plus loans of ? 2,133,333 , on acquiring the necessary land just to get the railway from London to Colchester ? and the planned terminus of the line was Yarmouth ! One of the landowners compensated by this company , Lord Petre of Ingatestone Hall , received ? 120,000 for land worth ? 5,000.40 The Secretary of the London and Southampton Railway told the same Committee that he considered that on his line a great deal too much money ' had been paid out to landowners in excessive compensation ' . " The Chairman of the London and Croydon Railway cited the case of a family which owned 14 acres demanding ? 4,500 in compensation . The jury to whom the company appealed valued the property at ? 2,650.4 On the other hand some landlords quickly appreciated that a nearby railway would increase , rather than lower , the value of their property and they were willing to settle with the railways on a reasonable valuation . Not so far from Croydon , the South Eastern Railway was acquiring land at an average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in Yorkshire the Leeds and Selby Railway 's costs for land purchases did not greatly exceed the board 's original estimates.4 , Overall estimates of the cost of land as a proportion of the railways ' total costs have been attempted on at least two occasions . J. S. Jeans in 1887 estimated that , at an average cost of ? 4,000 per mile , the railways had paid about ? 76 million , or one tenth of their total capital , on acquiring some 235,000 acres of land . In 1952 Harold Pollins , after examining , the finances of a sample of 27 companies , found that they had spent 13.9 per cent of their capital in purchasing land . He concluded that although British railway companies would obviously have benefited from buying their land more cheaply this would not have appreciably reduced the ditliculties ' .45 The method of obtaining Parliamentary authorisation for the construction of railways was very time consuming and wasteful of the companies ' ? and the nation 's ? resources . What was needed was an impartial tribunal to examine the need for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the particular routes the lines should follow . The Departmental Committee of the Board of Trade , presided over by Gladstone in 1844 , made a strong recommendation that an independent body should be set up to vet railway projects so that unnecessary duplication of effort might be avoided . This proposal did not at all suit the railway interest , successfully mobilised by George Hudson . Gladstone 's plan was quickly stifled . The result THE FOUNDATION OF THE RAILWAY SYSTEM I0I of the Government 's shortsightedness was that a golden harvest was reaped by the solicitors who acted for the all-too-numerous railway companies promoted during the mania while a disappointingly meagre return was given to many of the shareholders . The situation in Westminster resulting from the failure of government to give a firm lead was the subject of frank comment by one of the most successful of the railway solicitors , George Burke , of Burke and Venables , who told the Lords ' Select Committee on Railways in 1846 that the expense of getting some railway Bills through Parliament was quite frightful ' , because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' in order to wreck their opponents ' plans . When asked Do you know what number of objections have been made by one party against a BillT he replied : I was guilty myself of taking 400 once and discussing them for 23 days upon minute matters . " " The consequence of giving a free hand to every vested interest , however petty and sectional it might be , was to inflate the parliamentary costs of major railway undertakings . Because there were five competing schemes for a railway from London to Brighton ? 180,000 of shareholders ' money was spent in wrangling over the respective merits of each . Eventually only one line was authorised and the chairman of the successful company admitted that a great deal of trouble and expense ' would have been saved if an impartial board ' had settled the question at an early date " To get the first Bill for the GWR approved by Parliament cost the company ? 87,197 or about ? 775 per mile of line constructed . ' But the supreme example of extravagance was the struggle of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company and its allies spent ? 433,000 on steering the Bill through Parliament . Allowing for the substantial expenditure of its opponents , it is safe to say that at least half a million pounds was expended in securing Parliamentary authorisation before the first sod of earth for the new railway could be cut . ' These are the outrageous instances which naturally find prominence in the literature about the railways ; but how serious was the problem in the aggregate ? J. S. Jeans estimated that , up to 1882 , about ? 16 millions had been spent by the railways in securing Parliamentary powers and that this sum was no more than two per cent of the capital outlay of the companies.50 Taking the longer span of time up to 1914 it seems unlikely that any larger proportion of total capital outlay went on Parliamentary expenditure . Mr M. Robbins suggested that compared with a total investment of ? 1,100 millions on British railways before 1915 the picturesque episodes ' of extortionate selling prices for land and inflated parliamentary expenses have no Significance ' .51 It may be conceded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the workshop of the world , wasteful expenditure on railway promotion seemed a IO2 THE FOUNDATION OF THE RAILWAY SYSTEM small price to pay for the substantial economies in transport costs the railways made possible . In the longer view , however , the fact that this part of the capital expenditure of the railways was some 1.6 per cent ( 13.9 per cent on account of land , two per cent on account of Parliamentary costs ) and was much greater than it need have been was of significance . By the end of the nineteenth century British manufactures were being elbowed out of European and American markets by the cheaper products of Germany and the USA . One reason why British goods were more costly was that ton ? mile freight rates were higher in Britain than in Germany and America . Without an over-burdened capital structure British rates could have been lower . Furthermore additional funds would have been available for vital improvements in signalling , the braking of waggons and the introduction of electric locomotion . V By the beginning of the railway age the requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new class of civilengineering contractor accustomed to organising , the labour of another new class , the navigators ' or navvies ' . With the construction of the railways the contractors became , for a few years , the biggest employers of labour in the country and the armies of navvies they mobilised one of the largest categories of workers employed apart from agriculture and textiles . Thee work of constructing a railway line was usually the subject of an elaborate division of labour . In charge of the whole undertaking was the engineer who was directly responsible to the board of directors for the progress and successful completion of the line . He , in turn , issued instructions to the contractor who undertook the preparation of the whole of the necessary earthworks and buildings . On the great trunk routes responsibility for the work of construction was generally divided between a number of contractors in order to expedite the completion of the work although the key sections would be given to one of the leading firms such as Peto and Betts , Jacksons or Firbanks . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1840 , the engineer Joseph Locke employed the famous contractor Thomas Brassey to build the important central stretch , 36 miles long , between Basingstoke and Winchester , whilst using the services of men of lesser reputation to complete other parts of the undertaking . ' All the great contractors let out a part of their work , generally the more straightforward portion of the line , to sub-contractors who were men who possessed about ? 1,000 to ? 1,500 of capital and hired the services of a number of gangs of navvies . The lowest rank of entrepreneur was that of butty man ' or ganger , who under orders from the contractor // or sub-contractor , undertook more limited assignments such as the removal of an agreed number of waggon loads of earth from a cutting . He paid the members of his gang and kept a cut ' for himself . Some butty men acquired a well-deserved reputation for good management and craftsmanship in bricklaying , drainage work or other tasks and wise contractors made the maximum use of these specialised skills . Brassey was constantly advising his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .54 Railway building undoubtedly provided the Occasion for the growth of large-scale enterprise in the contracting business . Samuel Morton Peto , one of the largest contractors , was employing 14,000 men in 1850,5 ' a larger number than the entire New Model army which fought at Naseby . On his death in 1870 Thomas Brassey left a fortune of ? 3,200,000 , most of which had been acquired from his work as a railway contractor . Between 1844 and 1861 when some of the most important main lines were completed he was sole or joint contractor for 1,940 miles of railway , or approximately one sixth of the total till then built in Great Britain.56 The labour force was made up in part of skilled men including carpenters , bricklayers , masons and miners ' , whose pay in the 1840s rose to 5s a day in exceptional cases , and in part of the unskilled members of the butty gangs including trenchers , excavators and runners ( those who carried the earth away in wheelbarrows ) , whose rates of pay were little more than half those of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the north of England and the lowlands of Scotland . In the construction of railways further south redundant agricultural labour was more frequently employed . A witness before a Select Committee in 1827 declared that in any job where there was extensive excavation work be would not feel in the least surprised to find , that of 100 men employed in it , 90 were Irish ' .58 A contemporary historian gave a very uncomplimentary description of the labour force that built the British railway network : Rough alike in morals and manners , collected from the wild hills of Yorkshire and Lancashire , coming in troops from the fens of Lincolnshire , and afterwards pouring in masses from every country in the empire ; displaying an unbending vigour and an independent bearing ; mostly dwelling apart from the villagers near whom they worked ; with all the propensities of an untaught undisciplined nature ; unable to read and unwilling to be taught ; impetuous , impulsive and brute-like , regarded as the pariahs of private life , herding together like beasts of the field , owning no moral law and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand , and from thousands grew to hundreds of thousands . They lived but for I04 THE FOUNDATION OF THE RAILWAY SYSTEM the present ; they cared not for the past , they were indifferent to the future.59 In some respects this is a misleading picture . A contemporary of the railway navvies , Robert Owen ( 1771-1858 ) , was constantly asserting that a man 's character is made for him and not by him ' . The condition of the navvies illustrated more strikingly than did the lives of any other industrial group at the time the large measure of truth in Owen 's maxim . One of the great contractors , S. M. Peto , denied that the labourers in his employment were an uncontrollable lot . He found them easily managed ' . The engineer , I. K. Brunel , agreed . If well treated , he said , they were a very manageable ' set of people . ' In those cases where the men 's behaviour was anti-social the root of the trouble lay in the system of competitive tendering by the less affluent contractors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may well have ensured that the board of directors of the railway companies got the work done as cheaply as possible . But it also resulted in unduly low estimates and exceptionally early completion dates being quoted in frenzied efforts to secure contracts . To make what were regarded as acceptable rates of profit the contractors were then under the necessity of paring down expenses to the minimum . In the first place there was scope for economies in the kind of accommodation provided for the labourers . Where it was at all acceptable to the people of the locality , the men were crowded together in lodgings in the nearby towns and villages , as they were at Knaresborough in 1851 when the East and West Riding Junction Railway was under construction . " But often the workings were too remote or the local inhabitants too hostile for this to be possible . It was on such occasions that the humanity or the greed of the contractor became manifest . Thomas Jackson , who employed between three and four thousand men in the mid-1840s , was in the first of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two to three rooms , each cottage to accommodate one labourer and his family , and charged the uneconomic rent of between is 6d and 2s a week . By contrast the contractors who built the line between Carlisle and Glasgow were content to let men crowd into filthy , disease ridden , mud huts only 12 feet square . Not surprisingly human beings so accommodated tended to lose any sense of decency or self-respect . Another way in which hard-pressed contractors could recoup losses arising from underquoting for contracts was to run tornmy ' , or truck shops , compelling the labourers to accept at least a part of their wages , not in the coin of the realm , but in truck tickets expendable only in the contractor 's store where the prices of food and other necessities were higher than in the nearest independent retail shops . There was every justification for Thomas Jackson 's opinion that // where this practice prevailed the men were most cruelly used ' . It was often the case that the contractors made more profit from their truck shops than from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of one man who had made ? 1,400 in four weeks from his tommy shop ' .62 That the labourers were on occasions unruly and violent in their behaviour arose from the unnecessary dangers that they were sometimes called upon to face when at work . It happened that men 's lives were put at risk because a contractor had allowed too short a time for the completion of the contract and therefore resorted to timesaving short cuts such as undermining dangerously large quantities of earth . When driving in charges of dynamite into hard rock expense could be spared if copper stemmers were used instead of the more costly , but safer , lead variety . The only drawback was that hammering the copper stemmers could cause sparks , the premature explosion of the charge and the gruesome injury or death of the workmen involved . The most notorious episode in the heroic age of railway building in Britain was the construction of the Woodhead tunnel in a bleak and remote corner of Cheshire between 1839-45 . One of the surgeons who attended those employed in making the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compound fractures , 74 of simple fractures and 140 serious cases resulting from burns and blasts . With characteristic exactitude Edwin Chadwick showed that the casualty rates amongst men making the Woodhead tunnel ? over three per cent killed and 14 per cent wounded  --  were higher than those of the British armies engaged in the battles of the Peninsular War and at Waterloo . Even at the time of the railway mania there was available a steampowered mechanical excavator capable of moving 1,500 cubic yards of earth in twelve hours at a cost in fuel of only 12s per day . ' Had machines such as this been employed in building , British railways some of the loss of life associated with undermining might have been avoided . But it was not until the 1890s when the last main line railway , the Great Central , was being built that contractors found it worth while to employ any mechanical aids for the movement of earth , although Brassey used steam excavators when building the Grand Trunk railway in Canada in the 1850s because he found it difficult to secure labourers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above the maximum rate paid in England . ' Many men 's lives would have been saved it the government of the day had been prepared to follow the advice given by Edwin Chadwick to the Select Committee on Railway Labourers in 1846 . He urged that contactors should be made liable to pay compensation to injured workmen or to the next of kin of those killed even when it Io6 THE FOUNDATION OF THE RAILWAY SYSTEM was the workman who appeared to be the one immediately responsible for the accident . He reminded the committee that in France , where this was the law , the accident rate had been greatly reduced . But although the committee expressed sympathy with the proposal , the government was not prepared to act and before long the numbers of labourers employed decreased rapidly and Parliament and the public soon lost whatever interest they once had in the problem of the railway navvies. 5 The Economic and Social Effects of Railways I Contrary to the original expectation , the opening of Britain 's early railways had a more immediate impact on the pattern of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With very few exceptions , whenever a new line was opened to traffic there was a spectacular increase in the number of persons travelling along the route served compared with the numbers previously using the road . After the opening of the Newcastle and Carlisle Railway throughout its entire length on 18 June 1838 eleven times as many persons travelled by train as had previously gone by coach . ' Before the railway enabled the weavers and mechanics of Dundee to reach the seaside resort called the Ferry very few of them made the effort to reach it as the only means of travel was on foot or by one of the carriers ' slow moving carts . In seven months of 1839 , however , not less than 61,876 third-class tickets were sold on this short line 2 By the mid-1830s parliamentary committees examining proposals for railway Bills took it to be axiomatic that , once a railway was opened , the number of persons travelling by train would be at least double the number who had previously travelled on foot , by coach or by any other road vehicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first half of 1843 gained only 5.1 per cent of its revenue from passengers , was an exception to the general rule that the first use to which the new railways was put was greatly to augment the volume of passenger transport 3 In England and Wales as a whole there was a 20-fold increase in the number of persons travelling by train over the 30 years 1840-70 . If at first some railways , exploiting travellers ' preference for the speediest means of transport , charged the first-class passengers more than they would have had to pay making the same journey inside a coach , and the second-class passengers more than they would have been charged for an outside seat , it was not long before a majority of the companies decided to give railway fares the competitive edge over the charges for coach travel . Between Leeds and York , for example , the fare charged for a seat on the outside of a coach was 3s for a 31 mile journey occupying four hours . For the first few months the fare for the 80-minute train journey was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2s 6d to give the passenger by railway the advantages both of time and of cost . ' It was a policy which contributed I08 THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EFFECTS OF RAILWAYS handsomely to the rapid increase in the volume of rail traffic . Initially also a cautious view was taken about the possibility of allowing children to travel at less than the full fare . In October 1831 the Liverpool and Manchester Railway , while allowing infants under three years of age to travel free , refused any concessions to children above that age . ' At the same time , however , the Canterbury and Whitstable line allowed children under twelve to travel at two thirds of the adult fare and it was this policy of concessions to the under-12s which became generally adopted . ' By the early 1 ' 840s half fares for the under-12s were generally available , making family rail travel more widespread and still further augmenting the volume of passenger traffic . It took some time for the directors of the leading railway companies to accustom themselves to the idea that railway travel was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor were not encouraged to travel unless it was in search of work or to fulfil urgent family responsibilities . When he was asked in 1839 , what plan the Great Western Railway had for the conveyance of third-class passengers , the company 's secretary , Mr C. A. Saunders , answered : There has been no decision of the directors on that subject , but I think they will probably send carriages once a day , perhaps with merchandise : carriages of an inferior description , at very slow speed for the accommodation of those persons , and at a very low price ; perhaps , too , it may only be done at night . " Like the Great Western , the London and Southampton at first made no provision for that type of traveller who had gone by carrier 's waggon rather than by the outside of a coach , because it was cheaper . On this railway in 1839 Each train ' had a first class , corresponding to the inside of the stage coach ; and a second class , in the absence of cushions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial exposure to the weather , corresponding to the outside . " There was no hint of a third class . Where a company did decide to provide accommodation for the lower orders it was generally of the most primitive character . This was the case with the Manchester and Leeds Railway , whose board of directors decided in August 1838 that there should be three classes of carriage provided : First class : six inside ? complete with everything , which can conduce to , comfort . Second class : to carry twenty-four passengers ? divisions chair high  --  windows in door but none in panels ? and no cushions . Third class : open boxes ? no roofs , nor buffer springs.10 Robert Stephenson was taking what was then a moderately radical // stand when he told the Select Committee on . Railways on 2 July 1839 that there was a class of people who had ' not yet had the advantage from the railways which they ought , that is the labouring classes ' . " Although the practice of providing third-class carriages on trains gradually spread it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1844 , with its clauses making the provision of third-class accommodation on at least one train a day in each direction through each company 's network obligatory , that the labouring classes could count on penny-a-mile travel under the minimum conditions of com-fort . Thereafter the number of third-class passengers increased more rapidly than did the numbers , in the other two classes ( see Figs 6 and 7 ) . Between 1849 and 1870 the number of third-class passengers in-creased by nearly six times whereas the increase in second- and first-class travel was fourfold . The boost to third-class travel was further increased after 1874 when the Midland Railway abolished the second class and greatly improved the comfort of the third-class carriages . This initiative obliged other main line companies to follow suit so that by 1890 the difference in the standards of accommodation had been substantially narrowed . The companies had by then learned                     