@@773817

txt // competent physicians , lawyers , teachers , priests , without aspiring to the more exalted stations of scientists , jurists , scholars , or theologians . So truly the graded scale of colleges and universities reflects the graded needs , wants , and aspirations of people . Therefore , next to the replacement of individual self-sufficiency by integrated realignment in collaborative groups , the universities of the future face the added task of identifying more precisely the needs of the culture , the society , and the people they must serve and of subdividing and apportioning out among themselves their offerings accordingly . Personal preferences and predispositions for work bench over library , for theorizing over gadgeteering , for naturalist observation over dynamic analysis , for dealing with people over dealing with concepts , for professional and economic success over sheer satisfaction in self-improvement , must all be honored instead of being frustrated in a common mold purporting to serve them all ? and matching none . Unquestionably , a critical re-examination of the degree of correspondence between the current patchwork of university offerings and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action toward higher congruance then be undertaken on the small scale of the individual campus ? Hardly the right solution , for let us suppose there arose a powerful move to train , for instance , more doctors , engineers , or business administrators . Would not any given university , responding to the call by enlarging the respective schools , then have to choose between the equally undesirable alternatives of trying to maintain its former proportionate structure by inflating the less marketable branches , or else abandoning the latter to a relative eclipse ? Surely the solution would lie in recourse to the principle of the collective system , instead of an illusory universal role , a realistic partial one , thus preventing its energies from being distracted , diluted , and dissipated by ancillary commitments , historically or prestige-dictated , which no longer accord with its context ; while at the same time the proportions of the whole can be preserved by other members who select partial tasks of compensatory or complementary character . The proposition I am here expounding is the evolutionary compromise between conservation and progress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope of the ideal " universal university , " it should resist the urge " to be all things to all men " and " to go it alone . " Instead , each one should concentrate its major // energies on those selected sectors of the total field of knowledge which it is supremely qualified to investigate and teach . To some extent this practice has already come into effect as a matter , if not of principle , at least of economy . Every institution has certain areas of strength which it tends to cultivate more than others . Yet the significant distinction between this outcome of accident and necessity on the one hand and , on the other hand , the orderly scheme to be envisaged for the future , is that the differentiation among universities in the past has been so piecemeal and incoherent that the various pieces do not fit together to form the harmonious whole that a university system , as here advocated , should represent . For the formation of a truly effective and viable system , a certain minimum number ? a critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review their respective functions and capabilities , and , with the least possible incursion on individuality and sovereignty , work out an integrated plan so that collectively they would so supplement each other as to cover the total continuum of knowledge in all its essential scholarly and professional ramifications . Three major considerations would have to guide such integrative efforts : the filling of significant gaps , the correction of serious disproportions , and the lessening of redundancy , particularly where strength could be gained by merging separate units that had remained weak because of isolation or inadequate support . For a concerted program of this sort to succeed would , of course , presuppose , in addition to the re-allocation of educational tasks and subject matters , the harmonization of standards of performance , the free movement of students , and the facultative exchange or sharing of staff members within the association . Without elaborating the point , it seems that efficient superuniversities , " communities of scholarly institutions " of this description , could appropriately be set up by regional compacts . Each association would comprise a suitable assortment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and professional schools . Administrative obstacles to the inclusion of state and municipal institutions and of land grant colleges might also be overcome eventually . There are signs of a growing recognition of the need for such a combining of forces and concerted programing in higher education , as , for instance , in a measure of program coordination among the universities of the Southern Conference ; in similar arrangements among regional groups of colleges ; // and in the establishment of such organizations as the Southwest Graduate Research Center , the Midwest Interuniversity Library Center , and the Brookhaven Laboratories of Associated Universities , Inc . It would seem timely to amplify and expedite similar trends wherever they appear , with the deliberate aim of furthering the emergence of the " Integrated University Compact " of the future through the linking of existing autonomous institutions of higher learning into self-regulatory networks . In such a framework it will be easier than it is at present to satisfy the growing variety of educational needs by a corresponding variety of programs without having a rigid one-to-one connection between any given program and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would contain collectively such a complete set of major offerings that any essential program , however broad or narrow , could be composed from them simply by combining an appropriate selection of items from that comprehensive list into program packages . As one can readily appreciate , this scheme would be both economical and efficient ; it would curtail the boundless proliferation of institutions ; it would conserve and concentrate the finite resources of academic talent , funds , and facilities ; it would encourage the pursuit of novel " interdisciplinary " combinations of potential " hybrid vigor " ; and it would have the necessary plasticity to adapt to changing circumstances . On the other hand , it would , of course , necessitate a far greater liberalization of student transfer among institutions ? a feature reminiscent of the great universities of bygone centuries ? as well as greater equalization of standards at reasonably high levels . It would place greater burdens of responsibility on both administrations and students , the latter having to give up a good deal of the sense of security engendered by current lock-step tactics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wider range of the insecure , but personalitybuilding , freedom of choice . Such an ideal university system of the future is both conceivable and practicable . It would achieve the restoration of the very principle of continuity , unity , and universality of knowledge the loss or abandonment of which our universities bemoan . The basic common trunk of the tree of knowledge , presented in the early years of study , would be allowed to branch gradually by successive dichotomies of choice from the more general to the more specific , albeit with // numerous anastomoses , in the methodical and consistent manner attainable solely in an integrated system ; only the terminal branches would become relatively more consolidated as separate " schools , " and even then not wholly single-tracked . Transition from " liberal " to " professional " education , from " undergraduate " to " graduate " preparation , from " basic " to " applied " areas , would be fluid , the terminology merely a matter of administrative convenience . This prognostication of the emergence of harmoniously integrated university systems is based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both are in counterplay . Society is in a phase of rapid evolution . If universities were to stand still , they would be left behind to wither . Society , though suffering , would survive ; universities might not . So universities must meet the changes of the social scene by corresponding adaptive alterations of their own patterns . However , in calling on higher education to adapt itself to the evolving social environment , one must not lose sight of the reciprocity of the relation . The social environment must , in its turn , be receptive for adaptive claims fed back to it from the university system . Their greater service to the community would also entitle the universities to assert their leadership in intellectual matters , with full partnership in all cultural affairs , exercised most effectively through the leaders and influential members of society which they educate . To maintain the highest possible standards of education for responsible leadership remains one of the prime obligations of the universities , those of the future even more than those of the past . Of course , to strengthen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it shifts the basis of public acceptance of leadership from compliance with persuasive dicta to the understanding of convincing arguments . This is indeed only repeating what has been stressed so often ? but can not be stressed too often ? that while educational goals and standards must be raised on all fronts , the most important task is to give that scarce supply of superior talent , paired with responsibility , a challenge and opportunity to develop native faculties to their maximum ; this means placing quality above quantity , with a premium on excellence . Public support for this precept is one of the adaptive contributions society must make if the evolution of both universities and society is to be kept in a dynamically self-adjusting correspondence . // Science in the University The range of inner flexibility in the integrated university system I have outlined would reduce the question of " the " place of science in a university to absurdity , for it could allow for as many different places , roles , and relations as the growing and ever more highly differentiated field of " science " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Education for the Age of Science " : Science , engineering and technology have obviously been responsible for a host of conspicuous changes at all levels of our modern civilization . There is much reason to expect that such changes will continue , and will indeed accelerate . There is no way to turn back the clock or to turn off scientific advance . There will be no international moratorium on science or technology . The people of the United States , on the most practical grounds , must accept and support these propositions . Lest this arouse the specter of scientific dominance , let me quote further from the same report : One of the great strengths of this nation is the diversity of its citizens . No man or council of men dictates what our people individually should do , or how they should be educated . Each of us is remarkably free to pursue that which interests or profits him personally . Out of this great diversity of individual expression comes great strength and wide capability . The diversity should be husbanded . But it can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups . Going his own way , a man must understand why other men go theirs , and must respect their right of choice . A primary objective of an improved educational system should be to bridge the gaps between important segments of the American people . There are many such gaps , even among highly educated people ; between scientists and artists ; between intellectuals and non-intellectuals ; between scientists , humanists , and social scientists ; between scholars , research workers , and teachers ; between pure scientists , applied scientists , and engineers ; and there are others . Such gaps inhibit the close collaboration // between groups which is essential to improving the intellectual atmosphere and developing a better and stronger society.9 and from a later report from the same source : Even in the interests of science itself it is essential to give full value and support to the other great branches of man 's artistic , literary , and scholarly activity . The advancement of science must not be accomplished by the impoverishment of anything else , and the life of the mind in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerns i.e. , scientific which belong to this Committee and this report . ' o In summary , the possible distortion of harmonious proportions in the pattern of education as a result of the phenomenal expansion of science is not only clearly recognized ; science itself cautions against it . To maintain balance , or to compensate for disequilibrium , could be accomplished much more easily in a diversified collective system than within the rigid framework of a single institution . This applies to the correction of imbalances not only of subject matter but also of functions . And because the issue of disproportionate attention to science in the functions of research , teaching , and public services is such a lively one , I would like to give it special attention in the light of what I have said before . Essentially , the major functions of a university , as I see them , are the following four : ( 1 ) The preservation , critical interpretation , and synthesis of existing knowledge . ( 2 ) The furtherance of the acquisition of new knowledge , and the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 3 ) The training in the application of existing knowledge to the practical needs of man . ( 4 ) The transmission and dissemination of knowledge and of its implications and applications . Even though universities are assisted in these tasks by libraries , museums , governmental and industrial establishments , professional societies , and the like , " the university " still stands as the integrated // center where all four of these functions become confluent and interact freely for the common benefit of all of them , and hence for the best utilization of knowledge for the common good . The super-university of the future would be in a uniquely favorable position to give balanced attention to all aspects . In each of these four categories the problem of maintaining sound proportions between the expanding scientific domain and the other academic commitments recurs . Can it be met by mutual accommodation without radical dislocations ? Let us look at a few concrete examples for each of the four fundamental functions . ( 1 ) The preservation and synthesis of existing knowledge . Greater concern with the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only an opportunity but a genuine demand for a far more active interplay between the sciences and the humanities in education . The historic and philosophic spirit in science still suffers from atrophy . Usually the fruits of science are taught without explaining the nature and roots of the tree that has borne them ; preoccupation with the most recent advances is allowed to obscure the fact that they have grown steadily from a historic past . Yet it becomes increasingly important to impart a feeling for the continuity , consistency , and cohesiveness of science to the future leaders of a generation that is overly impressed by the spotlighted glitter of ephemeral novelty . There is , moreover , a goldmine of conceptual and factual material buried in the past literature of science which is practically ignored and unprocessed , bypassed in the manic rush for " doing research . " Unless " doing without thinking " is to be conceded supremacy over thoughtful work or even over " thinking without doing , " history and philosophy must assume a major task in science education . But they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " History of Science " or " Philosophy of Science , " least of all of the purely chronological and anecdotal variety , but by instilling the prospective teachers and workers in science with a true appreciation of the historical and conceptual foundations of scientific thought so that they may learn to see and teach current developments as threads in an intellectual fabric extending from the past into the future . But then , would not those same historians in the humanities profit reciprocally from closer contact with their scientific colleagues ? I am not thinking of the utility of scientific techniques , such as the dating of // historic documents by radio carbon , the use of pigment chemistry to check the authenticity of famous paintings , or the recourse to the statistics of cryptography in deciphering ancient tablets . These are taken for granted . But has full advantage been taken of advances in social and comparative psychology to trace the underlying motivations of major historic movements beyond the standard references to political and economic trigger actions ; or of the role of modern operational physics , with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instability of values in our time ? These are matters not just of casual interest but of broad concern for the understanding of our culture . And as he gains acquaintance with scientific principles , the humanist will also learn to appreciate better the nature of their origin from what the uninitiated often regard as trivial and redundant labor ? namely , the enormous series of painstaking observations , elaborate measurements , intricate experiments and calculations ? activities as germane to the purpose of " the university " as are field trips for the excavation of ancient cities or learned commentaries on literature or music . The case for harmony is further strengthened by the cross-linking between science and art through mathematics and esthetics ; and there are many other illustrations of the continuity , rather than demarcation , that exists between the sciences and the humanities . Such fruitful interaction is not promoted by expressions of mutual disdain , particularly in view of the fact that the purported cleavage of culture into scientific and humanistic halves , in my opinion , is a plain artifact , merely a relic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquisition of new knowledge . The criterion of relevance as guide in the self-selection of one 's academic tasks applies also to one of the knottiest problems faced by the universities , namely , the disproportionate expansion of scientific research within their walls . This issue has far too many facets for me to give here the critical evaluation which it would deserve . Instead of reiterating arguments now rather widely discussed , I shall confine myself to accentuating a few aspects that I do not find properly spotlighted in current debates . The first pertains to the assessment of the degree and rate of expansion of the scientific domain . There is talk of a " knowledge explosion . " Undeniably , the spurt of growth of science in this last century has been , ' s some would call it , " breathtaking . " However , if it // is referred to as " staggering the imagination , " one wonders whether this does not mean the imagination of the unimaginative . Besides , the lack of historical knowledge and perspective deplored above has given current events an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have recognized that this sudden explosion has really been the orderly result of a continuous evolutionary process , steadily accelerated and amplified.12 In comparing today 's picture of the universe , of matter , of life processes , and even of mind with that of fifty years ago the progress made appears truly dramatic , but what is not usually pointed out is that in this progress we have discovered and identified more gaps of knowledge and more new problems to be solved than we had ever known existed ; more even perhaps than the positive solutions we have found . Indeed our ignorance , that is our conscious realization of what we do not know , is growing so rapidly that the resulting vacuum attracts increasing numbers of curious minds . It is this which establishes the legitimate expansive claim of science . Yet there is another side to the coin . The vacuum is also sucking in masses of " fellow travelers " who ride the currents of prevailing fashions , neither truly conscious of the problems to be solved nor qualified to contribute to their solution except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , the ratio of productive over creative scientists has increased enormously by the numerical inflation of the former group . As a result , what we are facing is not a knowledge explosion but a veritable inundation of informational data finding vent in a corresponding " publication explosion . " ' 3 Instead of a problemorientated selectivity and goal-directed uphill striving , much present research follows the downhill course of least resistance , carried forward largely by inertial forces . I have no direct substantiation for this conclusion for any of the scientific disciplines other than the life sciences ; but I have been given to understand by colleagues in other fields that the situation is about the same all round . Given this fact , the universities have an even heavier responsibility now than they have ever had before to husband the dwindling proportion of scholarly and singularly creative individuals . They are the ones on whom society must rely for the steady and balanced continuance of scientific progress in accordance with the rigorous research discipline of the past . They are the ones whom the universities must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimum condiScience // tions . Not only do their efforts have an infinitely higher prospective yield than do the routine operations of the average scientific workers ; above all , their example resets for others the mark of morality , discretion , critical judgment , self-discipline , and dedication to that higher plane from which it has been slipping as a result of the massive influx of rote performance . For the same reason , it is vital for the universities to resist pressures for undertaking more sharply delineated so-called " project " and " contract " research than may be useful as a training device . The project system , which allocates funds for a specific purpose , is admirably suited for developmental work , that is , for tasks that can be clearly circumscribed because we know essentially what we want to find and can spell out in detail how to get there . It likewise is suited to the testing of an existing theory , to the broadening of an existing set of data , to the improvement of an existing technique , or to the elaboration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ premium on the continuation of existing trends rather than on the exploration of new ones ; and the very source of scientific discovery , the inductive process ? the prospecting of the wholly unknown ? is given little chance . ' a In recognition of this fact , granting agencies have come to establish a triple scale of research support as " project grants , " " program grants , " and " institutional grants " in ascending order of latitude and descending order of specific predelineation . In general , this scale of degrees of freedom has worked well , but the pressures to narrow the range of indeterminacy and risk-taking in publicly subsidized research continue nevertheless . Their source lies in the bankruptcy of trust and in the widespread lack of comprehension of the nature and workings of the scientific process , for which the accounting system of industry and commerce is utterly unfit . Unless universities , as the last bastions of " free enterprise " in science , take a resolute stand in this matter , the efficiency coefficient of scientific yield will decline further . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the fact that experienced scientists participate in policy formation and program evaluation . Although this involves a diversion of creative scientists from creative work , the use of expert consultants for evaluating scientific merit has by and large proved successful . Even if , at times , the rate of turnover of membership on // such judicial boards and committees has exceeded the rate of maturation of sufficient people with the necessary judgment , perspective , and experience to fill the needs , the yield has still remained infinitely better than would have been possible if any of these programs had been administered by scientifically uninformed and inexperienced professional administrators . I am not saying that there is no room for improvement in current screening procedures . What I am saying is that some modicum of mature scientific counsel is a better safeguard against the waste of public funds than are incursions into the research process of legal and accounting procedures which operate with criteria of " performance " and " productivity , " which are tailored for contract work and marketing , but are quite inapplicable , and indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand for tighter controls over the utilization of government funds for scientific research raised recently by the Congress , a demand which naturally has aroused anxiety and protest , the scientists themselves must share part of the blame for this retrenchment , insofar as they have failed to counteract the gradual relaxation of standards of selectivity and efficiency . But the remedy must come from efforts by the universities themselves to resurrect those standards of research morality , and not from external policing . This leads back to my earlier emphasis on the sense of relevance , which is so easily lost in the narrow , deep , and dark shafts of rote performance in a given specialty . Because of this , and in order that the universities may reassert their moral right to plead for freedom of research , untrammeled and uncontrolled , it is imperative that they shun any sort of investigative engagement that does not qualify on two counts : that it hold promise to contribute both to the advancement of knowledge and to the building of a person possessing knowledge and the ability to use it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become again to turn out scientific personalities , not scientific products . Only those who have been through the process can truly understand how far superior is an education that has let the student experience the thrills as well as the disappointments of exploration , the elation of success in resourceful effort , and the disciplining power of tests of evidence which his participation in active research engenders , as compared to book learning and passive submission to second-hand // indoctrination . I thus conclude that every kind of institution in the diversified spectrum I have outlined ? yes , even teacher training schools ? would stand to gain from having some degree of scientific research conducted on its campus , motivated not chiefly by the need for training specialists but by the disciplining virtue of research in developing critical thinking . ( 3 ) Teaching and training . In modern times , the general principle of the indissolubility of teaching from research is gradually becoming the rule . Sporadic opposition to it by educational tacticians is as one-sided as is the contrary move by technically preoccupied scientists to let handiwork @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intellectual endeavor . Once again the question is one of balance ? not a " Whether-or-not , " but " How much for Whom and When ? " In full awareness that the student 's time , resources , energies and absorptive faculties are limited , I still submit that a more sizable share than in the past can be spent on research without encroachment on the effectiveness of teaching , provided the following four premises can be fulfilled . ( a ) Elementary research experience should be encouraged on the high school level . A trend in this direction has lately made some notable gains . Its denunciation by opponents as nothing but a recruiting drive for technical professions only serves to show how little the detractors know , and partake of , the true spirit of science , and hence how important for a balanced outlook in life it is for future generations to be spared similar blind spots . On the other hand , it would be ludicrous to defend some of the current high school manipulations and exercises in science as introductions to research , let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misrepresented to the young as an array of glamorous " spectaculars , " the seed is sown for later anticlimactic disillusionment , perhaps even dishonesty . But trimmed of frills , some laboratory and field practice to sharpen observation , controlled analysis , and critical evaluation of the phenomena of nature can not be started too early in life . As for the colleges and universities , such earlier initiation to research would certainly relieve some of the competitive demands of research for time that otherwise would have to be taken from teaching . ( b ) Contrariwise , the teaching load in higher education can certainly stand radical curtailment . This is not the place for a philippic against the cramming of curricula with offerings from both the ultraconservative and ultraprogressive fringes of the academic scale ? petrified wood // at one end and excessive fertilizer , crop-destroying , at the other . But let teaching practice squeeze the water out of its own substance and revert to concentration of and on essentials , and let research likewise set an example of relevance-mindedness , and time will cease to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Implied in this proviso is that book-learning be made to recover from its progressive degeneration into book-teaching . Teaching is **25;678;TOOLONG ; learning is bipolar interaction . A good deal of the sheer imparting of information can be relegated to automation through audio-visual aids and television with their powers of condensing instructional material into its most expert and efficient form and then disseminating the concise product . Much of the teacher 's time can thus be freed for those other aspects of education in which there can be no substitution for personal effectiveness ? inspiration , discussion , criticism , and interpretation . Instructors can then rise again to the role of educators , and students , from passive recipients to active acquisitors of knowledge . ( c ) No rigid formula should be set for the proportion of research in teaching programs . In general , the proportion should increase gradually from high school through college to graduate or professional school , but otherwise wide latitude must be left on each level for the variety of individual and institutional objectives . In this sense , an integrated group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements , could meet the diversity of future needs better than any single institution pegged to a standard average . The same argument , however , applies just as cogently to the variety of individuals within an institution , division , or department . What ratio of teaching to research is proper ? There can be no universal answer . It seems essential not only for every prospective teacher to have participated in some research activity , but , conversely , for every professional and research man in science to have had some experience in teaching ; for having to explain matters to students does more than clarify one 's own thinking . It trains the faculty of articulating one 's own thoughts and observations . As editor of several scientific journals , having had to face the serious deterioration which good research results suffer from inept description ? and I suppose that hospitals and industries could add corroborating evidence from the transcriptions by interns or engineers of patients ' histories or product tests , respectively // ? I am disheartened by the neglect of the art of communication in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of science , I see the antidote not in remedial courses in " Science Writing , " except as a stopgap measure , but in increased opportunities for the student and young instructor to express himself in public , exposed to benevolent criticism . Having thus recommended a modicum of both research and teaching experience as beneficial for every scientist , regardless of his eventual destination , let me reiterate at once the great variety of human aptitudes and talents to be dealt with . There are first-rate investigators who are poor teachers , and there are first-rate teachers with little flair for or proficiency in research . The former gains by doing some teaching , and the latter grows by making some investigative effort of his own ; but neither can be forced into a common mold by a procrustean operation . Yet this is precisely the practice of many college and university administrations , which seem to rely mechanically ? the college on a man 's industriousness in teaching , the university on the volume of his research publications ? as tests of achievement and criteria for promotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the latter divert highly effective teachers from their true calling into " grinding out research . " This pressure for mediocre research output , growing in proportion to the abundance of research grants , is doubly pernicious , because not only does it add to the glut of inconsequential data ; what is worse , it places resourcefulness and excellence in teaching , by implication , into a rank of inferiority . Fortunately , there have been sporadic signs lately that this inequality is beginning to be redressed . One realizes that science , like music , needs not only good composers but good conductors and performers as well . ( d ) No less insidious than the gauging of the creativity of an academic man by the number of published papers to his credit , at least in science , is the attempt to rate academic service and effectiveness , whether in teaching or in research , in terms of man-hours ? the punch-clock mentality . What is the time scale of an idea , of a discovery , of an invention ? Can accountants be persuaded that moments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of genius , even during " off-hours , " can undo or save years of expensive labor ? Or are we possibly heading for a time when quantification of teaching and research performance will go even beyond the simple counting of the number of hours spent // on the job and multiply it by caloric output as a measure of intensity of work ? I realize the magnitude of the problem facing many an administration in coping with vast numbers of students and faculty by other than impersonal methods . Nevertheless , save for service functions , automatic quantitative ratings will never provide a valid measure of academic performance in science . The answer may lie in giving human experience and judgment wider play . Appointments are made on a basis of faith and trust . Why , then , is not that spirit allowed to persevere throughout the appointive years ? I have commented on a sad decline of risk-taking in research support ; 16 perhaps risk-taking in individuals is likewise diminishing . At any rate , there seems to be no better yardstick for judging optimum relations between research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balanced judgment , taking into account the objectives of the institution , the special functions of its subdivisions , the diverse needs of its students , the variegated complexion of its faculty , its finite means and facilities , as well as the necessary reconciliation of economy and efficiency with the principles of freedom for individual self-development and self-expression . On the point of economy , it is well to remember that , in general , it will be easier to get n% greater efficiency out of available funds , services , floorspace , and equipment than to obtain an additional n% more money , n% more manpower , n% more space , and n% more instruments . ( 4 ) Adult Education . The preceding comment touches on the growing subsidy by government to the conduct of science and the concomitant increase in the awareness and concern of the public for how its funds are spent , which may portend a mounting pressure for a greater measure of control . To quote from a White House release cited earlier : Perhaps the most important single task of the universities is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and excellence are maintained in a period of growing connection with government . While we do not share the notion that government money is necessarily subversive of university freedoms , it is obvious that large-scale Federal spending , like any other form of patronage , has its hazards . ' // In the long run , this hazardous trend can be effectively countered only by bringing up an enlightened citizenry with comprehension of the nature and . ways of science . Hopefully , as I explained earlier , the new generation now in school will already be better grounded in science than are their elders . However , in the interim , until they mature and have decisive voices , there is a partial vacuum in the adult population 's contact with science , that in the interest of both ought to be filled . There is a patent need to introduce more science into adult education programs . Some will reply that this is already being done on an increasing scale . I disagree . With very few outstanding exceptions , what is offered in courses of " General Studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically or even vocationally oriented display of " tricks of the trade " or a rather dull , second-hand rendition of the elements of a specialized branch of science . Rarely is there the broad portrayal of science with its lights and shadows ? its life , spirit , exhilarating adventures and satisfactions as well as its code , restraints , discipline , and frustrations ; its grounding in disinterested curiosity as well as its unlimited bounty for man 's self-interests ; its enormous untapped potential as well as its inner limitations . This story is seldom told to the public from the rostrums of universities . In line with the idea of integral programs within groups of institutions , perhaps it would again be preferable to have a favorably located member of the group assume a major responsibility in this field with due assistance from the other affiliated institutions , which thereby would be relieved of some of their " extension courses . " The main thing , at the present juncture , is to give wider circles of the public an appreciation not only of the fruits of science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them and of its deep rooting in our culture . Conclusions I have tried , in this essay , to moderate between conflicting versions of the impact of science on the university . Extreme positions commonly betray confinement in remote corners from which only a limited aspect of a field can be seen . Although one may regret that many of the discussions about " science " and " the university " nowadays bear signs of such partiality , based partly on unfamiliarity and // partly on prejudice , it is far more significant to note the constructive efforts that are being made at synthesizing the separate views into a broad , well-balanced overview and presenting the total picture dispassionately in undistorted perspective . I have quoted examples from such efforts . More could be added . From their study I am encouraged to believe that the basic propositions set forth in this essay are shared by others , even though not universally . These basic tenets , in summary form , are the following : I. Science is a major integral part of our culture , not just a service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man as are its products . II . The growth of science has naturally a critical impact on the future of the universities as centers of knowledge and of learning . Caution , lest growth turn into overgrowth , is indicated . III . Harmonious growth is predicated on the reconciliation of conflicting and competing trends by mutual accommodation . Science and nonscience are not opponents but partners in a common enterprise . IV . As such , both must adjust to the emerging evolutionary change in their educational tasks by re-examining their respective roles conjointly with a deep sense of value and relevance , so as to concentrate on essentials , husband talent , and bar the infiltration of extraneous diluents . This applies to both teaching and research . V. Both society and knowledge are in a process of progressive differentiation and particularization , which must be recognized and even assisted , but which must be kept from degenerating into tight compartmentalization and disintegration as a result of the abandonment of vital interrelations among the specialized components . The universities , as custodians of knowledge , have a solemn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must offset splintering by efforts at re-integration within their whole structure and its substructures . VI . Differentiation has proceeded to the point at which neither the diversity of objectives and fields of higher learning nor that of people 's aspirations , needs , and aptitudes can any longer be served with competence within any single institution . True , schools of higher learning have also differentiated and specialized , albeit somewhat haphazardly . However , their total pattern is not sufficiently congruous with the patterns of need of either society or knowledge . Therefore , to remove present and to avert future incongruity , the universities will have to counterbalance specialization by combination into integrated // groups ? the only realistic method of protecting the creative potential inherent in diversity against the dulling effects of uniformity , standardi-zation , and mediocrity . In a diversified system , science and nonscience can find their proper distribution and proportions without pitting exaggerated claims of " social superiority " against an outmoded status quo doctrine of " cultural superiority . " VII . In order to achieve integration in such enormously complex systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperative to rise above the analytical method of singling out from an intricate problem simple component pieces for isolated solution , and to adopt the sprouting young methodology of " system thinking " appropriate to networks of intimately interdependent functions . Like other major activities of society that have already benefited from such integrative treatment , such as economics , traffic , national defense , natural re-sources , and others , education is such a network system and deserves like treatment . Science education can not be viewed and dealt with rationally save in this context . // Medicine and Society : The Biological Foundations* That medicine must rest on a firm foundation of biology is a truism . Biology is the science of life . Man is alive in a world full of other life relevant to his existence . In his basic constitution , functions , and reactions , the human organism is a biological system , developing , growing , maintaining itself , responding , behaving and adjusting ac-cording to the laws governing all life . Thus , to dwell on the dependence of medical progress upon biological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that engineering is rooted in physics , chemistry , and mathematics . In fact , throughout history , medical motivation and observation have added to biological knowledge as materially as has biological understanding to the advancement of medicine . However , let me make clear at the outset that I realize that this does not imply that medicine is just " a branch of the biological sciences , " as it is sometimes called in pardonable short-hand language . Medicine is rather a hybrid of two parental lines , only one of which lies in the sciences of objective measurement and logical deduction , while the other stems from the subtle but subjective powers of evaluation and judgment of the human mind , to be tapped whenever the doctor faces the individual patient , the single case in its uniqueness . Science does not deal with unique events . It only encompasses them . It deals with the general rules , usually statistical , in common to large numbers of cases ? the average behavior . Physics does not deal with a particular electron or a given atom ; meteorology not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells will ever behave exactly alike , no two disease courses duplicate each other down to the last detail . Lest this semblance of indeterminacy disquiet you with the suggestion of indeterminism in the universe , let me point out that it need mean no more than our own inability to predict precisely and infallibly the 79 // individual event . The physicist , knowing full well the laws of wave motion , which all waves must obey , is yet unable to predict the precise shape of any particular wave on the ocean , molded by a unique constellation of currents , winds , wakes , tides , reflections off the bottom and backwash from the shores . Predictive science takes an interest in individual cases only for what they may hold in supporting old , or directing new , generalizations and theories . It then discards them as nonrecurring items . Scientific prediction can be positive about what can not happen and what might happen , but it can only approximate reality in anticipating just precisely what will happen in the individual event . This is where the physician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must sharpen as it focuses on the single , unique and nonrecurring specimen , the human patient whom he wants to help . Thus there are two strains running through medicine , one of impersonal scientific method , which furnishes the rules and tools for guiding judgment , and one of personal decision applying guided judgment to the unique case at hand . The trend over this past century has been for the scientific strain to grow in vigor and volume . This should be no cause for alarm , since the two strains are not competitive , but supplementary . And truly in the expanding universe of human welfare , there must be plenty of room for both happily to expand in unison . As science with its method and knowledge and tests and checks provides personal judgment with ever-safer guides and narrower margins for error , it expands legitimately into what the ancient ministers of the healing art might have claimed to be their proprietary rights . Commensurately , however , it frees time and energy for the cultivation of human values and the powers of human application . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the subtlest precision devices of discrimination and evaluation . Our eye can detect a few quanta of light , our nose a few aromatic molecules . True , we can design technical apparatus of equal sensitivity to register elementary stimuli , but for the perception and evaluation of the most varied patterns and combinations in which they appear in nature , there is no substitute to that discerning power of the human mind which we call judgment . The time and effort that science saves us on the one hand could then be profitably spent on training and sharpening by practice those peculiarly human faculties . There is a danger , though , that we may fail to develop them to their full power or let them atrophy from sheer disuse . Then , of course , as // you give withered muscles the support of braces , so the sciences will have to come to the rescue of withered minds with the poor substitute of automatic rules , preventing at least the worst malfeasance and the fatal error . Perhaps we are heading that way . When there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fill the needs of an expanding educational system , particularly when the really good ones can not be attracted to a station of economic and often social inferiority , society , depending now more on the lesser lights , has to protect itself against incompetence by giving t1-Am some hard-and-fast mechanical rules of conduct . Likewise , if an expanding program of medical care should fail to fill its quota from those with native talent and calling for the profession , science will have to provide ever firmer guide ropes to make sure that even those with blurred vision will not fall off the safe trail , dragging their charges with them . Science will never dehumanize medicine . But conceivably it might one day be called to the rescue of a dehumanized medicine . I made these introductory remarks to convince you that I am not one who would grant a monopoly to the scientific approach to medicine . Having made this clear , let me then proceed to deal with those aspects of medicine which lie definitely within the right of domain of science . If medicine is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine that base to see whether it is being adequately broadened , strengthened , and secured to support the continued growth of medicine . Biology is in a state of flux . The most dramatic change that is occurring in our days , the key to the understanding of all the rest , is what might be called our industrial revolution , that is , the rapid conversion of our science from small-scale workshops of individual craftsmen and apprentices to the mass proportions of an industry , with all that goes with it : more workers , more administration ; higher production quotas and more specialties ; more rote and less call for initiative ; standardization mixed with the rule of fashions ? yes , even vested interests and jurisdictional disputes . Research , education , publication , budgetary policies ? they all reflect this tide as they grope to adjust to the new pattern . In the conviction that the change is here to stay , undoubtedly for better rather than for worse ; that it calls for major adjustments ; and that such adjustments can be made rationally and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heading ; I shall try to outline some of its symptoms . The principal ones are : an organizational regrouping within biology ; progressive fragmentation of biology into innumerable specialties , with corresponding loss of unity and communion ; countered by deliberate efforts at reintegration and cross fertilization by combination of formerly separated lines , particularly new tributaries from the physical sciences , and the advent of team work ; spectacular progress in certain favorite channels of massive application , at the expense of relative starvation of other urgent tasks , hence distortion of proportions of the field as a whole ; a dearth of pioneering spirit because of reduced motivation and opportunity for adventure , along with heightened concern for personal and intellectual security ; perhaps also some decline of standards of scholarship and workmanship , trading quantity for quality ; and above all , a growing realization of the impact of science on human welfare , and the growth of a mature sense of responsibility of the scientist toward society , and , in traces , of society toward the support of science . As for the grouping and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remember the artificiality of the labels under which they run . As Abraham Flexner said in this connection , " Medicine is an indefinite portion of the vast field of biology . . . . For purposes of effective attack , the area to be explored , itself only tentatively marked off , has been provisionally divided , but the several portions really have no distinct individuality . On the contrary , they merge into one another and are liable to regrouping whenever they are surveyed from a new point of view . " While our teaching and research system still employs the classical pigeonholes of zoology , botany , bacteriology , anatomy , biochemistry , physiology , pathology , and so forth , the study of life actually forms a continuous spectrum from which different interest groups have merely cut out different absorption bands depending on their own absorptive faculties . Such subdivisions are not only an administrative expediency but can be highly effective when they have task-force character , that is , are charged each one with occupying a well-defined sector of a field . But just in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their original meaning . A colleague recently defined a zoologist quite pertinently as a man who does his work in a zoology department ; were he to do the same work in an anatomy department , he would be classed as an anatomist , and in a // physiology department , as a physiologist . A glance at modern cell biology , endocrinology , or neurology bears out this operational definition . The old lines of demarcation have become erased , and the fields they used to circumscribe have become , as Flexner put it , " liable to regrouping . " This regrouping is definitely under way . Many of our traditional classifications were based either on forms of life , as in bacteriology , botany , and zoology , or on methods of approach , as anatomy ( for dissection ) and biometrics ( for measurement ) . With the growing realization of the general validity of certain basic principles common to all forms of life , a more natural organization of biology according to inherent principles is gradually superseding the old pattern . Thus , investigators and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , animals , and man for knowledge and illustration of the principles of cell structure , metabolism , growth , heredity , excitation and coordination , adaptation , ecology , and evolution . Many of the greatest advances of biology have come in places where different specialties have combined forces in conjoint study . The spectacular development of genetics in this country has profited immensely from the correlation of facts from such diverse fields as cytology , animal and plant breeding , biochemistry , immunology , statistics and taxonomy . As a result , the old alignment gives way to a new , more natural , and more consistent order . The important thing in the present context is that in this new order , the biology of man is due to be included as an integral part . Genetics courses will encompass human heredity , development be taught with reference to wound healing and tumors , and animal behavior with an eye to social psychology . But even as old disciplines escape the straight jacket of obsolete trade marks and become confluent , the new currents again break up into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes on at an ominous pace ; which brings me to my second point ? the splintering process . Fragmentation goes with specialization , and specialization is a mark of scientific progress . Mastery requires concentration , which means narrowing . The gibe about the man who gets to know more and more about less and less is not quite just . Science needs that man . The only question is : Can it entrust its progress wholly to his hands ? Our answer to this question today may shape or warp the future course of biology and medicine . // Subdivision of tasks under a common plan and with a common goal in view is good accepted practice . Splintering into isolated and independent columns is something that only a science of sufficiently advanced maturity , which has a common goal and common rules , can well afford , a science whose basic framework of concepts , principles , terms , and units has become consolidated and unified . Physics has evidently reached this stage , and chemistry is near it , but biology most definitely is not . Biology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still groping for its basic principles and concepts . The blank spots on its map of fundamentals are legion . Its vocabulary is still fraught with the subjective terms of primitive and nonanalytical observation , its problems are formulated in ambiguous symbols . There is no common master blueprint from which the various specialists could each take home a different assignment for independent piece work with reasonable certainty that their final products , when assembled , would fit together into a rounded and harmonious whole . The point I wish to make is that biology can continue to make healthy progress only if its task forces start with a comprehensive view of the problems in the field , keep this total perspective in view and do not lose it when they retreat into their various working quarters . This requires not only effort but determination . The difficulty grows as the horizon widens and information grows in bulk . Helpful devices are interdisciplinary conferences , review articles , and informal exchange of views . Biological education likewise is beginning to present an integrated picture of the province of biology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all these countermeasures are still so thinly spread that unless greatly amplified , they could hardly offset the growing momentum of disintegrative overspecialization . Let us take , for example , the nervous system . It represents problems of molecular organization , histological structure , geometry of connections , biochemistry of metabolism , chemical and electrical correlates of conduction and transmission , pharmacological response to drugs ; problems of coordination , specificity , integrative , regulatory , and interpretative functions and their derangement , as well as the whole problem of the developmental mechanisms through which all of this has come about . So the histologist , physiologist , biochemist , embryologist , psychologist , psychiatrist , and so forth , each picks out a partial aspect , analyzes it with the best of techniques available , according to the most // rigorous scientific standards known to him , only to discover , if and when he meets the others to compare conclusions , that these do not quite jibe . They come up with as many different versions of the brain as there are technical approaches , overlapping in good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conflicting ; and yet , the brain is still one and the same . I could cite several recent symposia in ample illustration of this contention . Yet the study of the nervous system is perhaps one of the most heartening examples of active resistance to specialist isolationism . Here , clinician and anatomist , psychologist and physiologist , cytologist and biochemist , and other cross-combinations , join forces to clarify their common objects and perhaps straighten out their inconsistencies . And so in other areas , such as genetics . But there are fewer and fewer people who are still sufficiently conversant from firsthand experience with the basic facts and problems of the whole of biology to arrange their own research and teaching in the light of such over-all perspective . Most others now inherit a narrow specialized sector of the field and learn about the rest only in formalized and watered-down second-hand tales ? or fables . This whole development is , of course , a corollary of the growth of our science . In the old days , which means not much more than a quarter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience in all the major manifestations of living systems , and it was still within the grasp of a single man to give a fairly comprehensive and well-balanced lecture course in biology in its totality . A single journal such as the Journal of Experimental Zoology would carry articles on development , genetics , protozoology , nutrition , insect physiology , endocrinology , ecology , animal behavior and what not . In those days , it was easy to keep one 's bearings and balance in the total scheme even as one applied oneself to rather specialized investigations . But nowadays , we tend to bring our students up to stay in rather closely demarcated channels . Scientific journals and societies frown on diversity and purify their contents to embrace smaller and smaller parcels of subject matter or technique . And making virtue of a necessary evil , they are begetting a narrow-minded sectarianism , which biology in its state of immaturity and loose coherence can ill afford . Commuting between different branches of biology , one often finds that they have highly unrealistic , if not fantastic , notions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbing that they disagree as that // they do not sense it or , worse still , do not care . I am not speaking of conflicts that can not be resolved but of the conflicts , as well as opportunities , that go unnoticed because of self-inflicted myopia . Of course , there have always been seclusive tendencies in our , as in any , science . But never before could the resulting incongruities assume the perilous mass proportions made possible in our day by the inflated volume of scientific production . The danger that the various segments of biology will succumb to the centrifugal pull and fly apart on separate tangents is a very real one . This danger of particularization in biology is partly offset by the reverse tendency of divided branches to combine in the attack on certain focal problems . Desirable as is this cooperative trend , it sometimes also aggravates the problem . This happens in those cases in which supposedly converging lines have different notions of just what the substance of their common object is . For instance , there is a growing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have had no first-hand acquaintance with real biological phenomena . In their innocence , they then often contrive models of organic systems so utterly fictitious that they bear no resemblance to living beings at all . Models must bear some pertinent relation to the real thing . To choose them fittingly , one must know the real thing . Otherwise , one ends up with something perhaps quite interesting in itself , but wholly irrelevant to the elucidation of life . Even so , the principle of conjoint and concerted effort has been one of the potent antidotes to our growing schisms . Even so , fragmentation without commensurate restoration of total perspective proceeds at an increasing pace . If allowed to go too far , it would lull the young generation into a sense of complacency about the true state of perfection of biological knowledge . It is important , therefore , to point out that notwithstanding all our wonderful progress in biological research and theory , most of our core problems still lie in deep obscurity . We do not know the physical basis of intracellular organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in space without the aid of rigid mechanical frameworks . We do not know much about what causes orderly substance transport within cells , nor do we know the motive mechanism of cell locomotion . We do not know how cells recognize each other , their foods , their enemies , and how they can react // selectively to their environment . We still have no more than shrewd guesses about the process in which constituent chemical units fall into places all at once to replicate a model compound , and only in the presence of the latter ; nor do we know what activates and checks and reawakens the powers for growth in development , disease , and aging . Even less do we appreciate , let alone understand , the supracellular principles of field character which order the cellular community both in development and in the coordination of our nervous functions , and whose disturbances may yield freaks in the former case , mental disorders in the latter . This is just a small but fair sample of our state of ignorance . In such an unsettled state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perspective , which tight seclusion in separate specialized compartments tends to crumble . Another hazard in giving young minds a grossly overmagnified picture of contemporary accomplishments , is that it dwarfs appreciation of the vast stock of older data on which they rest . Again , if biology were in a state of maturity comparable to that of the physical sciences , that stock of knowledge would by now have become fully ordered and incorporated in a consistent code of rigorous and universally accepted principles and laws . However , as I said before , biology is not yet in this lucky stage . True , a few areas , such as genetics or evolution , have managed to compress a large number of empirical facts into some valid generalizations . But most areas have not yet succeeded in finding unified conceptual formulae . Much less do we have a system of rules and principles that would tie the various areas into a conceptual superunit . Then how can we justify the careless unconcern by which we let the record of the past recede into oblivion before it has been properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let us restore the scholarly approach which takes a balanced view , derives the present from the past and goes on to project it into the future , with no undue enlargement of the present . We must humbly acknowledge the vastness of our ignorance , point to the exciting vistas of discoveries yet to be made and to the countless opportunities . By stressing the challenge of the unsolved biological problems and indicating ways to their solution , we can attract and inspire the superior minds who now see little scope for their ingenuity in a field part nature lore , part technical routine , with not much premium on daring enterprises . This is a real task for our educational // policy , and granting concurrence of research , administrative and economic policies , it can succeed . The splintering of biological sciences will , of course , continue unabated . But we now have the opportunity to reweave the separating threads in new and fruitful combinations . As a practical example of such regrouping , let me cite the reclassification of the biological sciences which I devised in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but which , since it reflects our modern trends , has since been applied more widely . It sorts biology into six major areas based on inherent principles of life as follows : 1 ) Molecular biology : concerned with the elementary compounds , their interactions , transformations and the attendant energy balance . 2 ) Cellular biology : the behavior of the organized cell , especially the coordination of molecular events underlying orderly structure and function . 3 ) Genetic biology : covering the laws and mechanisms of heredity , that is , the continuity of generations as well as their progressive transformation in evolution . 4 ) Developmental biology : including growth , development , repair and reproduction of the individual . 5 ) Regulatory biology : dealing with the coordinating and integrating mechanisms , such as the nervous system , endocrines and homeostasis. 6 ) Group and environmental biology : dealing with the relations of the individuals to one another and to their environment , including ecology , psychology , and sociology . You will note that there is no longer any reference in this scheme to particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be defined in terms of one or more of these six categories . The value of such a system lies in the shift of emphasis from technical specialties to focal problems . Habitual communion , for instance , among all the different specialties studying the nervous system , or among all the different groups interested in growth , whether it be the growth of bacteria , plants , animals , or human tumors , should result in more unified concepts than if the several lines were kept in segregation . In short , such schemes facilitate re-integration. // Striving for integration does not mean turning the individual investigator into a superficial jack-of-all-trades . It merely means to develop in him the urge to mind more than his own business so that he will compare and check and reexamine all he does in the light of what goes on elsewhere . For this purpose , critical surveys , as well as conferences and symposia , bringing together briefly specialists from different areas , are of great help . Of even greater value would be a more extensive exchange of workers among different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factional isolation of teachers and investigators , and the narrow indoctrination of the students which stems from it . Speaking of increasing specialization and division of labor , if we are to adjust to them with a minimum of duplications or omissions , we ought to have some clearer understanding on who is to assume what tasks . For instance , with their growing emphasis on the human individual , research and teaching in medicine are bound to concentrate on areas directly related to human health and ills . Reflected into pre-medical education , this will lead to greater preoccupation even in the more basic fields with man or mammals most closely resembling man 's organization . Considering this trend , it becomes incumbent on the biological sciences as such to take increased responsibility for the more general aspects of bacteriology , cytology , histology , anatomy , physiology , biochemistry , and so forth . Indeed , much that is still traditionally considered the preserve of the medical school , could profitably be ceded to biology . The biological sciences , in their turn , could do much more to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later understanding of the machinery of the human body , its faculties and limitations . A standard course in embryology that is no more than an illustrated travelogue conducting the student through the changing scenery of the embryo by pointing to landmarks of ridges , craters and pipe lines , without telling him the how and why of the changes , is hardly the right introduction to the proper understanding of , pathological phenomena of clinical concern , such as malformations , wound healing , regeneration , dystrophy , aging and neoplastic growth , all of which are but variants of what the normal embryo displays . Is it not high time to tell him more of our modern knowledge of the dynamics // and mechanisms of embryonic processes and the causes of their deviations ? Would he not get a better grasp of the vague concept of " constitution " by being shown more of the realistic background of genetics and ontogeny on which this constitution rests ? Would he not become more adept at nerve repair if we explained just how nerves grow , are guided and connect ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him some biological acquaintance with animal behavior , instinct and memory , so that he may better appreciate what is specifically human and what is not ? Undoubtedly , by intelligent and cooperative planning , one could do a lot to make the pre-medical experience in biology more pertinent , adding not only to the perspective of the clinician but also to the orientation of the investigator who has come through this training . Whichever way we phrase it , we come back to the human individual . This is the second plane on which we have to work . No organizational design becomes effective or defective save through the men and women who execute it . It may be sad that this needs emphasizing , but it does ; particularly in view of some current illusions about the potentialities of so-called team work . " No one familiar with the scientific process can share the hope that by hitching large numbers of scientists to a common treadmill , their aggregate effort will , by some sort of collective superintelligence , turn out discoveries of staggering novelty . Discovery always takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of workers of different training and viewpoints is a wonderful device to supplement , but not supplant , what only the individual mind and intellect can dothink . There is no substitute for human intelligence in science , so let us not act as if there were . If most of the riddles of life processes still lie obscure behind closed doors , let us not spend most of our efforts on ramming in those doors by blind mass pressure , but rather let more people get busy with looking for the keys or figuring out the combination of the locks . " ( Chapter 3 , p. 35 ) To accomplish this , Let us teach young investigators the tolerance that goes with understanding ; explain the workings of the scientific process which lives on all of these : methods , data , facts , conclusions , theories , hypotheses , and concepts , all of them equally vital ; restore a balanced attitude between the extremes of the pure fact finders and gadgeteers at one end , and the pure theorists and speculators at the other , and debunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for systematic and unhurried work and arouse suspicion of the flashy , but ill-supported , claim that trades passing notoriety for lasting truth ; and raise that sense of responsibility and pitiless self-criticism without which even the best man is prone to go to seed . Then , if we select the right young leaders and bring them up the right way and show them the immenseness of yet-unconquered problems full of the unknowns of biology , and if we have the courage to call these unknowns by their names , if we do n't cover up our ignorance by pretentious words , if we phrase the problems as objectively and as precisely as a realistic approach to them would demand , if we present existing knowledge soberly and honestly without implying more than what we know or can legitimately extrapolate ; in short , if we expose biology as challenging to the best of minds , then , I believe our progress is assured , and it will be balanced and steady . When I say we , I mean all those in education , administration , direction and support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders . This leaves out , of course , a large , and presumably the larger , fraction of the scientific population who have just average ability , not much originality , yet come to science with a will to serve . I am not talking of the laboratory technicians but of those who aspire to a professional career in science . As competent specialists in limited areas , they are in increasing demand in industry , government positions , and as teachers in institutions of higher learning . They are eminently useful , indeed indispensable , in what in military language would be called the mopping up and occupation duty and the logistic support of all the front lines . Like the leaders , they end their formal training with a Ph.D . degree . Yet , this can not conceal the fact that a true division of labor between the two groups is gradually emerging . The sooner we give official recognition to this fact and create a respectable status for the growing corps of needed technical specialists , the better for them and for the rest of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in , let us say , electronmicroscopy , biostatistics , electronic recording , x-ray analysis , histochemistry , anthropometric measurements , assay of nutrients , and so on , who have neither a flair nor a gift for original investigative work , should feel forced into it to make the grade of respectability , just because academic tradition has pronounced research as a virtue in itself . Such expert service personnel with doctoral // degrees should be certified as valuable and full-fledged members of the scientific community with no explicit or implied pressure for research production . That class already exists in hospitals and some other institutions , but it has not yet spread into the academic places where it is badly needed . In general , the biological sciences are understaffed , both academically and technically . Increased recruitment is needed , from the high-school level up . Such recruitment is , of course , up against a serious handicap ? the inequity of the economic status of the academic profession . I do not want to go into statistics which would only boil down to the familiar comparison between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trend becomes the more alarming , the heavier the bid for scientific talent from industry , medical practice , and governmental agencies , all of which can afford to pay higher financial rewards . True , the academic profession has always accepted financial loss in trade for a scholarly atmosphere . But this rationale is rapidly disappearing . Academic load grows heavier while industry and practice often provide attractive opportunities for scholarly activities . As the economic gap widens , we may yet see a larger quota of high-grade research workers veer off from academic life , depleting the sources of scientific progress , at a time when they ought to be augmented . In realistic view , therefore , unless academic institutions can be secured against this drain , all the envisaged measures for assuring biological progress will come to naught . Unless corrected , the trend could lead to a disastrous disruption of the structure of our science . This is a matter of national concern , hence , there are those who would look to government for relief . I would rather see help come through the growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of academic institutions . After all , much of the fundamental work on which industrial progress and medical practice rest comes from the universities and private research institutes , as a free gift to public welfare . Considering the added service of training , by which academic institutions mold human raw material into half-finished products at no cost to the consumers of such manpower , it becomes plain that more of the proceeds of these achievements will have to be plowed back into the academic process of teaching and investigation if the productive flow is to be maintained . Tax legislation // allowing industry and the professions a larger tax-free share for contributions for educational and investigative purposes might act as stimulant . As for the investigative process , however , the largest beneficiary is the public itself . Therefore , we must intensify the campaign to spread more widely a true understanding of what the scientific process is , the good it does and what it needs . The public must be made to see that the acquisition of knowledge proceeds in a single coherent and continuous stream , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It yields them as naturally as a tree bears fruit if properly nurtured , irrigated , and protected . But neither will a cut-off branch bear fruit , nor can you grow fruit directly on the soil by short cuts . We must not tire of explaining this truth and illustrating it over and over again in order that the public may , in due course , learn how to invest its contributions to science most soundly and to best interest . We evidently do not promote such understanding by our publicity techniques , which turn the spotlight merely on the recent fruits , many of them indeed unripe and sterile , while keeping the rest of the organic tree , which has produced them , unilluminated . If what they want is fruits , they must start with the seeds , the proper soil and climate , and tend the orchard . This brings me to my conclusion . The biological sciences are one of the most profitable investments of society . To raise the efficiency of their yield to even higher quotas , we need further fundamental knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can get it . The public has a major stake in this , but is not quite prepared to understand and underwrite the riskier phases of the process . Meanwhile , progress basic to human welfare must not be held up waiting . Thus , pending public enlightenment , the next best thing to do is to have the trustees of public funds who know the story of scientific progress , or at least ought to know it , improvise proper measures . The public , through taxes and annual collections , contributes a large share to foundations and organizations supporting biomedical research . Many of these foundations must be commended for the wisdom with which they allocate a part of the proceeds to the support of the basic biological sciences and their investigative program . But the very fact that they are explicitly commended reveals a feeling that they // are acting somehow " above the call of duty " ; and that they have to justify to the uninitiated the propriety of such investment . Thus , they will obviously tend to stay at least as close to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their basic faith in the need for the support of fundamental science . Unwittingly , they add to the mentioned tendency of premature grooving and freezing of our science into a few major channels at the expense of broad and unrestrained exploring ; thus adding to the distortion , rather than to sound proportions , of our research pattern . In order to correct this and to make public investment in biomedicine more profitable , I would propose that all foundations , organizations , and individuals who contribute financially to the advancement of medicine assign a fixed fraction of their budgets , perhaps no more than 10 per cent , to a common pool for the promotion of the biological sciences as such , with no earmarks , no qualifications , and no restrictions other than those of accepted accounting procedure . This pooled fund ought to constitute the risk capital of the biological sciences , to be used for exploration , prospecting , and the support of the imaginative , critically controlled , but often unpredictable ventures into the unknown . It should be used as a mobile reserve for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than of routine projects , and the rekindling of the dying flame of the curiosity and vision of the pioneer , which is the irreplaceable source of fundamental scientific progress and without which the scientific process is doomed to run down toward a thermodynamic death . These have been a few symptomatic , although somewhat sketchy , comments on what , in my opinion , is in the cards for the academic patchquilt of biomedical education in its groping to transform itself into a more rational pattern adapted to the needs of our evolving social scene , as we can foresee it . The rapid increase in population , the even greater increase in both claims and need for biomedical education , and the pressure for including ever-wider strata of the population in the benefits of the advances of medicine and the social services ? all these developments have reached a momentum which can no longer be met by pragmatic nostrums . No longer will it do to correct errors of the past , one by one . Developments are getting too precipitous and times are too short for symptomatic remedies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look forward in order that , for once , we may get ahead of the game . With future objectives clearly focused , the tactics by which to get there can be worked out , sometimes by foresight , at other times by trial-and-error . On no account , however , does blind continuance of the tactics of the past measure up to the challenge of the future tasks . A Model Program for a Graduate School Introduction The preceding chapters have been essentially reflections on the state of health and growth of science ? more narrowly , the life sciences ? in the setting of our contemporary universities and society . Assessing the effectiveness of the service actually rendered by universities in comparison with that which they could optimally render to both an expanding science and an increasingly differentiating society , certain deficiencies , calling for adaptive change , were recognized and identified , at least grossly . The broad scope of the general principles and objectives involved , portrayed in correspondingly broad brush strokes , did not permit the spelling out of the desiderata in sufficient detail to serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reads in the preceding chapter : " Let us teach young investigators the tolerance that goes with understanding ; explain the workings of the scientific process which lives on all of these : methods , data , facts , conclusions , theories , hypotheses and concepts , all of them equally vital ; restore a balanced attitude between the extremes of the pure fact finders and gadgeteers at one end , and the pure theorists and speculators at the other , and debunk the arrogance of their monopolistic claims ; restore respect for systematic and unhurried work , and arouse suspicion of the flashy , but ill-supported , claim that trades passing notoriety for lasting truth ; and raise that sense of responsibility and pitiless self-criticism without which even the best man is prone to go to seed . " One might rightly ask how this is to be accomplished . Therefore , to become more specific , I am inserting here as an appendix a program for a modern graduate school , designed decidedly with an eye to the future , drawing on the lessons of the assessment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forwardlooking program was made in 1953 by The Rockefeller Institute for 96 // Medical Research in New York , when its then-incoming President , Detlev Bronk , planned and effected the conversion of what had been a pure research institution into a novel version of a graduate university ( afterwards renamed The Rockefeller University ) . When 1 was called in 1964 by the University of Texas to establish a similar program for a new Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences in Houston , I had , besides my own ideas and prior experience , acquired in the planning and conduct of the Master 's program of the Division of Biological Sciences of the University of Chicago , the benefit of a decade 's connection with the Rockefeller program . The gist of these experiences is given in the following sample outline for a graduate program , which , although tailored originally for a biomedical school , is applicable in its essential precepts to graduate education in science in general and , with proper adjustments , to extra-scientific precincts of learning as well . It will be noted that the program is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the incentive and the opportunity for optimum self-development of his individual faculties . But , inasmuch as it makes him relate his own development to his prospective role in the advancement of knowledge and civilization , the program is Janus-faced , looking after the interests of both the student and society . It is a program for mutual commitment of teacher and student to harmonious cooperative effort . Perhaps examples like the Rockefeller experiment and its sequel in the program outlined here can serve as proof that the purportedly lethargic attitude of unconcern about the future , ascribed to universities by a student generation awakening from a no-less-reprehensible state of somnolence , has not been quite so universal as has been imputed . OBJECTIVES Graduate Education The aim of education is knowledge : more specifically , ( 1 ) the acquisition of knowledge ; ( 2 ) its application ; ( 3 ) its dissemination ; ( 4 ) its critical evaluation ; and ( 5 ) its augmentation . The hierarchy of educational systems deals with these five objectives in a progressive order , with ( 1 ) at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the summit . // Graduate education converges on the upper end of this scale , beginning in the middle of ( 2 ) . It leads from rote to judicious application , from the blind acceptance of rules to their critical reexamination and adaptive improvement , and from sheer productivity ( of data ) to creativity ( of novel concepts and methods ) . It thus calls increasingly upon those powers which are the unique province of the critical and creative human mind . Unquestionably , modern society needs ever-more professionals thoroughly trained to apply and spread the available products of knowledge for the benefit of the people . But it also needs more of that scarce supply of truly creative minds through which knowledge is expanded so that deeper insight into nature may yield products more rationally , efficiently , and amply . It needs , much as in music , not just performers and conductors , but , above all , composers ? in science , individuals endowed with imagination , skill , resourcefulness , drive and perseverance . These traits , though latent in various degrees in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are detected , cultivated , and exercised . And , since their pattern varies from individual to individual , each gifted student is a separate special case requiring careful individual attention . His study programs must be tailored to his special needs to bring his superior faculties to full fruition . To subject him to no more than routine mass training would doom those faculties to atrophy . Research " Education " literally means " to lead forth , " not " to pipe in . " Since this places learning by experience from active practice above learning from rote memory , the principal teacher in graduate education is research . Research itself , however , has many facets and degrees of relevance : from sheer data compilation to invention and discovery ; from wider application of the known to deeper penetration into the unknown . This scale reflects degrees of both visibility and vision ? of what there is open to view and what one actually sees . While vision is a personal trait , visibility is an external feature . The gifted student , endowed with a wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a course through a program that artificially restricts the visibility of the vast areas of what is , and what is not yet , known . Yet , many academic // programs insist on building just such artificial blinders into their structure , purportedly for the sake of fostering concentration and mastery in given specialties . Instead of being provided with a map of the land of knowledge , with both its travelled lanes and its vast blanks , students are thus funneled into rigid channels which they can broaden and groove further , but from which they seldom escape to make discoveries through novel explorations . This is a proved way to train practitioners , not to prepare explorers ; to produce followers , not to encourage leadership ; to satisfy the clamor for quantity , at the expense of excellence . It is a poor way to raise creative minds and to advance the sciences broadly , harmoniously , and quickly . The need for the perpetuation and deepening of existing trends of specialization is not to be disputed . However , unless the resulting fragmentation of the life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an integrated perspective of how the fragments fit into the total picture of the living system , chances for new and telling advances in the life sciences are significantly reduced . Continued work along established older lines , done competently , but not necessarily from a broad perspective , unquestionably leads to jobs which need to be filled ; fresh work along new lines , or recombined old ones , however , carries the promise of major discovery and important progress . In general , graduate education should provide students with a choice of either course . But there should also be some graduate schools that place a special premium on those students who possess the curiosity , talent , and courage of pioneers and who prefer the potentially more rewarding course of intellectual or technical adventure to the comfort of routine activity . Being blessed with a superior native endowment implies a moral obligation to develop it fully for service to mankind as well as for personal gratification . Some graduate schools must make it their special goal to help the individuals thus endowed and motivated fulfill that mission . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recombination of formerly separate lines of investigation , from striking out in new directions , and from the reorientation of older ones . To prepare himself for such opportunities , the student pioneer-in-training must not derive his direction solely from the inertial momentum of the past , but must be led to reorient himself with regard to , and in full view of , the vastness of the unsolved problems that lie ahead . Yet , at the // same time , he must also be instructed in the expert use of the tools and procedures on which he must rely in whatever problem he aims to tackle . Thus , the following emerge as the main objectives of a graduate school for pioneers : ( a ) Well-rounded , broad exposure of the student to the cohesive entities of problem areas that are at present fragmented in numerous separate , and often unconnected , channels of technical specialization. ( b ) Training in depth in one or several skills of potential bearing on a given restricted problem area . ( c ) Selection of students who hold promise to profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b ) ? the " T-square " education scheme . ( a ) is a matter of over-all design of programs ; ( b ) a matter of individual instruction ; ( c ) of individualized admission and screening standards of high caliber . PROGRAM Outline For the special example of graduate education in the life sciences , the implementation of the outlined objectives should be guided by the following key precepts. ( 1 ) All teaching programs should be organized with major emphasis on continuity , consistency , and inner coherence so that the student may learn to relate any particular thread of specialized work or view to the integrated fabric of the life sciences . ( 2 ) More specifically , all students should be offered a " core " program of lectures , demonstrations , and exercises , giving them a critical synopsis of the present state of knowledge in the life sciences ; of its historical , technical , and conceptual development ; of its achievements as well as of its gaps , inconsistencies , and incongruities ; and of the promising avenues to its future progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eye to their relevance and balanced proportions , without undue bias toward fashions of the day . ( 3 ) The student should be made familiar with essential methods and techniques current in biomedical research ; deficiencies in his // preparation should be corrected by course attendance in neighboring institutions or by tutorials. ( 4 ) The student should acquire competence in a few technical or methodological specialties and must learn to master at least one . ( 5 ) Doctoral research should be tailored to the individual interests and aptitudes of each student , preferably by encouraging him to combine a variety of approaches in the exploration of a given problem in novel ways . This will foster his chance of breaking in a new line of thought and investigation peculiarly his own for further development in his subsequent career . ( 6 ) The student should be given opportunity to develop appreciation for the nonscientific aspects of our culture , such as the arts , and , conversely , for the role of science in our civilization and for its obligations in serving society . ( 7 ) In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing fragmentation of the life sciences by rearing a new generation of pioneers endowed with a broad perspective for critical selforientation , but at the same time trained in the disciplined application of their talents to a chosen , preferably self-chosen , path in a given discipline . Execution In compliance with this program , Ph.D . degrees should be given in " Biomedical Sciences " without explicit reference to subdivisions . " Departmental , " or other sharply compartmented designations should be omitted in the interest of flexibility and versatility . To counter the risk that the abolition of categorical distinctions might lead to an undesirably amorphous scheme , the program should be structured not along traditional disciplinary lines , but around key problems presented by the living organism . The student must be made to sense that all phenomena of life are interrelated and interacting and that he must keep his eye on this integrated continuum even as he concentrates his work on no more than an infinitesimally small sector . Organizational emphasis will thus be shifted from disciplinary margins , which tend to hem the student in , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can radiate out . Such focal issues would be chosen from the major problem // areas of molecular , genetic , cellular , developmental , regulatory ( organismic ) , behavioral , environmental , and evolutionary biology . This pattern is broad and flexible enough to accommodate unpredictable future developments in the life sciences , including additions and regroupings , as new needs and opportunities arise . The core program should present to all students well-rounded accounts of both the state of knowledge and the open problems in those priority areas . A major part , at least of the first year of graduate study , is to be allocated to this portion of the program . During this period , time and emphasis should gradually be shifted from lectures and seminars to practical exercises and research propaedeutics . The presentations should be rather strictly programed as regards logical sequence and proportions , and be amply supplemented by modern visual aids , laboratory demonstrations , library assignments , exhibits , and discussion sessions . Experiences gained in this core program will give the student a broad outlook and firm basis from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary critical perspective under which to pursue his research and evaluate that of others . Concurrently , the student should be given specific introductions to the various technical and mental disciplines of general applicability to modern biological research , including , for instance , methods of biostatistics , enzymology , microbiology , ultra-structural analysis , electrophysiology , cell culture , surface chemistry , radiation genetics , chromatography , microsurgery , etc . Having obtained some general acquaintance with many of these disciplines , the student will then select one or several of them for further methodical specialization under the expert guidance of an appropriate staff member . Each of the technical skills thus acquired is pertinent to several of the program areas listed above . By applying them in various combinations to the investigation of common problems ( e.g. , brain function , wound healing , parasitism , etc. ) , the student 's thinking and working will gain that essential second dimension which cross-connects the single-tracked channels of the established disciplines into topically unified programs . Each student should be expected to think and operate on a dual scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistency of subject matter than about clean methodology and // technique . While he will thus be solidly trained in a given specialty , he will also be enabled to orient and rate his specialist endeavors with regard to their broader bearing on the clarification of life processes , normal and abnormal . In order to succeed , this program requires a faculty of highest professional competence , breadth of knowledge , cooperative team spirit , and enthusiastic dedication to educational ideals . The growth of knowledge has made it practically impossible to assemble a resident faculty which , in addition to those traits , would have command of all the subject matter essential for a balanced presentation of the life sciences . Therefore , the resident faculty must be supplemented by a large contingent of visiting lecturers , specifically selected to fill in the gaps , on regular repetitive appointments . From the core program , the students should then branch out into their individual doctoral programs . In this , prime attention should be given to superseding the lock-step training of the ordinary undergraduate curriculum by offering full opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a problem area will have to score much higher than would sheer plodding along well-trodden paths . In the selection of doctoral projects , the heavily trafficked routes of greatest popularity , already pursued superabundantly in many institutions , should rank second to the more neglected problem areas of high significance and promise . This calls for considerable personal attention to each student by the faculty . Conversely , the student will have to make the most of the available aids in self-development , such as libraries , practice laboratories , and outside lectures . To grow to leadership and , in turn , to raise leaders , a person must be more than informed ; he must be broadly cultured . Therefore , it is incumbent on a high-class graduate school to give the student opportunities for furthering his cultural interests by participating in lectures , exhibits , field trips , and literary exercises of broad cultural scope ; in this way , he will experience intimately the fertile interaction between science and the humanities . Moreover , wherever practicable , the presentation of scientific subject matter should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific methodology , as well as to the relation of biomedical sciences to human // attitudes and welfare . In addition , seminars and discussion sessions should aim at developing not only the student 's sense of factual accuracy and conceptual perspective , but also his facility at articulating and communicating his thoughts clearly and concisely . Summary The students of today are the developers of tomorrow . The best among them , therefore , must consider it their calling to build for the future ? and not just to perpetuate the past . A forward-looking system of higher education must offer them full opportunity to do so , and in an age of expanding education , society can ill afford not to offer them that opportunity . The task of a graduate school is to provide the highly motivated , curious , imaginative , disciplined , and skillful student with guidance and an environment in which to bring his creative urge to full fruition . This is the meaning of " education for excellence . " It calls for what I have called above a T-square scheme of education ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breadth , by widening his horizon so that he may encompass the wide perspective of the unfragmented total range of phenomena and problems in science , instead of being made to train his sights myopically on a few narrow sectors of temporary prominence ; in depth , by teaching him thorough competence in special technical disciplines and their application to the solution of important problems . The former object can be served by a core program , strictly designed for integration and over-all balance of proportions , to be offered in a coordinated plan by resident and visiting faculty members ; the latter object , by intensive individual guidance of each student in his research , taking into account his aptitudes and predilections . All of these activities should stress student participation in research , critical research evaluation , and educational exercises . Attention should also be given to the enlargement of the student 's cultural horizon by facilitating contacts with the humanities . Traditional curricular constraints should be held to a minimum . Research should be fostered in areas where ignorance is great , not only in those of most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose their own research , whether wide or narrow , orthodox or inventive , according to their own judgement and // sense of responsibility . Their gifted students , however , should be allowed to diversify , rather than just replicate and amplify , the course of their research preceptors . Consistent adherence to the outlined policy is bound to bring about a new generation of Ph.D.s steeped in the spirit of striving for excellence through effort and destined to advance the life sciences on a broad front ? for their own satisfaction and gain in doing it and for the growth of human knowledge and understanding that comes from it . Evidently , such a program is suitable for only a limited segment of the graduate student population . It would seem in the interest of our society to afford them this exceptional challenge to prove and enhance superior native talent instead of condemning them to the level of performance of the average , which rightly rules the programs of education for the broad masses of practitioners and enlightened citizens with less exceptional endowments . Experience and Experiment* " Experiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this talk in French , I could not even have phrased the title as I did . For " experience " in French means both experience and experiment . Yet there is a fundamental difference between the two . Experience means familiarity with happenings in the world . It is our cumulative record or store of judgments and suppositions , which we have formed by conscious or subconscious evaluation , from countless observations , impressions , and comparisons . It is personal and subjective . Experi-ments , by contrast , are objective tests of whether our suppositions are factually valid , not just intuitionally plausible or logically cogent . Experience makes us assume and expect relations between things in nature , but it remains for the experiment to verify the assumptions and expectations . Experience prompts and guides experiments , and the experiments , in turn , confirm or amplify or modify the content of experience . In short , experience , experiment , and logic play back and forth upon each other in mutual enhancement ; it takes this triple interplay to promote knowledge : However , in biology the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partnership . It is fitting , therefore , to pay tribute to the period of Vallisneri , which we commemorate , for having raised experimentation to senior rank and status . It seems that during that epoch the number of converts from speculation to the discipline of the experimental method reached , in the terms of physics , the " critical mass " necessary to generate a carrier wave of telling force and sweep , whose mounting swell , washing away old rocks of idle supposition and contention , has brought on the stupendous growth of our under-standing of living systems . So we may date from that period the systematic ascent of biological experimentation to its present culmina-tion as the powerful tool for sorting fact from belief , for testing the pertinence of logical premises and conclusions , for settling ambiguous 106 // issues , for removing inconsistencies among conflicting data , and , in general , for aiding the human mind in getting to understand living nature by manipulating natural events and tricking them into revealing crucial information . The point is that experiments have been done , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose other than just to do another experiment . Experimentation used to be deliberate , not improvised ; planned to reduce confusion , not just to add profusion ; it was meant to be relevant and incisive , not just trifling and redundant . Or , to put it succinctly , in the tradition of those past centuries , designing an experiment has been like training a gun at a target , rather than like spattering buckshot all around at random in the hope that somewhere something might be hit . The targets , in turn , were products of experience , including those extrapolations from experience by logic and imagination which generate hypotheses and theories . Throughout , deliberate orientation of experiments toward visible or envisioned goals has been the practice and tacitly accepted work rule . Yet work rules have a way of changing imperceptibly as time goes on and as conditions change . Much as in evolution , such trends of change may be for the better or the worse , ending , respectively , in progress or disaster . But unlike evolution , intelligence ought to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus prevent potentially monstrous products . For instance , let us take a complex system ? an organism or a community or any social enterprise ? whose proper functioning requires that all its vital parts maintain harmonious proportions ; let one set of parts defy this harmony and go off on its own , with no regard to the others and the total pattern , and the result will be monstrosities . The dinosaurs , extravaganzas in size and mass beyond the power of a nervous system to manage and coordinate , were such monstrosities . Now , consider that the body of knowledge likewise is a cohesive , consistent , integrated system ( 1 ) , not just a hodge-podge of miscellaneous information , which therefore likewise requires for its healthy growth a sound balance among its tributaries ? experience , experiment , and logic . So , if biological research were to allow the share of experience to dwindle and let experimentation gain in volume , while losing in purpose and direction , biology might yet meet the fate of the dinosaurs . This is a fate which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forebodings , that such a trend is in the offing . // Bulk Replaces Brains Now , I submit that such warning signals have indeed appeared ; that biological experimentation , at the height of success , is beginning to drift from the rigorous work maxim of its preceptors into habits that threaten to place bulk ahead of brains , and routine exercises ahead of thought . I said experiments should be purposeful and meaningful . To be concrete , let me illustrate briefly some of those purposes and meanings . Organic nature confronts us with a host of puzzling questions , which we then try to answer by experiments . But the major class of experiments is that which boldly tosses questions back at nature and tricks nature into answering them by confronting her with combinations and constellations of conditions unprecedented in her standard repertory . To mention some examples at random : the taking of living cells out of the body and growing them in an extraneous medium ? the ingenious experiment of Harrison that started tissue culture ; or the surgical removal by Lashley of arbitrary fractions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discriminate visual patterns , with the result that the learned patterns persisted in the defective brains as proof that visual memory is not a fractionable mosaic ; or the first injection of foreign molecules into a rabbit , which then formed antibodies matching the alien agent , proving that immune responses are truly adaptive ; or the transfer of the perfusion fluid of an excited frog heart into another heart , which thereby got excited , proving the humoral character of the transmission from nerve to muscle ; and so forth . What really distinguishes such experiments is not their novelty , but rather their originality and pertinence . Without imagination one can contrive infinite variations of experimental set-ups , all of them novel , yet utterly uninteresting , inconsequential , insignificant . The mere fact that something has not been done or tried before is not sufficient reason for doing or trying it . It takes originality to conceive innovations of true significance or of relevance to the solution of a problem or to the assessment of a theory . When Harrison removed nerve cells from the body to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the body , he had expected the outcome . Experience had shaped his expectation , and the expectation dictated the experiment . When // Lashley inflicted brain lesions in trained rats , his thinking was guided by clinical reports of functional integrity in human patients with brain injuries . The experiments were designed to settle problems . If they were gambles , the stakes were high . And incidentally , they all were done with rather elementary means ? artfully . The crux is that they succeeded because these men had let their seasoned experience lead the way to critical experiments . This used to be the common practice . Is it still ? Accidental Discoveries Or is my argument perhaps ill-founded ? For instance , I have selected as examples star performers to the neglect of lesser lights . True , but stars of major brightness on the biological firmament used to be sufficiently distinctive to act as navigation guides for succeeding generations . The milky way is not well suited for this role . A crowd of mediocrity , however tolerable , if in the foreground , stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be , however , no such crowd . Next , I intimated that experiments used to be designed in expectation of a relevant result and that this was good . But is not scientific history full of instances of the accidental discovery of the unexpected ? True again , but he who does expect something will be on the alert even for the unexpected , while he who just ambles , looking for nothing in particular , is prone to miss even the obvious . And as for the saying that the blind hen , too , finds a grain , this certainly would not hold for a hen on a grainless desert , and at any rate , it does not suggest that blindness or deliberate blindfolding is superior to vision . Of course , we frequently end up with answers to questions other than the ones we asked , or even with a lesson on how to phrase our questions better . But the historic successes of our predecessors still argue for the virtue of taking off for the exploration of the unknown from clearcut questions born from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what . Experiments are also checks of whether what experience presents as obvious or plausible is true or false . The linkage of events in nature is a matter of experience ; to decide the nature of the linkage remains a matter of experimental tests . The remarkably observant Leonardo da Vinci noticed that castrated animals lose their fighting spirit , which led // him to infer that there is a direct linkage between the testicles and behavior . It so happens that modern experiments have proved him right , but what if the behavorial change had been an unspecific by-product of the trauma of removing an organ ? any organ ? rather than specifically the testicles ? Plausibility alone is quite untrustworthy . Remember the case of the eruption of the forelimbs of the metamorphosing frog larva . These limbs develop inside a deep subcutaneous pocket ; to become useful , they must break through the covering layer of skin , and indeed , when they have grown to size , perforations form in the skin where the limbs chafe against it , letting the limbs emerge . What would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the limb itself causes the perforation ? Distrusting plausibility , the skeptical biologist ? in this case , Braus ? put the assumption to an experimental test by suppressing the development of the fore limb altogether ; surprisingly , at the appointed stage , an opening formed in the skin nevertheless , in readiness for the delivery of a limb that was not there . The puncture has since been traced to a coincidental autolytic process in the skin , quite unrelated to the limb . Biological research has uncovered a distressing multitude of such surprises . Take for example , the story of the development of the lens of the eye . The eyeball forms as a cup-shaped outpocketing of the embryonic brain ; whereas the lens starts as an inpocketing from the outer skin , fitting snugly into the cup . Thus , faced with this composite origin , one had to wonder how the lens could always form precisely where the eye is later to look out . The question seemed comfortably answered for a while when Lewis and Spemann both demonstrated that in some amphibians the lens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the eye itself induced the lens . The comfort of this simple answer , however , did not last . When the experiments were repeated in some other amphibian forms , the lens formed independently , whether or not the eye was there . Therefore , not only can sheer plausibility not be trusted , but , even if experimentally confirmed for one set of circumstances , the confirmation need not be valid for another set . Another instance is chromatophore reaction : experimental studies on its control again brought widely disparate results , submitting to no unifying formula . In some forms , the control turned out to be neural , in others hormonal , and , in still others , shared by both the nervous and // the hormonal systems , the one causing contraction , the other expansion . To come to this conclusion , a fair variety of forms had to be sampled . Doubtless a more limited sample would have led to the false generalization that the control is exclusively either nervous or hormonal . Thus , to test a certain variety of species proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having established the salient point that evolution has made promiscuous use of all possible combinations between the agents and effects at its disposal , all further experimental repetition , except for training purposes , would only serve a cataloging function ? expansion in bulk , rather than penetration in depth . But , we may ask , how large a catalog of data can we afford and justify ? Where Does Necessity End and Redundancy Start ? In fact , any set of examples of biological experiments that I could cite would make us ponder certain questions . What is the minimum range of variables that must be tested before we can certify a given biological proposition or conclusion as reasonably safe ? How much additional variation and repetition beyond this range is essential and justifiable on scientific grounds , considering the finite bounds of social and economic reality ? Where does necessity end and redundancy start ? In trying for answers , the biological sciences find themselves somewhere on middle ground between the one extreme of physics , which concentrates its interest on general principles , with less concern for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , engineering ) , and the other extreme of the historical branches of learning with their preoccupation with the particular , specific , and often unique shape of events . At the physical end of this scale , a maximum number of phenomena can be condensed into a minimum number of general formulas , but as one proceeds toward the other end , this ratio becomes progressively inverted , as itemized fact-finding and data-recording become more and more ends in themselves , rather than way stations to the formation of theories . The center of gravity of the life sciences has steadily shifted on this scale from the descriptive and normative end of natural history toward the analytical and formulative end of the exact sciences . Of course , the assumption that biology could ever reach the physical end completely is // a delusion , based either on lack of realistic acquaintance with living systems and their true nature or unawareness of the conceptual limitations of physical reductionism . This is not to question our success in reducing cellular phenomena to molecular terms . However , to pretend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shambles can reassemble themselves into a functional living system without the cheating intervention of another living system , is a conceptual perversion , whatever one may think of the primordial origin of life ( 2 ) . Biology , therefore , is destined to retain its autonomy , which means that to be known and understood , biological mechanisms will still have to be studied and formulated in their own right and full diversity . And this explains why in biology so many generalizations must stop far short of the vast inclusiveness of laws of physics , hence , why the range of validity of each must be determined empirically . It is this inherent feature of biological nature , rather than backwardness or extravagance , then , which necessitates testing over a far wider spectrum of variables , such as species , cell types , stages , environments , and so forth , than would seem necessary or even pardonable in most of physics . It sanctions the usage of repeating biological experiments with appropriate variations : with change of objects , agents , dosage , timing , methods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But when does usage turn into abuse ? When is one to terminate potentially infinite series of variations ? Or is it still legitimate , in the name of scientific freedom , to go on interminably ? This brings me to the crux of my argument . Throughout the phase of history which we have come to survey , till very recently , to be a scientist was a calling , not a job . Scientists were men of science , not just men in science . They had come to science driven by an inner urge , curiosity , a quest for knowledge , and they knew , or learned , what it was all about . They were not drawn or lured into science in masses by fascinating gadgets , public acclaim , manpower needs of industries and governments , or job security ; nor did they just drift in for no good reason . The scene , however , is now changing rapidly . The popularity and needs of an expanding science bring in more drifters and followers than pioneers . While the first signs of this change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the growth of interest and investment in science , with mounting opportunities and recruitment , is // bound to sweep across the globe . The carrier wave of experimental research set off in the pioneering days is suddenly swelling into a gigantic tidal wave . Having barely begun , we can not foretell its ultimate dimensions , but it is already bursting the narrow frame of current scientific facilities and practices , which have essentially been fashioned by and for traditional science , the small-scale enterprise of yesteryear . This growth will keep right on . Now , as biologists , we know that sheer expansive growth , unrestrained by differentiation and functional adjustments , breeds tumors . Shall we let the oncoming scientific expansion likewise become a tumorous inflation ? Shall we let brainpower be overgrown by manpower and mechanical rote performance ? Growth in a healthy organism is self-limiting , restrained by inner balances , not by external strait jackets . In the growth of biological research , likewise , lest we conjure the horrible specter of some administrative authority prescribing to our scientists what to do , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how , we must by all means strive to keep alive , or else revive , the old spirit of self-restraint of the experimenter , exercised by being most circumspect in the selection of his research targets in terms of relevance , and being most disciplined , responsible , and parsimonious in his attack on them . Research morality is even more important than research morale . 1 had intended to cite specific evidence that as research has grown in volume it also has grown softer by loss of self-restraint , lowered selectivity , blurring of research targets , and , consequently , lack of self-direction . But then I decided not to quote because , after all , contemporary biology has such a superb record of truly outstanding achievements that it would gravely distort the total picture if only some flaws were drawn in magnified detail . Nevertheless , the general conclusion stands : it is that however vigorously biological research has been growing , the diluent has begun to grow faster than the solid substance , and this bears watching . The symptoms are many . We see instruments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mass-produce and market senseless data beyond the point of conceivable usefulness ? a modern version of the Sorcerer 's Apprentice . We see bewildered youngsters composing research projects like abstract paintings : picking some colorful and fashionable words from recent literature , and then // reshuffling and recombining them into another conglomerate , yielding a stew of data , both undigested and indigestible . We see narrow specialists lavishing their pet technique on reconfirming in yet another dozen ways what has already been superabundantly established to everybody 's satisfaction . But why go on ? Most of you will know the hallmarks of this growing dilution of our research effectiveness . They are irrelevance , triviality , redundancy , lack of perspective , and an unbounded flair for proliferation . Now , granting the fact , why be alarmed ? All right , there is some waste ; but wastefulness can never be wholly banned from science . Yet , what is serious is that the volume production of trifles is not just waste . It actively competes with the pursuits of worthier objectives . The map of biological knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our elementary sense of proportions cries for an equitable distribution of our research potential over the whole field . Carl Hartmann ( 3 ) has recently published a list of major unsolved problems in the physiology of mammalian conception alone : it added up to 154 , only a fraction of them under study . Imagine the size of such a catalog of ignorance for the whole of the life sciences . Yet dull , routine mass production in research only swells the traffic along the well-traveled familiar highways of activity , rather than branching out into the unfamiliar wilderness that needs to be explored . Experience These are just some of the symptoms of " Big Science . " Well , Big Science is on the way and will remain here for good . The time to think how to adjust to it is now . This is a matter for all of those concerned with the future of our culture ? research men , teachers , administrators , historians , philosophers , publishers , editors and statesmen . The growth of science can be the greatest blessing for humanity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried by the inflationary momentum . Ever more men of special technical competence will be needed in science to elaborate and apply that which we have come to know . They are not the ones I am concerned about . They are well taken care of . It is those others , able and destined to contribute significantly to the advance of knowledge , whom we must salvage from being either crushed or swept down with the current . They are those young men // and women full of curiosity , imagination , and sharp intellects whose mental powers can find full realization only by exertion , but would be doomed to atrophy in the dull and effortless game of routine mass procedures . To them , the scientists of the future , we ought to pass on the lessons of our glimpses of the past . So , let them look at the old masters . Outmoded ? Technically , of course ; but not so much in method , and not at all in the spirit which guided their experiments . What were their guides ; Ideas , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in turn , sprout from the fertile soil of experience . So , then , at last , what is this potent nostrum , experience ? It is that subtly discriminating , screening , sorting , evaluating , and integrating faculty of our minds which we elaborate and perfect continuously throughout life , more subconsciously than in awareness . Its potency stems from the extraordinary innate acuity and sensitivity of our nervous system , sharpened and polished ever more by use and training . Our retina can perceive a few quanta of light , our nasal organ , molecules in concentrations below the detecting power of the finest tests . Why not concede , then , similarly high efficiency to the brain and give it free rein in its incessant activity of selecting , comparing , rating , judging , and creating , which is the mainspring of our concepts and ideas ? The experimental discipline has rightly eradicated faith in any a priori truth of such ideas , but let us guard the young generation against seduction by the opposite extreme , no less pernicious ? undisciplined experiments , unguided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the field of biological publication are only partly of a technical and administrative nature and therefore can only partly be overcome by technical and organizational measures . The roots of the problem lie much deeper and concern the whole future of biology . As publication is merely crystallized research , publication ills are largely an outcome of defective research , and bad research , in turn , may be blamed on bad training for research . The publication problem thus appears as just one aspect of a much broader problem ; namely , that of teaching and research in biology in general . If the volume of publication threatens to surpass what is technically and economically manageable , we must decide on how to meet the threat without hampering scientific progress . Our capacity to process , finance , store , and utilize scientific literature is certainly not unlimited . Yet , in the past , we have often behaved as if it were . We now realize that we are approaching the critical limit at an ominous pace , and we want to be prepared . Logically , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable bounds . We might reduce research production , or we might continue to produce at full capacity but publish only part of it . Above all , we might increase the efficiency of both production and publication ; that is , the yield , per unit of time , of scientifically useful results , and the yield , per printed page , of scientifically useful statements . In deciding just what course to follow in practice , the long-range interests of biological science as a whole should prevail . However , since biology lacks unity of purpose and has never developed a deliberate and consistent research policy , we simply do not possess valid criteria by which to judge what would , and what would not , serve the interests of biology as a whole . Our opinions on the subject are diverse and often conflicting , and by their very diversity 116 reveal the part which fashions , local traditions , personal predilection , and expediency have played in their molding . Opinion is too casual and unstable a basis for any science worth its name to rest upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of biological research , the thing to do is to provide it with a firm foundation of principles defining the purpose of research and the methods that have proved most successful in attaining it . The time has come for changing from a drifting to a charted course , not only in the field of publication , but in biological research . This study of the publication problem might , therefore , profitably be made the occasion for initiating a much broader enterprise : a concerted reexamination , reevaluation and restatement of the goals , ways and means of biological research . I shall try to illustrate in the following very sketchy outline how the field of publication would benefit from such a more comprehensive action . It has become perfectly plain that with the increase of workers flocking into research , the cherished doctrine of freedom for random movements must gradually be abandoned . This is not the place to go into a detailed discussion of these matters . All I mean to indicate is that , while the shelling of every new walnut promises to reveal some new configuration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long it is scientifically proficient and economically feasible to continue to shell walnuts in the hope that something worthwhile will come of it . There are some basic fallacies current among biological workers . They are : ( a ) that every as-yet-unrecorded item is worth recording ; ( b ) that every recorded item is worth reporting ; ( c ) that every fact worth reporting is worth publishing in print . There are those who contend ? I am sure , quite sincerely ? that in science anything at all that has not yet been done is worth doing , and that one fact is as good as any other fact . I respect their viewpoint , but can not share it , because it seems to me to be based on an utter misconception of the aim and function of research . It is a perversion of the teachings of the history and philosophy of science to claim that the aim of research is fact-finding . The aim of research is knowledge , and as knowledge is not a mere collection of data , research can not consist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitute knowledge . It merely furnishes the food on which knowledge grows ( see the following chapter ) . To expect that a hodge-podge of // miscellaneous data is going to sort and order itself automatically into knowledge is like the illusion of the medieval magician who expected a mixture of chemicals in a retort to organize itself into a homunculus . Now , if facts are but the food on which knowledge grows , is it not about time that we concern ourselves a little with the dietetics of knowledge to find out which foods are healthy , how they are to be prepared and what constitutes a balanced diet ? Certainly as bulk is no criterion of nutritive value , so the volume of data being piled up can be no measure of the progress of science . The primary aim of research must not be just more facts , but more facts of strategic value . By strategic value I mean that property of an observation or experiment that leads to the clarification or solution of a problem , to deeper insight into a phenomenon , to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the birth of a new problem ; at any rate , leads to some end other than the bewildered question , " So , what ? " The crux of the problem , therefore , is to make research workers more strategy-conscious . How ? Most of us are vaguely conscious of an unwritten code of scientific strategy , which has been passed down through the medium of example and personal contact from teacher to student . But now that scientific research is assuming mass-production dimensions , this mode of transmission is breaking down . More and more students leave our classrooms for so-called independent research , with barely the faintest notion of what science is all about and of how best to promote it . While they are learning tactical tricks , they rarely come to know those rules of scientific strategy which could give aimfulness to their future research . Now , if the patriarchal system of instruction , which could give a student perspective , is forced out of operation by sheer pressure of numbers , then we shall have to do what all communities and tribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which unwritten convention could pass for law : they had to codify the law . So we may likewise have to formulate and codify the rules of scientific research . Unless we do , we can not expect an uninitiated generation of tomorrow to observe these rules , for they will not know them . Yes , I am envisaging a written code of scientific research to serve as a manual of scientific strategy and as a standard frame of reference for the rating of scientific products , for the guidance of research workers , // editors , and administrators alike . However , in contrast to a code of law , with its powers of enforcement , the implementation of this scientific code must be left to the conscience of the research man himself . Conformance must be a matter of his sense of responsibility and judgment , which we , as teachers , must strive to develop , and there must be no coercion . Some will continue to waste their time and somebody 's funds on petty tasks , but this will still be much less costly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of research and proscribe others . On the other hand , unless we do exercise and teach self-discipline , restraints may be forced upon us from the outside by agencies of much less vision and competence . And this we want to avoid . The suspicion that I am here advocating a subtle scheme to deprive the scientist of his freedom of decision may be allayed by reiterating that , quite to the contrary , I want us to provide him with a more rational basis on which to make intelligent and responsible decisions . Even now freedom of choice in research is restricted by such factors as pressure of opinion or authority , accidents of training and circumstances , subsidizing policies of institutions and foundations , practical needs , and others . These are extraneous influences . How , then , could anyone object to letting biology develop a directive from its own inner resources ? the envisaged articles of the strategy of scientific research ? The quality of both research and publication could only gain from such an educational campaign , which would reduce the aimlessness of thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of literature . So much for long-range policy . Of immediate benefit would be the incorporation in our educational program of some instruction to graduate students on how to organize their material for publication . We teach our students to use only clean instruments and glassware , but we do not always insist on similar cleanliness of their mental and verbal tools . We expect them to be meticulous in their observations , manipulations , and measurements , but we often let them get away with a muddled presentation of their results . Would it not be wise to develop their sense of proportion and , for instance , call their attention to the fact that they only hurt themselves and irritate the reader by such common practices as camouflaging important results by setting them down in an underbrush of irrelevant trifles ?                     