@@773934

txt // arms in defense of the state when called upon to do so . The obligation does not presuppose any specific military role or task . On the basis of this parameter the issues of whether reserves serve the purpose of support , supplementation or substitution of the regular forces can be incorporated without encountering contradictions . Paradoxes could arise , for example , when reserves undertake roles or tasks for which there is no regular armed force counterpart . Under these circumstances , it is difficult to decide whether the reserve is a reserve unit in support of the regular forces , because it is acting as a substitute for the regular forces , or whether the reserve unit by nature of the unique role that it performs within the total defense posture , is comparable with a regular unit . In the light of the above parameter , three broad , fundamental issues must now be raised . The order in which these issues are examined is crucial , for , being interdependent , the danger is that one will serve as the premise for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of what reserves are for . The supposition here is that the role and purpose of reserves is specified within the defense policy objectives of the state . Defense policy , therefore , prescribes the ends to which reserve forces will make a supposedly meaningful contribution . Clearly , a priori. , there is a broad area for interpretation as to what form that contribution should adopt , and it is around this question that most argument and loose terminology is centred . The second is the question of what reserve forces can do , a posteriori . Ideally there should be a high degree of compatibility between policy , corresponding with ends , and what reserves are capable of doing , being synonymous with means . This compatibility , either in theory or practice , is seldom evident at either the state or the international level . The third problem is where reserve forces come from . This is essentially a civil-military problem involving the legal and moral obligations of the citizen to offer himself for the defense of his society or state ; but it also concerns the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such represents a constraint upon what reserves can do . As with the interrelationship of means and ends , so the availability of manpower can be a determinant of , or at least a constraint upon , the ends that defense policy is intended to achieve . Moreover , // whether the manpower is available or not may be a function of what the specified ends of defense policy are . Similarly , the means problem of what reserve forces can do in terms of their skill and expertise , organizational commitment and ability to integrate within a military as opposed to a civilian structure , is a function of the numbers and quality of manpower and equipment . The interrelation-ship is a close and sensitive one between the means and ends and locus of reserve forces ; for this reason , whichever is considered to be the priority issue will determine and prejudice the other two.1 " Most authors who have discussed reserve forces have taken ends to be paramount . In so doing they have interpreted ends as requiring a specific form or reserve force capability , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the skills and availability of civil manpower to meet their demands . Indeed , many elaborate and ingenious schemes for finding reserve manpower have been devised to justify individual interpretations of defense policy ends . ' ? In Britain , one author accused the government of looking at the means problem of what reserve forces can do before examining the ends of defense policy , and concluded that it was for this reason that the British reserve forces were drastically cut in 1967.17 In recognition of the dangers inherent in producing an axiomatic argument when looking consecutively at the means , ends and locus of reserve forces , the method here is to examine each in a vacuum separately . The object is not to prescribe what reserve forces should do to achieve what ends and by what means . It is to explore what are the factors that have to be taken into consideration , based on the experience of Western powers since 1945 . Only coincidentally will any form of comparative study emerge . What , then , are the ends of reserve forces ? What purpose do they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually serve one or a combination of four purposes . The rationale behind each of these purposes differs between states . The first , which relates to what are generally classified as first-line reserves , is to have reserves as an expedient method of maintaining a balance between the manpower needs of the regular standing armed forces on the one hand and budgetary constraints on the other . Here the distinction between wartime and peacetime military establishments is important . Those // men who are called up specifically to bring regular forces up to wartime establishment might conveniently be distinguished from all the others by referring to them as reservists ' as opposed to reserves or reserve forces.18 The reservists ' are customarily those men who have recently left the armed services but who carry with them in their return to civilian life an obligation to be available for recall ; in Britian this applies to those who have served as regulars in the armed forces , and on the continent it generally applies also to recently retired conscripts . In a few instances , these reservists , such as doctors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skills rather than for their military experience . The rationale behind this purpose for reserves , in addition to balancing the requirement to keep as large a force as possible in preparation for a crisis , with the costs involved in doing so with a full complement of men , is the effect upon men and morale if the professional armed forces were to be held continually on a war footing . Many roles and functions , highly necessary in war , would not be necessary in time of peace ; consequently there is no need to have men serving these functions becoming bored and impatient and wasting their time and the service 's money . Doctors , again , are a case in point . This device , however , is not without drawbacks ; over and above the obvious point that in the event of a sudden crisis the forces immediately involved would be understrength , their possible success would rest on the speed with which reservists ' could be mobilized.19 A less obvious , but real disadvantage , is that a peacetime regular unit has to use its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to their specialized military ones . For example , artillerymen may have to do paperwork , maintain trucks , and engage in public relations work as well as be good gunners . It is not uncommon that reservist ' troops , who train , albeit intermittently , on one task only , prove to be more efficient than their immediate regular counterparts . The second purpose for reserves is as a means of adding to the regular armed forces ' capability . The intention here is to enable the state to bring greater military force to bear on the enemy at a particular point in time than that existing within the wartime establishment regular forces alone , or to enable the regular forces // to wage war over a longer period of time by replacing losses in men and equipment as they occur . Neither of these purposes requires the short mobilization time as is necessary for the reservist 's ' function . The classification of reserve soldier for these functions is second- , and sometimes third- , line reserve forces , and it is here that the area of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of factors , of which the likelihood of medium to long-term conventional war is foremost , given the existence and possession by NATO and the Warsaw Pact , of nuclear , atomic , chemical and biological weapons . Other problems relate to the availability and training of manpower , to equipment and to costs.20 A further purpose , related to the above two , is the need to give the regular forces flexibility . With substantial reserves , so the argument goes , the armed forces can delegate certain functions and be redeployed more effectively where they are needed more . In a state that has a defense policy covering a number of alternative ends , but which can not be handled concurrently with regular forces , additional flexibility through increased reserves might be considered to be essential.21 The third purpose for reserve forces is that of home defense . The tasks that are generally subsumed under this category are to minimize the after-effects of a nuclear attack , to combat internal insurgency situations , and to provide organized resistance in the event of invasion or occupation . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forces in states that operate on the basis of a system of Nation in Arms ' . Many European states , particularly the smaller ones , are giving greater attention to this third purpose of reserves , but it is France , with the Operational Defense of the Territory system , that is leading the way . With the exception of France , the reserve forces assigned to this purpose are usually the oldest in age , and the most poorly equipped . They generally work , however , in conjunction with civil defense units on a local basis . Exceptions to this rule would include nationally based functions , such as manning communications networks designed to operate in the event of a nuclear attack so that no area is cut off . The final purpose of reserves is nebulous , but one to which the regular forces place considerable importance . This relates back to 44 War in the Next Decade the civil-military basis of reserve forces . Reserves are a method of getting regular recruits , and a way of projecting an image to the public through contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this role also , especially where participation in reserves is on a regional or local basis . Reserves , indeed , can and have played an important social function . Finally , on a negative point , there is to be considered the institutional reluctance and apprehension in getting rid of something that has always been there , on the premise that because it is there it must be doing some good , even if it is hard to discover.22 When the question is asked what can reserves do , the answer is not dependent upon what they are required to do , but upon what constraints act upon them . These limit what can be entertained . In addition , the distinction between what they can do and what is expected of them must continually be borne in mind . The assumption behind this section is that military forces , both regular and reserve , have now come face to face with what has been categorized as the equipment sophistication barrier ' .23 The significance of this phenomenon for reserve forces can best be seen in relation to its implications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved , concern has been expressed in recent years in many advanced industrial societies not only about the cost of modern military equipment , but also the cost of training military personnel to use it , to keep them abreast of the state of the art and to meet the costs of depreciation , use and replacement . Training has become so costly and so complicated that doubt has been cast on the two-year contract in place of the minimum three-year one , as a way of attracting more recruits into the armed services , because of the limited time it would allow to train them adequately and to integrate them in the military establishment as a whole . The cost of training is so high that it pays to give generous bonuses to trained military personnel to remain in the armed forces rather than to recruit new replacements . The qualifications demanded not only of officers but also of other ranks have risen considerably , not only in military and technical skills but also in the techniques of management and decision-making . This applies to all the armed services but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force and navy . // The disparity between the regular serviceman and the reserve is , consequently , increasing despite individual instances where the reserve may prove able to keep up . But most serious is the fact that , on the continent , conscripts who form the basis not only of manpower but also trained military men for reserve roles are now face to face with the sophistication problem . ' 24 In Germany especially it is feared that on the basis of present experience , future generations of equipment will be too complex for short-term conscripts to master.25 It may well be that the two-tier armed forces is on the cards , at least in Europe . Such a structure would involve short service local defense militia , simply armed , and highly trained professional forces equipped with advanced weapons . It would eliminate all but possibly the first line category of reserve forces and establish home defense as a part of the total standing defense posture of the state . Working from the assumption inherent in the concept of the ' sophistication barrier ' , a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These are supported with empirical evidence from current Western reserve systems . The first relates to the skills that are expected of reserves within the context of the roles that they might be expected to perform . It can not be expected that reserves can match the technical and military skills combined , or the readiness of the professionals ; this disparity becomes even more apparent between the different branches of the armed services . Enthusiasm , a characteristic particularly of voluntary reserve services , is hardly a satisfactory substitute . There may be close parallels between civilian trades and those in the armed services but to suggest that a direct transfer of personnel from one context to the other is either possible or satisfactory within the time scales allowed for in mobilization for war , would be to make too many demands on the compliance of the individuals concerned.26 Though the labels given to military and civilian skills may be the same , the exercise of them differs enormously ; this is especially true where military management is concerned . Those optimists who believe that industrial or military training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sociological problems involved . // The skills required by the military in conventional war are closely related to the type , intensity and duration of training , and the aptitude of the trainee . Reserves , however , have a primary occupational commitment ... to their normal civilian careers ' .27 Either voluntarily , or by legal obligation , they devote some of their time to training sessions ranging from short-term active duty training exercises to in-service conferences and correspondence courses . The amount of time spent on training depends not only upon a stipulated minimum appearance but also upon counter-claims from family and employer alike.23 In theory , the amount of time is short and , except in the cases of senior officers , rarely in excess of three weeks in any year . In practice , the situation is much worse . The rule is that training is not given , or is of a fairly rudimentary kind with exceptions found where voluntary reserve systems operate and where first-line essential reservists ' are concerned . In France , for example , reserve officer training is restricted to three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned ; 29 in Germany , the estimate is that only 5 to 6 per cent of reserves receive training after their period of compulsory service is finished , and even then it is only within small units and at approximately three-year intervals.30 Most of military reserve training in Germany is undertaken by the Werband , a private voluntary military organization.31 In the Netherlands , where only officers are considered reserves , the probability is that the reserve soldier will never receive training , and certainly not after he is twenty-eight years old.32 It should be noted also that under training must come the quality of training that European reserves receive whilst they are doing their compulsory national service . No European state has a conscript 's tour of duty extending beyond two years , except in a few cases ? particularly in the air force ; assuming a period of time acclimatizing the conscripts to military routines and bearing in mind that the average age is around eighteen years , the period left for effective training , and to acquire combat experience ' , is limited indeed . In training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as equipment . Some states train according to the skill of the particular reservists ; reserve units are therefore based according to whether they are infantry , artillery , signals , etc. // Others train regionally , and reserves turn up at the nearest reserve unit no matter what their previous training might have been . On very rare occasions is there evidence that reserve units have trained in other than small isolated units . As mobilization demands in modern warfare would require large-scale unit movement and coordination , the degree of previous experience and readiness is open to question . The exceptions to the rule are those states with militia or total defense systems . A third limitation on the effectiveness of reserves arises out of their organizational structure and their place within the integrated defense system . The limitations of the structure of reserve forces are apparent from the system of training . The fundamental problem , however , is that reserves are part-time men , who live all over the country . The location of reserve personnel bears no relation to the location of specialized military units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age and function . Some reserve systems , as for example in France , accept the regional distribution of reserves , and within their D.O.T . system mobilize mainly on a regional basis.33 Others ? for example , Italy ? shift their reserves around for training according to the skill of each soldier and the strategic or tactical location of his unit . The only exception is with the Italian Alpine reserve units.34 Some operate a dual system , as in Britain . The organizational problem , however , is simplified when reserves are not trained for conventional external roles , but for home defense tasks . The Norwegian total defense ' system , 35 the Danish Home Guard , 36 and now the French D.O.T . home defense systems , would lend weight to this argument . The major organizational problem , however , is not within the reserve system itself ; it is the problem of integrating reserves with regular units . Some reserve units may have the advantage of having regular officers in command who have been responsible for training , and some may have close ties and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exception , especially among second- and thirdline reserve forces . The basic problem is a combination of the disparity in skill and training between the two , and the perceptions they have of each other . Further , much depends on the organizational flexibility of the professional force to absorb incoming reserve // units . There is considerable weight to the argument that these organizational problems may be so complex and huge that the most effective function for the regular forces to perform in the event of mobilization beyond the wartime establishment level , i.e. with second-line reserve forces , would be to assume purely administrative , organizational and training roles , and leave the fighting to the reserves . A repeated complaint among reserve units , especially those in the first line , is that their effectiveness is limited by inadequate provision of equipment with which they can train . Even in Britain , where the reserve forces have been contracted and where the firstline reserves , the T.A.V.R. 1 and 2 categories , are held at a relatively high degree of readiness , equipment is restricted to small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the supply of modern equipment is even more marked.38 The issue is basically one of available finance , not only for advanced equipment ready to be used in the event of crisis , but also to meet the costs of maintenance , depreciation , stockpiling and use . The financial problems jump drastically the more complex and sophisticated military equipment becomes . These financial problems are doubly difficult for capital intensive ' branches of the armed forces . It is a reasonable enough observation to make that few , if any , states can afford to equip their reserve forces either with front-line equipment or in substantial numbers . And , even if they could , the manpower problem would still have to be overcome . These limitations must be seen in relation to the operational context within which reserves might be expected to operate . Broadly speaking , the spectrum of war in which reserves might be likely to be involved is from conventional war in support of regular forces , either as replacement or as supplement , to home defense civil action . Throughout the spectrum , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mobilize them , relative to the speed with which a crisis could occur . With European and NATO thinking revolving around rapid Soviet moves , as demonstrated over Czechoslovakia , aimed at taking out small areas of , say , Norway , West Germany , or Denmark , and thereby confronting the West with a fait accompli , reserve reaction time would appear to be crucial . The // Suggestion here is that were the Soviet Union to venture to invade Europe it would either be a rapid and decisive fait accompli snatch of a small area , in which the European reserve reaction time would be too long , or it.would be a massive full-scale frontal attack , in which the European reserves would be totally inadequate . There does not seem any merit in entertaining building up reserves for the half-way house situation and incur little more than high opportunity costs in the process . As a result of the constraints acting upon the capability of reserve forces , the temptation is to suggest that if European reserve forces are to be employed at all , their most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they could meaningfully operate to increase a state 's wartime establishment would merely expose the limitations inherent in the system . In this respect , Britain 's use of reserve forces , or , more accurately , her reservists ' , beyond that for which they are already earmarked , is highly suspect . What may be suspect , alternatively , is the breadth over which the Defense Policy White Paper has been cast and the resources that have been allotted to these tasks . None of the continental powers plans to operate their reserve forces outside their borders in large numbers ; many use them exclusively for home defense . It would seem a bizarre argument for Britain to increase her reserves to meet the demands of a conventional war in Europe when her European partners show little intention to do likewise . Essentially the difference between Britain and Europe is that the former uses trained reserves to bring regular forces up to establishment , i.e. reservists ' , whereas the latter tends to use conscripts for the same purpose . Neither method would suggest professionalism in depth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lasting a long time on a conventional footing . Britain tends to see resorting to nuclear weapons when the NATO forces can no longer control the situation , 39 whilst the European states , on the basis of their reserve policies and because it is their homeland which would receive tactical nuclear weapons , tend to envisage longer-term guerrilla-type action against occupation or invading forces . The final question is where reserve forces come from . This is basically an ecological problem and one which should not be // dismissed . It involves not only the availability of manpower and skills but also the prevailing public attitude to military service and the ends of defense policy . Traditional means of acquiring reserve manpower are by voluntary entry , compulsion , or by a variety of ways of selective service . The obligations imposed on a reserve soldier depend on his skills , rank , age and , sometimes , his residence , The pattern tends to be the same in all states that the youngest , and those with the most recent military experience , will first be called to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is compulsory is based on medical grounds or the relative importance of the individual 's civilian job to the war effort . Munitions workers , for example , are more valuable in that job than doing reserve training . The qualifications and exemptions are endless . Again , only in the militia-type , citizen armies , do these many complications seem less important . Many Western states are currently facing recruitment problems in their regular forces , and many are substantially understrength . Voluntary recruits do not appear to be coming forward , and in some states military conscription ? especially of a selective service , discriminatory kind ? is coming under fire . The regular armed forces are currently unable to combat the demands made on the citizen in civil life to attract him to a military career . The situation is worse for the reserve forces , for many of the reasons for poor recruitment into the regular forces also apply to them . The obligation to train with the reserves appears to be becoming a sensitive problem for the National Guard in the United States , 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university campuses is commonplace.41 Since the United States has opted for a voluntary system of armed forces recruitment , in the face of opposition to the draft , a regular source of National Guard recruits has been cut off.42 Whatever the solution to the manpower problem , the attendant problems of organization , training , costs and skills should not be overlooked . It could very well be that the method of meeting the manpower shortage only exacerbates the problem that caused the manpower shortage in the first place . On the assumption that a man will enter an organization voluntarily if that organization is seen by him to be relevant , both personally and to the society of which // he is a part , the task for defense planners , whether civilian or military , is to seek to relate national security policy and the structure of the armed forces to the interests of the individual . Failure is likely to sustain feelings of alienation , both within and outside the armed forces . It is , for example , a paradoxical state of affairs to put within one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief that such a policy will prevent war , alongside a policy of the early use of nuclear weapons in Europe in the event that conventional means should fail , and the elimination of any meaningful means for home defense.43 To make national security considerations relevant to the individual requires a substantial change in attitude within the population and a careful reappraisal by governments and the military alike of the place of the armed forces , and the reserves , within the society . Within this appraisal , which must probe the core of civil ? military relationships , there must be an examination of the fundamental issues of the recruitment , career patterns , structure , political influence , legal basis , function and status of the armed forces as a whole . It might well be that the sophistication ' of the armed forces and the awesomeness of the power that is entrusted to them , with little accountability , together with the mass media coverage of the events of recent wars , has driven a wedge between the soldier and the civilian . The problems that beset the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an international one . With the prospect of further troop withdrawals from Central Europe , and further manpower shortages among NATO assigned forces , Europe may well be faced with an acute military manpower crisis in the 1970s.44 At the same time , NATO is committed to a strategy of flexibility in response which subsumes a reluctance to use nuclear weapons but a conviction that they will be used if the military situation leaves no military alternative . The theory behind the strategy is to have conventional forces capable of withholding a Soviet attack to allow the various mechanisms of hot-line diplomacy and crisis management to avert the first nuclear exchange . It is generally agreed that NATO does not possess that conventional capability , either in terms of regular , reservists or reserve equipment and manpower . SACEUR // warnings and requests for reinforcements continue to be thwarted . The solution to the problem does not rest with reserve forces , irrespective of historical precedents , 45 nor in the belief that effective reserves can be built up quantitatively and qualitatively and mobilized in time . The separate reserve systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unintegrated for a conventional war in Europe . It is doubtful if they could be mobilized in time . The West may well have to look for security elsewhere ; it might be in Mutual Balanced Force Reductions , or other associated arms control agreements . Alternatively , there may be a future for security along the lines of the French model , by retaining the basis of alliance either through the North Atlantic Alliance or through the Western European Union . Home defense manned by reserves , coupled with a highly professional military establishment for specialized tasks , offers itself as an attractive alternative . It may also provide a solution to the widening gulf that exists between those who honorably and responsibly defend society and those who are members of it . // // 4 The Future of the Reserve Officer Training Corps LAURENCE I. RADWAY* The Educational Issues R.O.T.C. has been part of the educational landscape for more than fifty years.l Units exist at over three hundred and fifty American colleges and universities . Yet some members of the academic com community have long been critical of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vietnam War . Campus skeptics are inclined to describe R.O.T.C. courses as guts ' or to dismiss them as Mickey Mouse ' , devoid of theoretical interest , laden with trivia , and unworthy of academic credit . If pressed , liberal arts purists will concede that instruction in navigation or military courtesy is no more inappropriate than instruction in weld ing or photo-journalism , and that viewed solely as an intellectual operation , stripping a Browning automatic rifle is not fundamentally unlike dissecting a cadaver . But to the critics such parallels do not redeem R.O.T.C. For they contend that vocational training has no place in a liberal education and that professional education is best deferred to the post-baccalaureate period . Campus critics are also restless about the quality of R.O.T.C. instructors and the nature of their teaching methods . Material is said to be drilled into the hapless student in a fashion derived from age-old efforts to provide routine skills to masses of poorly educated enlisted personnel . The instructors themselves are felt to possess // less intellectual distinction than their civilian counterparts . Less often , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promising military officers . Why , it is asked , are so many incoming heads of R.O.T.C. units starting their last tour of duty before retirement ? More recently , concern has been expressed that R.O.T.C. may jeopardize the autonomy of its host institutions . Under federal law , it is noted , no unit may be retained at a university unless the latter adopts , as part of its curriculum , a course of instruction which the secretary of the military department concerned prescribes and conducts ' .2 In most cases the services determine the subjects , syllabi , and teaching materials used in R.O.T.C. courses . The navy reserves the right to deny its R.O.T.C. students permission to major in certain fields not deemed useful to a naval officer . Host institutions are also required by statute to award the rank of professor to the senior officer of each R.O.T.C. unit . He thereby acquires faculty status although he is not paid , evaluated , reappointed , or promoted like other faculty members , and in practice he is not recruited like them either . The conclusion has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory ' .3 This analogy acquires more bite when it is observed that the staffs of these particular embassies ' operate not only on the technical skills of the natives ' but on their belief systems , and that they aim to develop attitudes , e.g. with respect to nationalism , discipline , and obedience , which leading figures within the host country ' do not necessarily share . It would be nice to report that campus complaints were ordinarily accompanied by constructive suggestions for improvement . Such , unhappily , has not been the case . Nevertheless , in the past few years R.O.T.C. has been modified in ways which seem to take into account some points made by critics . One or another service has introduced two-year programs , accepted cuts in academic credit , invited civilians to teach designated courses , reduced drill requirements , or settled for less than full faculty status for junior instructors . If they have not responded immediately to every considered criticism , ' the armed forces have given more ground than is commonly supposed ; and with ingenuity , imagination , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able that they could meet many of the objections to R.O.T.C. raised on educational grounds . The Political Context The intensity of recent anti-R.O.T.C. sentiment , however , leaves little doubt that it is inspired by campus opposition to the war in Vietnam . A few institutions have taken steps to terminate the program . Others seek to eliminate all credit for R.O.T.C. courses , deny academic status to all military instructors , or convert required programs into voluntary ones.5 Beginning on a few prestigious campuses in 1969 , the protest movement subsequently spread from Puerto Rico in the east to Hawaii in the west . More than thirty R.O.T.C. headquarters buildings were firebombed in the spring of 1970 . Ohio state , long a prolific source of reserve officers , was the scene of repeated R.O.T.C. riots . As army Chief of Staff Westmoreland admitted . Today it takes a man of determination and maturity to wear a uniform on many of our campuses . ' 6 Unrest at the universities hurt enrollment not merely by discouraging potential individual applicants but more importantly by inducing some schools with compulsory R.O.T.C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 2 only twenty-five institutions maintained a compulsory program , and twelve of these were at military colleges . Enrollment also suffered from a decline in draft quotas , for this relieved the pressure which had driven many undergraduates into campus units. $ Between 1966 ? 7 and 1969 ? 70 , the total number of students in R.O.T.C. fell from 260,000 to 156,000.9 By 1971 ? 2 the total was only 88,000 . Paradoxically , this coincided with an increase in officer production . One reason was that the decline in freshmen enrollment was not immediately reflected in a decrease in the number of graduating seniors ; another was that the drop-out rate fell significantly . The latter phenomenon could be explained by the shift to voluntary programs , the introduction of a new option limited to the last two years of college , an increase in the number of students awarded tuition scholarships , 10 and a widespread fear that resignation from R.O.T.C. might be followed by a draft notice and enlisted service in Vietnam . // The decline in the drop-out rate did not , however , allay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strengthen their programs . The army , for example , raised subsistence allowances for advanced students , liberalized course offerings , and mounted an energetic public relations campaign.11 Its chief of staff stated bluntly that the army needed and wanted R.O.T.C.12 Such measures were supplemented at the Defense Department level in June 1969 by the appointment of an ad hoc committee ( hereinafter called the Benson Committee ) to review the entire range of relationships between R.O.T.C. and host institutions.13 It is easier to state that the creation of the Benson Committee was part of a larger defensive strategy than to be certain of what was being defended against whom ; for if the Pentagon was confronted on one side by an increasingly militant academic world , it was confronted on the other by some highly conservative members of Congress . The House Armed Services Committee , led by J. Mendell Rivers ( D. , South Carolina ) had begun its own study of R.O.T.C. immediately after the campus outbreaks in the spring of 1969 . Its report , apparently completed by 7 August 1969,14 concluded that if R.O.T.C. were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancel the program at once but also withdraw all defense contracts from the institution . A week later the army announced that it would terminate R.O.T.C. at Harvard and Dartmouth , whose faculties had voted to phase out the programs as currently enrolled students completed them.15 Army officials were later to observe pointedly that several dozen other schools were eager to move in if the Ivy League moved out ) It was exceedingly unlikely that the newly elected Nixon Administration would wish to fly in the face of these signals . Its defense secretary , Melvin R. Laird , had won his spurs as an influential member of the House of Representatives , one , moreover , usually sympathetic to the defense establishment . At the same time , members of the Benson Committee could not ignore the specific educational issues which had long been debated at host institutions . The result was a report which one anonymous member of the Committee described as quite a bland document ' .17 And while he ventured the opinion that conservative Congressmen were likely to // think it conceded too much ground to campus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stressed the Committee 's disagreement with campus militants over such matters as course credit , faculty status , the wearing of uniforms , and drill . At the same time Dr Benson advised newsmen that R.O.T.C. 's true strength was in the state universities , and that some Ivy League schools had been advised to leave it.18 The Benson Report Against this political background it is now appropriate to analyze the Benson Report in more detail . With respect to curriculum , the Committee concluded that at the great majority ' of institutions R.O.T.C. courses were comparable in quality to the rest of undergraduate education . True , some of the strictly military textual material was ' insufficiently challenging ' . But materials designed for 1969 ? 70 show more promise ' and the services were exhorted to prepare better materials in the future . Host institutions were taken to task for failing to exercise initiative . They were urged to propose curricular improvements and to offer to teach some courses themselves . But while the report recommended the use of civilian faculty where possible ' , it also noted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' between R.O.T.C. student and military instructors . On the touchy issue of academic credit , the report concluded not very resoundingly that R.O.T.C. instruction merits serious consideration for undergraduate credit ' . The Committee conceded that credit should not be given for drill , and that each institution must evaluate for itself the credit to be assigned each course . But failure to award credit , it observed , would discourage students from entering the program . In endorsing the report , the Defense Department 's Advisory Panel on R.O.T.C. Affairs added a few words of its own on curricular content.19 It proposed that the purpose of R.O.T.C. be restated to emphasize that the object was education ' rather than training ' ; the very title ( Reserve Officers Training Program ) was said to be unfortunate . In particular , the Panel suggested that the navy should // review its goal of producing an immediately employable ensign ' with a view to deferring until after graduation some of the practical instruction in its present curriculum . On the issue of institutional autonomy , the Benson Committee proposed that universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , it observed that schools which were reluctant to give the title of professor to the senior officer of a military detachment could call them visiting professor , adjunct professor , affiliate professor , or visiting lecturer with the rank of professor . Finally , the Committee acknowledged candidly that the statutory authority of military departments over R.O.T.C. curricula was inconsistent with traditional prerogatives of the university . It recommended that the legislation be revised to indicate a cooperative effort between the service and the university ' . But it did not indicate which of the two should have the last word if cooperation failed . The message of the Benson Committee to the academic world was essentially this : You have the power if you are willing to use it . Create an effective campus committee and go to work . ' Host institutions were reminded that they were free to make R.O.T.C. less conspicuous by organizing it as a program ' or a center ' instead of a department , by increasing the proportion of civilian instructors , and by transferring more drill to summer , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be wise not to do away with ' . The question remains whether these conclusions were realistic . On how many campuses , and to what extent , will civilians in fact challenge military judgments concerning R.O.T.C. course content ? How far is it possible to treat military instructors like their civilian counterparts ? Is it enough to observe that universities possess the authority to reject unsuitable instructors and that the University of Michigan , to cite one case , has actually refused to accept 25 ? 30 per cent of all service nominees ? 2 ? Will civilian institutions search aggressively for talented officer instructors by placing confidential calls to former superiors , raiding the staffs of other military installations , or dangling the prospect of research funds and other professional opportunities before prime prospects ? Or is it more // likely , as charged in a New York Times editorial sharply critical of the Benson Report , that host institutions will not be able to exercise ' ultimate jurisdiction ' over either program or personnel.21 There is some evidence that the Committee was uncertain about its own message . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only . If the armed forces became smaller , or if an all-volunteer army were adopted , said the report , R.O.T.C. 's very existence ' might be called into doubt . And in any event , as study of future manpower systems progresses , the R.O.T.C. question must be considered further in a very fundamental manner ' . These remarks placed the Committee safely if not firmly on both sides of the question . The Larger Issue of Civil-Military Relations Thoughtful analysis of the desirability of R.O.T.C. must at some point come to grips with the issue of civil-military relations . Two themes run through the Benson Report on this question . One defends the utility of a blend ' of civilian and military values . The report finds it good that R.O.T.C. students are exposed to both highly motivated ' officers and critical thinking ' civilian teachers ; the interaction of the two is an important educational experience ' for students and a broadening experience for R.O.T.C. instructors . The other theme defends the idea of civilian influence ' per se . Other systems of officer procurement yield more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' . Moreover , if R.O.T.C. were removed from campuses , there would be grave danger of isolating the services from the intellectual centres of the public which they serve and defend ' . Several observations must be made about these important contentions . First , it is true that civilian university programs produce a large part of the officer corps . In the fiscal year 1964-5 , just before the Vietnam build-up , R.O.T.C. produced 26 per cent of all new officers while other college-based programs produced an additional 15 per cent.22 In the next five years R.O.T.C. produced 65 per cent of all new army officers . In 1970 , more than 25 per cent of army generals on active duty were R.O.T.C. graduates . It is also true , // however , that the retention rate for R.O.T.C. graduates , even for those who have held full tuition scholarships , is far below that of service academy graduates.23 In part for this reason the latter still predominate at the higher levels of all services , especially in the navy . Second , removal of R.O.T.C. from campuses will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The service academies regularly recruit young instructors who have studied at civilian universities . During their careers most regular officers will be assigned to civilian universities for graduate work . Third , while campus interaction may have been an important educational experience for some R.O.T.C. students , it has been a disillusioning one for others , namely those who have found R.O.T.C. courses and instructors less satisfactory than civilian ones . Invidious comparisons are probably more common when military and civilian programs coexist on campus than when they are conducted in separate locales . Fourth , the need for this particular method of checking and balancing the power of an officer corps is probably less acute in a country like the United States , where officers are divided among four highly competitive services , and where they lack the power and prestige which many of their foreign counterparts derive from membership of a privileged social class . European cadet schools often became citadels of an established elite ; America has long delegated to a representative legislature control over most appointments to its service academies . Off-Campus Options Nevertheless , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a variety of sources and , in particular , to avoid undue reliance on the service academies . It is another question , however , whether R.O.T.C. , with its educational and political complications , is the only or the best way to do so . To raise this issue is to invite attention to off-campus alternatives . The Benson Committee itself explored some of these . For example , it examined the prospect of relying more heavily on O.C.S . But the services , it found , thought their long-range chances of securing quality officers are better with R.O.T.C ' . What was // probably meant , but unsaid here , is that O.C.S. , at least for the army , does not attract enough college graduates , and that the retention rate of such graduates is lower than the rate for their R.O.T.C. counterparts.24 The Committee also examined recruitment systems confined largely to the summer , notably the Marine Corps Platoon Leaders plan for undergraduates . But after observing that the marine corps was having trouble filling its quota of students , the Committee concluded that its approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this judgment is the subsequent conclusion of the President 's Commission on an All-Volunteer Armed Force that serious consideration ' should be given to increased use of Platoon Leader Corps-type programs.2 " At any rate , one wishes to know why the marine corps plan is insufficiently productive . Are students discouraged by the requirement of two months of summer training when other programs require only one ? Suppose all services required two months ? Does the marine corps , with its special mission and traditions , appeal to fewer students ? Have marine corps officers suffered from lack of extended contact ' with military instructors during the school year ? How ? A variation of the marine corps ' approach , analyzed by the Committee under the heading of new methods ' , would keep the academic year unencumbered by drill and by all R.O.T.C. courses except those taught by the civilian faculty . A senior officer would remain on campus merely to recruit students , keep an eye on them , advise about course selections , and possibly organize an evening program of extra-curricular lectures . The disadvantages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blend ' civilian and military studies during the year ; that students might not wish to devote a long summer to military training ; that they might require more post-commissioning instruction ; and that the on-campus contact might be insufficient to develop an interest in a military career . A second variation envisages instruction in routine military skills at off-campus centers or extra-curricular units ' , while host institutions assume responsibility for an educational concentration embracing their own concept of the ideal officer ' . The Committee concluded that an immediate shift to such a plan would paralyze // the existing system because in the present anti-Vietnam War mood few institutions would submit programs , and many students would not stay with the programs ' . Nevertheless , it concluded , not very decisively , This proposal apparently has some merit and could at some time be put to partial use . ' With the model of a French training program in mind , the report also considered whether undergraduates might supplement daily civilian courses with training at military installations during weekends . The hitch here , it concluded , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' from a significant military installation , so that such a plan would be feasible only in a few metropolitan areas . One emerges from all this with an impression that the Committee did not think the time ripe for major changes . Its report did not deal with one rather obvious possibility , namely that students might devote one or two semesters to full-time training at a military installation . This would be congruent not only with existing programs for National Guard and reserve enlistees but with the growing tendency of educators to encourage restless students to take leave of absence at least once during their undergraduate years . Nor did the Committee do full justice to the prospect of evening or weekend training away from campus . It is possible , for example , to envisage a network of Regional Officer Training Centers ( to preserve the traditional R.O.T.C. initials ) located at public facilities , including but not limited to military installations . Local armories or public schools are potential sites . Certainly , in the automotive age the geographical problem should not be so difficult as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the somewhat unstable compound of training and education which characterizes existing R.O.T.C. curricula . It would do so not , however , as the Benson Committee proposes , i.e. by making R.O.T.C. courses more civilian ' , but by making them more military ' and removing them from the university . It would also permit the services to substitue a contract with the individual for a contract with the institution . The university , presumably , would continue to call attention to this way of meeting one 's military obligations . But its involvement would be so minimal that local critics would lose the leverage they now // possess by virtue of the fact that R.O.T.C. is officially sponsored by the institution . An evening or weekend off-campus plan , moreover , could make the civilian input into the officer corps more representative than it is under R.O.T.C. as now constituted . First , it could include younger college graduates interested in switching careers . Second , it could include educationally deprived young men who are not now attracted to R.O.T.C. in sufficient numbers2G ? members of minority groups , drop-outs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the undergraduate component would not have to consist so largely of men from the subset of colleges and universities which happen to have R.O.T.C. units and which choose to keep them in the face of anti-R.O.T.C. sentiment . The point here is of the utmost importance . R.O.T.C. may be expected to survive best at southern and western institutions where there is less dissatisfaction with the educational or political implications of the program . It is likely to be slashed first and most deeply at institutions which produce a disproportionate share of political executives , higher civil servants , legislators , editors , scientists , foundation officials , lawyers , bankers and educators concerned with foreign and military policy . The danger , clearly , is that a shrinking R.O.T.C. program may widen the gulf between our future military and civilian leaders . Instead of narrowing the pool of potential participants , there seems to be reason to widen it . By the same token , instead of perpetuating autonomous training programs , there seems to be reason to coordinate them and to provide more administrative continuity . The latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By sharing facilities , equipment and personnel , pre-commissioning training operations could be integrated with the training of officers or enlisted men of National Guard and reserve components . In addition , it may be possible to create inter-service facilities . Less likely , but not inconceivable if only the cake of law and custom can be broken , are national defense officer training centers at which candidates for the army , navy , marine corps , and air force could undergo common courses of instruction before proceeding to study matters peculiar to the individual services . Finally , there is the issue of cost , which is related to the possibility // of economies of scale . It will be more expensive to maintain many small and relatively unproductive campus-based units than a few large off-campus centers . No one can foretell with certainty whether or to what extent present R.O.T.C. units will shrink . One factor will surely be the probable temper of the American academic community after Vietnam . Again , it is difficult to speak with assurance , but it is sobering to recall that anti-militarism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectuals and college students , 27 and that this is the second , not the first , time that R.O.T.C. has been attacked . Between 1921 and 1936 it was the compulsory character of the program which drew most criticism and prompted the creation of organizations like the Committee on Militarism in Education.28 Moreover , this earlier protest rested on a very broad base ; it began not in the Ivy League but in such great state universities as Wisconsin and Minnesota . A pool of students taken in 1932 disclosed that nearly 40 per cent opposed all R.O.T.C. , and 81 per cent opposed compulsory R.O.T.C.29 There is clearly economic as well as military risk in continuing to rely on a campus-based enterprise to produce so large a fraction of the total officer corps . The army has also conceded that declining draft pressures will become a greater factor in the future.3 ? Finally if the draft is superseded by an all-volunteer armed force , the economic pressures for some pooling arrangements are likely to grow.31 The concept of off-campus centers is not , of course , free from difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized by practical men , who tend to prefer the present with all its inconveniences to the perils of a still unknown future . Some service officials fear that such centers would be expensive and unproductive , particularly if students found the commuting burdensome . Others assume that what is intended is wholesale and immediate abolition of all existing R.O.T.C. units , even flourishing ones . But a more sensible first step surely would be to create one or two pilot centers to serve as additional avenues or supplementary tracks to a commission . Even so modest an experiment may not be politically feasible while some members of Congress and some military officers are uptight ' about student behavior . But sooner or later the logic of declining enrollments seems likely to force a major change . // // 5 Youthful Officer Retirement : Matrix for Political Action ' ALDEN WILLIAMS Considering the undemocratic histories of large active and retired military establishments , it is remarkable that the United States celebrates its bicentenary with little worry about its retired military force of a million careerists , more than one-third of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all but five of the world 's total active militaries . Most of these former officers are in their forties , served the military mission for at least twenty years , and confront retirement ' with practical family obligations and at least twenty more years to fill before their civilian contemporaries retire . Four out of five of these modern retirees will be too young , too encumbered financially , and too restive mentally to do anything but seek second careers and be active civilians . Will they re-enter civilian society and politics as obediently as they departed it in the late 1940s and 1950s ? Or will these old soldiers ' , neither about to die or fade away , give United States politics a reactionary turn ? As a stereotype group in American society , retired military officers have been blamed for many of the frustrations of America 's crisis in military goals . They are tied to the industrial-military complex , vilified as a group for the puerile mischief of a few , and novelized as villains awaiting a signal to put one of their number in charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting is the way these stereotypes persist in spite of the absolute lack of evidence ? in the form of organized political action by retired military personnel ? to support it . As an organized group , retired officers have not acted out Seven Days in May , the Fletcher Knebel and Charles Bailey novel of a right-wing civilian-military conspiracy to seize United States executive power . No such post Second World War case exists in the public record , and it is doubtful that closed files would reveal any , or that the evidence could remain secret very long . To be sure , numbers of retirees have been guilty of questionable conduct as employees of defense-related industries . Individual retirees here and there have been indiscreet and probably , at times , criminally subversive . However , there is no convincing evidence that either retired military officers in defense industries , or isolated malcontents and the psychologically disturbed , can wield anything like the influence attributed to them . What , then , is the political problem of large-scale military officer retirement in the coming decades ? The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the drafting of practical , equitable , and humane retiree legislation that serves both national security and the individual . On the other hand , it is the development of maturer public understanding of the many similarities and fewer differences between military retirees and their civilian cohorts . This chapter summarizes findings on both sides of the problem , because the official policy environment and the demonstrated behavior of present retirees together are the real matrix of retired officers ' political action and the proper starting point for public understanding . Part of the polity 's problem is that retired soldiers are reminders . Americans tend to be pragmatic , liberal , and idealistic . Hence , they are uncomfortable with reminders of old dreams that have not been fully realized and old programs that have not been completed . Americans ' preoccupation with economics , technology and , more recently , broad social justice , has been punctuated by the demands of national and international security , created by wars , alliances , and massive military assistance ventures . Military retirees may be the most tangible link between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Retired soldiers ' numbers and annual // costs are living reminders of what security was once thought to be worth . But retirees set off highly selective memories . A people can simultaneously be proud of shrewd and successful expenditures ? like those necessary to win the Second World War or contain Korean aggression ? and alarmed about the delayed costs of those ventures , such as the costs of retirement pay for old soldiers who fought the wars but could not be scrapped like surplus airplanes on a Pacific island . However , the notion that retired career military officers represent some sort of reactionary residue in civil democracy might have remained an innocuous part of American political mythology had two parts of the problem not become too big to ignore : the size of the retiree community and , correspondingly , the costs of retirement pay . Dilemmas of Rational Policy These two elements ? the number of retirees and their costs ? are both large and relatively inflexible . The more than 750,000 retired officers and enlisted men on the rolls at the beginning of the 1970s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate of 37,500 net additions , equal to more than two infantry divisions a year . These totals do not depend on new Vietnams or Berlin crises . They are based on military careerists now in uniform who will definitely retire with pay . Three out of four officers will retire as middle- to upper-level managers in the army , air force , and marine ranks of colonel , lieutenant-colonel , and major , or their navy counterpart ranks of captain , commander , and lieutenant-commander . Retirement pay of some $4.4 billion in fiscal 1973 is an enormous expense , even within the staggering dimensions of Cold War and Indochina defense budgets , and multibillion-dollar weapon systems . Shortly before the Second World War , 39,000 United States military retirees drew $55 million a year , some 6 per cent of the typical peacetime military budget in the 1930s . Total mobilization during the Second World War shrank retirement 's share of the wartime budget to $49 million a year in 1943 . By 1947 , the first full fiscal year of peace , retired pay jumped to $140 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1957 . and doubled that figure by 1963 . With the // events of the 1960s , it became clear that the anticipated hump ' of personnel retiring about twenty to twenty-five years after the Second World War was not a hump but rather a steady increase sustained by Cold War force levels . Estimating future costs is an actuarial nightmare , always complicated by pending legislation to rationalize ' military retirement , but projections of $10 billion to $15 billion a year for pay alone by 1990 are not outrageous . As will be discussed below , military retirement has been the only non-contributory government retirement system , that is , financed entirely by new appropriations every year . Retirees maintain with some justification that they contributed to retirement benefits by working for inferior wages during their active years . It is also idle to guess how large a proportion of the overall security budget by 1990 will go for retirement pay . Respectable estimates range from the present 5 per cent up to 25 per cent . The point is that retired pay costs in the next twenty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do and spend for security . Decisions leading to retired pay costs in the 1980s and 1990s have already been made . One can reliably say that whatever happens to the national security dollar in the 1970s , military retired pay is a budget fixture that is rising more steeply than any other personnel expense , and more steeply than nearly any other material or functional item in the United States security budget . So long as costs were low , that is , well under a billion dollars a year during the 1950s , Congress paid little real attention to military retirees and retirement . There was no political advantage in taking sides on the retired military issue so soon after the Second World War and Korea , at a time when notions like massive retaliation ' , more bang for the buck ' , missile gaps ' , and the new look ' in defense doctrine framed the field for Congressional battles on security appropriations and service roles and missions . Only in the defense reorganization of 1958 did Congress and the Eisenhower Administration act on the retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retirees , Congress separated pay for active forces from retirement pay so that retirees no longer received automatic raises , or recomputation ' , when the active forces got a raise . At the end of the 1950s and in the early 1960s. when retirement // pay costs climbed toward a billion dollars a year , Congress had to turn its attention to the mushrooming costs . The number of retirees affected the cost , of course , but Congress could not address the numerical aspect for several reasons . For one , retirement policy was and is considered inseparable from active force policy . Early retirement and retired pay are means of regulating the active forces , and almost any change in retirement policy would have to be related to short- and long-range needs , including the need for flexibility in the size and composition of the active forces . In the second place , the size was fixed for years to come and could not be drastically reduced during the 1960s without radical cuts in the active forces , which were deemed impossible in light of security needs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' which would-be careerists feel they have with the government , thereby weakening retirement policy as an inducement to enter and remain in military service . Congress thus faced a dilemma : military retirement cost too much to be ignored , but it was too closely related to national security to be radically changed . Attention was therefore diverted from the central issue to two other issues that gave Congress an opportunity to talk about military retirement without really talking about cost and size . The first issue was retirees in defense-related industry . Congressional subcommittees between 1958 and 1970 reviewed evidence that hundreds of retired senior officers ? generals , admirals , colonels , and navy captains ? had found jobs with firms doing defense business with the government . As noted earlier , the questions of how much influence these officers really had on defense procurement , and of how their retirement activities could be realistically regulated by law , were not satisfactorily investigated . The second issue , an outgrowth of Congressional attention to Cold War education and speech review policies in 1962 , focussed on the pro-Blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous right-of-center troop indoctrination programs for United States troops in the Federal Republic of Germany were the focus of muzzling ' hearings in the Senate , where it appeared that Walker probably had more organizational and spiritual ties to retirees than to active duty officers . The extent of support // for Walker among active careerists was not measured by Congress and could not be . However , it is generally accepted that most officers felt Walker had probably exceeded the bounds of permissible conduct , and had been indiscreet . General Walker was retired soon after the incident erupted , and his erratic behaviour and association with militant , far-right causes and organizations after retirement effectively isolated him from the rest of the retired community and from active duty officers . In Walker 's case , quite a few officers were ready to feel that his guilt was exaggerated , but their feelings stemmed from a general assumption among military careerists that whatever the evidence , verdicts are liable to go against military professionalism or the professional ethic ' when the issue is fought in open Congressional hearing . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the issues are so framed , the typical Congressman must defend civilian supremacy ' , generally to the disadvantage of the military . Service supporters in Congress know this best of all , and for that reason Congressmen such as the late Mendel Rivers of the House Armed Services Committee , current chairman F. Edward Herbert , and John Stennis of the Senate Armed Services Committee took pains to keep the discussion of ballooning retired pay , an inherited cost , from becoming a weapon in the hands of opponents of present military costs . The issue was thus reframed as follows : ( 1 ) how to keep retired pay attractive for recruiting purposes without returning to the fiscal risks of ' recomputing ' retired pay when active pay was raised ; ( 2 ) how to equalize the treatment given regular retirees with the much larger number of reservists who completed full careers as extended active duty ' officers ; and ( 3 ) how to make military retirement a contributory system , like social security or a company pension fund , rather than an unfunded obligation ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of current tax revenues every year . The dilemmas which Congress created for itself , perhaps unavoidably , by trying to regulate retirement costs without disturbing security policy are interesting in themselves , but equally interesting is the relationship between Congressional prerogatives and political action by retired officers . The link is direct . If a given political action // by retired officers were organized , conspiratorial , and potentially violent and unconstitutional , it would be dealt with by a combination of presidential and court action . But since the chances of that kind of retiree politics are low , the political regulation of retirees reverts to Congress , which , though slower and less responsive , jealously guards its prerogatives with respect to the laws governing retirees ' conduct . How , then , can a polity like the United States regulate its retired officers if its formal control mechanisms are not fully suited to the task ? The executive and the courts are largely set up to deal only with spectacular ? and unlikely ? retiree misconduct . Congress is not constituted to deal with abstracted or root @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the assumption of potential retiree misconduct based ? The answer to both questions lies in a closer examination of the young retired officer as he really is in the 1970s , and not as he is pictured in novels and stereotypes of the martinet in mufti . Private Lives and Public Understanding The assumption of possible political misconduct depends first on corollary notions about the military establishment . The military is the largest internally non-democratic institution in the United States , and the only institution that has a monopoly of violence when it acts externally for the state as a whole . The values reinforced in individuals who spend a career as responsible leaders in this institution suggest some conflict between military and civilian norms when the careerist rejoins society . Second , the assumption of possible misconduct depends on a prior assumption that career officers are by no means a cross-section of American society . They are self-selected by a host of personality characteristics , and they are self-selected from a still relatively narrow section of society where change is resisted and organizational clarity is prized , including clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior assumptions are combined , what emerges is not so much a military mind ' as a psychological type that finds fulfillment and identification in military institutions and procedures . // General assumptions about retired officers are one thing , and specific evidence is quite another . Research on the ballooning retiree population throughout the 1960s and early 1970s indicates that former career officers do indeed identify with both their own services and the military establishment as a whole . But it also indicates that retired officers by no means fit a single clear mold and do not express markedly different political opinions from other American males of comparable age or social and economic circumstances . If there are differences between retired officers and their civilian peers ? differences with political implications , that is ? they lie in the retiree 's less flexible view of democratic politics and processes , and in his tendency to relate both his political and personal non-political frustrations to the fluid character of democratic policymaking . To illustrate these assertions , we have to examine officers in middle-aged retirement at their point of greatest visibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are most likely to be related . The three most visible points are the period of transition from military to civilian life , the period of reoccupation in the civilian labor market , and the period of assimilation in civilian social , community and political life . The modal profile of the young retired officer that follows , based on ten years of diverse researches , is an approximation of thousands of largely field-grade retirees in their forties . It fits no one officer precisely , and how useful it is for predicting retiree politics depends on the fast pace of change of attitudes of , and about , the United States military . One clear finding has been the difference in retirement adjustment between officers whose careers included the Second World War and retired in the late 1950s and early 1960s , and so-called the Cold War ' retirees who were recruited , commissioned , and socialized throughout their careers entirely in the Cold War crisis in American military goals . Wherever the data allow , those differences are brought out in the following discussion . Patterns of Transition : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer 's transition from military careerist to civilian begins when he makes the first irrevocable move toward retirement ? submitting // final military paperwork , buying a house , accepting a civilian job ? and ends when his second career stabilizes with a permanent job and residence . That period varies widely , but is rarely less than a year and is often much longer . In a broader sense , transition begins in subtle ways much earlier than an officer 's first irrevocable steps , and ends , if it ends , when he no longer relies on a military institutional response to most of his problems . Respondents said transition may be like , I never left the army ' , or it may be the most aimless , terrible period of my life ' . More typically for recent retirees it was ' just like changing your wardrobe ; there was nothing special about it . We would expect the retiree to be politically less active during the transitional period than at any later time . His principal concerns are financial . He is probably temporarily disenfranchised , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he is too new to the community to have become a source of reference on military aspects of domestic and international policy . The officer who systematically and realistically plans for retirement is still an exception . What more often passes for planning is wishful thinking , thinking which is unrealistic in at least three respects . In the first place , the about-to-be-retired officer is rarely aware of how much structure the military has given his life . He knows that he will have to set his own hours after he leaves active duty , but he does not realize how closely his active duty day-to-day schedule has been related to corporate military purpose , and how schedule can not exist without purpose . In the second place , retirees tend to ignore , or have no basis for recognizing , the difference between changing careers and changing jobs at middle age . The civilian in his forties who changes jobs , even involuntarily , can usually convince himself that his life has more functional continuity than can the officer who stops serving the pervasive military mission of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misjudge their own training , experience , and abilities for a civilian society they have not fully known , despite their having spent most of their off-duty hours ' in ' that society . Unfortunately , society allows the middle-aged breadwinner less margin of errror in judging his abilities than it allows the young man just starting out . // Life does not begin at forty for the young retired officers ; instead , one said , it does n't do a damn thing at forty ' other than roughly coincide with the self-reexamination psychologists have found most men undergo in their late thirties and forties . However , for the retired officer this normal self-reexamination blends in with attempts at objectively explaining his retirement from the military . Interviews revealed a convergence of psychological pressures on the retired officer during transition , some positive and some negative . On the plus side , there is the stimulation , even excitement of having ' resolved ' an increasingly ambiguous personal military situation by retirement . The stimulation comes from having reduced ambivalence , not from how wise or unwise the retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minus side , there is an undeniable ambivalence for many officers about retirement from the service , even when it is voluntary and deliberate . In short , the retiree can not know , until he has actually done it , how he will react . The services can be remarkably inept about inducing highly desirable , would-be retirees to stay in the military . Even at field-grade level , the administrative machinery of retirement serves effectively to give the retiring officer the impression that he is , after all , dispensable . Even the highly desirable officer can entertain doubts about how much he was actually needed , in a system built upon the dispensability of the individual . Most officers know at least a year ahead of time the approximate date of their retirement , whether it is involuntary due to force cuts or repeated failure to be promoted , or truly voluntary . Even with the services providing more planning assistance , however , it has been found that probably no more than one in three retirees has confirmed plans six months before he leaves active duty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the final six months , and half of these wait until the final ten weeks or do no planning at all . Surprisingly , there is no strong evidence that the early planners are better satisfied with post-military life in their first ten years of it . No amount of counseling cushions a bank account . An officer retiring after twenty creditable years loses most supplementary benefits and receives 50 per cent of his active duty base pay with periodic adjustments for increases in the cost of living during the // rest of his life . Retirement pay can range up to 75 per cent of active pay for officers with thirty or more years ' service . However , the fewer career years an officer has , the lower will be his retired pay ( luring the top-expense years in which he has adolescent and college age children . It does not particularly comfort a forty-five year old lieutenant-colonel , the father of three children under eighteen , to learn that if he lives into his seventies , his retirement pay will amount to a 5 per cent return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal he can use for emergencies , and even the paper principal dies with him . Retirees ' relative lack of planning and government indecisiveness surrounding retirement policy are less important in themselves than in what retirees think about them . Are they sources of discontent ? Do retirees blame their former services , or the military in general , for their resettlement difficulties ? Characteristically , retired officers do not blame their own services or the military establishment , even for troubles that are within the services ' power to relieve , such as more considerate treatment of retirees at military base hospitals . If such criticism is occasionally made , it carries none of the vehemence with which retirees attack civilian agencies such as Congress and the Office of the Secretary of Defense for what they regard as political expediency or breach of faith ' when these agencies seem to violate old but unwritten contracts with retirees . Moreover , the average career officer has seen and doubtless participated in numerous eases in which service needs or benefits have been sacrificed , in his view , to political expediency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the culprit . Here , interviews disclose a sharp difference between retired regular officers and retired reservists who served an // equal number of years on extended active duty ' .3 Reservists , sup-posedly but not necessarily more civilian ' in their outlook , have been found to be about five times as likely to accuse civilian agencies . including Congress , of political double-dealing and breach of faith ' . Paradoxically , retired regular officers are more tightly con-strained by rules on income and political activity than retired re-servists , and are more likely to suffer the real inequities of the double standard . However , both regular officers and career reservists draw equal pay for equal years and face the same retirement expenses . Hence jobs and finances , not politics , remain the overwhelming concern of most retirees in need and search of a second career . Second Career Patterns . The image of retired military officers flocking into defense industry and security policy-making is a distorted picture of the youthful military retired community as a whole . Even using a liberal definition of defense-related ' jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find stable , true second careers are located in lines of work far removed from any position of direct influence on national security policy , armed force manage-ment or Pentagon purchasing . Retirees hold a striking variety of jobs . Compared with the civilian labor force , more retired officers tend to settle satisfactorily with large ( more than 2,500 employees ) businesses . However , many officers prefer to mix the bureaucratic attractiveness and paternalism of the large organization with the independence they have managing decentralized offices of such businesses . Among the appeals of large business is the fact that large corporations are less liable to take advantage of the retiree 's government income by paying him less , although his is likely to have some difficulty in negotiating his late-entry share in the company 's own pension program . It is hardly surprising that some 60 per cent of retired officers settle in sales , managerial and administrative jobs . Although on active duty they may have been responsible for technical operations as complicated as modern aircraft or communication systems , retired officers rarely have the current technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manager , for example . Moreover , retirees // who hope to revive scientific or technical credentials dating back to pre-service or early service days find that old degrees , particularly in the hard sciences , are hopelessly out of date . Sales attract numerous retirees because sales jobs are always open to selfconfident men , even without experience , who are willing to take a risk . Typically , retirees who sell most successfully ? and they are a small fraction of those who try ? are in institutional sales rather than hard commodities . If he has the aptitude to start with , the typical retiree can sell bonds , community services , or other intangibles more easily than cars , cookware or men 's clothing . Among unsuccessful retiree-salesmen , the two reasons for failure most often cited are , the subservience that officers feel sales require , and the difficulties of adjusting to a cash-exchange relationship after a career where cash was not an important currency of exchange . Transferability of skills has had a lot of attention , but the real explanatory factors in second-career success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sharp found , and the present research as well , that transferability of skills has meaning for fieldgrade officers only in cases of very specialized skills , e.g. directly transferable operations , research skills , or corporate-level accounting . Otherwise : In analyzing the considerations that entered into employer 's and job counselor 's evaluations of retirees ' job qualifications , it was concluded that various civilian common-denominator criteria , such as education , articulateness , personality characteristics and status ( for which rank achieved was an indicator ) , were given uppermost consideration . In both hiring and assigning men , the study found , employers usually did not attempt specific matching of jobs and specific military-acquired skills.4 The different skills and outlooks of so-called combat ' and support ' officers are not recognized as such in all the services , but officers themselves draw the distinction when they talk about the ease of transferring military skills to civilian life . As they perceive it , line or combat officers have fewer transferable skills ; support or technical branch officers can always find a job ' . Upon examination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speciality is in getting interviews for jobs , rather than in performing them . Administration ' , whether public or private , commercial or pro-fessional , has become so broad a term that it is nearly meaningless for a retiree 's evaluation of his skills . Along with his command ' ability , the retiree 's notion of his administrative skills offers hope , confusion , and despair ? often in that order ? to the retiree looking for something gainful to occupy the rest of his life . The middle-grade retirees who have been found to be most influential in administra-tive jobs have been those with specific active duty experience in finance and accounting and those who are willing to undertake pro-cedural reform tasks for civilian employers . Another clear finding is that civilian employers tend to weigh retiree 's personality characteristics heavily in hiring , but show less concern about matching up military skills with job assignments . The importance of a public service aspect to a second career can hardly be overestimated . The notion of performing a public service helps officers through many of the frustrations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ego-satisfying criterion for retirement employment . As many as 25 per cent of middle-grade retirees ful-fill the criterion by working for the federal government as civilians , most of them in the Department of Defense . Far fewer find jobs with state and local governments , mostly because state and local bureaucracies and entrance requirements are biassed against military retirees . Civil defense interest among retired officers , or lack of it , is interesting because civil defense would seem to offer a chance to perform public service , frequently some income , and above all activity related to military experience . More than half of interviewed retired officers say they would be willing to help with local civil defense , but one in four rejects it ; as one said , there 's too much politics ' , that is , local civilian politicians . Next to federal govern-ment employment , teaching and educational administration appear to be the fast-rising public service areas that retirees aim for . As educational standards in the services have climbed , including the bachelor 's degree requirement for all officers , more retirees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degrees , with the result that between 5 and 10 per cent of // retirees in the 1970s will find their way to schools , including premilitary institutions . A much smaller percentage will find jobs in higher education , and most of the jobs they find there will be administrative . The exceptions are officers who earned master 's degrees on active duty and help staff small four-year , junior and community colleges . In interviews in the early 1960s ( hereafter called the 1964 sample ) , we expected a positive relationship between employment dissatisfaction and discontent along specific and general political issue dimensions . We did not find it . Jobless or luckless retirees were discontented , to be sure , but even by approaching potential relationships from several angles over an extended interview , we could not discern a spillover from second-career dissatisfaction to political issues except on the salient recomputation ' issue and Congressional behavior . The quantifiable results for 1971 resembled 1964 , but the quality of their responses differed . For one thing , the 1971 sample on the whole had found stable second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respondents expressed discontents of various sorts and the 1971 group were vocal about discontents on various process and political issues , the 1971 group were better informed about how their jobs could be affected by political action and had reached this level of information sooner in retirement than the 1964 sample . Of particular interest in 1971 was the correspondence between the level of government policy the retiree was most interested in , and the level of government policy most directly related to his job . For example , the broker was more interested in national economic regulation , the contractor and school administrator in local bonds and rezoning , the defense systems analyst and diplomatic historian in international politics . This correspondence could also be expected among a civilian white collar population , but is interesting among retired officers since they might have had more than the average reasons to be concerned with internal issues . Social , Community , Political Organization . Military life rivals , if it does not exceed , any other social behavior pattern in its complete organization . The military environment has been called a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment . The military environment more nearly unites the basic human activities of work , recreation , and rest under a single system of rules than any non-military institution of its size . The military environment can be explained in terms of the military mission , and it can often be described in terms of the hierarchies that support the mission . Retirement strips the officer of many of these organizing hierarchies . In civilian life , a male breadwinner 's existence is usually organized by what he does for a living ; his job regulates his residence , his business , and many social associations , and many of his important attitudes towards politics . Military life does not totally constrain political attitudes , by any means , but it does supply other organizing devices , such as the most reliable single indicator , military rank . Military rank or grade grows out of the military mission , and is a key to authority , predictability , and efficient communication . When an officer retires , military title and other hierarchic symbols that help to organize so much of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a civilian community , depending largely on the cultural and political tone of the community . Surveys suggest that somewhat more than half of all middle-grade retirees use their military title sometime in the years after active duty . It is a declining percentage , however . As usage declines , channels of communication among retirees will doubtless be even weaker than they are today and another structural support for retiree satisfaction , or dissatisfaction , will have disappeared . Many retired officers , in different words , express a dissatisfaction that boils down to a discomfiture , a feeling that civilian life lacks a node or stable center from which rules and assignments stem . From the civilian 's perspective , the retiree 's discomfiture appears to be over-attachment to the military . From the former officer 's standpoint , however , what he misses is not the military mission but the emotions and security that were associated with the mission . The distinction goes far to explain why the 125,000-member Retired Officers Association , a conservatively governed all-services organization , is politically almost impotent but socially rewarding for retirees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clearly , 1971 interviewees for this study maintained fewer perYouthful // sonal and collective associations with other retired officers than the 1964 sample . Several 1971 respondents had to pause for a minute to think of any retired military they interact with once a month or oftener . However , they were not so compulsive about avoiding other retired officers as the 1964 sample had been . For 1964 retirees , avoidance of military peers was a much more deliberate , self-conscious act , as if avoiding other retirees might be the secret of successful adjustment . We were also interested in measures of cohesion between careerists and the ever larger percentage of the population with brief military duty . Both 1964 and 1971 samples , as expected , dismissed such organizations as the American Legion and the Veterans of Forign Wars as irrelevant to their own situations . However , 1971 respondents seemed much more ready than 1964 retirees to talk about military life and affairs as equals with business associates and friends who had been draftees or short-term officers . As one 1971 respondent said : It 's something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aircraft mechanic in the service , or airborne . A lot of times it does n't mean you agree on things , but it 's something to talk about . ' Retirees ' social and psychological isolation in their communities remains a key variable . Middle-grade retired officers have not been found to be any more or less joiners ' than their white-collar civilian contemporaries . At the Rotary-Lions Club level , few retirees find satisfaction or companionship in these activities if they were not already taking part in them during their military years . As for overall social satisfaction , including some measures of political belongingness ' , middle-grade retirees are more likely than not to find civilian life at middle age less satisfying than active duty . Only about one in four finds he is as satisfied ' or more satisfied ' in retirement , and about one in eight ? particularly higher ranking and regular retirees ? considers the two situations incomparable . Contrary to the Colonel Blimp stereotype , middle-grade officer retirees defy easy classification by militant or otherwise consistent issue opinions . Although we were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions on specific issues , interviews almost invariably included issue discussions . Moreover , two minimum issues were routinely introduced into the 1971 interviews : // the volunteer army , and the services ' current image , roles , and missions . Interviewees in the early 1960s displayed a lower level of information on the issues most often discussed with them at that time : postSputnik national priorities , defense reorganization , strategic missile forces and conventional forces , American East Asian ( not yet really South-East Asian ) policy , Kennedy Administration social policy . By contrast , 1971 retirees were better informed but less intense ; on the other hand , they were more difficult to engage in discussions of local and especially non-local issues . Recent retirees , exposed for a longer time to fluctuating force levels and the contingencies of Cold War politics , were firmer than the 1964 sample about the necessity for flexibility in the size and capability of the armed forces . This position was associated with opposition to a volunteer army . Reflecting views among active officers , 1971 retired officers generally agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it did work it should not work because international politics was not stable enough to permit a small , professional American cadre . Recent retirees did not typically broach the relationships between a volunteer army and broad social representation , but they were not hesitant about discussing it in those terms when it was raised . It would be premature to say that the 1971 sample were basically less authoritarian in approaches to resolving social problems ? most often expressed in the interviews as law-and-order , urban dilemmas , and campus disorders . It is probably more accurate to say that 1971 respondents , compared with 1964 , were inclined to think that authoritarian solutions are impracticable , not that they are theoretically unsound . If indeed trends in authoritarianism can be discerned , it still begs the question of the relative effects of reduced authoritarianism within the modern military itself , or military men 's reactions to changing patterns of authoritarianism in the larger civilian environment . Summary : The Matrix of Retirement Politics The massive military manpower levies of the past third of a century , combined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits to attract and keep leaders , created a sizable young retired military population in the United States . Traditional public uneasiness with the military and frustrations of protracted nuclear diplomacy and competing domestic values facili tated stereotypes of warriors unhorsed , Colonel Blimps inclined to mischief or malice towards civilian democracy . The bulk of officers retired in field grades do not fit the stereo-type . Moreover , the American military is too pervaded with civilian values and its retirees too diverse a product of pre-military and military socialization to presage a reasonable likelihood of their con certing effective political reaction . Their matrix for political reaction is too loose , their origins too varied , and the polity too pluralistic for sustained cohesive group response . However , the military institution , properly defined by its unique combat mission , will always be more different from all other occupa tions in the polity than those occupations are different from each other . The fact that the institution can be more distinctive and perhaps anomalous than the human beings it comprises makes the disjunction between the military and military people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even radical policies of military careers and career compensation are as great as the inanity of legislating career military service as if it were just one more line of work . The social and financial costs of large-scale military retire ment , present and future , are part of the costs of security . Military retirement costs and their peculiar problems of civilian-military relations offer a retrospective , crisis-free point from which to re-examine earlier commitments and to re-evaluate the promises of present commitments to military security . // 6 Strategic Ideas and Defense Policy : The Organizational Nexus COLIN GRAY There has been comparatively little attention in the literature on defense issues given to the relationship between the production and refinement of strategic ideas , and the production and deployment of weapons . Hardly any more concern has been given to those organizations that have the responsibility to relate the one with the other , thereby turning ideas into operational reality . The reasons for this lack of attention to the strategic theory/defense policy interface are not hard to find . Ideas are obscure in derivation and are soon widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an idea from conception to military realization , particularly when an idea has served to affect the climate of opinion ' rather than to determine some specific outcome.l Further , government departments , especially those responsible for defense matters , are not in the habit of opening their archives for outside investigation . Among studies of strategy and defense policy can be found works that trace the momentum of the strategic theoretical debate , that highlight military technical developments , and which tell the story ' of changes in defense policy . The importance of civilian strategic theorists in the United States has been widely acclaimed , yet the evidence for their importance is by no means overwhelming . There is a growing collection of studies of civilian strategists in non-profit advisory institutions and university-based groups , but these have // been more concerned with the strategic theoretical output of these organizations , than with their influence and impact on defense policy formulation . The purpose , therefore , of this paper is to explore some of the links between producers and the content of strategic ideas , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A strategic idea is understood to be one relating to the preparation , structuring and employment of the military power of a state for the goals set by policy.2 The term defense policy ' is taken here to mean those directing ideas and principles that are in fact embodied in the defense posture of the state . In other words , there is an important distinction to be drawn between operational and declaratory policy . It is assumed from this that the men , machines , organization and operational plans constitute the empirical referents for its defense policy . The prime consideration , however , is to relate the realm of ideas to the preparatory activities of those agencies of government that produce these tangible features of defense policy . The concern here is only with the advanced industrial societies.3 Discussion of the defense problems of those states which fall within this category is generally marked by an agreement among them that certain kinds of weapons and certain security issues are strategic ' . Such issues are related to potential attacks upon , and the defense of , the homelands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern weapons systems , and the exponential rise in the costs of their development , production and use , such attack or defense would , almost inevitably , involve atomic or thermonuclear devices . The organizational nexus ' referred to in the title is that agglomeration of government departments , executive agencies and service institutions that link ideas to policy through their responsibility for the development , direction and management of military forces . In short , for strategic theory to become strategy , it must be converted into men , machines , organization and operational plans . This is a function performed collectively , though not equally , by senior civilians and armed servicemen within a Ministry , or a Department , of Defense . The task will very probably be conducted in conjunction with other defense experts ' , located in the office of the chief // executive , and in economic , technological and foreign policy agencies . Although all these other experts also come from intra-govern-mental organizations , they are likely to see the problems of defense in a totally different perspective than the military and civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a priori that all strategic ideas of importance originate outside the boundary of the organizational nexus . In theory , the organizations comprising the defense nexus are con-cerned only to establish the relevance and feasibility of strategic ideas . In practice , however , though they are meant to be impartial and objective , they tend to make value judgments upon the worth of strategic ideas well in advance of examining their feasibility or relevance . In addition , the organizations comprising the nexus have their own goals , possess organizational norms and operate in a fashion that may influence , or prejudice , their individual judgment . It is possible that any one of these sub-units of the defense nexus might pursue any number of very narrow internally derived goals that could frustrate defense objectives established by a higher executive agency , or prove to be dysfunctional to the efficiency and efficacy of the entire defense decision-making process.4 The analysis , however , is concerned also with the working of the defense community as a whole . Defense community ' is a term that refers both to those individuals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulation and execution of defense policy , i.e. the intra-governmental defense organizational nexus , and those who operate extra-governmentally , but who none-theless are continuously concerned with it . The particular questions to be asked of the defense community , therefore , relate first to the sources and content of strategic ideas , and second to the relationship between these sources and the defense organizational nexus . In other words , it must be established what are the particular features of the nexus , and particularly of the military sections within it , that either hinder or facilitate the acceptance of strategic ideas as a basis for future policy . In an advanced industrial society , the defense community is typic-ally a large one . Conversely , the individuals who possess the qualifi-cations and the interest to produce practicable strategic ideas are // relatively small in number.6 A useful distinction can be drawn here between the strategy generalist and the strategy specialist. ? The former category would include those people with an interest and expertise in broad national security questions ; the latter serves to identify and gather together the vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters . For example , most of those working in advisory , or in line ' positions within and outside government are concerned only with very narrow sectors of defense , such as the technical improvement of the hardware ' or the ' software ' bases of defense policy , or the specific problems of one of the branches of the armed services . The strategy generalist is not to be found in all sectors of the defense community , nor is there equal distribution of their number . In order of importance as a source of strategic ideas on broad security issues there is first , executive defense agency affiliated and non-affiliated advisory organizations and universities . Second come the sections and agencies within the defense organizational nexus itself ; and finally there is the relatively thin scattering of generalists in the ranks of dependent industries and among retired military officers.8 Two distinctions regarding the producers of general strategic ideas will assume importance in the analysis below : the first is between civilians and soldiers , and the second is between civilians within the organizational nexus and those who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic idea may assume a greater importance than either its content or its implications . It is therefore necessary to examine systematically a number of hypotheses about the link between strategic ideas and their adoption by the defense organizational nexus in the formulation of , and as a basis for , future defense policy . This will be done by taking alternative hypotheses concerning the characteristics of this link and examining them separately . The first such hypothesis is that strategic ideas serve to rationalize defense policy decisions taken on other grounds , usually pragmatic , rather than to instigate and promote new developments . The actual role of theory is one of the insoluble problems of strategic studies.9 Historical evidence yields no proposition concerning the relationship between theory and technological change // that is easily tenable.10 There have been widely acknowledged occasions when an armed service has adopted and promoted a particular theory for the conduct of war , even though the theory itself was well in advance of the military-technological state-of-the-art . Early air force and air corps adherence to the strategic airpower doctrines of Trenchard , Douhet and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been instances of the adoption of a particular weapon by an armed service when that weapon does not clearly fit into existing ideas regarding the conduct of the war . For example , there have been occasions when a weapon was not developed for a specific military strategic or tactical end , 12 but because of an operational requirement which had been issued on the basis of imaginative , or optimistic , insights of the battlefield of the future . It might be argued that in the United States neither the atomic bomb nor the ballistic missile programs were initiated because of any profound concern for a specific military tactical or strategic purpose . At times , some strategic ideas are welcomed either by a single service as , for example , was Mahan 's doctrine of command of the seas , 13 or by particular interests within it , as for example the strategy of flexible response ' by the U.S. Tactical Air Command.14 There is , on the other hand , little evidence of a strategic idea being welcomed or adopted readily by the armed services as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these observations alone that in most cases each military service has a dominant and traditional preferred strategy ' . The preferred strategy ' of a service can be seen as being either that which has been tried and has succeeded in the past , or that which seems to express the essence of the capability of that particular service.15 Such preferred strategies ' are understandable . They stress those kinds of combat situations in which the military professional is called upon to demonstrate the maximum of his professional expertise and quality of character ; it also tends to be one that downplays the value of active assistance from other services . It is , in addition , one that could be pursued with the greatest chance of success because it assumes a situation favorable to the believed advantages of the service ; that is , in the unlikely event of other things being equal ' . In order to present a contemporary image , particularly for reasons // of the annual budgetary battle , military service will often adopt a strategic theory or idea simply in order to be in apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrinal justification for the development and procurement of the U.S. Forrestal class aircraft carriers , for example , shifted significantly over time.16 It is comparatively easy to criticize a service for procuring its favoured weapon system and then adjusting the justification for its maintenance so as to comply with shifts in the strategic theoretical climate . It is a fortunate service whose procurement policy is a dominant influence on the nature of the strategic climate , as was , for example , the development of the U.S. navy early thinking on submarinelaunched strategic missiles in 1956.17 But it is a fact that nearly all past prognoses concerning the course of future wars have been significantly in error . Therefore , regardless of the doctrinal veneer put upon capability , it may be held that a service is wise to behave conservatively and to provide continually for a mix of operational strategies , some new , some traditional . The danger in this insurance ' approach to future war , however , is that there is a tendency to succumb to the temptation to over-insure or to waste scarce resources in planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assumption that military organizations , as on-going concerns , have a traditional and wellunderstood set of strategic beliefs and doctrines . These ' institutionalized ' doctrines are vital for the efficient working of the organization.18 The weapons systems and operating command structures of these organizations evolve in a fashion that is often remote from the changing formulae and semantics of strategic theory . Massive retaliation ' , graduated deterrence ' , limited war ' , flexible response ' , and crisis management ' come and go , but , for example , the ships and organization of the navy go on , apparently , for ever . To the extent that political expediency requires , strategic theory will be culled from a wide range of sources for arguments that both serve to justify a service 's preferred activities , and implicitly or explicitly to cast doubts upon the activities of rivals . It is , of course , equally open to higher executive agencies to whom the services are responsible , to find strategic theories and ideas that serve the same purpose , in this case to justify imposing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is not too misleading to state that rationality invites rationalization , through these two uses to which strategic theory can be put are not necessarily mutually exclusive.20 Furthermore , they can also serve an educational function as well as having a significant causal force ' in defense policy formulation.21 In-house strategic thought , generated from within the organizational nexus , has advantages over other sources . It is served by an ease of access to classified material ; its mode and channels of expression are most likely to be in a manner calculated to induce acceptance ; and it is probable that it would reflect a profound and necessary sympathy for the organizational and human consequences of new and untried strategic ideas . But the second hypothesis , here , is that in-house strategic thinking , for all these advantages , is unlikely to be an important stimulus to defense policy change . It would appear paradoxical that the very authorship and organizational locus of in-house strategic ideas and thinking are very often the fundamental reasons for poor results . In the creation of new strategic ideas , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucratic organizations , and the long-term perspective . The requirements for creative thought would seem therefore to be extremely difficult within the defense organizational nexus where responsibility is unevenly divided between practical day-to-day management and operational planning , and forward thinking . The military profession , in for example the United States , could have relied less upon contracted strategic advice from outside , and could have encouraged more officers both to acquire and to employ a broad strategy expertise . But what must not be forgotten is that , regardless of such policies , the nature of the policy process within the organizational nexus and the nature of the military profession could not be rapidly altered . Perhaps in an informal and uninstitutionalized way , some inhouse strategic thinking may be put forward . The motives behind such action vary , though they would likely be the attempt of an individual or a group to comment on broad defense matters , more perhaps as an internal tactical move to upgrade their particular // military function , or their particular pet ' project , than as a serious proposal to improve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested in support of this thesis : the first is that any criticism of service or government thinking on strategic thinking - and new ideas in an organizational context are at least implied criticism - whether expressed implicitly or explicitly , is almost certain to be viewed as a form of disloyalty . Indeed such activity is likely to present to organizational rivals and to the general public a view of a service or of the defense organization nexus being divided within its own ranks.22 The second , which is closely related to the first , in a broad context and in political terms . When the opportunity does arrive , it is relatively late in the careers of most personnel and the process of career patterns and promotion within the organization will have played an important selective process . A formal and institutionalized method of stimulating in-house strategic thinking would be the establishment of a group within the central defense department or in all or any of the armed services charged explicitly with the critical function to inquire into broad strategic questions and to test and formulate new strategic ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unusual . The more typical delegation of intellectual task is that designed to facilitate an intensive , hostile analysis of another service.23 The formation by Mr Healey of a Programmes Evaluation Group within the British Ministry of Defence would be an example of the attempt to establish a genuinely critical in-house intellectual effort.24 It is perhaps significant to note , however , that this particular group was dissolved not long after its brave beginning . A major constraint upon the intellectual activity of the military professional is precisely the fact that he is a military professional . There are hazards in proceeding on the basis of an ideal type , but it is important to note that the officer will have internalized the values not merely of the military profession , but also of his particular branch . Unlike the civilian , the officer is steeped in the strategic folklore of his service.25 Deviant individuals can of course be cited , but these men are significant in that they point to the doctrinal // norms of their service . The profound acceptance of the values and the strategic functions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An intimate association of the individual with the goals of the military organization is essential for career satisfaction . It is difficult to deny , conversely , that long association with a restricted set of strategic concepts is likely , in his middle or late career , to inhibit an individual from an open assessment of arguments that bear upon the future well-being of his service . The quality , and content , of teaching in staff colleges is clearly a critical variable in this context.26 Elementary career considerations must not be ignored either , nor within the context of military organizations must the factor of rank . The staff officer must be constrained in his analysis by his knowledge of the official position papers ' of his service , and of the personal views of his chief of staff . In similar fashion , a chief of staff may not wish to rock the boat ' for his subordinates in planning positions.27 These particular situations have been described in terms of their being prisoner problems ' . A military officer who makes known his ideas on strategy , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a service representative in a joint planning office , or who is not thought to be putting his services ' interests persuasively enough , faces the possibility of career restriction . For the military professional this is likely to be far more serious than for the civilian , especially those who are co-opted on an ad hoc basis from outside to advise the government on defense matters . The growing parallelism between military and civil employment as the military profession becomes more technocratic ' should have an impact on this condition.28 Military officers , however , are increasingly acquiring the intellectual skills necessary for strategic speculation ; and military organizations have appreciated the nature of the threat posed by unsympathetic extra-military defense experts both within and outside the organizational nexus . They have gone some way to having institutionalized , in-house , broadly defined planning units . In addition , in the United States , governments have sought to discipline defense expertise by establishing extra-organizational groups working under military supervision . Such organizations would count // among their number the Institute for Defense Analyses ( I.D.A. ) , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to being in-house groups . General observations on the features of in-house civilian strategic thinking are dangerous because of the circumstances peculiar to each country . For example , there is likely to be considerable difference in terms of independence of opinion and the willingness to express it , between a group of career civil servants on the one hand and co-opted defense experts from outside on the other . The career civil servant , with a concern for orderly administration and possibly with strong sympathies for a particular service that has grown out of a long association , 29 operates under many more constraints than the expert , who has neither of these concerns and who is probably on a short-term secondment from another occupation anyway . Many of these outside experts will have been seconded into the organizational nexus because their particular strategic thinking is already known , rather than as an unknown quantity.3o All organizations have regular , routine on-going business to conduct and no in-house strategic activity can long remain in isolation from the demands of such business.31 In-house strategic thinking is therefore only likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is wired in ' to the needs of the organization as defined by the top executives . It is precisely because of this efficient communications network that any activity originally intended as strategic vision is more than likely to eventuate in perpetual fire-fighting ' .32 The stresses and strains of government life and departmental boundary maintenance ' can not be ignored ; the bureaucratic battlefield has been the graveyard of many an ambitious and imaginative strategic idea . In-house activity in strategic theory formulation has increased in importance throughout the 1960s . But , although this may have been the case , and there has been a rise in the sophistication of the arguments deriving from or adopted by the defense organizational nexus , it is important to note the essential function of these ideas to that of system ( and more often sub-system ) maintenance ' . For there to be any real departure from this pattern in the near future there would have to be an unprecedented change , both in the time horizon // of concern by those at the top , and in military organizations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can be argued , as with the third hypothesis , that strategic ideas are received by a military organization according to their anticipated impact upon its over-all authority and prestige . The fallacy of such a contention would derive from an over-concentration upon the domestic political processes particular to the defense politics of each country . A military organization must continually keep in mind , when considering which strategic idea it will support or adopt , the raison d'etre for its very existence . This might well in turn depend upon the image of the service and its domestic standing relative to the other services . At the present time , prestige is customarily seen in terms of war-waging success or whether the service operates the principal deterrent role . In practice , the criteria of public prestige and intra-defense organization politics rarely confront each other in an obvious way . It would be unusual for a military organization to be presented with a strategic idea which , although unimpeachable from the point of view of military effectiveness , would also harm its authority and prestige . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant division of military opinion concerning its military value.33 The fact that often considerations of authority and prestige coincide with judgments concerning the value of strategic ideas should not invite conclusions that parochial and traditional service judgments necessarily determine the outcome of a strategic debate . A military organization has a domain of authority over certain military missions . This domain often implies , and equally often the services explicitly claim , the exclusive maintenance and use of some categories of weapons systems.34 From its domain of authority , and from the consensus of opinion within the government and society at large , regarding the relative importance of its military mission , a services ' prestige is derived . Military executives may be excused for thinking that authority and prestige are closely linked , but two diametrically opposed phenomena should be noted : first there is a positive feed-back effect , in that those granting authority enhance the prestige of one particular service and consequently are inclined to grant more . For example , a good record of technical foresight and           @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 