@@773910

txt Nuclear Power and the Public demonstrable effects are 800,000 or more times greater than those re-ported in water collected between the mouth of the Columbia River and Willapa Bay in 1961 , when all eight Hanford production reactors were still in operation . Since then five of these have been shut down . The biological effects of the effluent from Hanford production reac tors have been monitored for over twenty years by raising salmonid fish in the diluted effluent . The three main factors in the potential pollution ef fects of Hanford reactor effluent on fish are thermal increment , radioac tivity , and chemical toxicity , since hexavalent chromium was used as a corrosion inhibitor ( Templeton , Nakatani , &; Held , 1970 ) . Freshly ferti lized eggs of salmonids were incubated , and the fish were raised in various concentrations of effluents until they reached migrant-sized fingerlings . Table 3 shows the mortality , growth , and radionuclide concentration in chinook salmon as raised under various effluent conditions . No significant lethality occurred in 6 per cent effluent , a concentra tion far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater growth observed in fish maintained in effluent is due to the heat in the ef fluent , which accelerates growth . The concentration of the three gamma emitters , 24Na , 5'Cr , and 65Zn , in the fish were approximately proportional to the effluent concentration . The investigators point out that the body burdens at these levels produced no demonstrable damage in chinook sal mon . No review of this nature can forego mention of Russian work in this field , especially since Russians report effects at much lower concen trations of radionuclides than do other workers . Russian emphasis has been placed on marine fish eggs . Polikarpuv ( 1966 ) , who pioneered the 40 Stanley I. Auerbach studies in this field , has reported on extensive studies with eggs of a large number of marine and freshwater species over the concentration range of 10-2 pCi/1 to 108 pCi/1 . They reported reduced hatching of the larvae and early mortality at concentrations of 105 pCi/l and above , and the number of abnormalities were increased significantly at concentrations of 102 pCi/1 and above with remarkable consistency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1970 ) did similar experiments with eggs of two fish species maintained from immediately after fertilization until hatching , in water contaminated with 90Sr90Y over a concentration range of 102 to 108 pCi/l . They did not observe any significant increase in mortality or in the production of abnormal larvae . Templeton , Nakatani , and Held ( 1970 ) point out that the particular significance of the work from the U.S.S.R. is the unique concentration effect response reported by Polikarpov in 1967 . An increase in concentration over six orders of magnitude ( from 200 to 200 million pCi/1 ) no more than triples the abnormality production rate and only increases mortality fivefold . This result is totally inconsistent with the linear hypothesis of dose response as well as with data from many radiobiological investigations . Preliminary experiments of the effect of tritium on fish eggs are under way at Oak Ridge National Laboratory ( 0RNL ) and at the University of Washington . At ORNL , Blaylock ( personal communication ) has subjected fertilized carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) eggs to various concentrations of tritiated water . The biological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained at 26 ? C. Eggs either hatch or die . Since the embryonic stages are considered among the most sensitive stages of the life cycle to irradiation , this was considered a useful method for testing the effect of tritiated water . An additional advantage is that the eggs imbibe water and swell . Assuming no discrimination against tritium , the eggs would be exposed to both external and internal doses from tritium . The concentrations used ranged ( Table 4 ) from 6.75 X 107 to 51.8 X 107 pCi/cc . These concentrations delivered a 72-hour dose to the eggs and developing embryos of from 57 to 436 rads . Although the percentage of eggs that hatched is less in three of the concentrations than in the controls , statistical tests showed no significant differences between any of the doses and the controls . At the University of Washington ( Held et al. , 1969 ) , hybrid trout eggs were exposed to tritiated water at concentrations ranging from 109 to 1011 pCi/1 of water . No significant differences between groups were observed . The investigators are repeating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1018 pCi/1 ) . These workers 41 Nuclear Power and the Public also tested the effects of tritiated seawater on spore germination and sporling development of the algae Padina japoinia Yamada . Effects on germination and subsequent growth were observed only at the highest concentrations of tritium used ( 3 x 101 ? pCi/1 ! ) Admittedly , these trit ium experiments have not followed up on any effects which might show up after fresh eggs have hatched . Nevertheless , one should bear in mind that concentrations up to 100 million times greater than MPC levels showed no effects on fish eggs and that in algae effects showed at 10 million times greater than MPC levels . What inferences may be drawn from these data ? " Insufficient in-formation and more research is needed " is frequently the response of re-search workers in situations such as this . As a scientist I am not entirely immune to this special type of bias . To call for such research is easy ; to attract first-rate scientists to devote years of their professional lives to experiments wherein the outcome may be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Journals are not interested in publishing such data . Moreover , one might question whether the investment required could not be put to better use in other needed research areas . These data , as well as many others that I have not mentioned , with the possible exception of Russian work , show that the dose necessary to evoke an unequivocally detectable biological response is considerably above that resulting from MPC 's in the environment . It is not unreasonable to infer also that low dose rates ( at or around MPC levels ) delivered to ecosystems under field conditions may present an intractable problem . At present , our best technologies and methods can not demonstrate effects to these systems at these doses that are clearly and uniquely attributable to ionizing radiation . The possibility of develop-42 Stanley I. Auerbach ing sufficiently sensitive methods exists , but will undoubtedly require superbly controlled laboratory conditions . I doubt that these methods , if developed , could be used in complex field situations where manifold perturbing factors are interacting on and with organisms . One might invoke special effects , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make them uniquely sensitive ( and therefore the ecosystem also ) to the low dose rates that might occur in the vicinity of nuclear power stations . The possibility exists that the radio-sensitivity of organisms may be increased significantly as a result of en vironmental interactions . Ecologists are always seeking some unusual effect , or a species with high sensitivity to ionizing radiation . So far they have not found any organisms which , within an environmental context , have a radiosensitivity at the levels of release permitted under current standards . Research is continuing to include as many different kinds of organisms as possible from a variety of environments ( habitats ) in order to demonstrate and differentiate the effects of radiation within an en vironmental context . All of the foregoing suggests essentially the same answer to a ques tion posed at the recent Burlington , Vermont , public education meeting . Namely , if MPCW levels of radionuclides have an effect on the biota living in the vicinity of nuclear power stations , these effects will be essentially undetectable . The reason for this judgment lies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changing in the environment , or other substances added to the aquatic environment that may , and undoubtedly will , have an effect on the constituent organisms . These substances ? chemicals , nutrients , and so forth ? may modify the habitat to the extent that it will be extremely difficult , using current methodologies , to demon strate effects that might result from the low levels of radioactivity. by ARTHUR R. TAMPLIN The regulation of man-made radiation in the biosphere FoR the past six years I have participated in a program whose purpose was the development of a practical ability to predict the distribution within the biosphere of each and every radionuclide produced in the explosion of a nuclear device . In particular , our program had the goal of estimating the ultimate dosage to man from the release of radionuclides to the biosphere as a result of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy . We now have a capability for estimating a defendable upper limit for the dosage ( Burton &; Pratt , 1968 ; Fisher , in preparation ; Ng et al. , 1968 ; Ng &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ al. , 1968 ) . But before discussing it , I shall explain why I believe that our approach or some similar approach should be applied to the effluents from nuclear reactors and fuel processing plants . In the Code of Federal Regulations , Title 10 , pages 134-144 , is a table which lists the maximum permissible concentrations of various radionuclides in air and water released to an unrestricted area . The values listed there for 137Cs are 2 X 10-9 t , Ci/ml of air and 2 X 10-5 , uCi/ml of water . These levels are set so that a whole-body dosage of 0.5 rad/yr would result from breathing such air for one year or drinking some 2 liters of water per day . But more important is what such levels really mean in terms of what could occur as a consequence of such levels in an unrestricted area . The 137Cs in the air will be deposited on pasture plants , which will be eaten by cows and secreted in their milk ; the milk will subsequently be consumed by children . If the Y37Cs concentration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) for just one day , a child consuming 1 liter of milk per day would get a whole-body dose of 45 Nuclear Power and the Public 7 rad as a consequence of just one day 's deposition . If MPC in air were maintained for one year , the dose would be 2,555 rad ? 5,110 times higher than the 0.5 guideline of the AEC and 15,000 times the radiation protection guideline of the U.S. Federal Radiation Council ( FRC ) ( 1960 ) . The above-dose estimate is derived as follows : The MPC for 137Cs in air is 2 x 10-9 ? Ci/ml . This is equivalent to 2 X 10-3 ? Ci/m3 . If this concentration existed for 24 hr , the integrated air concentration would be 48 x 10-3 ? Ci-hr/m3 . Now the 137Cs would be deposited on forage at a rate of 17 m/hr ( Fisher , 1966 ) . The deposition would thus be : i48 X 10-3 ( ? Ci-hr ) /m3 17m/hr = 0.82 ( ? Ci/m3 ) A deposit of 0.12 ? Ci/m2 would lead to a whole-body dose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milk per day ( Ng et al. , 1968 ; Ng &; Thompson , 1966 ) . Therefore , the 0.82 ? Ci/m2 would lead to a dose of 7 rad . As for the concentration in water , the MPC is based upon the calculation that a 150-lb average man consuming 2,200 g of water at the MPC per day would receive a dose of 0.5 rad . To begin with , a 75-lb child drinking this much water would get a dosage twice as high . He would be exceeding the guideline dosage , and so would a 100-lb pregnant woman . Man , woman , and child have also been known to eat fish . The concentration of 137Cs in fish flesh , caught in a river , would be 1,000 times higher than the concentration in the water ( Chapman et al. , 1968 ; Ng et al. , 1968 ) . Thus a man eating a pound of fish a week , grown in water at the MPc , would receive a dosage of 15 rad/yr ? 30 times the AEC guideline and 90 times the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dosage would be 60 times the AEC guideline and 180 times the FRC guideline . In other words , most people would exceed the guidelines if they ate only one pound of fish a year. ! The milk and fish represent biological concentration mechanisms . They , by themselves , serve to demonstrate quite conclusively that using air and water MPC values without considering food chains is meaningless . Still another example can be found in a physical process . If the MPC of 137Cs in air were maintained for one year , the resultant deposition on the ground would be 300 ? Ci/m2 . Since 13 ? Ci/m2 is equivalent to an external radiation dose rate of 1 rad per year ( Dunning , 1963 ) , the radiation level from these 300 ? Ci/m2 would be 23 rad per year . In other words , even if the air concentration were a hundredfold less than the MPc , the radiation levels would exceed the FRC guideline . The MPC 's are meaningless . Now , it is often stated that the reactor discharges are kept to a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The above analysis indicates that they should be kept to a very small fraction of the MPC 's . What fraction the engineers are using as a design criterion is a critical question . ' The MPC values in air and water are of no use to the scientific community in assessing the potential hazard to man from nuclear reactors and consequently are of no use to the engineers who are designing reactors . In fact , the MPC values lead to an unacceptable risk estimate . What is needed for assessing the hazard is the quantity ( the number of curies ) of each and every radionuclide that is released to the environment Armed with such information , we can proceed to estimating the distribution of these radionuclides within the biosphere and to estimating the resultant dosage to various organisms and to man . We can then estimate the potential damage to the biosphere and to man . I do n't mean that an absolute or accurate estimate can be made . There are too many uncertainties for this . Nevertheless , these uncertainties can be treated in a manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety . The risk estimate that evolves from such an analysis is a defendable upper limit of the risk . On a scientifically valid basis , one can state that the risk can be no larger than this defendable upper limit . Any lower risk estimate is a matter of opinion . In this respect , it is important to recognize that scientific opinion is generally no more valid than other forms of opinion . To illustrate how a defendable upper-limit estimate of the risk can be made , I shall describe our estimate of the dosage to and effect on man from the yearly release to a hypothetical stretch of river on an amount of fission products that would be produced in one hour from the operation of a 500-megawatt ( thermal ) nuclear power reactor . This stretch of river is 200 km ( a little over 100 miles ) long , 200 m ( about 1,000 ft ) wide , and 10 m ( about 30 ft ) deep . It therefore has a volume of 600 million cubic meters . Assume that this water is replaced each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 miles per hour . Assume also that there are 5 gm/cm2 of bottom material in equilibrium with the water . This is about the first inch . Finally , the population of the surrounding countryside exists totally on a diet of aquatic origin that is derived from the river . The details of the calculations are described in Parts IV and V ( Ng et al. , 1968 ; Tamplin et al. , 1968 ) of the UCRL-50163 series of reports ( Burton &; Pratt , 1968 ; Fisher , in preparation ; Ng et al. , 1968 ; Ng &; Thompson , 1966 ; Tamplin , 1967 ; Tamplin et al. , 1968 ) . Here I shall simply show the results and discuss their implication . The accompanying tabulation presents the dosage estimate for the whole body over the period from conception to 30 years of age under these assumptions ; this dosage would be accumulated from a yearly release to 47 Nuclear Power and the Public the hypothetical river of the fission products produced in 1 hour in a 500-megawatt ( thermal ) reactor . Table The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) is included in addition to the total . There are a number of other radionuclides between 137Cs and " 2Ce ; 142Ce indicates the range over which the individual nuclides contribute to the dosage . As you can see , the total dosage estimate is 105 rad . If one assumes that only 1 per cent of the diet comes from the river , the dosage would be lower by a factor of 100 or 1.0 rad . This is one-fifth of the radiation protection guideline of the FRC . The dosage estimate shown in the tabulation is dependent upon the assumptions relating to the diet and the hypothetical river . It is also an upper-limit number . When some of the uncertainties in the biological data are resolved , when the appropriate dietary mix is considered , and when the values for an actual river are used , this upper-limit estimate may be lowered by a factor of 1,000 . If this happens , the upper-limit dosage estimate would be a factor of 50 less than the present radiation protection guideline . But even if we achieved this factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The release rate used in these estimates represents only a few hundredths of 1 per cent of the radionuclide inventory at the end of a single year 's operation of one 500-megawatt nuclear power plant ( Division of Radiological Health , Public Health Service , 1966 ) . In other words , this dosage estimate results from essentially complete containment ( about 99.99 per cent ) of the radioactivity within the power plant . If more than one reactor is planned for the river , the margin for error gets smaller . If we are going to live within the radiation protection guidelines with nuclear power plants , we had better take a very hard look at the permissible levels of release to the environment . At this point , it appears that something approaching absolute containment of the radioactivity is required . Because of the assumptions involved in the calculations , the foregoing dosage estimates should not be taken at face value . My purpose here was to demonstrate that it is entirely possible to make such estimates 48 Arthur R. Tamplin of the dosage and to show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assure that the radiation protection guidelines are not exceeded . But even the FRC suggests that dosage should be kept as far below this guideline as is possible . How far below the radiation protection guidelines the dosage should be kept depends upon the risk that the population is willing to accept . The risk depends upon the biological effects of low dosage , low dose rate irradiation . Again , a precise estimate of the risk can not be made , but it is possible to present a defendable upper limit for the risk . One approach to estimating an upper limit to the effects of radiation would be to assume that all of the fetal and infant deaths are a consequence of mutations occurring in the population . By this assumption , if the mutation frequency were doubled , these death rates would be doubled . This is not an unreasonable assumption . In the United States some 20 to 25 per cent of the conceptions terminate as fetal or early infant deaths , so it is apparent that this represents the most severe selection process imposed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anomalies , some 15 ? 20 per cent of the conceptions terminate as fetal or early infant deaths . This percentage is close to the mutation frequency estimated for the population ( 14/100 germ cells/ generation ) ( United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation , 1966 ) . Since this number of mutations is being eliminated with each generation , the correspondence of these percentages suggests that the above assumption is not unreasonable . The United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation ( 1966 ) estimates that 1 rad would increase the natural mutation frequency by a factor between .10 and .01 . The existing radiation protection guidelines would allow a genetically significant dosage of 5 rad . This could increase the mutation frequency and hence increase the fetal and infant death rates between 5 and 50 per cent . As an upper limit then , the radiation protection guideline dosage could increase the fetal and infant death rates by 50 per cent . However , experiments on mice suggest that radiation delivered at low dose rates might produce only onefifth as many mutations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high by a factor of 5 , and this would reduce the estimate to between 1 and 10 per cent . Considering that each year we have some 150,000 late-term fetal and infant deaths combined , even 1 per cent represents considerable human tragedy . Certainly , the dosages should be k ept as far below the radiation protection guideline as is possible . In summary , as a member of the scientific community and as a member of the public at large , I view the burgeoning nuclear power in-49 Nuclear Power and the Public industry with a great deal of anxiety . My impression is that these power plants should be designed so as to approach absolute containment of the radioactivity . My anxiety is only increased when I consider that the only recorded regulations are a set of numbers called MPC 's for air and water that are tabulated in Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations . What is needed is a comprehensive study that takes into account both physical and biological concentrating mechanisms and is based upon quantitative data on each and every radionuclide in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipated for the future in each ecological region of the nation . Following this study , it would be possible to determine whether something other than a very close approach to absolute contain ment of the radioactivity is acceptable . As the situation stands , aside from the bland reassurances of spokes-men for the Atomic Energy Commission and the nuclear power industry , there is no reason to assume that nuclear reactors will not jeopardize the public health and safety . Abstract The effects of heated water on aquatic biota are diverse and vary from the dramatic to the subtle . In general , these may be categorized into direct and indirect effects . Examples of the former would be lethality , reduction in reproduction , and alterations in the number and types of species normally present in a particular environment . Indirect effects could be significant increases in the oxygen demand of a water , increase in disease virulency , or increases in the toxicity of other pollutants . Attempts to improve water quality criteria for temperature have pre sented several interesting considerations to supplement the anti-degra dation policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. BRUNGS Effects of heated water from nuclear plants on aquatic life A DISCUSSION of the effect of heated water on aquatic life needs little introduction . During the past several years there has been much interest in this subject within the scientific community and also more recently by the public itself . Federal and state water quality legislation has increased this interest , especially with regard to timetables of progress . In almost any field of endeavor , an awareness of a need usually evolves before adequate data have been accumulated for making important decisions . Biologists in general and those of the Federal Water Pollution Control Administration in particular now know what answers are needed and how they might be determined . In the interim between the present and some future time when sufficient data are available for making highly accurate and predictive statements , we must speak to some extent in generalities rather than of precise temperature levels . In addition , we must recognize that the effects of heated water on aquatic life are the same whether the source is a nuclear power plant , a fossil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used as a coolant . There are two major categories , of heated water effects on aquatic life . Direct effects ' are usually unrelated to another parameter of the aquatic environment . Indirect effects involve a stepwise procedure whereby some other condition , changed by the addition of heat , becomes deleterious to aquatic life . This distinction will become clear as specific cases are discussed . The most obvious direct effect is lethality . The lethal temperatures for several species of fish native to and important in Minnesota , for example , are : walleye , 86 ? F ; yellow perch , 84 ? 88 ? F ; white sucker , 84 ? 85 ? F ; and the fathead minnow , 93 " F. No salmon or trout are listed 52 William A. Brungs because there are few cold water environments suitable for these species that are large enough to satisfy the cooling water requirements for any kind of power plant ? especially a nuclear plant , which is less efficient than other kinds . Also , there is usually little temperature rise required to replace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other fish . For perspective , it may be stated that the Columbia River , one of the largest single cold water environments in the country , is only a few degrees from this conversion of fish populations . A consideration of lethal conditions must include the fact that fish exposed to a lethal temperature do not die immediately . Several hours or several days may be required before stress becomes evident . This situation results in statements that fish were found at a temperature that should have caused mortality on the basis of published data . The presence of fish in heated discharges is often interpreted to mean that these effluents provide desirable or optimum conditions for that species . A little thought would suggest that many organisms , including man , are at times and under certain conditions attracted to environments that are clearly not optimal . This example is one of many that have resulted in confusion and the drawing of conclusions from apparently contradictory events and observations . The blocking of spawning migrations of fish is another example of direct effects of heat on aquatic life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heated areas must be considered . If a thermal barrier is produced that will prevent one or several fish species from reaching spawning grounds , the eventual result will be the same as if the effect were directly lethal . This adverse effect can be aggravated when the thermal discharge is quickly mixed with cooler stream water , instead of permitting some heat dissipation to the atmosphere before complete mixing occurs . With immediate mixing , the temperature of the entire cross-section of the stream becomes higher than if complete mixing occurred more slowly and some distance downstream . Related to this potential effect on reproduction is a direct effect on the spawning process itself . As mentioned earlier , the temperature that kills 50 per cent of fathead minnows in 96 hours is 93 ? F. However , it has been shown under laboratory conditions that a lower temperature ( 86 ? F ) almost completely prevented spawning by this important minnow . More recent research with other aquatic species at the National Water Quality Laboratory has given comparable results , indicating that there are adverse thermal effects on reproduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecological considerations , as always , are the 53 Nuclear Power and the Public most difficult to investigate since they can rarely be studied under satisfactory conditions . These are the potential alterations in species composition and food relationships . If we consider the geographic distribution of important fish species , it is apparent that when an environment is at the southern boundary of a particular geographic distribution , any increase in water temperature would probably result in removal of that species . Conversely , a species at its northern limit would probably benefit from a rise in temperature . It would be simple to consider desirable species and their distribution if fish were the only factor . However , fish must feed to survive , and if the principal food , or an irreplaceable item in the food chain of fish fry , is removed , the fish species would also be removed even though otherwise thermally adapted . This consideration of the total effects of a change in temperature can not be completed quickly . Some investigators have found dense populations of fish near or in power plant effluents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneficial . A critical evaluation of such data frequently shows that these dense populations are not of desirable game species but are less desirable , rough fish species . These same data , in addition to indicating an abundance of rough fish , also indicate a scarcity or absence of desirable game or commercial fish . This kind of study rarely considers sublethal deleterious conditions such as reduced spawning . The point in the environment at which the temperature is recorded , although frequently considered a minor problem , may be important . Many times when biological collections are being made , a hand-held thermometer is used and records a surface temperature that is actually higher than that in deeper water where fish or other biological forms were collected . This difference could be very significant ; the resultant conclusion would have fish existing or thriving at a higher temperature than actually existed where they are found . The food chain interrelationships of aquatic environments are not static . Everyone knows that at different times of each year there are different sizes of fish and that feeding habits vary with size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there are great seasonal variations in the types and abundance of food organisms for these fish . The fry stage of fish is the most critical period because the necessary food for most fry is limited to organisms as small or smaller than immature copepods and cladocerans . Any significant increase in the thermal regime of an aquatic environment could result in the absence of this food when fish fry are totally dependent on them . This absence could be caused by removal of the food species from the system or merely by a change in the 54 William A. Brungs time of their availability . Either permanent removal or seasonal displacement would place great stress on the fry . Research at the National Water Quality Laboratory with invertebrates involving emergence from an aquatic larval form to a flying adult has shown that elevated water temperature causes earlier than normal emergence ; this might not be critical except for the fact that these adults thus , are ready to enter the aerial environment when air temperatures are still below normal . Under such a condition , many newly emerged adults @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their life cycle . It has been stated also that fish grow faster in heated waters . This , like many similar conclusions , is true , within certain limits . At some upper levels of temperature , which are still below lethal temperature , growth is reduced below normal . Even under the conditions which fostered more rapid growth under experimental conditions , we can not be sure that the increased food required will be available in the aquatic environment . Such results emphasize the need for total environmental considerations and indicate also that subtle changes , many as yet unknown , can have important implications . One potentially important factor that could be the most critical of all has yet to go much beyond the discussion stage between biologists and engineers . In many plants the cooling water requirements may require up to the total stream flow . Certainly then , the microscopic and slightly larger food organisms would pass through the plant and any associated cooling processes and would be subjected to maximum temperatures which will exceed those of the stream . Even though the obviously desirable species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are still dependent upon their food chain . The direct , adverse thermal effect on this very important microscopic part of the food chain is measurable ; the few times it has been investigated , contradictory results were obtained ? ranging from no effect to 95 per cent mortality of the plankton . The last of the direct effects of heated water on aquatic life is actually a summation of several that are best discussed together . Although up to a certain level , increased temperature can result in increased fish growth , it may also cause proliferation of algal growths that have a deleterious effect on justifiable uses of water other than that for aquatic life . Consequently , when excessive algal growth , caused by thermal pollution alone or in combination with municipal or agricultural fertilization of surface waters , results in windrows of rotting algae on shorelines or beaches , the use of these areas for recreational purposes is certainly limited . Not only are swimming and pleasure boating opportunities reduced , but any fisherman who consistently catches string of algae on hook and line would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not marginal ? and in fact can be carried further , because decaying algae would create problems of air pollution control . Another justifiable use of water is for the industrial requirements of nonmunicipal water . Almost any pretreatment of this water for industrial use would have to be increased when heated water causes increased growth of slimes and algae . A final effect of excessive algal growth is felt by municipal water supplies . Most inhabitants of larger cities are aware of the unpleasantness of drinking highly chlorinated water . The need for chlorination to control bacteria and other undesirable materials in drinking water will increase with increasing temperature , since the need for chlorination is accentuated when the temperature is raised . he indirect effects of heated water may be considered incidental or sec 1ndary in nature , but nonetheless can have a significant impact on aquatic environments . Adverse effects attributed to other factors may be aggravated by heat , or the factor itself may be a result of increased temperature . Disease is probably one of the better examples . In relatively unconfined environments , fish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fish rapidly . Disease organisms in the water and a nominal incidence of infected fish commonly occur . Disease organisms multiply more rapidly at elevated temperatures , just as the rates of most biological processes increase with increasing temperature . When temperatures are higher , the virulence of the disease increases , and the resistance of the fish decreases . Together , these may result in a significant loss of fish from disease ? but in effect , the mortality is caused by a temperature that permits a normally low incidence of disease to become an epidemic . Such situations have occurred " naturally " in the confined environments of hatchery ponds and small farm ponds . Only recently has this condition been shown to be a potential hazard in unconfined , artificially heated waters such as the Columbia River . Everyone is aware of fish kills which occur from the addition of toxic materials to the aquatic environment . In a few instances the cause is found , and remedial action taken . Again , the addition of toxic materials may seem unrelated to thermal discharge , but further scrutiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? whether pesticides , solvents , heavy metals , or others ? increases at higher temperatures . The important point is that water quality criteria can be determined for materials toxic to aquatic life under desirable temperatures , but when temperatures are elevated above optimum , toxicity is increased and following these criteria may no longer protect aquatic life . 56 William A. Brungs Again , even though the immediate cause of the damage is a toxic material , the addition of heat to the environment may have been the factor which brought about the undesirable effect . With regard to toxicity , the addition of anti-fouling chemicals in cooling , xQwers and other industrial processes must be considered . The periodic addition of biocides or fungicides to the cooling water of power plants and industrial facilities is intended to control and destroy slimes , algae , or scales composed of living cells . Besides the target organisms , these chemicals also , to some extent , affect the food chain organisms . Unfortunately , the frequency of use of these chemicals is directly related to need ; since the growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the frequency of this additional stress would increase when summer thermal stress is at a maximum . The use of copper sulfate for the control of algae in domestic water supply reservoirs will certainly be increased when raised temperatures increase algal growth . More frequent use of copper could also cause deleterious effects on aquatic environments . As mentioned earlier , increased temperature causes an incze se . n physiological activity , which , in turn , increases the oxygen demand of aquatic organisms . This fact is true not only for higher living cells but also for decaying organic matter . Most power plants or other processes requiring cooling water are located near centers of population , where the greatest amounts of organic matter in water also accrue . The effect of these two conditions is at least additive . Either condition alone might be endured by the aquatic fauna , but when both are present , as they frequently are , a problem is created . An example of a computed situation on the White River below Indianapolis can provide a solution to this problem . A sewage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? F in order to maintain a minimum dissolved oxygen concentration of 5.0 mg/l . A temperature rise to 86 ? F will require the treatment to be improved to nearly 95 per cent . This slight increase in required efficiency may seem negligible , but those who are knowledgeable state that this solution would be expensive . It is not at all uncommon to have significant stretches of streams or rivers below municipalities nearly devoid of oxygen . These undesirable conditions are certainly enhanced by the discharge of heated water in the same general area . Federal and state legislation is resulting in the improvement of treatment plant efficiencies and an increase in the percentage of the population served by sewer systems . It would be inappropriate to require improved treatment to the point of correcting not only the problem of domestic sewage but that of the power industry as well . The cost 57 Nuclear Power and the Public would probably be prohibitive , and the treatment would require further improvement every time a heat source is added . A slight digression here to consider the implications of combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been mentioned ; the list of others would be limited only by one 's imagination . Dr. Auerbach has discussed radiological considerations with regard to the environment . To the stresses he mentioned would have to be added the stresses of elevated temperature as discussed above . The stresses of any other adverse conditions ? whether related to toxicants , domestic sewage , or other factors ? must be considered and added to the subtotal of artificial stresses . Too often , specialists do not view the environment through wide-angle lenses . They can no longer refuse to accept the just responsibility of providing sound recommendations that will protect the aquatic environment . Continued narrow-mindedness can result only in slower steps toward an ultimate goal that in some instances may no longer exist by the time we have completed the first halting progress . A single temperature criterion for aquatic life would be simple and efficient . But the complexity and variety of environments in this country and in nearly every state do not permit a single number . Even if all the basic data needed were available , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A stretch of river already borderline for the existence of desirable aquatic life ( itself a difficult state to agree upon ) certainly can not accept another stress . The " natural " water temperature associated with latitude would also be an important factor . Economics and public preference about the intended uses of the aquatic environment must be evaluated . Certainly , it is inadequate to consider only the need for electrical power , physical location and cost , and whether or not there is sufficient cooling water available . Existing stresses ? low dissolved oxygen , toxic materials , disease , and so forth ? must be acknowledged and must influence decision-making . Too often we have been unable to define environmental problems adequately because experts attempt too fine a dissection that does not consider all phases of a problem . There will be redundancy of effort and delays in solution of major pollution problems if experts adhere to narrow-minded problemsolving . The full impact of a pollution source can be determined only by adding up the total effects on many qualities and uses of the aquatic environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range of effects as does temperature . For years biologists have been accused of being idealists willing to accept only pristine , unaltered conditions . In most of this country one sees many examples of changed environment caused by impoundments , 58 William A. Brungs fish management , and many other activities . Demands for pristine conditions will not result in progressive pollution control . In most instances , a compromise between the optimum and the unacceptable is the only feasible means for progress . Recent recommendations for the Ohio River by the Ohio Basin Region of the Federal Water Pollution Control Administration provide an excellent example of current thought . Those recommendations designated several specific classes of warm water fishes that required several different temperature criteria . The most restrictive temperature criteria would permit the continued existence of all present fish species . The next set of temperature criteria in terms of quality would not protect the most sensitive species , in this case , the sauger . A third step would eliminate such fish as the smallmouth bass , emerald shiner , and white sucker . Comparable sets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohio River watershed . Each set of criteria is different and gives different degrees of protection . The final resolution of water quality standards will involve much cooperation with representatives of all directly and indirectly involved parties . The need for power production is urgent and obvious . Planning or construction delays are unfortunate . An awareness and understanding of each party 's problems and considerations are essential to constructive efforts to provide the necessary electrical power without usurping a basic public right to desirable aquatic life and recreation . Both masters may be served , but not without careful , mutual cooperation . 59 by JOSEPH A. LIEBERMAN , ERNEST D. HARWARD , AND CHARLES L. WEAVER Environmental monitoring and surveillance THE growing use of nuclear power for electrical generating plants has resulted in both state and federal public health agencies ' increasing their program efforts in the surveillance of nuclear power plants and other nuclear facilities . Health agencies must take such measures in order to carry out radiological health programs needed to assure the continued protection of the public and to respond to public inquiries concerning possible radiological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state and operator surveillance programs for nuclear power plants are described in two reports ( Brinck et al. , 1968 ; Nuclear Facilities Branch , Division of Environmental Radiation , 1969 ) . The Environmental Health Service ( EHS ) , as one of the principal health agencies within the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , has the responsibility of providing assistance and guidance to state health agencies on matters pertaining to environmental health , including radiological health . It also conducts extensive research and development programs in order to advance the level of scientific knowledge of the physical , chemical , and biological aspects of the interaction between man and his environment . EHS comprises three operating bureaus and the National Air Pollution Control Administration . The Bureau of Radiological Health has been established within the EHS as the focal point for radiological health activities within the Public Health Service . The Bureau 's Division of Environmental Radiation has been assigned the responsibility for the technical review and evaluation of the public health factors of all kinds of nuclear facilities ; in addition , the Division provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels in the environment . This technical re-60 Joseph A. Lieberman view procedure was initiated in 1961 , based on an interagency agreement between the Atomic Energy Commission ( AEC ) and the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare . This agreement established the mechanism whereby the AEC 'S Division of Reactor Licensing provides to the Division of Environmental Radiation copies of the design safety analysis reports , and amendments thereto , submitted by the various applicants proposing to build and operate nuclear facilities . The Nuclear Facilities Branch within the Division of Environmental Radiation evaluates these reports from a public health viewpoint , and submits findings and recommendations to the state health agency responsible for the environmental health aspects of the plant . This evaluation procedure closely follows the AEC licensing timetable throughout . Emphasis is placed on delineating the state health departments ' radiological health program requirements relative to the facility and providing information and technical assistance to assist the departments in meeting their responsibilities . During the course of these evaluations , specific environmental problems may be identified that require field investigations in order to answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These areas of study normally relate either to the concentration and distribution of radioactivity in the environment or to an evaluation of population exposure resulting from operation of nuclear power reactors . Environmental Surveillance of Nuclear Reactors Experience gained over the past years by the Bureau of Radiological Health and by various states has provided the technical basis for the establishment of surveillance programs in the environs of nuclear plants . The guidance for environmental surveillance of nuclear facilities provided by the Bureau of Radiological Health is applicable to those areas external to the facility 's site perimeter or fenced area , which is normally considered as the plant environs or off-site area . Accomplishment of the objectives of these programs assures continuing examination and evaluation of the environment needed for the continued health and safety of the public . To ensure compatability of the surveillance data from both federal and state programs , an analytical quality control service is available through the 13ureau 's area laboratories . The prime objectives of environmental surveillance programs for nuclear power stations are to verify the adequacy of source control , to provide data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of data for public information . An environmental surveillance program should be conducted by the facility operator . As a minimum , surveillance activities by the health agency should provide adequate 61 Nuclear Power and the Public verification of the facility 's data . This procedure allows both the health agency and the operator to have confidence in the accuracy of the results . The materials to be sampled , the frequency of sampling , and the type of analysis needed are all dependent upon the specific program objectives that have been established for the facility . The extent of surveillance required is dependent on the nuclear facility 's location ( population density , meteorology , and other environmental factors ) , and the quantities and kinds of radioactive materials discharged . A review of the plant environment and the facility 's radioactive waste system should include an evaluation of the critical radionuclides anticipated in the normal discharges and the pathways through which they may disperse in the environment and thus expose the population to radiation . Because air and water are pathways through which radioactive contaminants are carried to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ media is a basic requirement in the establishment of a surveillance program . Further , an investigation of the site environs is necessary to identify members of the public most likely to be exposed and the pathways of exposure . Exposure of this critical population group can result from direct external radiation and from intake of radioactive material into the body through ingestion and inhalation . In initiating an environmental surveillance program , it is important that radiological measurements be made and data obtained through a preoperational survey of the plant environs . This survey will provide information related to the critical nuclides , pathways , and population groups that can be used to design the operational program . Additional information will be obtained that is useful for other purposes , among which are : ( a ) to provide a data base to be used in delineating any radioactive material released to the environment by the plant after initial start-up , ( b ) to demonstrate that the proposed surveillance system is adequate , ( c ) to give training and experience to the personnel conducting the survey , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for public information . Because waste discharges from a nuclear power plant operating under normal conditions should influence environmental radioactivity levels in only a limited area , preoperational samples should be taken beyond the plant 's influence for comparison with those taken near the site . This practice can be continued into the operating phase and a statistical comparison made in order to delineate possible contributions by the plant to environmental radioactivity levels . It has been normal practice for preoperational surveys to be conducted for a period of one year before the initial start-up of a nuclear installation . In those cases where personnel are inex-62 Joseph A. Lieberman perienced in surveillance operations and laboratory analysis of samples or special requirements are indicated , a longer period of time may be necessary in order to obtain reliable data for at least one year . The data gathered by the environmental surveillance program during plant operation must provide the basis for source control and estimation of population dose . Complete liquid and gaseous radioactivity discharge data should be routinely provided to the health agency by the operator so that the relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established . Experience to date with nuclear power plants has shown that careful waste management , engineered safeguards , and proper operating procedures generally result in a radionuclide concentration in waste effluents ranging from 1 to 3 per cent of the AEC 'S licensed discharge limits ( Blomeke &; Harrington , 1968 ) . Detection of individual accidental releases in time to take protective action is not an objective of a routine operational environmental surveillance program . Although protective actions can appreciably reduce the dose received if initiated quickly , the indication of a need for such actions must come from the facility in question immediately following any accidental release and not several days or weeks later from routine environmental sampling . For this reason , adequate source monitoring and control must be in effect to detect immediately significant nonroutine releases of radioactivity . In the event of such a release , it is imperative that agencies responsible for public health be promptly notified so they can initiate emergency monitoring programs with the objective of ascertaining whether or not there is a need for protective actions . A special preplanned documented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assess adequately any public health hazard in the event of a major accidental release of radioactivity to the off-site area . The surveillance described here pertains to the operation of nuclear installations under normal operating conditions and is not intended to apply to an accident situation . The recommended general program shown on page 64 ( Terrill et al. , 1968 ; Weaver &; Harward , 1967 ) serves as a guide for the development of an environmental monitoring program and is considered adequate from a public health standpoint . However , with the rapid expansion of the nuclear power industry , the number of individual facility monitoring programs will increase . Therefore , the Bureau of Radiological Health is updating these surveillance recommendations , on the basis of field studies which are being carried out through the Bureau 's area laboratories to obtain basic data needed to define upgraded surveillance requirements . Because of the planned increase in the nuclear power industry , it is important to develop a coordinated nationwide surveillance 63 Joseph A. Lieberman program to meet public health responsibilities for estimating population exposure . This type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states , and federal agencies in order to meet national objectives of protection of the public health and preservation of environmental quality . Bureau of Radiological Health Field Studies One of the most important field studies has been conducted at the Dresden Nuclear Power Station in Illinois by the Bureau 's Radiological Engineering Laboratory , Cincinnati , Ohio , in cooperation with the Commonwealth Edison Company , the Illinois State Health Department , and the AEC . This site was selected because of the extensive operating experience with Dresden 1 and the development of other nuclear facilities on the same site . Dresden 1 has been in operation since 1962 , and at the time of the study 's inception was the largest ( 200 megawatts electrical ) operating boiling water reactor . The specific objectives of the study were to : ( a ) develop better data on which to base guidance for environmental surveillance programs ; ( b ) obtain a more comprehensive knowledge of the problems associated with effluent monitoring from nuclear facilities ; ( c ) increase the depth of technical knowledge within the Bureau of Radiological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs ; and ( d ) evaluate the movement of radionuclides from nuclear facilities into and through the environment . Emphasis was placed on identifying critical pathways of radioactivity from source to man including delineating any reconcentration media or indicator radionuclides within the pathways , and correlating stack discharges with the associated environmental levels produced . Since the site will soon contain other reactors and a fuel reprocessing plant , the effect of multiple sources may be investigated at a later date . Various samples were collected at the Dresden Station for radionuclide analysis in three general areas : gas and particulates in the reactor discharge lines , liquid wastes , at various points within the plant , and samples taken in the environment . This sampling procedure made it possible to determine the significant nuclides in the plant before release and to correlate these known quantities discharged with any radionuclides detected in the environment . Critical radionuclides and their pathways through the environment that could cause significant exposure to man were identified . Techniques employed to measure radionuclides during the study were of a type more sensitive than those normally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surveillance programs . This enabled a detailed quantitative evaluation of specific radionuclides to ensure that all possible " critical " radionuclides were identified . The final report for this field study has been published ( Radiological Engineering Laboratory , Division of Environmental Radiation , 1969 ) , and some results can be summarized as follows : First , the critical pathway for possible exposure of the population from this reactor was determined to be via the atmosphere through the discharge of noble gases . Based on survey instrument and dosimeter measurements around the site , the average exposure at the sampling locations during the study was estimated to be less than 5 mrem per year . A more precise estimate was difficult because gaseous releases from Dresden have resulted in environmental radiation levels which were only marginally above background . Second , both in-plant and environmental samples were collected over a period of several months for analysis . The types of samples collected were : in-plant ? primary coolant , recycled demineralized water , fuel pool water , waste neutralizer tank , laundry wastes , delay line , containment building ventilation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? water from discharge canal , and gas , particulate filters , and charcoal iodine filters from the stack ; environs ? plume , milk , cattle thyroids , rabbits , corn kernels and husks , leafy vegetables , grass , soil , drinking water , rainwater , snow , river water , silt , and fish . The interpretation of data obtained from the analysis of the environmental samples indicates no detectable radioactivity resulting from the operation of the plant which could be considered a source of population exposure . These results are shown in the accompanying tabulation : levels of radioactivity in positive samples are given ; negative samples included soil , leafy vegetables , fish , grass , milk , rabbits , drinking water , river water , and rainwater . In order to provide data on a pressurized water reactor to augment the field data obtained at Dresden 1 , a study was initiated at the Yankee Atomic Power Station in Rowe , Massachusetts . Since the fieldwork was only recently completed , results of this study are not yet available ; however , these will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evaluated Table 66 Joseph A. Lieberman ( Radiological Engineering Laboratory , Division of Environmental Radiation , 1970 ) . A similar study is currently under way at the Nuclear Fuel Services , Inc. , spent-fuel processing plant in New York State . The routine discharges from a fuel reprocessing plant are somewhat different from a nuclear power plant in both magnitude and in character . The results of this field study are expected to contribute significantly to our ability to monitor this type of facility adequately . Liquid Waste Discharges Discharges of liquid radioactive wastes from nuclear power plants have been well below the limits specified by the AEC . A review of reported data has indicated that the type of reactor design ( i.e. , pressurized water or boiling water reactor ) has had no apparent effect on the quantity or character of liquid wastes discharged to the environment except for tritium . There are also indications that , again with the exception of tritium , the power level of the reactor may have relatively little effect on the total quantity of liquid wastes leaving the plant . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most significant mechanism for the effective reduction in the level of radioactive wastes discharged . The principal or critical radionuclides found in liquid wastes effluent during the field studies were determined to be 131I , " Sr , 89Sr , 8 ? Co , and 137Cs . In establishing a surveillance program for the water environment at an operating nuclear plant , these radionuclides and their pathway to human exposure should be examined . Tritium in the Environment . One of the radionuclides resulting from the operation of nuclear power plants that has recently been the focal point of attention is tritium . Although tritium is considered to be one of the less hazardous radionuclides , its continued production , unavoidable release , and long radioactive half-life ( 12.3 years ) will lead to increased levels in the environment as the number of nuclear power plants increases . Because tritium is an isotope of hydrogen , it can be metabolized in the form of tritiated water and incorporated into body fluids and tissues , although most of the tritium ingested would pass through the human body fairly rapidly , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for production of tritium in nuclear reactors have been well documented ( Peterson et al. , 1969 ; Ray , 1968 ? 1969 ; Weaver et al. , 1969 ) . Data on tritium concentration levels in rivers on which nuclear facilities are located is routinely obtained by the Bureau of Radiological Health and the results are periodically reported in Radiological 67 Nuclear Power and the Public Health Data and Reports. * Surveillance of tritium in waters of the United States will be expanded as the number of nuclear plants increases . Envi ronmental tritium concentrations measured during 1967 ? 1968 ranged from 200 to 8400 pCi/1 . Calculated population exposure rates from con tinuous ingestion of water containing these concentrations would corre spond to 0.03 to 1.4 mrem/yr . By comparison , the normal average popu lation exposure rate from all natural sources of radioactivity is about 100 mrem/yr ( cosmic rays , 30 mrem ; terrestrial gamma , 50 ; internal radionu clides , 20 ) . The tritium currently found in the environment is largely due to fall-out from previous atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Bureau of Radiological Health indicate that tritium discharges from currently op erating nuclear power plants would have little if any detectable effect on tritium concentrations in the environment . Present tritium discharge levels are only a small fraction of presently accepted maximum permissible con centrations and accordingly do not constitute a significant hazard to pub lic health . However , the anticipated growth of nuclear power with an in-crease in the number of both power reactors and fuel reprocessing plants will result in increased quantities of tritium 's being discharged to the en vironment . This potential source of population exposure will require con tinued monitoring and evaluation by public health agencies to ensure that tritium in the environment does not reach levels hazardous to public health . Gaseous Waste Discharges As in the case of liquid wastes , gaseous discharges from operating nuclear power plants have generally been small fractions of the licensed limits permitted by the AEC . The principal radionuclides normally dis charged that are of public health concern are the radioactive noble gases . Because of the differences in gaseous waste handling design between boil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) reactors , there are varia tions in the radionuclides contained in the effluents from the two kinds of plants . A BWR discharges gaseous wastes continuously following a delay of approximately 30 minutes . Consequently , although higher total quanti ties of gaseous effluents are discharged , they have relatively short half-lives ( from seconds to a few minutes ) and are , therefore , of reduced pub-68 Joseph A. Lieberman lie health significance . The radionuclides normally contained in a BWR gaseous effluent would include isotopes of krypton and xenon with 88Kr , 185Xe , 138Xe , and " Kr predominating . A PWR , with its much longer storage time which allows for radioactive decay would discharge predominately 85Kr with some 133Xe , although in very small total quantities . Offsite dose contributions from gaseous discharges have been undetectable in the case of an operating PWR and only marginally above background for an operating BWR for those facilities studied by the Bureau . Radioactive iodine is also a nuclide of public health concern because of the air-pasture-cow-milk chain which could permit concentration in a child 's thyroid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thorough review of surveillance data have not indicated iodine 131 to be of public health significance as a contaminant from normally operating nuclear power reactors . Iodine 131 was barely detectable in the gaseous effluent of the BWR studied , and extensive efforts to detect this nuclide in environmental milk samples failed even with ultrasensitive analytical techniques . PWR waste treatment systems normally eliminate iodine 131 through storage and decay because of its short radioactive half-life ( 8 days ) . During our field study of an operating PWR , sampling in the environs failed to detect iodine ( Radiological Engineering Laboratory , Division of Environmental Radiation , 1970 ) . Evaluation of Surveillance Data Information from plant operating experience available over the past years has shown that nuclear power plants discharge relatively small quantities of radioactive wastes to the environment . The Bureau of Radiological Health has compiled most of these discharge data obtained both by plant operators and by state health agencies . In developing plans for a coordinated national surveillance program , consideration should be given to the publication of this type of data in a uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reports . The recent studies at operating facilities by the Bureau referred to earlier confirm that the discharge of radioactive effluents into the air and water environment have not produced radiation levels at these facilities that would result in significant radiation doses to the population . The Bureau will , however , continue to assess these sources of environmental radiation to determine both short- and long-term levels and make estimates of their radiation effects on man . From a public health standpoint , a major purpose of environmental surveillance programs , as noted earlier , is to obtain data that are useful for assessing the radiation exposure to man . The identification of the critical 69 Nuclear Power and the Public radionuclides and pathways for these nuclides to reach man generally requires that relatively few environmental media be analyzed in order to estimate population exposure from the operation of a nuclear power plant . For this reason , the Bureau of Radiological Health is considering the feasibility of a graded environmental surveillance system which is based on a detailed knowledge of the effluent released . Studies have demonstrated that detailed analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is difficult , if not impossible , to detect radioactivity in the environment that has resulted solely from plant operation . Under such a concept , detailed and frequent field monitoring of radionuclides outside the plant boundary would be dependent on the level and kind of effluent released , except for continuous monitoring of the critical pathway for that particular nuclear plant . The use of an integrating dosimeter to measure the exposure owing to the release of noble gases would be an example of the continuous monitoring required . In addition , a basic monitoring program such as that given on page 64 , might be conducted on a periodic basis in order to keep the surveillance system operable . Although the previous discussion has been concerned with surveillance requirements for the environment , it should be noted that the discharge of radioactivity to the environment from nuclear facilities is regulated by the AEC so that the levels leaving the controlled area will not exceed concentrations established in Title 10 , Part 20 of the Code of Federal Regulations ( 10CFR20 ) . In the case of liquid effluent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stay within these limits . The concentrations will be further diluted as the canal flows into the receiving stream . For gaseous discharges , the discharge rate is normally controlled such that average concentrations in the atmosphere will not exceed 10CFR20 limits at the site boundary . Thus , increasing the flow rate of air discharged from the stack will lower the discharge concentration , but will not affect the total quantity of radioactive material discharged to the environment or the resultant exposure of the population in the vicinity of the site . Multiple Reactor Sources The large increase in the number of nuclear power plants has resulted in the location of more than one reactor at several sites . In addition , some reactor sites are planned to be sufficiently close together so that many will share the same air , water , and terrestrial environment . This trend could create a potential environmental problem for an area or region . These factors must now be considered in establishing both Bureau and state health 70 Joseph A. Lieberman agency environmental surveillance activities , so that the radioactivity that might result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geographical areas . Such evaluations must consider the long-term buildup of radioactivity in the aquatic environment , including the reconcentration phenomena in biological media that might result in population exposure . Multiple reactor sites also present regulatory problems relative to the establishment of radioactive effluent discharge limits . These limits will have to be developed carefully from the best available information on the many environmental aspects that influence possible population exposure to assure that the total dose to the population from multiple reactor sources is within acceptable limits based on Federal Radiation Council guidance . Summary An analysis of data from operating nuclear plants has shown that discharges of radioactive wastes have been small percentages of AEC regulatory limits and have resulted in minimal or undetectable radiation exposure for the population . Studies carried out to date by the Bureau of Radiological Health have tended to confirm this to be the case . If good waste management practices are carefully followed by reactor plant operators , the resulting radiation exposures for the public should continue to be extremely low . However , the existence of multiple reactor sites and areas containing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider the possibility of radiation effects from a large number of nuclear power sources . Because of the large number of nuclear plants which will ultimately require surveillance programs , efforts are being made by the Bureau to reevaluate recommendations for environmental surveillance programs for maximum effectiveness . Results of field studies conducted thus far indicate that a minimum surveillance program as previously described will satisfy public health requirements if the effluents are well defined and if the critical radionuclides in the effluents and pathways to the population are clearly identified . There is a need to consider the development of a coordinated nationwide surveillance program that will provide data based on specific radionuclide identification which can be used to periodically evaluate the public 's exposure to radiation . This exposure forms the basis for all radiation standards that have been developed by the world 's knowledgeable scientific community . The Bureau of Radiological Health will continue to carry out its responsibility for evaluating the environmental levels of radioactivity 7 l Nuclear Power and the Public through nationwide surveillance programs , technical assistance to states , research and development activities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources . This function is currently being strengthened to ensure an adequate evaluation of the impact of the growing nuclear power industry on radiation levels in the environment and the continued protection of public health . 7 ' by MERRIL EISENBUD Standards of radiation protection and their implications for the public 's health THE Atomic Energy Commission has relied from the beginning of its existence on the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements ( NCRP ) and the International Commission on Radiation Protection ( ICRP ) to recommend the basic numerical values of permissible radiation exposure . The AEC has assumed for its part the role of translating the recommendations of the non-AEC independent groups of experts into administrative language that lends itself to use by regulatory authorities . The NCRP was founded about forty years ago and until recently was headquartered in the Bureau of Standards . In 1964 , NCRP was granted a congressional charter and now operates as an independent organization financed by voluntary contributions from government , scientific societies , and manufacturing associations . There are 65 members on this council , and about 175 members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the technical reports of the organization . In 1928 , one year before NCRP was formed , the International Society of Radiology sponsored formation of the International Commission on Radiation Protection . This group has operated in close cooperation with NCRP , and receives support from the World Health Organization . In 1955 , following a proposal made by the United States before the General Assembly of the United Nations , there was established a fifteennation Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation . This committee of scientists , aided by a permanent scientific secretariat at the l Jnitcd Nations , has examined the world literature on the effects of ionizing radiation on a continuing basis , and has published a number of reports on the state of knowledge in this field . It is not the function of this committee to propose standards of permissible exposure , but rather to gather 73 Nuclear Power and the Public and evaluate the basic scientific information on which these standards are based . The reports of this committee are classics in international scientific collaboration . It is essential that this discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the AEC standards originate in the work of these national and international bodies among whom there is total harmony , with not the least doubt that their recommendations are based on an objective evaluation of existing information , motivated by a common interest in the health of the public . The Role of the Atomic Energy Commission When Congress passed the 1946 Atomic Energy Act , which established AEC , it gave that organization the responsibility for assuring the safety of atomic energy workers as well as the public at large . The unusual step of vesting this responsibility in a federal agency rather than in the states , was taken for a variety of reasons , among which were the fact that much of the required technical knowledge was then classified ; the specialists who had this knowledge were , for the most part , located in a few large laboratories owned by the federal government ; and Congress recognized the basically interstate nature of the risks of this new industry . Before I begin a more detailed critique of the standards , it seems appropriate to summarize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no known radiation injuries to any member of the public from any of the civilian activities of AEC . Among the approximately 100,000 employees of the AEC and its contractors , there have been six fatal accidents owing to nuclear accidents , all of which occurred in the course of experimental research . There has been one additional death in a privately operated industrial company licensed by the AEC . Among this large population of industrial workers , I have been unable to find a single record of injury from the cumulative effects of exposure . During the same period , a total of 276 on-the-job accidental deaths have occurred from all causes ? vehicle accidents , falls , and so forth . Thus , the safety record of the AEC is very good ; its occupational fatality rate is about 25 per cent of the average for all industry , as published by the National Safety Council ( AEC , 1943-1967 ) . This excellent record of occupational safety is cited simply to illustrate that the AEC has demonstrated a high degree of concern with protection of its personnel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a technicality in the Atonic Energy Act , responsibility for the health of uranium miners was not preempted by AEC , but has con-74 Merril Eisenbud tinued to reside with the states . The radiation safety record in the mines has been far less satisfactory , and more than 100 deaths from lung cancer have resulted from the cumulative exposure to the radioactivity of the mine atmospheres ( Donaldson , 1969 ) . It is regrettable that federal preemption of health and safety matters in the atomic energy program did not include the mining industry , because this tragic record might have been avoided had the AEC standards of permissible occupational exposure been enforced . Another governmental agency concerned with radiation protection is the Federal Radiation Council , which consists of representatives of several federal departments and agencies . It was established by presidential order in 1959 to assure a consistent governmental approach to radiation protection matters . The Council has promulgated a number of radiation protection guides to assist in evaluation of hazards from nuclear weapons testing and , more recently , for control of radiation exposure in uranium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NCRP were originally intended for protection of workers exposed to ionizing radiation . Before World War II , there was so little use of radiation that the need for standards to protect the public did not yet arise . The early students of radiation protection did not have the benefits of the generous governmental grants that exist today , nor did they have the sophisticated laboratory equipment of present-day research . However , they did have an all too ample research resource arising out of the tragic misuses of ionizing radiations . Although before World War II there were relatively few X-ray machines , and the radioactive substances to which people were exposed were limited to about two pounds of radium that had been extracted by then from the earth 's crust , hundreds of deaths and many injuries resulted from an inadequate understanding of the principles of radiation hygiene . Fortunately , the effects of the misuses of these sources of ionizing radiation were studied with such extraordinary diligence and perception by the experts of a generation ago , that much of the basic information needed to protect the employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time it was initiated during World War II . Two basic recommendations were already available , pertaining to the upper limit of permissible exposure to external X and gamma radiation , and to the maximum permissible body burden of radium . The recommendation that the permissible body burden of 22'Ra be 75 Nuclear Power and the Public limited to 0.1 ? Ci has not been changed since it was first established early in World War II . This yardstick had been a strong influence in setting the permissible body burdens of other bone-seeking radionuclides . The maximum permissible dose of external radiation exposure permitted during World War II was 0.1 r/day , based on the scanty information that was available up to that time ; this was equivalent to 20 r/yr . If we allow for the difference between roentgens and rads , and for the fact that the radiations now encountered in the atomic energy program are more penetrating than the 75 ? 125-kv X rays that were the principal source of radiation before World War II , we find that the permissible dose for occupational exposure that was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a factor or two of 5 rem/yr permitted today for occupational exposure . The problem of setting standards for protection of the general public is much more complex for several reasons . Because radiation workers are a relatively small fraction of the total population and because the genetic effects are related to the per capita gonadal dose of the population , genetic effects are less important than somatic effects insofar as occupational exposure is concerned . The probability of somatic injury at a given level of exposure in the general population is increased by the fact that children and fetuses are involved . Additionally , one becomes more conservative as the size of the exposed population increases , and in this country the general population is about one thousand times the size of the population industrially exposed . Leukemia and genetic mutations are the potential effects of ionizing radiation exposure that are of greatest concern insofar as the general population is concerned , and our discussion of the AEC standards will focus on these . The incidence of leukemia has increased among several groups of humans exposed to relatively high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Effects of Atomic Radiation , 1964 ) . These include Japanese survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , patients irradiated for ankylosing spondylitis , radiologists exposed to ionizing radiation in the course of their work , and children irradiated in utero in the course of pelvic X-ray examinations . The Japanese received a single dose which is estimated to have varied from 100 to 900 rads . The ankylosing spondylitis patients received fractionated doses of 100 ? 300 rads over a one-month period . The cumulative doses received from day to day by the radiologists in the course of their practice is not known but is believed to be considerably in excess of 100 rads . The fetal dose in pelvic examinations is not known but probably was about 3 rads. 76 Merril Eisenbud Thus , epidemiological experience involves mainly single or multiple exposures at high dose rates compared with those permitted by existing standards , as we shall see below . To estimate the expected effect of doses of a fraction of a rad delivered in small bits , one must extrapolate from these epidemiological data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done by assuming that there is no threshold and that the biological response is proportional to the dose , and independent of the dose rate . Both the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Radiation ( 1964 ) and the ICRP ( 1966 ) have emphasized that the estimates made in this way represent an upper limit of risk and that the actual risk may in fact be very much less . Subject to these conservative assumptions , the epidemiological evidence suggests that a dose of 1 rad delivered to a million people ( that is , 10 ' man rads ) may produce a maximum of about 20 cases of leukemia during the lifetime of the population . The incidence of leukemia in the normal population is about 70 cases per million per year . Insofar as genetic effects are concerned , we have no epidemiological information upon which to draw . However , we do have extensive research with lower animals which suggests there is no threshold for genetic effects and that the frequency of mutations is proportional to dose , but is not independent of dose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atomic Radiation , 1966 ) . According to these data , a per capita dose of about 10 rads per generation , delivered to successive generations , will eventually cause the spontaneous mutation rate to double . It has recently been shown however , that when the dose is fractionated , the genetic effect is somewhat less , by a factor of 6 ( Russell , 1968 ) . Thus , for continuous exposure , a dose of 60 rads per generation delivered to many successive generations would eventually cause the spontaneous mutation rate to double . For a generation of 30 years , the doubling dose would thus be about 2 rad/yr . We now come to the point where it is necessary to connect the thread of epidemiological and experimental evidence to the apparatus of public health regulation . Public health regulation is not a science but an art . The public health administrator , as an artisan , must start with a mix of scientific information of various grades of quality which he must evaluate according to certain philosophical concepts of permissible risk . He must then fabricate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical , and above all , that protects the public health . Whether one is regulating radioactive , chemical , or biological contaminants of the environment , the same approach must be taken , and the same questions inevitably arise . Thus , we regulate the biological quality of drinking water by making 77 Nuclear Power and the Public assays for an innocuous group of coliform organisms because we are basically interested in certain pathogenic organisms that originate in fecal pollution , for which the coliform organisms are a useful indicator . This system of control does not provide absolute safety , but in most cases it provides more safety than is needed . In any case , for many decades this has been a practical system of control which has lent itself to practical systems of enforcement . Other regulatory mechanisms could be designed which would provide more safety , but they might not be so practical to administer or to enforce . The AEC standards , for all their defects and inconsistencies , have served well to protect the public health ( Environmental Radioactivity Exposure Advisory Committee , 1968 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection of its employees , there is the fact that , after about a quarter century of AEC experience , there is no known case of radiation injury among atomic energy workers from chronic exposure to ionizing radiation exposure . This is an excellent record , considering the great size of the program , the long period of time , and the enormous quantities of radioactive materials , compared with the disastrous experience with the relatively limited opportunities for exposure that existed before World War II . The basic criteria for the upper limit of permissible occupational exposure is that an employee should not accumulate more than 5 ( N - 18 ) rads , where N is the employee 's age in years ( 10CFR20 ) . Stated another way , the employee should not work with ionizing radiation until he is 18 years old and then should not be exposed to more than an average of 5 rad/yr . When internal radiation exposure is involved , the ICRP methodology introduces the concept of the " critical organ , " the organ in which a given radionuclide tends to accumulate ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , the critical organ for iodine 131 is the thyroid and for strontium 90 , the skeleton . With a few exceptions , exposure to internal emitters is controlled by limiting the quantities of radionuclides that may be absorbed by ingestion or inhalation to that amount which will result in exposure of the critical organ to less than 5 rad/yr . The maximum permissible dose for exposure of the public , according to AEC regulations , is one-thirtieth of the permissible occupational dose . The regulations assume that this average will not be exceeded if the mostexposed individual of a given population receives no more than one-tenth of the permissible occupational dose . In short , the mean exposure of a given population should not exceed 0.17 rad , and the maximum exposure of any individual in that population should not exceed 0.5 rad. 78 Merril Eisenbud NATURALLY OCCURRING SOURCES OF IONIZING RADIATION It will be helpful to review what is known about the radioactivity of the natural environment ( Eisenbud , 1963 ) , since this provides a yardstick with which to compare the AEC standards . An appreciation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural sources will be relevant to my subsequent discussion of the significance of reactor produced radiation . Radioactive substances are naturally present in the air we breathe and the food we eat . They become incorporated into our tissues in such amounts that on the average our bodies are literally disintegrating at a rate of about 500,000 times per minute due to radioactive decay . The total body irradiation received by man from natural sources in most parts of the world is about 0.1 rad per year . This figure varies somewhat from place to place , with an addition of about .028 rad per year for each 1,500 meters of altitude above sea level . Further deviations from the norm occur in places where the thorium or uranium content of the rocks and soils is above normal ? in one village in Brazil , some people are exposed to as much as 12 rad/yr . The lung and skeleton are selectively exposed over and above the dose received by the body as a whole . A large component of the dose to lung is due to the presence of atmospheric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uc/ml to about 2 X 10-10 uc/ml in different parts of the world . A concentration of 10-10 uc/ml will deliver a dose of about 1.3 rem/yr to the basal cells of the bronchial epithelium ( the tissue of the lung , which is known to be particularly radiosensitive ) . Doses as high as ten times this value are possible indoors , particularly when the building is made of materials with a high radium content , such as the granites , radium-bearing shales , or concrete . Radon , which has a half-life of 3.8 days , decays progressively through several shorter-lived progeny to 21 ? Pb , which has a half-life of 22 years and which ultimately deposits on the earth 's surface . Only in the last few years have we begun to appreciate that mankind has always been subject to this form of natural fallout and that broad-leafed plants in particular have relatively high concentration of this isotope because of foliar deposition of 210Pb . According to one investigator , this phenomenon alone contributes an additional 41 mrem/yr to the lungs of individuals smoking one pack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two naturally occurring nuclides , 22CRa and 220Ra , which are chemically similar to calcium , enter our bodies through the foods we eat and are deposited with calcium in our skeletons . The daily radium ingestion of individuals in the United States is about 5 pCi/day , approximately equally 79 Nuclear Power and the Public divided between the two nuclides . Studies of food and water in various parts of the world have shown that there are wide variations from these mean values . In certain parts of the Middle West the radium intake is elevated by the presence of abnormally high amounts of radium in the drinking water , and the dose to the skeleton is increased by about 0.06 rem/yr . Considerably higher doses have been reported from Brazil and India , where there are radioactive anomalies of the type mentioned earlier ( Penna Franca , 1965 ) . Thus , we can conclude that the whole body dose from natural radioactivity in most parts of the world is about 0.1 rem/yr . The lung receives a greater dose , owing to the superimposed radiation from atmospheric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas where the radium content of food and water is elevated above normal . EXTERNAL RADIATION The general population 's actual external radiation exposure from nuclear power plants does not approach the so-called permissible dose rates , because of certain inherent factors . For example , the heavy shielding required to protect the utility employees in the normal course of their activities gives assurance that the external radiation dose to the public will be undetectable . I know of no case in which radiation from the plant proper has caused a perceptible change in the levels of radiation exposure beyond the property boundary . This means that the dose to people at the property boundary from direct radiation from the plant is less than 10 mrem/yr , which is the approximate lower limit of measurement . In the case of a boiling water reactor ( BwR ) , the principal way in which the general population would be exposed to external radiation would be by direct irradiation from the cloud of passing radioactive gases discharged from the plant . For example , consider a hypothetical situation in which a BWR stack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the dose is assumed to be 500 mrads/yr . Thus , people living right on the fence would receive the AEC maximum permissible dose to individuals . From known rates of diffusion of gaseous effluents from point sources , it can be calculated that the dose rate beyond the fence would on the average diminish inversely with the 1.8 power of distance from the stack . The per capita doses have been calculated for populations of 105 , 10G , and 10 ' people uniformly distributed around the fence at a density of 1,000 people per square kilometer . The annual per capita doses for the three populations turns out to be 1.9 mrad , 0.28 mrad , and 0.04 mrad . This , in fact , overestimates the per capita dose because a dose of 500 mrad would be 80 Merril Eisenbud occurring only in the direction of maximum wind direction which would perhaps be one-eighth of the plant circumference . For seven-eighths of the plant circumference , the dose would be much less than 500 mrad/yr . It should also be noted that the radioactive gases emit mostly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bone marrow or to the gonads . This illustrates the kind of built-in conservatism that exists in the AEC regulations ? even under the worst conceivable conditions , 10 million people distributed around a boiling water reactor would receive a total of 400 man rads instead of the 1.7 million man rads permitted under a literal interpretation of current regulations . We have seen earlier that 106 man rads may produce 20 cases of leukemia in the lifetime of an exposed population of a million ; 400 man rads may on this basis cause 0.008 cases per million exposed people . Assuming the mean sensitive life span to be 60 years , 400 man rad/yr could produce 0.5 cases per million people per generation . As explained earlier , this is an upper limit of risk , and the true risk will be somewhere between zero and this probability . Since the normal incidence of leukemia in the general population is about 70 cases per million per year , the 0.5 cases in 60 years would occur against a normal background of 4,200 cases . With respect to genetic effects , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capita exposure of 2 rad/yr , 0.17 rad/yr delivered over many generations would result in about an 8 per cent increase in the spontaneous mutation rate . However , since the man at the fence can receive no more than .5 rad , the external radiation dose from the plume would , at the limit of permissible exposure , result in a per capita annual dose of 0.04 mrad in a population of 10 million people , as previously shown . On the improbable assumption that these 10 million people constitute a closed breeding population for as many generations as it takes to reach equilibrium , the spontaneous mutation rate would eventually be raised by about 0.05 per cent . This is equivalent to the change in radiation exposure that might be expected from living at a difference in altitude of about 10 feet . To place all of this in further perspective , it should be noted that temperature , like ionizing radiation , can cause genetic mutations and that as much as 50 per cent of the mutations that occur normally in contemporary man might be due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wearing trousers . Although this observation appeared in the literature in 1957 ( Ehrenberg et al. , 1957 ) , I am unaware of any subsequent popular movement to prescribe kilts in place of the more mutagenic habit of dress of the American male . 81 Nuclear Power and the Public STANDARDS PERTAINING TO ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION The ICRP and NCRP standards for permissible human exposure to radioactive substances are based on the assumption that the permissible amount of radioactive substances accumulated within the body or in the critical organ should not cause the permissible annual dose to be exceeded . These figures are then translated into maximum permissible concentrations ( MPc ) of each radionuclide in air or water using a set of physiological parameters that describe the movement of each element to the critical organ , and the daily rate at which the contaminants are inhaled or ingested . In the case of ingestion , the AEC regulations give only the MPC 's in drinking water . This is a defect , since ingestion may be by way of food or water . The Federal Radiation Council 's approach is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called radiation protection guides , focus on the permissible daily intake of a given nuclide , regardless of the source . Where several nuclides are present , the AEC regulations provide a method for weighing the effects of each in relation to the others in such a way that the maximum permissible radioactivity of the mixture of nuclides takes into consideration the contribution of the individual nuclides . In this case , the method errs on the side of safety . For example , if 131I and " Sr are present in drinking water , the MPc of the mixture might allow 50 per cent of the 131I permissible concentration and 50 per cent of the " Sr permissible concentration ? despite the fact that one nuclide irradiates the thyroid , the other the skeleton , and the effects are not thought to be additive . Another safety factor exists where long-lived radionuclides are concerned , because the MPc is taken as that concentration which will result in accumulation of the lifetime permissible body burden in 50 years . It can be shown from the mathematics of " Sr accretion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since the AEC regulations are stated in terms of the MPC 's of radionuclides in air and water , the regulations implied for many years that if the MPc is not exceeded at the point of discharge to the environment , the dose to humans will not be exceeded anywhere beyond the site boundaries . The point of release in the case of a radioactive liquid effluent is the point at which the waste is discharged to the receiving body of water . In most cases , this is an enormously conservative assumption , since dilution up to several orders of magnitude can take place beyond the point of release . However , it is also possible for physical or biological concentration to take place , and when this occurs , the risk can be correspondingly increased . Within the past few years , the AEC standards have been modified to 82 Merril Eisenbud allow for biological concentration . In the case of 131I , the MPC in air has been reduced by a factor of 700 to allow for the fact that exposure to man is increased by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cow 's milk . Additionally , the regulations have been modified to require the licensee to demonstrate that accumulations in the food chain are not taking place . The discharges to the environment are considered to be excessive if the radionuclides ingested by a sample of the population by any route of exposure exceed one-third of the annual intake permitted for water and air . The Commission has always had the right to place upon the prospective licensee the responsibility for demonstrating that such concentration did not take place , and although the AEC regulations were formerly silent on this point , no one who has followed the course of reactor licensing procedures over the years ever doubted that the AEC has meticulously probed into questions of biological concentration beyond the point of discharge . Under the AEC regulations , a licensee can discharge radioactive waste to the environment in concentrations greater than those permissible for immediate inhalation or ingestion if he can demonstrate the extent to which dilution does take place . Many utilities undertake micrometeorological studies of a proposed site , and on the basis of data generated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of the natural dilution that takes place between the top of the stack and the site boundary . To my knowledge , however , reactor operators have not taken advantage of this approach in regard to liquid discharges . This is due to tha fact that the art of forecasting dispersion in the aquatic environment is not developed to the same degree as forecasting dispersion in the atmosphere . The AEC requires the licensee to conduct monitoring programs in the vicinity of the reactor . This provides information about the concentration of radioactive substances in air and water and also in whatever food products may be grown in the vicinity . Thus , the question of human safety is not left to conjecture but is based on actual measurement of samples collected from the environment . Some of the AEC facilities , such as Oak Ridge and Hanford , have been collecting data for more than a quarter of a century ; experience at these places has produced valuable information that in many cases is directly applicable to civilian power reactors . For years , many of us in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on balance , electrical generating stations powered by nuclear fuels make better neighbors than do stations using coal or oil . It is true that the current generation of nuclear plants discharge 40 per cent more heat to the environment and this places more stringent 83 Nuclear Power and the Public limitations on the use of water for condenser cooling , but regulations dealing with this problem are being promulgated in the various states for application to both nuclear and fossil fuel stations . Much has been said about the ecological effects of radioactivity discharged to the environment , but there is no evidence that this occurs at levels of radioactivity permitted by the AEC . Putting it more strongly , there is a considerable body of scientific data that demonstrates that such effects do not take place . In contrast , we do know that certain vegetation is adversely affected by traces of sulfur dioxide and possibly by other components of the combustion products of coal and oil ( Stern , 1968 ) . There have been millions of dollars spent investigating the ecological effects of low levels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies of the ecological effects of the chemicals in fossil fuel effluents , despite the fact that we know these effects take place and can be observed . In most parts of the country , fossil fuels are the only practical alternative to nuclear fuels . We know , beyond any doubt , that sulfur dioxide discharged to the environment by plants burning fossil fuels has been responsible for many deaths in the general population , particularly during periods of meteorological stagnation . Even the innocent gas carbon dioxide , produced by combustion of fossil fuels , is accumulating in the earth 's atmosphere and is regarded as a long-range threat to the world 's heat balance , with the possibility of eventual climatic changes on a disastrous scale ( Conservative Foundation , 1963 ) . Finally , it is a curious fact that because radium and other radioactive substances are normally present in fossil fuels , the radioactive atmospheric emissions from fossil fuel plants are not insignificant compared with those from many nuclear plants . ( Eisenbud &; Petrow , 1964 ; Fish , 1969 ) . These are among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactors make good neighbors . Additional reasons are to be found in the actual operating experience of the civilian power producing reactors . The atmospheric and liquid effluents are in most cases less than 1 per cent of the amounts permitted by AEC standards , and the public health risks , though finite , are so small as to be more than offset by even the most modest of the benefits of increasing man 's available electrical resources . Conclusions From the foregoing , together with various additional information that has been presented by other contributors to this volume , it is possible to draw certain conclusions which constitute the thesis of this presentation 84 Merril Eisenbud and which argue that although the record of the AEC has been a good one from the point of view of the public health official , changes in the present regulatory system are needed to reconcile differences between public attitudes and the AEC that have not been resolved after 15 years of almost continuous debate . There are obvious advantages to having radiation protection standards that are applicable on a national scale , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be more or less stringent than in another . The AEC regulations are substantially compatible with the recommendations of ICRP and NCRP . Moreover , they are both scientifically and philosophically compatible with evaluations of the state of our knowledge of radiation effects that have been undertaken from time to time by other national and international bodies , including the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation , the National Academy of Sciences ( Reports of the Committee on the Biological Effects of Atomic Radiation , 1956 ) , and the British Medical Research Council ( 1956 ) . The AEC regulations have resulted in a safety record that is probably unsurpassed for any new industry . In the 27 years that have passed since the first reactor went critical in December 1942 , there has been time to evaluate the basic adequacy of the systems of control that have been derived . Although there are ambiguities , inconsistencies , and perhaps even deficiencies in the AEC regulations , they are sufficient to protect the public 's health . The standards contain enormous built-in conservatism . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring to the attention of AEC the need for changes in its regulations . The AEC techniques of publishing new rules or proposed changes in rules and the public hearing associated with the licensing procedure are examples of how the thinking of local government or individual groups can be incorporated into the AEC regulatory procedure . The present system of AEC regulation , which puts major emphasis on the maximum permissible concentrations of radionuclides in air and drinking water , should be changed in favor of specifying the maximum permissible daily intake from all sources . This is the method used by the Federal Radiation Council and is preferable because it automatically considers such factors as multiple sources of exposure and the ecology . Neither NCRP nor AEC is sacrosanct , but considerable weight must be given to the fact that the ponderous procedures of these organizations have produced a set of regulations that are workable , and that have successfully protected the public 's health for more than a quarter of a century . 85 Nuclear Power and the Public An examination of 27 years of experience would seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibilities which the Congress bestowed on it in the health and safety field . However , this judgment is not shared by everyone . For reasons which are probably related to factors other than the excellent safety record it has achieved in the nuclear power field , the AEC does not have the high degree of public confidence that is necessary for smooth development of the electrical gen erating industry . There remains a credibility gap which has not been closed after more than 15 years of debate . A significant factor in the credibility gap is the unusual dual respon sibility of the AEC for both development of civilian nuclear power and protection of the public 's health . I myself believe that the AEC has an ex cellent record of accomplishment in both areas , and has retained a high degree of objectivity in facing its responsibilities for health and safety , but the public is not fully convinced that this is so . For this reason I believe it would be in the public interest to begin active consideration of the means by which the regulatory responsibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some other governmental agency . Only in this way can the public be assured that the present apparent conflict of missions is not operating to its detriment . However , a transfer of regulatory responsibility can not be accomplished easily . The AEC has well-developed regulatory machinery of a type that does not exist in any other branch of government . Although in theory it would be possible to transfer this entire organization to another agency , this would not be wise because interagency transfers are always disruptive of morale and working efficiency . As a compromise , the Public Health Service should be given a more prominent role in the regulatory program . The Public Health Service rather than AEC should promulgate the numerical standards of permissible exposure . The AEC , with its highly developed capability to evaluate reactor designs , should continue to consider applications for new reactors and should continue to monitor construction and operation to assure com pliance with the terms of the licensee . However , the Public Health Service , in its traditional collaborative relations with the states , should undertake the responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statutory regulatory authority with the Public Health Service in this way , one may hope for the closing of the credibility gap that now exists between AEC and many segments of the public . 86 Merril Eisenbud // SMITH . Again questions have been written by individuals in the audience and submitted to me . I shall draw them randomly . AUDIENCE . Comment on this flexibility , please . Can CFR 20.160E allow the AEC to limit discharges below MPC when the MPD is exceeded in a sample of food ? AUERBACH . The flexibility , as I understand it , is partly based on the nature of the population that is to be exposed , or may be exposed , to the radiation . I should make the point that under the recommendation of ICRP , the basic limitations are the dose to the population ; if the limitation of exposure for the general population is .17 mrad , that governs and overrides the MPC 's . AUDIENCE . Does heat have any proved effect on algal growth ? Could you name specific studies ? Are there any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BRUNGS . Even without citing sources ? which would take research because I 'm a fisheries biologist and not an algologist ? I can say that any biological process , such as metabolism or growth , is affected by temperature . Within limits , as the temperature rises , the rate of these biological processes would increase also , and therefore , algal growth would increase . Obviously , if the temperature goes beyond too high a level , the algae can actually be killed off . The growth will increase , then start decreasing , and eventually , mortality will occur . For specific references , I 'd prefer to consult my files rather than rely on memory . AUDIENCE . What is the current state of knowledge concerning the concentration of tritium in the environment and in body tissue ? TAMPLIN . I know that there has been some discussion of the possibility that tritium is one of the radionuclides that will concentrate when moving up through food chains to man . This question came up with respect to the Lake Cayuga reactor . We heard about possible concentration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Our opinion was that the question being asked could be resolved if someone made a detailed study on the concentration of deuterium over this period of time . Tritium has a mass of three , compared to hydrogen 's one , and will react at a rate different from hydrogen within the various biological systems . The difference in the reaction rates between tritium and hydrogen could cause tritium to concentrate . When we looked at the data that was available ? deuterium to hydrogen ratios and tritium to hydrogen ratios ? we concluded that tritium probably would not be concentrated in man by more than a factor of three . The data were not sufficient to indicate that tritium would not be concentrated by as much as a factor of three . AUDIENCE . Great emphasis is placed on elucidation and anticipation of problems and finding solutions . In your evaluation , is the AEC providing the public with adequate safeguards in plants presently built ? Would the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency limit on plant operation improve or make more hazardous plant operation at Monticello ? BRAY . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the reviews of the AEC based on my experience with the applications that we have brought forth with our clients . I have always been impressed with the detailed evaluation techniques , the multitudinal questions , and the meticulously detailed review of the dockets of the applications that have been made . First , one goes in with a preliminary safety analysis report and then amendments are made . The amendments are based upon questions raised by the regulatory staff and answered by the applicants . The technical level of these questions and answers is a manifestation of the high degree of safety that is sought . 88 Merril Eisenbud With respect to the second question , I do n't think it is a question of improving or making plant operation more hazardous . It is a question of using different limits than are now invoked for plants being operated . It is a question of whether the limits can be complied with or whether the means by which they could be carried out should be made clearer . These limits are not yet agreed upon . TAMPLIN . Should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would you be able to meet them ? BRAY . There is still a question of fully appreciating what each part of the limits means . There are questions with respect to measurement techniques and procedures . I 'm not fully familiar with the limits since they are still the subject of discussion . Until it is clear what is being requested , I 'm not able to comment on whether we could meet the MPCA limits . AUDIENCE . Mr. Tamplin , would you please show the calculations which allow you to make the statement about dose rates you made at the start of your paper ? that MPC for air for one year for 137Cs gives a dose of 2,555 rads to children ? // ml in a cubic meter , we next get 2 X 10-3 ? Ci/m3 . If this concentration is maintained for a day , 24 hr , we end up with 48 X 10-3 ? Ci hr/m3 . There have been a number of experiments performed which have measured the concentration in air and then measured the concentration that gets deposited out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ velocity ; by assuming that cesium is on small particles in the atmosphere ( which is likely ) , we arrive at a deposition velocity of 17 meters ( m ) per hour . When these two numbers are multiplied , the deposition is .82 ? Ci/m2 . Starting with this deposition on forage and considering the facts that a cow eats over 45 m2 of forage per day , that 1 per cent of the cesium she takes in goes out in each liter of her milk ( 1 per day ) , and that cesium has a half-life in the child 's body , the result is that a deposition on forage of .12 ? Ci/m2 is equivalent to 1 rad received by a child drinking 1 liter of milk per day . This kind of information is tabulated for all the radionuclides listed in the chart of nuclides ( UCRL 50163 , Pt . IV , p. 86 ) . by J. NEWELL STANNARD Evaluation of health hazards to the public associated with nuclear power plant operations IN TMS paper I shall , as a biologist , look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to radiation and radioisotopes . The public is singularly unaware of the fact that scientists know a great deal about the biological effects of ionizing radiation , and of radioisotopes in man , in animals , and to a lesser extent in the biosphere . True , there are wide gaps in knowledge in this field , as in all of biomedical science . Scientists tend to emphasize the gaps and surround their statements with qualifying phrases . Nevertheless , the gaps in our knowledge of radiation can be recognized partly because we have enough fabric to see that there are holes in it , whereas in some other areas of interest to those concerned with the pollution of the environment , there is hardly enough fabric yet to see whether or not there are any holes . I hasten to say that this contrast does not mean that we should relax vigilance toward radiation health hazards . But it does bespeak the relatively high validity of our standards from the standpoint of the underlying biology . We are not groping with the unknown or mysterious to the extent that one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety factors in radiation standards . Basis for Somatic Risk Estimates In the accompanying tabulation are listed the several sources of information underlying the maximum permissible exposure level from external sources of radiation ( by this phrase , I mean radiation sources external to the body ) . The primary source of data for man has been the 90 J. Newell Stannard medical uses of radiation , particularly radiology installations . Secondary sources of data in man are the doses clearly associated with definite changes . These come from radiation therapy and occasional accidental exposure , and could be considered as providing a ceiling for any exposure . A " floor " is provided by the background radiation levels which Dr. Eisenbud and others have discussed earlier in this volume . These data in man are supplemented and augmented by animal experiments . Long-term studies have been supported over the last twenty years ? many of them by the Atomic Energy Commission and the Public Health Service , some by state laboratories and others ? to provide assistance in situations where data for man can not be obtained . The primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals are derived from experience with radiologists and other radiation workers . Retrospective analyses have been made of the radiation levels in many installations of the 1920 's and even of World War I. Where there had been no effects in long-term employees , the levels so estimated were judged to be " safe . " On the other side of the coin , changes incidental to the use of radiation in patients and also the exposures of the Japanese and to a lesser extent the Marshallese have contributed human data where effects are seen clearly . Thus , working down from levels where effects are seen and correlating the " safe " radiology installations with these give a first approximation of maximum permissible dose ( Mrn ) . Because the data pertain always to the exposed individual , these levels are pertinent only to somatic effects ? not to genetic effects . The chart on page 92 shows , similarly , sources of information for maximum permissible exposure to radioisotopes . Here again , human experience is rather considerable . The luminous dial painters and radium workers , many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onward , have supplied clear evidence of effects which can be correlated witli their body burden of the isotope . The radium patients differ from the radium-dial painters , luminous-dial painters , and radium workers in some details . These patients received radium as a nostrum in the late twenties 91 Table and early thirties , when radium was considered a rather general " tonic " ; they received pure radium and its daughters , not a mixture as did the dial workers . Accidental exposures provide another level of human experience . And finally , the levels for many radioisotopes are determined by calculation from external radiation figures by the use of data on the metabolism ( i.e. , tissue distribution and excretion ) of the isotope using as the basis a " critical " organ ( ordinarily , the one with the highest concentration of the radioisotope ) . Thus , standards for radioisotopes are determined in part by direct observation and in part by experience in the external radiation field . This has led to something of a " double standard , " one applying primarily to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Work with animals provides directly empirical toxicity data , the approach of the pharmacologist extrapolated into the field of radiobiology . On page 93 there appears an abbreviated and incomplete summary , taken largely from experimental work , of the doses of radiation associated with detectable changes in a number of important biological processes . In most cases the dose at which effects may possibly occur is given as well as the dose at which they clearly occur . The purpose of this survey is to show that in only one or two instances are clear effects seen ( sometimes 92 J. Newell Stannard Table in a single exposure ) at dosage levels approaching those discussed in this volume as representing the MPD levels . The lowest is that associated with minimal changes in the morphology of the circulating lymphocyte , a change which may or may not be regarded as " damage . " * Footnote 93 Nuclear Power and the Public This summary could be misleading . Many of these are doses at which something is seen clearly after a single exposure . What we are interested in in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale ? very low levels of exposure over long periods of time . Here there are two important considerations . First , is fractionation of the dose important in developing the somatic effects of radiation ? Clearly , it is . Fractionation of the dose will decrease effect if recovery can take place between exposures . On this premise , a total dose of much more than the single dose can be withstood without even noticeable effect if the dose is sufficiently fractionated . Since a total dose which is lethal if given in a single exposure is easly withstood , in terms of acute effects , if protracted , the presence of recovery is quite generally assumed to occur with the somatic effects of radiation . But there are exceptions : radiation of high linear energy transfer rates ? such as that associated with neutron exposures , alpha particles , fission fragments ? does not seem to exhibit the marked effect of dosage fractionation seen with X or gamma radiation . Also , we know little about the presence or absence of recovery in those processes with long latent periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not somatic effects in general follow a " threshold " relation to dose . This is illustrated in the accompanying figure . In many cases , the effects , especially acute , shortterm ones , do appear to be related to dose , as in the line marked threshold in the figure . But the incidence of cancer , leukemia , and genetic changes ( to be discussed later ) may follow a non-threshold relation to dose , as in Figure 94 J. Newell Stannard the second line of the figure . With genetic effects such as mutating the evidence is clear . For the others there are still differences of opinion . Application to Nuclear Reactor Problems What does all of this have to do with the subject of this volume , nuclear power and the public ? Considering still only somatic risks to the individual , I shall examine first exposures at relatively high levels of radiation . ACUTE EXPOSURES Acute exposures would be important only in the event of a major disaster in which the reactor was essentially destroyed and its contents of radioactive material released to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the installation , such as a major earthquake , total failure of all safety features , or hostile forces either from without or within , including an internal conspiracy . Recovery of the organism from these acute effects would be almost complete if the individual survived , although there is a finite risk of a small residuum of irreversible damage. * The immediate or early effects of such acute exposure would involve primarily the blood-forming organs , the gastrointestinal tract , skin , and if the dose were very high ( 1,000 rads total body exposure ) the central nervous system . These are threshold responses so far as can be ascertained , and recovery is complete except for the small fraction of irreparable injury . f There is a fourth- or fifth-order risk of a long-term delayed effect after such an acute exposure . The long-term risk is the development of leukemia or other forms of cancer , cataracts , and possibly accelerated incidence of the degenerative diseases of old age . The doses at which these acute effects occur are many times higher than those associated with maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because any general discussion of the problems of nuclear power generation must consider them , however * The presence of an irreversible component in radiation exposure may be basically different from the biological effects of most other agents in our environment . The irreversible component may range from a few per cent or less with X or gamma irradiation to as much as 50 per cent for neutrons and 70 ? 80 per cent of the total effect with alpha particles and other high linear energy transfer radiations . I The risk of long-term effects might be based on the fraction of irreversible injury , but this is not usually done except in considering nonspecific effects such as , hortening of the life-span . Processes with long latent periods may or not be linked to the " irreversible " component . 95 Nuclear Power and the Public unlikely the maximum credible accident . It is not my role as a biologist to estimate the probability or improbability of such an event . The reactor engineers do this and relate it to the probability of other major catastrophies in our technological civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 100 rads are conceivable in the event of an accidental and large release of fission products or reactor fuel because of failure of fuel element cladding , stack effluent filter systems , liquid effluent release and treatment systems , and so forth . Prevention of such events is the stock in trade of the reactor engineer . Biological effects of such exposures would not ordinarily result in acute illness , but long-term sequelw such as those described above must be considered . Only a few of the fission products will actually remain for long in the environment because of the short half-lives of many . Also the dispersal will be rapid . Thus , the numbers of individuals potentially exposed is much smaller than in a major catastrophic event . However , the probability of these lower level releases is somewhat higher than the major release in a catastrophic event . The probability of biological effects at doses in the range 5 ? 100 cads is dependent on the system involved . Reference to the summary on page 93 shows that effects are almost certain at the upper end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the range , almost zero for any early changes but finite for longer-term delayed effects . Interest here centers on the possibility of the induction of leukemia , thyroid cancer if there were deposition of iodine isotopes in the thyroid , other cancers , and nonspecific shortening of the life-span . ( Incidence rates per rad are given below . ) In this kind of exposure new factors enter . The primary source of exposure is unlikely to be cloud passage or even an external radiation dose . The primary sources of radiation dose will be radioisotopes ingested or inhaled which deposit in the tissues of the body according to their chemical properties and are eliminated from the body by excretion in urine and/or feces and in rare instances by the breath . Also , the transmission to man may be in part indirect , in that the nuclides frequently pass through one or many steps in the ecosystem before reaching man . The estimate of dose to man from a given release thus requires much more information than in the first type of exposure . It requires knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the element and its compounds , and much information on metabolism of radio-96 J. Newell Stannard nuclides . For much of this we rely on data from animals and from model systems . LOW-LEVEL EXPOSURES IN ROUTINE OPERATIONS OF NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS Here the radiation doses , if received at all , are very low indeed . Standards should assure that any risk to the individual would be an acceptable one . The potential somatic injuries are leukemia , other malignancies , nonspecific shortening of the life-span , cataracts , and so on . These are entirely statistical matters , in that the radiation-induced cases are in addition to and also usually many fewer than the normal incidence rate . However , they may fall in the category of nonthreshold in incidence as related to dose , and the dose-response relation may be linear . Because of this , the assumption is made that any radiation dose above ambient background produces some effect statistically . To avoid repetition of other papers in this volume , I shall now turn directly to the matter of risk estimates . For this I shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1966 ) with some modifications prompted by more recent considerations . These risks can be put as numbers of additional cases of a given biological effect in a million exposed individuals from a dose averaging 1 rad . Thus , a risk is assumed of about one additional case of leukemia per rad dose received per year per million individuals exposed , with total additional incidence per rad in 10 ? 20 years at about 20 additional cases per million of population ; the normal incidence is from 60 to about 120 cases per million per year . The addition per rad per year is thus about 1 per cent ( 0.83 ? 1.7 per cent ) and of the same order but with a wider range over 10 ? 20 years . Note that this implies that every individual of the million receives 1 rad ? or that the population dose averages to this. * Since all population doses are limited to an average of 0.17 rad ( ICRP standard ) , the mean risk is 0.17 additional cases of leukemia per million persons exposed per year or 0.17/120=0.0014 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This comes to about 7 ? 10 new cases during the usual life-span ( c. 70 years ) of the exposed million individuals . There is no way this addition could be specifically identified as arising from radiation exposure , of course . This may be small comfort for the individual who happens to be an " extra " case , but it means that specific identification of causality in a given case is not possible . Thyroid neoplasia is known to increase at the rate of about one extra Footnote 97 Nuclear Power and the Public case per million exposed individuals per rad dose per year . Since this is much less likely to be fatal in its outcome than is leukemia , the total risk is less serious even though the incidence rates are about the same as those for increased leukemia incidence . Other forms of cancer may likewise be increased at incidence rates about the same as those noted , but the data are not yet fully evaluated . Because of differences in normal incidence rates , the calculated percentages change per rad may vary rather widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a rare disease such as bone sarcoma . This will be considered further below . Nonspecific life-span shortening in man has not been proved to occur under the circumstances of this discussion , although possibly life shortening is a " no-threshold " response . It would be well here to consider one or two specifics concerning the potential effects of small amounts of radioisotopes entering the environment around a reactor . These are the fission products and radioisotopes produced by neutron activation of nuclides in cooling water , air , and so on . Some of them localize specifically in certain tissues as strontium does in bone . Given the deposition of this radionuclide and its long-term retention in bone , there is a chance of induction of bone sarcoma . On the basis of experience with radium , the incidence might increase on the order of 4 cases per year per million exposures per rad dose to the cells lining the bone surfaces . This is against a background of about 4 ? 7 cases arising per year per million population . The likelihood of strontium 's entering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation is much lower than that of some other nuclides which are not bone seekers . For this reason and because the small likelihood of having a million individuals carrying strontium burdens sufficient to produce a dose of 1 rad per year to the cells lining bone , I believe that the risk of bone sarcoma from operations of nuclear power plants is smaller than that for some other nuclides where increased risk of soft tissue tumors is at issue . In considering population exposures we must recognize , even for somatic effects , the greater sensitivity to radiation of the very young , including the developing embryo . Radiation received in utero is probably about five times as likely to produce leukemia per rad as in the adult . Other malignancies may be similarly related to age . This probably does more to set a minimum in the population dose than any other somatic risk . CONCLUSIONS I have taken up the most likely risks to the individual exposed and related them to levels of exposure and " routine " releases from operations 98 J. Newell Stannard of nuclear power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The biological changes which could occur range from uniformly serious to acceptance of a statistical chance almost in inverse relation to the likelihood of the event . As a biologist , I view the somatic risks from delivered doses below present population exposure standards ( i.e. , 0.17 rem/yr ) as astable in comparison with other activities in our daily lives . True , if you are the individual to have one of the extra cases of leukemia in 15 m i ? o ? n expouees rccelvmg .17 rad/yr you would find it unacce ? ta e . But ? is is rue o any in r ivi a ua mci. ence o any ailment . But there are many unanswered questions , particularly in the area of carcinogenesis . I am confining my remarks to the delivered doses to the individual . Derived figures such as permissible concentrations in air and water involve many additional considerations . There are probably those who will disagree , but I believe the risk of somatic injury to an exposed individual is not the controlling parameter in routine reactor operations . Rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetic factors which control population exposure . Only for the very young or in the event of major releases does risk from somatic effects approach that from genetic effects unless the exposed group is quite small . Genetic Risks In the consideration of nonoccupational population exposures , it is my view that the genetic risks will control standards except under certain circumstances . The fact that radiation could cause mutations in biological material was established over forty years ago . In a sense , radiation is as close to a universal mutagen as any potential environmental " pollutant . " The effects must be regarded as nonthreshold , although not independent of dose rate as the early work indicated . Human genetics has grown remarkably in value and in concept in the recent past . The contribution of heredity to human vitality and its counterpart , morbidity , is enormous . The background data are thus detailed and complex . Indeed , the quantitative figures are much too complex for this discussion . On the other hand , the kind of directly related data on man we have for somatic effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are too long and the " experiments , " if they could be done at all , are too costly and too time-consuming for us to have any considerable fund of information on the effects of radiation on genetic processes in man himself . Therefore , we must use data from animals ( largely the fruit fly and the mouse ) and calculations based on extrapolation from these to invl. 99                     