@@773737

txt 20 / INSULT AND SOCIETY standing in line with their backs to the offender , bending forward , and lifting their skirts in unison . This use of the genitals as a vehicle of insult is found among the Kikuyu tribe of East Africa . With this gesture , which is usually directed against a man or against another group of women , Kikuyu women indicate either that they will have no further social dealings with the people they have insulted , or that they do not recognize the authority of the man who has been the object of their affront . At times , the skirtraising gesture has been employed in a most solemn manner by all the women of a Kikuyu tribal subgroup to indicate their hostility toward another subgroup Lambert , 1956:99 . // IN RESPONSE TO INSULT Norms governing socially proper response to insult also vary significantly from one culture to another . At this point , let us examine some of the often striking contrasts between cultures in their normative prescriptions for responding to insults . In general , societies that prescribe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a value system which places a strong emphasis both on individual and group honor . As shall be discussed more fully in a later chapter , European feudal aristocracies such as the Prussian Junkers develop in their young men a strong sense of class-related honor ; in such societies any affront must be violently avenged . On the individual level , this cultural pattern means that the Prussian Junker is extremely " touchy " and is likely to perceive an insult when one is not necessarily intended . Such touchiness is by no means confined to European upper classes , but can be found in many primitive and traditional cultures . Among the Tlingit , for example , violent revenge is the normal response to any insult ; an affront is never forgotten or forgiven until in some way it has been avenged Jones , 1914:96 . Similarly , the Yapese are said to have a " good memory " for slights they have suffered . The Yap is resentful of an insult for years afterward , watching for an opportunity to obtain satisfaction Salesius , 1907:60 . In Greek peasant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is imbued with the concept of philotimo , or individual honor . The essence of philotimo is inviolability . This means that the Greek villager 21 22 / INSULT AND SOCIETY is typically very touchy . Moreover , any insult or affront constitutes an attack upon a person 's philotimo , and calls for immediate , violent retaliation . Such violence is usually of an informal character ; that is , it does not conform to any ritualized pattern but consists , rather , of a spontaneous physical attack upon an offender Lee , 1953:5 . In other traditional societies , such as the American South of the nineteenth century , the violent response was highly formalized in the institution of duelling , which will concern us in a later chapter . Nonviolent and Passive Response to Insult Whereas some cultures socialize their members to welcome insults so as to provide them with a test of strength and defense of honor , other societies strive to inhibit intragroup aggression of all kinds , and likewise prescribe nonviolent or passive modes of response in the event of an insult . Interestingly enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active response to insults is directly related to certain conditions of an objective nature which would make it virtually impossible for the society to survive if violent response to insult were to occur frequently between significant numbers of individuals . African Bushmen , for example , can not afford to fight with each other and almost never do because their only real weapon is the poison arrow , for which there is no antidote . Thus , a Bushman will go to great lengths to avoid insulting other Bushmen Marshall , 1961:231-32 . In other cultures , minimization of response is not necessarily linked to any particular circumstances but is simply a part of a general value emphasis upon nonviolence and lack of sensitivity to insult . Among the Tewa Indians of South America , for example , overt acts of hostility are suppressed to such an extent that the average individual will go out of his way to avoid an open quarrel . It is not considered a disgrace to walk away from a quarrel , nor is it an insult to call another man a coward . In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes a physical act of hostility to insult a man , such as striking or pushing him . As an old Tewa said : " If an old man insults you with words , he may be joking . " The desire of the Tewa to avoid hostility extends even to legal matters . In one instance , one Tewa built a house on land owned by another , but the latter was unwilling to take legal action or to respond in any way because " it might cause a fight " Whitman , 1947:54 . // The norms of some other societies do not inhibit insults , but do prescribe withdrawal rather than violent retaliation as the proper mode of response . In an early account of the natives of the Aleutian Islands , a Russian ethnographer states that the Aleuts will never seek satisfaction for any injury done to them . When offended or irritated , they would fall silent and withdraw from the offender Veniaminov , 1840:55 . Similarly , in the traditional society of Thailand , private disputes and insults are typically passed off without violence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suddenly turn his back on the whole thing . As one Thai stated , " The best way to show your opponent up is to give in to him . Anger is the least advantageous method of meeting a difficult situation " Benedict , 1952:57 . The Aleuts and the Thai are thus able to " shrug off " insults so that a chain of revenge and counterrevenge is avoided . There are certain other cultures with nonviolent norms , however , in which mere withdrawal is not sufficient to end the matter . In these cultures , violent response against an offender is not acceptable , but suicide is . Suicide as a Response to Insult In societies where suicide is a proper , even expected , mode of response to insult , the act has a different cultural meaning than that with which Euro-Americans are familiar . Suicide as a form of response to insult typically serves to punish an offender indirectly by causing him to be ostracized by his neighbors . In traditional China of the prerevolutionary era , for example , suicide was not only the sole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mode of retaliation most likely to cause the offender to suffer . While the traditional Chinese regarded the use of physical violence as a breach of good breeding , they considered suicide an honorable means of protest . By committing suicide , the aggrieved party brought social disapproval upon the one who had insulted him , and caused the offender embarrassment with officials and neighbors LaTourette , 1934:212 . A similar use of suicide is apparent in the insult-response norms of the Matako , a South American Indian culture . Among the Matako , suicide is the sole acceptable means of retaliating against an offender . The Matako culture attaches a decidedly aggressive meaning to the act of suicide ; by killing themselves , they punish the person who has offended them . More24 / INSULT AND SOCIETY over , Matako culture strongly inhibits direct aggression against others . Ethnographers have traced this cultural tendency to the influence of missionaries , who were successful in suppressing all direct outlets for aggression , such as sports , drinking , warfare , and the like . As a result of having become successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , modern Matako society has no institutionalized mechanism for a person to give direct vent to his feelings of anger and aggression . Ironically , suicide is the only way to punish an offender Metraux , 1943:209 . In addition to missionary-bred values which cause some societies to prescribe suicide as a proper mode of response to insult , a more typical reason for suicide as a response to insult is evident in many cultures ' strong taboos against intrafamilial aggression . Among the Paiute Indians of North America , for example , direct aggressive response against a member of one 's family is simply unthinkable . Accordingly , Paiute wives typically commit suicide when their husbands have abused and insulted them . The Paiute pattern of inhibition of direct aggression also extends outside the family and is inculcated from early childhood . The child is instructed not to be aggressive toward his family or other people , to love his parents , and to be pleasant to outsiders . He observes that his parents are afraid to express aggression and that they show guilt about having mean thoughts . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong disinclination to respond violently against an insulter and a corresponding acceptance of suicide as the only possible mode of response . Needless to say , such a culturally induced response predisposition is completely contradictory to the values and norms of many other cultures Whiting , 1950:70-72 . The type of response considered appropriate for various kinds of insults is as culturally differentiated as the kinds of acts and remarks that are regarded as insulting . Moreover , the severity of the insult , together with the vehemence of the response it elicits , is directly related to the degree to which the insult involves accusations that the offended party has transgressed serious cultural mores . In most cases the more serious the norm that the insulted person is accused of violating , the more serious the insult and the more vigorous the prescribed mode of response . Adultery , for example , is in most societies considered both a serious offense against moral standards and an insult against an offended spouse . // Insult and Adultery The degree to which adultery is considered insulting is related to the degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very conservative peoples , such as the Guajiro Indians of South America , not only adultery but also the discovery by a husband that his wife was not a virgin at marriage constitutes a grave insult . Because of the strong valuation placed upon virginity at marriage , a Guajiro bride will often resort to deception so that her husband , on their wedding night , will believe that she is a virgin . When the husband , through friends ' gossip and other means , discovers later that he has been deceived , he reacts with anger against the severe insult , often insulting his wife in public and even violently attacking her . For example , in drunken bouts with his friends , the disillusioned Guajiro husband will often insult and degrade his wife , using grossly insulting vulgarities in order to express the depth of his feelings of anger and resentment . He may even go so far as to make up obscene songs containing references to his wife 's premarital escapades and will sing them to his wife in front of his friends in order to humiliate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , seldom protests Pineda Giraldo , 1950:50 . In more permissive societies , a completely opposite attitude toward adultery is sometimes apparent . Ruesch relates how an Eskimo husband can be highly insulted and respond in a lethally violent manner when a guest refuses to accept the Eskimo husband 's offer to spend a night with the host 's wife . As the Eskimo Ernenek explains in Ruesch 's fictionalized account based on ethnographic research , " I was right in killing him . He insulted my wife abominably .... She had purposely groomed herself ! And what did the white man do ? He turned his back to her ! That was too much ! Should a man let his wife be so insulted ? " " Refusing is n't fitting for a man ! " Ernenek said indignantly . " Anybody would rather lend out his wife than something else . Lend out your sled and you 'll get it back cracked , lend out your saw and some teeth will be missing , lend out your dogs and they 'll come home crawling , tired ? but no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always stay like new " Ruesch , 1950:79 ; 104-5 . In a classic article on the nature of jealousy , Kingsley Davis offers some insights into how and why such opposing orientations toward adultery can lead to similar reactions from husbands who regard themselves as having 26 / INSULT AND SOCIETY been offended , albeit for opposite reasons . According to Davis , a love object , such as a wife or lover , can be considered a type of noneconomic property . As such , its possessor is subject to the " dangers that beset any person with regard to property , " specifically , " that somebody will illegitimately take from him property already acquired . This is the danger of trespass " Davis , 1936:396 . Moreover , once an individual has been successful in his rivalry for a love object with others who desire the same object ( such as in cases of love rivalry between suitors , one of whom wins out and marries her ) , his society generally allows him full expression of any " malignant emotions " engendered by any further efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Davis 's words , " free expression of malevolent emotion against a trespasser protects the established distribution of property . . . . " The primary " malevolent emotion " that arises as a result of any effort to " trespass " upon one 's sexual property is jealousy . " After ownership has been attained , jealousy is a fear and rage reaction fitted to protect , maintain , and prolong the intimate association of love . It shelters this personal relationship from outside intrusion . " Thus , according to Davis , most sociocultural systems allow the expression of outrage in situations involving adultery , since " our malignant emotions , fear , anger , hate , and jealousy , greet any illicit attempt to gain property that we hold ... . The social function of jealousy against a trespasser is the extirpation of any obstacle to the smooth functioning of the institutional machinery . " Thus , the basis of the insulting nature of adultery is not in the act itself , but in the fact that in most cultures ( though not all ) , adultery " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the act of adultery in most cultures is not only an insult against the particular individual who is cuckolded , but also , by extension , against the sociocultural system , which has established certain institutions , such as marriage , aimed at defining and maintaining property rights , including " sexual property . " Using Davis 's analysis , it is possible to understand why the act of adultery in Eskimo culture does not give rise to jealousy : by offering his wife to a guest , the Eskimo husband is emphasizing his ownership of his wife as sexual property , which , as a good host , he desires to share with his guest . Thus , as Davis emphasizes , it is not the act of adultery which is insulting , but rather the fact that in most cultures , with the exception of that of the Eskimos , adultery is a type of " trespass " similar to robbery of material property Davis , 1936:396-403 . Adultery can thus lead to a strong response against an offender . Among the Murngin tribe of northern Australia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually the result of quarrels caused by adultery or a husband 's belief that someone has been attempting to make him a cuckold . The response of the husband to an offender follows a pattern : carrying a bundle of spears and perhaps a club , he goes to the camp of the lover and accuses him . Words follow , mutual curses are flung , and anger is aroused on both sides . Usually , however , this does not lead to overt violence , since the friends and acquaintances of both men are present and always restrain them from attacking one another . Both opponents make a big display of their anger and , by struggling to get away , show that they are willing to stand up for their rights and to respond violently to insult , even if no actual violence takes place . Thus , both the cuckold and the offender are able to use the threat of violence as a response to insult , but they also depend upon their friends and other bystanders to spare them from actual fighting Warner , 1937:81 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relation to the legal norms of different societies . In some cultures , violence against an adulterer is supported by public opinion and by a legal system which regards the murder of the offender by the cuckolded husband as the proper response . Among the Ifugao tribesmen of the Philippines , for example , an adulterer is sometimes punished by death when taken in delicto by the offended spouse , whose revenge is justified by public opinion to a much greater degree than the laws of the United States would condone Barton , 1919:91 . The legal systems of some societies provide the offended spouse with an effective means of responding to the insult of adultery without having to resort to violence . Moreover , the sense of satisfaction provided by the legal modes of retribution is in most cases enough to prevent violence . The Truk Islanders , for example , provide a legal method for responding to adultery that has proved an effective alternative to violence . Among the Trukese , accusations of adultery lead to a public hearing , and , if those charged are found guilty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is evidently an efficient deterrent to violence , as there is little desire to fight on the part of the offended spouses . Hence , the Truk legal system provides a means whereby honor can be satisfied without the risk and anxiety of open physical aggression Gladwin and Sarason , 1953:241 . Other societies do not provide a definite legal framework through which offended spouses can gain satisfaction . As we have seen in the case of the Murngin , informal norms of restraint serve to prevent overt violence . 28 / INSULT AND SOCIETY In other cultures , violence may not be an acceptable mode of response , but the use of counterinsult may have an even more devastating effect upon an offender than direct violence . An interesting example of revenge against an offender occurred in Manchuria , where it is customary to react to adultery by saying that the offender is " like an animal . " Such an insult , while not very serious in our society , is very grave to the Manchu . In one instance recorded by ethnographer Shirokogorov , a man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found his wife in bed with another man . The husband responded by putting some oats and hay beside the bed to show that the adulterer was like an animal . When the offender awakened he saw the oats and hay and understood their significance . This was so humiliating to him that he hanged himself Shirokogorov , 1924:152 . Here again we have an example of the centrality of differential cultural meanings : the same kind of counterinsult response would hardly have had such a devastating effect upon an offender if it had occurred in the United States . Aside from involving merely the adulterer and the cuckold , responses to the insult of adultery may , in some societies , involve the entire community . This is particularly common in tribal and village-based societies characterized by a strong emphasis on kinship ties . In such contexts , any insult directed against an individual , particularly one which undermines the sexual mores and hence the kinship system , is regarded as an offense not only against the individual but against his or her entire family . Thus , in cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get into an uproar . Patterns of response to the insult of adultery can thus often involve entire kin groups rather than particular individuals . Among the Wogeo of Indonesia , for example , adultery is always regarded as an insult against the offended person 's clan . This " collectivization " of insult is directly related to the central importance of kinship obligations in the Wogeo culture . Usually , violence is not undertaken against the offender ; rather , he is publicly cursed and insulted . And although the resentment that the adulterer feels when he is insulted makes him wish to strike back , he is not able to do so because his own kinsmen will not back him up if they know that he is guilty of the offense . Thus , the adulterer can only listen in silence during his public humiliation ; the loss of selfesteem that he suffers is considered an effective punishment for his offense and adequate satisfaction for the insult against the offended man 's kin group Hogbin , 1938:238 . THE FAMILY AND INSULT One of the central differences between modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extended family is no longer of prime importance in modern societies . In most tribalvillage societies the extended family is the central social institution around which the entire sociocultural system revolves . Kinship relations and obligations are paramount , and most societal functioning ? economic , political , educational , and others ? is based on and takes place within the extended family . Modern industrialized societies , on the other hand , are the result of a process of continued differentiation and specialization ; functions that are carried out entirely within the framework of tribalvillage kinship groups are , in the modern context , performed by specialized institutions : educational , economic , and many others . Hence , the transition from tribal-village to modern industrialized social systems involves a turning away from the centrality of the extended family . In caste-estate systems , the family is a central institution , but its shape and character tend to reflect and reinforce the hierarchical social order rather than to serve as the root institution from which all other functions derive ( as in the tribal-village milieu ) or as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern context . Let us examine the way in which patterns of insult behavior in each type of family system might help to illuminate the basic differences between them . 29 30 / INSULT AND SOCI ETY Collectivization of Insult in Kinship-Centered Societies Insult may be regarded as a particular type of negative response which denies the validity of the positive self-image held by an individual or group . In kin-centered tribal and village societies , insults may be directed against an individual , but because of the central importance of his identity as a member of a kin group , the insult is taken as a derogation of the individual 's entire family . This collectivization of insult in many tribal villages is an important clue to the way in which such societies view the individual . In modern industrialized societies , with the exception of those with a collectivist ideology , the individual is the basic social unit . In situations involving insult , it is thus the individual 's self-regard and reputation that is threatened . In many tribal-village societies , on the other hand , the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kin group affiliation . Thus , any insult against a member of a kin group is regarded as an affront to the entire group ; moreover , responding to an insult is not merely the duty of the particular individual who was the direct object of the insult , but of the entire family . Among the Murngin , for example , the use of obscenity and profanity against a man reflects negatively not only on the man but on his clan . For this reason , obscene insults among individual Murngin almost always result in a fight among the entire membership of the clans involved Warner , 1937:161 . The norm that defines an insult to an individual as a derogation of his entire kin group is closely related to the strong value such tribal-village cultures place upon a strong sense of family honor and kin group pride . Because family-related insults tend to undermine the centrally important positive self-regard of a kin group , such insults are usually greeted with a strong , collective response from the offended family . In traditional Oriental village cultures , family pride was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hence , even the slightest derogation of another family 's ancestors is considered a grave insult that can easily lead to feuding . In traditional Vietnamese villages , for example , the direst insult is to utter with contempt all the names of another 's ancestors . This is far worse than any other insult and can never be forgiven Vassal , 1910:112 . In prerevolutionary Chinese villages , insult to a family 's or clan 's ancestors , such as speaking of an ancestor 's less worthy deeds , making derisive signs or gestures at an ancestral hall , or damaging an ancestor 's grave , caused serious ill feeling between families or clans , whose // members learn from their earliest years to defend vigorously their ancestors and all that pertains to them Yang , 1945:164 . A good example of the way in which a kin-group-centered village culture socializes its children to think of themselves in terms of their families is found in Ammar 's account of the social organization of the Fellahin , a traditional Arab subculture , where a child is likely to be praised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an individual , but in terms of his family . A common statement of praise among the Fellahin is : " You are the son of people who are like princes ! " Such praise , which is related to the child 's family rather than to the good qualities of the child himself , socializes the child to identify with and submerge himself into the family . Such early family identification leads to a strong sense of family pride among children , who , like adults , often wrangle and quarrel among themselves about the relative status of their families in the community . The following conversation is typical of children 's family-related altercations : " My father is better than yours . He never worked for someone else , and his turban has always been white . My people are all leaders . " " All your people are liars and deceivers , " the other boy retorted . " We offer a larger tray of food for guests and on funeral occasions than yours . Your cow is rotting and its bones are sticking out from starvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children into the kin-centered attitudes of their culture , but also functions to help define and maintain the patterns of social status among the kin groups that comprise the major units of the social order . In this way , insult behavior is directly related to the establishment and maintenance of the social system of the Fellahin Ammar , 1954:133 . The emphasis that many tribal-village societies place upon family pride is related to the cultural norm for members of such societies to be extremely touchy about any comments concerning their family or ancestors , no matter how seemingly innocuous . In modern societies , few people would consider it insulting to merely mention or refer to another 's ancestors . As Margaret Mead has pointed out , however , the Manus of Samoa consider it a grave insult to recite the genealogy of another 's family . The traditional attitude is that one recites the family history of another in order to point out some flaw in it ? any reference to another 's ancestors can only be an attempt to dishonor them Mead , 1930:135. 32 / INSULT AND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derogatory comments about one 's living relatives are considered in many tribal-village societies to be the worst insults imaginable and therefore call for strong retaliation . Among the Kikuyu , a tribal culture of Kenya , the worst thing that a man can do to infuriate another is to dare to mention his mother 's name in an indecent way . This always results in a fight to defend the mother 's sacred honor Kenyatta , 1953:10 . This is not far different from more modern social patterns ; in many modern nuclear families , the mother is still a fairly central figure , and in our society insults against her are not usually taken lightly . In general , however , parents and elders are held in much higher esteem in tribal-village societies . In many tribal-village societies family roles constitute a patterned hierarchy that resembles the familiar " pecking order " of dominance among groups of animals . In most cases , the hierarchy is based on age . Among the Bali of the South Pacific , for example , it is proper for a member of a family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member , but not an elder . This system works smoothly , for if one is humiliated by an elder , he may displace his anger on a younger member of the family Belo , 1936:130 . Among many peoples , there are strong punishments for insulting one 's elders , particularly one 's parents . In the Ngonde tribe of Africa , a man who insults and fights with his father becomes the object of condemnation by the entire community . Whether the son was in the right is of no consequence ; he is regarded as having committed the ultimate wickedness . The chief is informed of the misdeed , and the entire district is informed of the evil thing that has been done . There is no formal denunciation or spoken curse , but it is understood that the " curse of all fathers " and of all ancestors is upon the son . The power of suggestion is very potent in such cases , as the offending son becomes lame and is unable to stand upright . Finally , he becomes a helpless object , crawling around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violent retaliation was suffered by the offender , the effect of community opinion against one who has insulted his parent is so strong that it creates effects more severe than might ensue from a more overt physical response to the offense . In addition to maintaining the age-based status patterns of many tribal family and kinship systems , prohibitions against insulting elders also // function in many societies to protect older people against the neglect and humiliation that their relative lack of usefulness could easily cause them to be subjected to . Often , younger members of a tribal group have second thoughts about offending old people because of the latter 's supposed supernatural powers of retaliation . Among the Ngonde , it is considered a severe insult to an old person to remind him even indirectly of his advanced age . In our culture , acts or remarks that would at most be considered tactless are deemed severely insulting in Ngonde . To invite an old man to climb a tree may seem to us more laughable than deadly , but to the Ngonde it is a dreadful insult . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is unnatural for him to do is gravely insulting . Even little girls who quite innocently remove their clothes in the presence of an old man are considered to have unwittingly insulted him by reminding him that his time of sexual activity has ended MacKenzie , 1925:247-49 . The severely insulting character of even the most apparently innocent remark aimed at an elderly Ngonde may be related to the fact that in the Ngonde and similar tribal societies there are no means other than strong prohibition to protect older persons from insult-related abuse and neglect . In many tribal-village contexts , the threat of supernatural retaliation is virtually the only way to insure that older people will be granted the necessities of survival . Among the Azande , for example , it is considered severely insulting to old people to fail to give them a share of the food that is available . The culturally defined supernatural power , or Mangu , of the elderly is used as a threat to make sure that the younger members of an Azande family do not forget their responsibilities to their elders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he sends presents of the meat to all the old men and women who live near him . If an old person receives no meat or beer he or she will prevent , with supernatural abilities , any more animals from being killed Evans-Pritchard , 1929:112 . Among the Saulteaux Indians of North America , children are cautioned at an early age not to laugh at or ridicule old people . No abstract ethical ideal is involved ; it is simply a matter of defense against the supposed supernatural power of the elderly Hallowell , 1955:284 . In tribal-village societies , then , patterns of insult prohibition serve to sustain the age-based stratification system . Parents and old persons are venerated , and insults against them are treated as severe transgressions of the moral order . Can the same pattern be found in caste-estate societies ? 34 / INSULT AND SOCIETY Patriarchy and Insult in the Caste-Estate Context The family patterns of most caste-estate societies are a microcosm of the rigidly hierarchical sociocultural macrocosm . Caste-estate societies are most clearly distinguished by their emphasis upon the innate superiority and inferiority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Just as people are sharply differentiated from one another on the basis of their social position and , by cosmic extension , of their supposed rank in the hierarchy of creation , the members of caste-estate families occupy positions in a clearly graded hierarchy , the most notable features of which are the overweening prestige , power , and inviolability of the father . In caste-estate systems , however , it is not the age of the father so much as his masculine identity that provides the basis of his high status . Thus , caste-estate families are essentially patriarchal subsystems in which females of nearly any age have decidedly inferior status to males . Insult plays a definite role in maintaining the male-dominated patterns of patriarchal families . In many caste-estate societies , women are treated with contempt and are continually reminded of their inferior status . Humiliations and insults begin at a very early age , if indeed the girl is lucky enough to survive infancy . The birth of a girl is anything but a joyful event ; in India , it is a definite disappointment . Having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perspective to be a punishment for sins committed in a previous incarnation . When a Hindu man learns that he has become the father of a girl , he may well announce to his friends that " nothing " has happened . The friends then depart , gravely and quietly . In many instances female infants are deliberately neglected and often allowed to die . In extreme , though by no means uncommon cases in China and India , female infants were deliberately put to death . Far from prohibiting brutal treatment of girls and women , the religions of traditional caste-estate societies serve in part to define and sustain the inferiority of women , and to define their role within the family as one of complete submission and obedience . Throughout the sacred religious writings of many caste-estate cultures are many insulting comments about women , as well as prohibitions which make it a grave sin for a woman even to think of responding to an insult that might be directed against her by a male member of her family . In the Manu , a set of Hindu sacred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a woman ... should endure without anger or indignation the jeers of others , suffering such things with patience and // humility . " Above all , the woman occupies a secondary and inferior status within the family : " A woman must look to her husband as her lord , and ' must serve him with all worship and reverence . The great lifelong duty of a woman is obedience . When the husband issues his instructions , the wife must never disobey them .... She should look on her husband as if he were Heaven itself " quoted in Mace and Mace , 1960:69-71 . The patriarchal system further insults and humiliates women by a vicious circle effect : women in caste-estate societies are deliberately kept uneducated and are prevented from leaving their homes , and then are berated by men for their stupidity and narrow-mindedness . A typical Hindu Brahmin attitude is expressed in this insult against women : " Educate a woman and you put a knife into the hands of a monkey " Hauswirth , 1930:147 . Such insulting attitudes toward women , which serve to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are by no means found only in India . The use of insult has in the past been ? and in many cultures remains ? an important means of subjugating women to a narrowly circumscribed role of little or no power within the family . In medieval Europe , insults against women were part and parcel of Christian theology , which laid the groundwork for many of the attitudes which are still very influential today . Just as the Indian woman was considered to be on a lower level of being than her husband , the patriarchal family structure of European civilization was a microcosmic reflection of the aristocratic class hierarchy that provided the basis of the medieval social order . Moreover , the dualistic Christian worldview ( which bifurcated both the natural and the unseen realms into Good and Evil , God and the Devil , and so forth ) was reflected in insulting definitions of women set forth by prominent theologians . St. Thomas Aquinas , for example , provided a theological justification for the subjugation of women by stressing the supposed innate incapacity of women to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a necessary object who is needed to preserve the species or to provide food and drink . Woman was created to be man 's helpmate . In extreme forms , theological insults against women took the form of a direct identification of women as the embodiment of sin . According to St. Jerome , " Woman is the gate of the devil , the path of wickedness , the sting of the serpent , in a word a perilous object " Bullough , 1973:232 ; 234 . Have such attitudes persisted in our present time ? How is insult used 36 / INSULT AND SOCIETY within the modem family ? Let us turn now to an examination of the various functions that insult behavior serves as one means whereby the patterns of modern family life are defined and maintained . Insult and Togetherness : Nagging as the Great Equalizer Though we have no data to prove such an assertion , it seems likely that most insults within caste and traditional families were directed by husbands against wives , as a tool to insure the continuation of women 's subjugation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , women are still the object of insults not only from their husbands , but also from society at large , which tends to relegate them to a subordinate role and to deny them options other than those related to the maintenance of the family . Within the modem family , however , it seems likely that insult is no longer quite as unidirectional : it appears that modern women may use insult as one of the few means available to them of exercising power over their husbands . The modern family differs from its primitive , caste , and traditional counterparts by the existence of a belief system which at least gives lip service to the idea that man and wife should be equal " partners . " Ideally , the modern family should be a democracy in which the husband and wife make decisions together . Since differing attitudes can never lead to a majority in a dyad , and since children 's attitudes are often not seriously considered , the egalitarian ideal of the man-wife partnership rarely works out well in practice . Inevitably , situations arise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggle ensues . In such a situation , the husband holds most of the trump cards . Assuming the typicality of the relationship , it is his job , his occupational prestige , that provides the basis of the family 's social standing as well as its financial resources . Thus , even though she might be ambitious , the now working wife has little power to determine her own social mobility ; any " social climbing " on her part necessarily depends upon the social acceptability of her husband 's standing in the community . In a deeper sense , this means that the wife 's basic sense of meaning and purpose in life is tied to her husband 's potentialities , since it is his success which will determine her own destiny as well as her children 's . In such a situation , the wife becomes acutely sensitized to her husband 's shortcomings , since it is these which could undermine her // chances to fulfill her own ambitions . By pointing out these shortcomings to him by nagging and by subtle and not-so-subtle insults , she is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hence alleviate her complete subjugation to him while at the same time giving vent to her frustrations . To be sure , much of the insult that takes place between husband and wife is of the variety that we will discuss in our examination of insults and primary group relations ? it consists of good-natured teasing and " kidding . " In many marriages , however , insults serve the non- " kidding " functions of power assertion and alleviation of frustration . Surprisingly enough , there is a relative dearth of sociological research dealing with this important topic . In lieu of scholarly references , let us examine one of the most successful and well-known dramatic studies of insult between marriage partners , Edward Albee 's Who 's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? One reason for the success of this play is that it exposes the manner in which blatant insults are employed by a modern wife in order to give vent to her frustrations and gain some measure of alleviation of her feeling that her marriage has entailed an abrogation of her personal ambitions , as well as leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albee 's play is a perfect illustration of the manner in which the modern wife 's thwarted hopes of social mobility and " success , " not matched by the ambition or capacities of her husband , give rise to a veritable orgy of insult and vituperation against them . Throughout the play , the husband is continually bombarded with insults , nearly all of which refer to his inability to " succeed " in conventional terms : to move up the academic hierarchy , to become the dean of his college . But the particular setting is not important ; the husband could as well be a businessman or some other type of professional : Martha : I had it all planned out ... He 'd take over some day ... That was the way it was supposed to be ... Daddy seemed to think it was a pretty good idea , too . For a while . . . Until he watched for a couple of years and started thinking that maybe Georgie-boy did n't have the stuff . . . that he did n't have it in him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Viciously triumphant ) ? The hell I will ! You see , George did n't have much . . . push ... he was n't particularly ... aggressive . In fact he was sort of a . . . ( Spits the word at George 's aback ) . . . a FLOP ! a great . . big ... fat . . FLOP ! George : ( Almost crying ) ? I said stop , Martha . Martha : So here I am , stuck with this flop ... this BOG in the History Department . 38 / INSULT AND SOCIETY George : . . . do n't , Martha , do n't .. . Martha : . . . who 's married to the President 's daughter , who 's expected to be somebody , not just some nobody , some bookworm , somebody who 's so damn . contemplative , he ca n't make anything out of himself , somebody without the guts to make anybody proud of him ... " As the content of Martha 's diatribes shows , modern society 's mobility and " success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In most primitive and traditional contexts , in contrast , strong norms of response to family-related insults strengthen family solidarity . Our comparative examination of insult behavior thus underscores the centrality of the extended family in many primitive and traditional contexts , and its diminished importance as a core institution in modern societies . // AND INSULT Social stratification refers to the forms and functions of patterns of social inequality . Every society has some form of ranking which constitutes a means of either assigning or allowing individuals comprising the society a greater or lesser degree of the rewards that the system has to offer . Unequal distribution of rewards occurs along several dimensions . When the rewards are primarily tangible , we speak of economic stratification ; rewards that are essentially normative , such as prestige and honor , constitute the basis of social status . In many societies , the two go together ; a highly disproportionate share of tangible rewards is often , though not always , closely associated with high social status . Insult as a Legitimation of Social Inequality Insult is one means by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every society has individuals and subgroups who receive either more or less than their proportionate share of its wealth , rewards , and privileges , the dominant group , in order to maintain its position , must somehow justify its privileges . Such justification is usually accomplished , in most societies , in two closely related ways : first , by the dominant group 's assertion that its privileges are warranted because of innately superior abilities and achievements ; and second , by a contention that those who are lower in the status order are either innately 39 40 / INSULT AND SOCIETY inferior or do not work hard enough . When an elite 's derogation of the abilities or achievements of a lower-status group becomes overt , we have a type of patterned insult behavior which , through ritualized acts or repeated statements , serves both to justify and sustain a society 's pattern of social stratification . Response to insult is often just as important as a means of maintaining the stratification systems of a certain society . There are often differential norms governing response to insults by members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and high status depend upon a definition of the highly placed individual or subgroup as a superior social object , any insult directed against a high-status individual is not only directed against him as a particular person , but also by implication against the entire sociocultural order which accords to him and justifies his high position . In other words , to attack a highly placed individual or subgroup of a society through insult means that the insulter is by extension undermining the entire sociocultural system from which the social hierarchy derives the legitimation of its values and normative system . Hence , in nearly every kind of society there are stronger norms against insulting personages more highly placed than lower-status individuals or groups . Indeed , as we shall emphasize , semiritualized insulting of low-status elements is often encouraged because it functions to maintain the society 's defintion of the innate inferiority of the lowly placed and the socially disadvantaged . Hence , insult can serve to maintain a society 's stratification system because it reaffirms the justification of unequally distributed rewards and privileges . Let us see how this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our three basic kinds of social orders . Insult and Status in Tribal and Village Societies Because of the relatively small-scale character of most tribal and village societies , their systems of social stratification are relatively less formalized than those of caste-estate and modern societies . In other words , tribal and village cultures definitely exhibit established patterns of social inequality , but these patterns tend to be somewhat less complex and less formally institutionalized than in more " advanced " societies . A prime reason for this is the fact that the comparatively small size of tribal-village societies allows everyone to be known as an individual and as a member of a // particular family . This close contact between village inhabitants or tribal members makes it difficult both for norms of social distance and patterns of social segregation of higher and lower status subgroups to develop and be maintained . For these reasons , stratification among the members of a tribe , or fellow villagers , is often " emergent " ; i.e. , it is not necessarily based on longestablished , inherited patterns of privilege and power but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as is generally true in any small group in whisk individuals are in daily and continual face-to-face interaction . Insult is an important means by which individuals or subgroups in a tribal-village society assert , their superior status by denigrating other individuals . A good example is provided in an account of a tragic incident among the members of a Jordanian village , in which a woman 's assertion of her and her family 's claim to social superiority led to a strong and violent reaction from those she had insulted : " I have the greatest honor in this village ! " the woman had boasted . " No , by the name of the Prophet , I have the greatest honor in the village ! . . . See what a great man my husband is ... And look at the jackal face of this Ahmad of yours . " In a moment stones were thrown and everybody was shouting abuse McCown , 1922:787 . In an ensuing melee , a child was hit by a rock and killed . In spite of this tragedy , the patterns of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or reestablishing the relative statuses of the families involved . In similar instances , particularly when insult leads to protracted violence , insult behavior can serve as the basis of feuds between individuals and families . Feuds stemming from status competition and related insult and counterinsult are more likely to occur in tribal and village cultures than in caste-estate or modern societies because of the previously mentioned lack , in tribal and village societies , of a formalized , institutionalized system of stratification in which there is comparatively less ambiguity concerning the relative status of families and individuals . Although the various families comprising a tribe or village are not as clearly differentiated from one another in terms of their status as are families in caste-estate or modern societies , the high status accorded the chief of the tribe does involve strong norms proscribing insult against the chief . Although there are relatively few such formal positions of high 42 / INSULT AND SOCIETY SOCIAL STRATIFICATION AND INSULT / 43 status , the prestige of those who do occupy them is protected by norms that define any derogatory remarks against a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insults . The same remarks directed at persons of lesser social standing are not considered insults . This means that the status-formalization that does exist in tribal and village cultures serves for the most part to sustain the prestige of the headman . In the tribal society of the Maori , for example , particularly at times of feasting , there is a strict etiquette that must be followed in order to make sure that proper respect and deference are paid to the individual of highest status . Any breach of such etiquette would be considered a grave insult to the chief . The chieftain has to be served first at the tribal feasts , and Maori norms specify that he is to receive a portion commensurate with his high station . If a tribal subordinate would deliberately serve himself first or take a larger portion than the chief , the latter would consider it a grave insult . Thus , the Maori , similar to many tribal societies , place a strong emphasis upon the honor of the chief . Any remark or act directed against a chief is easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to respond violently so as to protect and maintain his high prestige . Moreover , the high prestige of the Maori chiefs is liable to render them much more touchy than the average member of the tribe . As Firth points out , the pride that a Maori chief takes in his high position is liable to make him an exceedingly sensitive person who is quick to resent any act that he regards as a denigration and therefore a threat to his prestige . The readiness of Maori chiefs to define innocent acts or remarks as insulting has led to a great deal of quarreling and fighting within the tribe . The reaction of a chief to a perceived insult is strong and usually violent primarily because any derogation is directed not only against the chief as an individual , but against the prestige and honor of his position , which in turn represents and symbolizes the honor of the entire tribe . Thus , rather than being a mere personal idiosyncrasy , as a nonsociological analysis might assume , the excessive touchiness of tribal chiefs is a phenomenon which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefs high position and the collective tribal honor symbolized by that position Firth , 1959:325 . In one instance , a seemingly innocent remark was interpreted by a Maori chief as a grave insult . The high Maori chief Kahukura was walking along a beach one day . Just offshore a man in a boat had caught a small fish which was red in color . The fisherman held up his catch and said in a laughing manner to his companions in the boat , " That man on the beach is like this fish , " referring to Kahukura , who was daubed with red ochre as part of his ceremonial dress . The chief , overhearing this remark , took great offense at being compared with a fish and considered the remark a grave insult . The next morning , Kahukura 's warriors attacked and destroyed the offender 's village Buck , 1952:387-88 . Kahukura 's violent response to the fisherman 's insult was relatively unstructured and spontaneous in that it did not involve any formal , institutionalized ritual of seeking revenge for the insult . Nonetheless , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In traditional caste and estate societies , individuals occupying high position , particularly members of the aristocracy , exhibit similar degrees both of sensitivity to insult and of willingness to respond violently to any act or remark that is the least disparaging of their honor . The substantial differences between the tribal and the caste and estate patterns lie first of all in the fact that the latter systems define not just the chief but the entire aristocratic class as socially honorable . And second , the caste and estate systems tend to provide elaborate , institutionalized means of responding to perceived insult . Thus , the aristocrats of an estate or caste system are just as touchy as tribal and village chiefs , but they are less likely to respond to an insult with unstructured , spontaneous violence because their cultures provide patterned , formalized means of responding to insults . In addition , most caste and estate systems minimize the possibility that a lower-status person will insult a member of the aristocracy by providing elaborate , systematic norms of social distance which segregate the higher class from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , a highly ritualized form of insult and humiliation against the lower-order elements , the Untouchables , continually underscores the socially defined innate superiority of the highest-order Brahmins and hence functions to minimize the possibility that insults might be directed against Brahmins by the members of the lower castes , particularly Untouchables . The Indian caste system is similar to the tribal village social order in that it attaches high honor and prestige to its highest social stratum . The caste system differs , however , in the manner in which it uses insult to maintain the honor and prestige of the Brahmins . Rather than allowing the Brahmins to wreak revenge upon those who have insulted their caste , the system provides elaborate norms of social avoidance and social distance so as , in part , to make social situations in 44 / INSULT AND SOCIETY which insults might be exchanged relatively rare and hence to protect them against insults that could undermine their prestige and honor as Brahmins . At this point , let us examine the caste system 's use of insult and insult-avoidance as a mechanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Insult and the Maintenance of the Indian Caste Order Just as the tribal or village chief comes to regard himself as superior by virtue of his high position , thus the Brahmin from his earliest years is socialized to view himself as innately superior to the lower castes , particularly the Untouchables . The Indian caste system , according to an excellent analysis by the French sociologist Dumont , is based upon the concept of purity . In order to sustain this central cultural value , it is essential for the Indian sociocultural system to provide means whereby the purity of the Brahmins might not be defiled through contact with Untouchables , since such contact and consequent defilement could threaten and undermine the foundations upon which the Indian caste order is based . Thus the society provides a set of elaborate norms of social distance , particularly between Brahmins and Untouchables . A basic element of this system of norms is the sense of superiority that the Brahmin internalizes as part of his caste-related socialization . And this sense of innate superiority is inseparable from a corresponding contempt for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This contempt is reinforced by various kinds of ritualized humiliations and insults that Untouchables are obliged to undergo as part of the norms of avoidance and social distance that are aimed at maintaining the cultural definition of Untouchables as inherently inferior and impure . The Brahmin is brought up from his earliest youth to think of nonBrahmins as infinitely beneath him , and he looks upon those of lower caste as having been created solely to serve him and to minister to his needs . Correspondingly , he considers it a kind of duty to his own caste to treat non-Brahmins , particularly Untouchables , with hatred , contempt , and harshness . The cultural basis for the Brahmin 's sense of superiority and his related practice of incivility toward the members of lower castes rests ultimately upon the Hindu worldview , which serves as the underlying set of taken-for-granted assumptions concerning the universal order of // reality and man 's place in the universe . According to the Indian worldview , the universe as a whole , including mankind , is a hierarchy the levels of which are related to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , the Indian worldview divides society into ranks depending upon the supposed degrees of purity of each social level . In the caste system , which is the earthly-societal manifestation of the cosmic hierarchy , the lower castes , particularly the Untouchables , constitute a lower level of being ' than the Brahmins . So the Untouchables are regarded , and treated , as being something less than fully human . Institutionalized patterns of humiliation and insult are one means of maintaining such cultural definitions , as well as social distance and social separation between the Brahmins and the Untouchables . By virtue of their socialization as outcasts , Untouchables internalize the cultural definition of their supposed innate inferiority and learn to conform to these ritualized patterns of avoidance of Brahmins and to maintain their humble Untouchable status . Thus , the socialization process of the Untouchables in effect teaches and requires them to participate actively in their own collective self-abnegation and degradation Dubois , 1906:315 . As we shall see in our examination of minority-group socialization and insult , this pattern of the participation of the insulted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian caste system . Examples of the manner in which Untouchables perpetuate their own collective self-denigration through active participation in rituals of insult and avoidance can be found in many scholarly studies of the caste system . Hutton points out that in some parts of India , Untouchables were required to use special , degrading language when referring to themselves , their families , or their possessions Hutton , 1951:86 ; 125-26 . To underscore their culturally defined lack of full status as human beings , Untouchables were obliged to call their children " calves " or some other term denoting young animals . When addressing Brahmins , Untouchables never used the first-person pronoun " I " to refer to themselves , but rather were required to say something like " Your humble dog respectfully requests . " In any interaction between an Untouchable and a Brahmin , the Untouchable was thus required to refer continually to and reemphasize his own supposedly subhuman status . There were in some parts of India many ritual humiliations which the Untouchable was required to perform whenever in physical proximity to Brahmins . These rituals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were the embodiments of culturally 46 / INSULT AND SOCIETY defined purity . In some parts of southern India , until quite recent times , Untouchables were required to prostrate themselves on the ground during the day whenever a Brahmin was close by , so that the " impure " shadows of the Untouchables might not fall upon a holy Brahmin . Similarly , Untouchables often had to carry branches after themselves in order to erase their footprints , which a Brahmin might chance to walk over and hence become defiled . Needless to say , Brahmins tried to keep as much physical distance as possible between themselves and Untouchables , lest their Brahmin purity be in danger of defilement . Each morning , Brahmins underwent elaborate purification rituals , which would have to be repeated vigorously in case of contact , however slight , with Untouchables during the course of the day . The lengths to which the Brahmin fear of defilement could go is illustrated by an ethnographer 's account of two small Brahmin girls , who , after merely having looked at an Untouchable , ran home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Is this type of ritual participation by the lower class in its own humiliation found only in India ? Many scholars have pointed out that the American South may be regarded as a type of caste system in which blacks have been and continue to be treated in ways similar to the patterns of insult and humiliation inflicted upon Indian Untouchables . For example , the underlying value of purity and its opposite , impurity , is evinced in the Southern white culture 's emphasis upon norms of avoidance aimed at preventing defiling contact with blacks at water fountains , public toilets , on buses , and in other places . Although the manifest function of the traditional Southern laws is social segregation , an important latent function is found in the assumption that the purity of the white race , basically similar to the purity of the Indian Brahmin , must not be defiled . Another similarity between the Indian and the Southern uses of insult to maintain the status order is found in the norms of address : just as the Indian Untouchables had to refer to themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refer to blacks as " monkeys , " and through various other kinds of insult and humiliation , attempt to deny the full humanity of blacks . Thus , the general patterns of insult usage in the Indian and the Southern American caste systems are basically similar . Such use of insult is , moreover , by no means confined solely to caste systems . In modern industrial societies , as we shall examine in detail later in this chapter , the low status of minority groups is in part maintained by a pattern of semiritualized collective // insults that serve to reemphasize and sustain the cultural definition of minority group members as inherently inferior . At this point , let us turn to an examination of another type of society , the estate system , to examine the ways in which insult and response to insult help maintain the hierarchical system of social stratification , particularly in regard to the society 's provision for response to insult among members of the landowning aristocracy . Duelling and the Maintenance of Aristocratic Honor The estate system is similar to the caste type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based upon a strongly hierarchical system of social inequality which emphasizes the superiority of the upper class and the culturally defined inferiority of the lower classes . The basic difference is that the economic power and prestige of the estate aristocracy is based upon the ownership of land and control over the military . In the pure caste society , as in India , the Brahmins do not constitute a military elite , nor do they directly involve themselves in economic pursuits . In addition , the estate system is somewhat more fluid than the caste order since the priestly estate provides a means of upward mobility . In the caste system , the Brahmins constitute the religious elite , to which they and no other caste can belong . Since the prestige and dominant social status of an estate aristocracy depends in part upon its position as the military elite , the male members of the aristocracy are socialized from their earliest youth in the values and means of warfare and formalized violence . In addition , just as Brahmins internalize a sense of their caste-related innate superiority , aristocrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their prestige as members of the upper class and their obligation to defend their honor , not only as individuals but as representatives of the highest class . In certain traditional societies , notably Prussian Germany and the antebellum South , duelling was the prescribed means by which the aristocratic gentleman defended his honor . Let us examine the institution of duelling not only for what it can tell us about formalized , violent means of response to insult , but for the light it might shed upon the nature of the sociocultural order in which it was found . As a means of redressing grievances and responding to insult , the duel 48 / INSULT AND SOCIETY has virtually disappeared except in isolated instances in South America . A nonlethal form of duelling persists in some fraternities in German universities , however . This survival-form of duelling involves heavily masked youths who attempt to inflict wounds on one another 's cheeks . The resulting gash , or " Schmiss , " is a highly valued symbol of the fraternity man 's upper-class status as well as his manly courage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more deadly than that of contemporary German fraternities . It flourished throughout the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries in three particular Western milieux : Prussia , the antebellum South , and post-Napoleonic France . Because of our lack of data on French duelling , and because it generally was less lethal than duelling in Prussia or in America ( in France , swords were used , and the duel was terminated at the first drawing of blood ) , we shall limit out discussion to the Prussian and American versions . In Prussia , officers of the Kaiser 's army were expected to defend their honor as aristocrats , and duelling was very frequent in the years preceding World War I. In America , although several duels took place outside the South ( notably the famous Hamilton-Burr duel ) , it was most prevalent in the South , particularly before the Civil War . The fact that both the South and Prussia were caste societies with certain philosophical roots in romanticism and neo-medieval chivalric values suggests the tentative hypothetical relationship between the caste order and the practice of duelling . Specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maintenance of an aristocratic upper class that was threatened , in the nineteenth century , by the prevalence of democratic societies and the forces of industrialization . To an aristocracy whose way of life , assumptions of superiority , and chivalric values were increasingly attacked as outmoded and neo-medieval by modern industrialized cultures , the defense of the individual aristocrat 's " honor " served to legitimate and defend not only the individual but the very system upon which his sense of honor was based . To draw a theoretical analogy , functional analyses of deviant behavior maintain that the recognition and punishment of deviant behavior may serve positive functions by reaffirming values and normative standards . In his analysis of deviance and punishment in Puritan New England , for example , Erikson maintains that the persecution of Quakers and " witches " took place in a period of various forces of both a social and religious nature , which led many of the Puritans to define any kind of religious nonconformity as not only heretical , but criminal . The Puritans // thus used the persecution of Quakers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and economic dominance over colonial New England Erikson , 1966 . Similarly , the high incidence of duelling in the antebellum South and Prussia is related to the latent function of duelling as a means of reaffirming upper-caste values and a neo-feudal chivalric culture . The specific ways in which formalized , violent response helped maintain the caste system and caste values is well illustrated in the culturally prescribed methods for dealing with perceived insult in the Prussian culture . The relationship between the concept of " honor " and the caste system is also relevant . Specifically , " honor " may be viewed as a culturally instilled conception of self as sacred social object ; i.e. , a social object " higher " in the divinely ordered scale of being . Hence , the defense of one 's honor against insult served not only to uphold one 's self-esteem and the caste order , but also , implicitly , the divine order of reality . Only when these cultural factors are recognized is it possible to comprehend the functional reasons underlying the vehemence of the Prussian Junker 's response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code of honor " prescribes humiliation of the offender by abuse and violence if he is inferior in class . A duel is required if he is of acceptably high social standing ? one of the nobility , an army officer , a student or graduate of a university . The insult or imagined insult is welcomed since it offers the opportunity to defend one 's honor and display one 's prowess . It is " smart " to fight because it is " smart " to belong to the caste of people who are " satisfaktionsfaehig " ? entitled to give or receive satisfaction for offense by a duel Martin , 1945:40 . The Prussian culture thus not only prescribed violence , both formal and spontaneous , as a response to insult , but also afforded a sociocultural context within which acts and remarks were much more likely to be situationally defined as insults . Norms of the Art of Duelling : The Code Mello The practice of duelling involved strict etiquette and demanded rigorous adherence to prescribed procedures . Duellists often employed experts in the codes of duelling as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the duel , and on the field of honor itself . Witnesses were often brought along to attest that the combatants had followed proper procedures . 50 / INSULT AND SOCIETY The emphasis on correctness of conduct can be exemplified by the fact that several books containing sets of rules were published in the South , one of which had been written by a governor of North Carolina . Among these rules are the following : Rule 14 . Seconds are to be of equal rank in society with the principals they attend , in so much as a second may choose or chance to become a principal and equality is indispensible . Rule 20 . Firing may be regulated , but by signal ; secondly , by word of command ; or thirdly , at the latter case the parties may fire at their reasonable leisure , but second presents and rests are strictly prohibited . Article 1 . No party can be allowed to cover the knee or cover his side with his left hand ; but may present from any level from the hip to the eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the main functions of the high degree of formalization appears to be related to the necessity for the gentlemen involved to differentiate their fighting as much as possible from the mere brawling in which only the lower orders engaged . The formalization of duelling thus also functions to maintain the aristocratic assumption of superiority . There was often an involved and elaborate interaction that took place between principals before they actually arrived at the duelling field . Specifically , an exchange of notes usually took place , the ostensible purpose of which was for the object of a remark or act to inquire as to whether the perpetrator had intended an insult . A typical note read : I presume that you will state whether you meant any personal disrespect or to intimate that I was deficient in integrity , honor , or any other quality requisite to the character of a gentleman . Often a lengthy exchange of notes took place , all of which can be regarded as formal attempts by the aggrieved to define the situation as an insult . When the replies either confirmed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result was a formal challenge : Having failed at all my efforts at an amiable adjustment of the difficulties between us , nothing remains for me but to demand of you the satisfaction usual among gentlemen Seitz , 1929:44-46 . // The definition of an act or a remark as insulting can be regarded as the result of a set of decisions arising out of a particular type of symbolic interaction . The preliminary exchange of notes leading to a formal challenge was , at the same time , subject to substantial cultural influences . In other words , both the manner in which the insult came to be defined as such , and the individual 's decision to regard it as such , were not entirely " created " acts of choice : cultural values and definitions heavily influenced both the manner and the determination of the insult . In simple terms , what is regarded as an insult in one culture may be overlooked as wholly inoffensive in another context . A striking example of this is a dispute between two well-known Arkansas judges of the 1820s , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socialized to the stringent norms governing interaction with upper-class women . The two judges were playing cards with two ladies at a fashionable card party . As the game progressed , one of the ladies exclaimed : " Judge Selden , we have the tricks and honors on you ! " Judge Selden blinked . Even the fact that he came from the North did not require him to accept an obvious error . " That is not so , " said Judge Selden , quietly . The lady , very much mortified at the ungracious reply , put up her handkerchief to hide her quivering lips , and also her aggrieved ladyhood . Today 's reader may wonder where lay the black injury in the Judge 's statement of fact : the reader obviously was not in Arkansas in the 1820s Kane , 1951:211-13 . The other judge at the card table immediately defended the lady 's honor by challenging Judge Selden , without the formal preliminaries , to a duel . Several days later Selden was killed on the field of honor . In this example we are reminded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are defined as real , they are real in their consequences . A remark which would be regarded as purely cognitive in one culture is defined as extremely insulting in another , with tragically real consequences for those who fail to conform to the norms reflecting such definitions . Earlier we mentioned the close connection between insult and humor . This point is particularly salient in one instance where an intended practical joke was taken seriously by its recipient . Two doctors in California , one a former Southerner , had been friends for many years but had some differences of opinion concerning racial matters . The ex-Southerner , in order to give his more liberal friend a " closer " understanding of Negroes , found a corpse of a black child and placed it in his 52 / INSULT AND SOCI ETY friend 's bed . The friend , Wilson , was furious , and his affection for Whiteman , the Southerner , immediately turned to extreme rage as he vowed to " kill Whiteman if it 's the last thing I do . " They soon met on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his fun with his life Kane , 1951:121 . A similar instance of a lack of congruence in definitions of intended humor can be found in the example offered in a later chapter concerning Andrew Jackson . Jackson failed to see the humor in one of his colleague 's practical jokes ; however , although he considered challenging the jokester to a duel , he was dissuaded by the strenuous efforts of mutual friends . Both of these instances of duelling behavior illustrate the saliency not only of cultural prescriptions and definitions of insult , but also of personality variables in the incidence of duelling . One element of personality , in addition to the sense of self which , as we have seen , is directly related in the identity of the " gentleman " to a particular social structure , is the underlying temperament of the individual . The influence of temperament upon duelling behavior is apparent throughout the literature on the practice . Obviously , in the definition of a remark as insulting and in the subsequent challenge , cultural factors alone , while exerting a certain pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient to bring about a duel . Both the challenger and the challenged had to have sufficient temperamental aggressiveness in order for the duel actually to take place . In the examples of Judge Selden and Andrew Jackson , we are told that both Selden 's challenger and Jackson were men who basically enjoyed a good fight and who were therefore temperamentally predisposed toward engaging in duels . The literature contains a wealth of stories concerning " knightly " gentlemen of the South and Prussian officers who made virtual careers out of successful duelling . On the other hand , there are many examples of men who had a temperamental aversion to duelling . For example , although he was repeatedly challenged , Robert E. Lee managed to avoid entering into duels , in part because of his reputation for courage . Often , however , in spite of a strong temperamental anticlivity for the practice , an aristocratic gentleman was pressured onto the field of honor by social opinion . Perhaps the most noted example of this was Alexander Hamilton 's reluctance to accept Aaron Burr 's challenge . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Erving Goffman might term " civil inattention . " Prior to the duel , he ignored Burr 's challenge as much as // possible , and at the scene refused to take a serious attitude toward the duel , firing into the air . Hamilton 's somewhat aloof attitude and his attempt to maintain civil inattention evidently served only to strengthen Burr 's resolve to carry out his lethal intentions . In summary , duelling is a practice which has , with very scattered exceptions , died out with the demise of the aristocracies that supported it . Wherever duelling was prevalent ? in the American South , in Prussian Junker society , and elsewhere ? it was a major means of sustaining the culturally conditioned sense of innate superiority of the men who occupied the uppermost castes . As a mode of response to insult , it was thus instrumental in maintaining and sustaining the aristocratic caste societies of Europe and America . Insult and Status in Modern Egalitarian Societies Modern industrialized societies , such as contemporary America , are characterized by an anomaly : on the one hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief in egalitarianism ? that men are created equal and should have equal opportunities . On the other hand , despite the fact that most people , when asked , will reply that they are " middle class , " there are definite gradations of social status and economic reward attached to different occupations and levels of educational attainment . In other words , egalitarian ideology appears at times as mere lip service against the reality of social class . Nonetheless , despite the fact that ideals of equality have not been worked out in practice , their existence has important implications for the way insults are employed to define and maintain social distinctions . In caste societies , as we have seen , insult and humiliation of lower-caste members are used in a blatant manner to continually sustain and reaffirm the culturally defined innate inferiority of the lower castes . Since the world view and ideology of such societies legitimate and support such practices , there is little if any subtlety in their application . But in cultures which give at least lip service to egalitarian values , insults designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must of necessity be somewhat more subtle and indirect , since insults of the more blatant variety ( as against Untouchables ) lack the kind of world view and ideological support found in societies with either definite castes or aristocratic upper classes . 64 / INSULT AND SOCIETY Accordingly , insults directed against those of low social or occupational status in American society are often somewhat indirect , but nonetheless humiliating to their recipients . A good example is provided by Ray Gold in his study of the occupational role and attitudes of a janitor Gold , 1952:491 . Janitors have low prestige in relation to other occupations ; the North-Hatt scale of occupational prestige places them close to the bottom , just above garbagemen and shoe-shiners , in terms of the percentage of respondents who consider the janitor 's job socially desirable . Janitors , like others of low occupational status , are continually reminded of their position in ways which convey the disdain with which their role is viewed , but in most cases without the kind of blatant , formalized humiliation and insult characteristic of the treatment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status-related insults that janitors are subjected to are well illustrated in Gold 's interviews with a number of janitors working in apartment buildings : Interviewer : What things are janitors touchy about ? Janitor : A lot of tenants figure he 's just . . . a servant . They put on airs and try to be bossy . You say something to them and they ... say , " Hell , you 're nothing but a janitor . " Or when you 're talking to even a working man and you tell him you 're a janitor , he smiles ? you know , people think there 's nothing lower than a janitor . You get the feeling that they 're looking down on you because you 're working for them ... . Interviewer : Well , why do you say you get the feeling that they are looking down on you ? Why do you feel so sensitive ? Janitor : In different places you hear people talk janitor this and janitor that , and they say they 'd never be a . . . janitor . So you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not to you . It makes you feel funny sometimes . For the most part , those who occupy low status positions are insulted indirectly and subtly by the recognition that their occupation is held in low esteem . Only occasionally do these attitudes surface in the form of direct insults . This contrasts with the much more formalized ways in which low-status persons are insulted in caste and aristocratic societies . However , it is questionable whether the greater subtlety of such insults in modern egalitarian societies means that the subjective effects are qualitatively different . Gold 's interviews tend to support the idea that the humiliations that low-status persons feel in modern society are just as painful as those experienced by the lower classes in traditional societies . Indeed , the subjective effects in a modern egalitarian context may be even // more severe because of the widely held belief that a person can be anything he wants to be , and hence his low occupational prestige must result from lack of ambition or from individual shortcomings . Thus , insults that derogate one 's occupational prestige or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social category which he represents . But occupational status is primarily an achieved status ; in American society , despite contrary ideologies , many statuses are essentially ascribed . This is particularly true of minority group memberships . Blacks , for example , are subjected to continual direct and indirect insults aimed at reconfirming the cultural definition of their " innate " inferiority and , perhaps most significantly , of seeking to continually remind them of , and hence internalize within them , a sense of the low social esteem in which they are held . There are many other essentially ascriptive groups that are also subjected to such insults ? women , Jews , Indians , and so on , all of whom experience varied degrees of derogation , from the most blatant to the very subtle . Let us attempt to determine how these phenomena relate to the survival of ascriptive status orders in modern egalitarian societies . Collective Insult : Keeping Minorities " In Their Place " To this point we have been examining insults directed primarily against particular , unique individuals . Many insults , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not because of any unique traits which he or she supposedly possesses , but rather because of the characteristics which the person allegedly exhibits as a member of a specific minority group . " You are a stupid fool ! " is an insult which refers to the supposed lack of judgment or ability of a particular individual . " You dumb nigger ! " insinuates that the object is dumb because he is a black person , rather than because of his uniquely individual capacities . Minority groups may be defined as subgroups within a society that are subject to prejudice , discrimination , segregation , and persecution . Thus , minorities are typically assigned to the lowest levels of the social ladder . Countless studies have examined the nature and causes of prejudice , discrimination , and the other manifestations of the minorities ' plight . But few have recognized the role of collective insult as an important vehicle for the expression of prejudice , as well as a significant means of sustaining a 56 / INSULT AND SOCIETY system of social stratification that depends , in part , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inherently inferior . Collective insult is a prime example of prejudice . Through subjection to collective insults , an individual member of a minority group is prejudged not as an individual person , but on the basis of negative traits supposedly characteristic of his or her group . In modern democratic societies , collective insults appear in a somewhat less blatant manner than in caste societies , as collective insults are less ritualized and formalized than the elaborate kinds of humiliation directed against the lowest social levels in rigidly stratified caste and aristocratic societies . In the American South , until perhaps fairly recently , blacks were subject to continual collective insults and humiliations ? being called " boy " or " girl , " having to wait in line while whites were waited on first , and so on ? which continually reaffirmed their low social status and the caste-culture 's definition of blacks as innately inferior . In the North , and perhaps in more progressive parts of the South , collective insult has by no means disappeared : what has changed is the degree of ritualization through which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of blacks living in the North , we were able to gain some understanding of the kinds of insults to which minority group members in a modern urbanized context are subjected . In a survey conducted by myself and two assistants , a random sampling of black students at Miami University were asked to give examples of collective insults they had experienced . In addition , the subjects were asked to indicate whether their reaction to the insult had been one of complete passivity , overt violence against the insulter , or somewhere between the two . The following are some of the experiences of collective insult afforded by the subjects of the study : I pulled up to a traffic light in a friend 's new car when an adult white male yelled out : " That nigger must have stolen that car . " I was walking to campus when I passed two white kids about ten years old whom I overheard say " damn niggers . " I reacted passively and just walked on . I was called a " dumb nigger " by a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was angry enough to hit one of them but I just pretended I did n't hear them . I played cornet in high school and had first chair when I was a sophomore . In order to get first chair you had to challenge the person who held it and beat him . Well , I challenged the person and beat him . // Afterward , he said to me , " You know , Glenn , it was n't your musical ability that beat me , it was those big lips you have . You know the characteristics of you people . How could I compete fairly with you ? " Last summer I was working in a factory . It was about 100 degrees out and I was unloading trucks . I stopped to rest a minute , when I heard one of the older white guys say : " Look at that lazy black son-of-a-bitch sitting on his ass . " One night there were three of us ( two Whites and one Black ) riding around . We saw another friend and he said hop in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole bunch of junk in the back seat so only one person could ride in the rear . The driver said " Jim , you can ride nigger since after all you are one " Davis and Hamelberg , 1973 . A characteristic common to each of these examples of collective insult is their spontaneity . Unlike such insults that occur in a caste or traditional-class society , none of the above examples has any ritual character ; nor are they as patterned or structured as the kinds of elaborate physicalavoidance insults typical of the relations between higher and lower castes in India and the traditional American South which we have already discussed . Nonetheless , the responses of the college students to the question " How did you react to the insult ? " indicates that the subjective effect of the type of spontaneous , unstructured collective insults found in modern societies with an egalitarian ideology is at least as severe as the effects of more ritualized insults directed against members of the lower castes in a traditional context . Though none of the respondents in our survey reacted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated that they were angered enough to strike out physically at the offenders , but stopped just short of doing so . Not all instances of collective insult , however , are greeted with a passive response . Depending upon the particular circumstances and upon the temperament of the individual who is collectively insulted , an offensive remark may well be greeted with vehement counterinsult or even violence . In one instance , for example , a first-generation American Jew named Perlmutter recalls an encounter with an older man which stopped short of violence only because of the advanced age of the offender . One day Perlmutter went out to buy a newspaper in his German-Jewish neighborhood . He encountered an old man who warned him not to go into a particular candy store : " It 's a Yiddish store , " Perlmutter was informed . " Jews own it . Stinking Jews ! Do n't go in there . " Perlmutter at first reacted with shock , but in a few seconds he reacted with angered invective : " My own neighborhood . . . a 58 / INSULT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm Jewish , damn you , and if you were n't older than me I 'd punch you in the nose ! " The older man reasserted that Jews are filth , and also retorted that no Jew could lay a hand on him , whereupon Perlmutter angrily walked into the store and bought his paper Perlmutter , 1972:35-39 . Such vehement counterinsult is essential if the minority group member is to maintain his self-respect . Even seemingly minor incidents of collective insult can have strong and deleterious psychological effects not only on the particular individual minority member who is thus offended , but upon others who are close to him . One of the most famous incidents of antiSemitic collective insult involved Sigmund Freud 's father , who was walking along the street one day when a Gentile stopped him and , making some insulting remarks about Jews , knocked the elder Freud 's hat off into the gutter . When his father told the boy Sigmund what had happened , the latter asked , " Well , what did you do ? " His father replied , " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and picked up my hat . " This incident , and in particular his father 's failure to respond to the insult in an active manner , deeply affected the young Freud . Previous to that point , he had regarded his father as a heroic figure , but the passivity that the elder Freud displayed in the face of collective insult caused Sigmund to become decidedly ambivalent toward his father Puner , 1959:41 . The impact that the incident indirectly exerted on Freud 's theories , with their strong emphasis on ambivalence toward the father , is but one notable instance of the long-lasting and strong effects that seemingly trivial instances of collective insult can have on minority group members . In addition to reacting with passivity , counterinsult , and violence , some minority group members react in a formalized way to collective insult . Such a response is possible , however , in a societal context in which there are specific legal channels available . A black professor , for example , attempted to rent a house in the same university town to which he was moving . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposit , but later the head salesman and owner of the firm attempted to renege on the deal . When the black scholar replied , " Are you trying to tell me that they his prospective neighbors do n't want me to move in ? " the realtors admittedly expressed uneasiness as to the possible reactions of neighbors . The professor thereupon wrote a letter to the local newspaper which stated , in part , " It 's tragic that a black man has to be three times as qualified as a white to live in a neighborhood like  --  - . The possibility // of my renting a house there seemed to irritate the realtor because he himself had once lived along that street . " In addition to writing letters of protest , the professor also reported the incident to the Ohio Civil Rights Commission and made sure that everyone in the small town , particularly his colleagues , knew about the insulting way in which he had been treated by the realty company . Such an active response is possible , however , only in those societies which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfortunately , much more the exception than the rule , even in those societies , such as the United States , which have an ideological commitment to egalitarianism despite everyday normative standards that tend to undermine such ideals . One example of the use of formal legal channels for the redress of collective insult involved the efforts of the B'nai B'rith , a Jewish organization , to combat the many insulting statements set forth in Henry Ford 's newspaper The Dearborn Independent . Ford had used his privately owned newspaper as a medium for the expression of his anti-Semitic views . The Jewish community was offended by his many insulting comments about them and brought a class action suit against Ford on behalf of the Jewish population . This eventually led to a formal apology by Ford and the cessation of publication of the newspaper Wittenberg , 1947:223 . Such use of legal channels as a response to collective insult against an entire minority group is , however , very rare . Much more prevalent has been the development of minority group consciousness among many people , particularly since the beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960s . A significant correlate of the development of such awareness has been a tendency for minority groups to become increasingly sensitive to acts , remarks , and gestures , as well as media portrayals , that might be considered offensive . In other words , what the members of such groups had most often overlooked in the era previous to the development of minority group consciousness , they later came to define as offensive and insulting . For example , during the 1930s there were many motion pictures which portrayed black people as silly , immature , cowardly , and stupid , such as the Steppin Fetchit films . Such portrayals were , at the time , regarded simply as humorous . Contemporary blacks , however , have become aware that many of the ways in which they are portrayed in the media have been and are extremely disparaging and directly or indirectly insulting . In an article by the noted black psychiatrist Alvin F. Poussaint , 60 / INSULT AND SOCIETY it was pointed out that even in the supposedly positive portrayal of blacks in movies such as Shaft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ albeit more subtle ? denigrations of black people . As Poussaint points out , " negative black stereotypes are far more subtle and neatly camouflaged than they were in the films of yesteryear , but the same insidious message is there : blacks are violent , criminal , sexy savages who imitate the white man 's ways as best they can from their disadvantaged sanctuary in the ghetto " Poussaint , 1974:26 . Poussaint 's rejection of what he terms " blaxploitation " films is based largely on his view that they have substantial negative effects upon black adolescents , who , lacking positive male role models in the " real world " are encouraged to identify with the violent , and often criminal and antisocial heroes in the new films . Moreover , many blacks have taken offense at the portrayal of black people in a large number of films as dope dealers , prostitutes , and other fringeelement types . On occasion protests have taken the form of efforts by black organizations to prevent the distribution of films demeaning to blacks . In 1975 , for example , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevented from distributing his film through the efforts of CORE . The white producer of the film , in addition to his obvious chagrin at the financial losses that he sustained , was also very troubled by CORE 's response to the film , since the producer had felt that he had presented a very pro-black message New York Times , July 20 , 1975 . In addition , groups other than blacks have been successful in efforts to prevent film makers from portraying them in an insulting or offensive manner . A prime example was the success of the ItalianAmerican Civil Rights League in preventing the use of the term Mafia in the film The Godfather as well as in other films and television shows . This relatively recent sensitivity is , therefore , an important aspect and manifestation of the way in which insult behavior is related to the efforts of minority groups to actualize more fully American ideals of equality and social justice . This pattern is also characteristic of many deviant groups whose patterns of organized ( as well as individual level ) response to collective insult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DEVIANCY Every society has a set of values and norms to which its individuals are expected to conform . If substantial numbers of individuals act in ways contrary to general value guidelines or the specific normative prescriptions , the system is obviously threatened . Hence , every social system has certain methods whereby it attempts to ensure the conformity of its members to its behavioral expectations by making it painful for those who do not conform . Insult is one such control mechanism . Use of Insult to Ensure Conformity The basic patterns whereby nonconformists and deviants are subjected to ridicule and insult are essentially similar in primitive , traditional , and modern contexts . The major differences lie in the degree of formalization and institutionalization of the abuse . In primitive societies , as might be expected because of their relatively low degree of institutional differentiation , social control is carried out in a less formal manner than in traditional or modern societies . Usually , insult against deviants takes the form of ridicule , and deviants are used as negative references for children . Among the Yoruba tribespeople , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insulted , but are used as the butt of jokes by parents who wish to teach their children to be industrious Bascom , 1951:492 . Among the Warao Indians , industrious members insult the weak ones with 61 62 / INSULT AND SOCI ETY the word Guanarao , which means " Indian without canoe , " or idler Turrado Moreno , 1945:14 . Actual crime is dealt with in a somewhat more formalized fashion , but nonetheless without the institutional framework characteristic of traditional and modern legal systems . Moreover , the cultural meanings attached to criminal acts are often quite different from the ways in which such acts are defined in traditional and modern contexts . In Western Samoa , for example , a person who steals fruit from another is punished severely , not so much for the actual loss involved but because of the cultural meanings associated with the theft . To the natives of Samoa , any plant or tree that is deliberately damaged or stolen from is held to represent the actual body of its owner . Thus the theft of fruit from or mutilation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owner , particularly if it is damaged in such a way as to render it useless for further propagation Grattan , 1948:172 . Punishment for such acts often involves retribution of a kind which might appear at first to be relatively nonformalized , but its severity becomes apparent when one is made aware of the cultural meanings that are attached to it . Malinowski 's study of punishment meted out to offenders among the Trobriand Islanders is a good example of the kind of retribution that might , from the traditional or modern reference point , appear mild , but is nevertheless quite devastating to those who understand and share in its cultural meaning . One such deceptively simple punishment found in the Trobriand society is banishment , accompanied by ridicule and insult . Typically , the deviant is assailed by the headman of the village in a loud voice : " You are a cause of trouble ! You have done us harm . You have told lies . We do not want you to stay here . Go away ! We drive you away ! " Such words are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have a very distinct cultural meaning which extends to them a binding force and an almost ritual power . A man who would try to accept passively the dreadful insult involved in them and remain in spite of them , would be dishonored forever . Hence , in spite of the apparent " simplicity " of such usage of insult against an offender , it serves as an effective punishment and social control device Malinowski , 1929:120 . In traditional and modern societies , insult and humiliation of an offender is just as devastating , but is carried out in a more formalized manner . For example , before the advent of the penal system , offenders were humiliated and insulted by being placed in stocks or otherwise identified in some conspicuous manner , such as adulterous women having // to wear a scarlet letter indicating their " sin " and exposing them to the ridicule and ostracism of the community . In modern societies , insultpunishment still takes place on an informal level . But in the case of serious offenses , the humiliation is more closely associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the informal insult and humiliation that a modern offender suffers has been replaced not so much by more formalized social control procedures ; rather , the context within which it takes place is more closely associated with the stigma of having been formally incarcerated . Thus , distinction between the kinds of insult to which offenders and deviants are subjected in primitive , traditional , and modern societies is of a contextual rather than qualitative nature . The Effects of Insult upon Deviants and Offenders Insulting a deviant or an offender is usually not an effective method of changing his behavior patterns . One reason for this lies in the fact that a great deal of deviant behavior takes place within a group context . Deviant and criminal behavior , according to most sociological studies , is for the most part carried out not by lone individuals , but by groups . Moreover , such collectivities very often constitute a subculture which has values and norms contradictory to those of the dominant society . Accordingly , insult and ridicule against those who engage in deviant behavior leads to a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deviant group because it forces them to band together in the face of hostility . In other words , attack from without leads to a strengthening of group cohesion as well as a reaffirmation of the deviant standards to which a deviant subculture adheres because of the necessity for common defense . Hence , insult and ridicule of a deviant group by a dominant culture often has the ironic effect of strengthening the very behavior patterns which the dominant society condemns . The insult and hostility that is directed toward convicts , for example , often serves not to dissuade offenders from further deviant behavior , but rather to solidify their hostility toward the dominant society . As a result , their proclivities toward engaging in antisocial behavior are reinforced rather than extinguished . This suggests that the latent purpose of the dominant society 's punishment , through insult and ridicule of deviants , is not to dissuade offenders from their deviant ways , but instead to reinforce the values and norms of the dominant 64 / INSULT AND SOCIETY culture . In other words , insult against deviants functions not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reassert and reaffirm the values and norms of the dominant society . In a very real sense " deviance " does not exist unless the members of a sociocultural system single out and label certain kinds of behavior as wrong or criminal . Insult is one means of showing disapproval of behavior patterns that have been so labelled . Moreover , the very act of insulting some person or group who exhibits deviant behavior serves to reinforce and sustain the dominant society 's definitions of what is valuable and normatively proper . Thus , insult and ridicule directed at deviants tends not only to strengthen their commitment to nonconforming ways by creating greater subcultural cohesion , but also to reaffirm the dominant culture 's commitment to its standards . What about the individual member of the dominant culture who insults deviants ? What kinds of social-psychological functions does such abuse serve for him ? Often , the individual who insults deviants does so in order to gain status within his own group by making a display of his own conformity to its values and norms . Southern politicians , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a means of gaining status and power from their racist white constituents ; by insulting blacks , they affirm their own conformity to the values of white supremacy and the norms of racial segregation . Similar patterns can be found among boys or men who make a display of abusing homosexuals ; their abuse ? both verbal and physical ? of " fags " is often an attempt to gain status with their " normal " male peers by appearing tough and masculine . According to Dennis Altman , for example , " It is generally true that what has been termed the authoritarian personality ' does display a consistent hatred of all outgroups , and that the homosexual , under some circumstances , becomes a convenient scapegoat who can be accused of responsibility for all sorts of moral degeneracy " Altman , 1971:69 . Another good example of the use of insult and ridicule of deviants to raise one 's own status was the tirades of Joseph McCarthy against supposed Communists and " fellow travelers " during the fifties . McCarthy 's actions were undoubtedly motivated in part by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to patriotic ideals . It was of course during this same post-World War II " red scare " era that Richard Nixon used techniques similar to those of Joseph McCarthy to attain political power and wide popular support that continued ? via enemies lists and various other types of denigratory // politiking ? through to the last days of his presidency . The same sociopsychological dynamics were , of course , apparent in Hitler 's use of insult against Jews to gain power and status among Germans . Another contemporary example : while a student at Berkeley , I witnessed an attempt to gain political status through the use of insult and abuse against deviants . One spring day , a Republican candidate for the governorship of California named William Penn Patrick visited the Berkeley campus with a phalanx of reporters and cameramen . Walking over to the card tables where various political groups were distributing literature , he roundly denounced them as being " beatniks " and " Communists . " Then , the cameras still rolling , he went to a speaker 's platform near the center of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was at " all the lousy looking bums " that he had seen on the campus . About a week later , political campaign advertisements began to appear on television , with William Penn Patrick portrayed around the campus , denouncing and insulting students and reaffirming his commitment to the " good , old-fashioned American way " as evidenced in his fervent reiteration of such slogans as " my country , right or wrong . " Patrick lost out to Ronald Reagan in his bid for the governorship ; nonetheless , his campaign provided a clear illustration of the use of insult against deviants as a tool for gaining status vis-a-vis the insulter 's own peers . Clearly Patrick and his ilk had no real desire to change or transform the deviant behavior of the Berkeley students ; to immediately have them become conservative and well-scrubbed would have cost Patrick a potent political weapon . Insult and the Projection of Undesirable Attributes Besides providing possible status gains , insults against deviants by those who conform to the dominant culture may serve the function of denying the conformer 's own unacceptable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allport has pointed out , projection is a significant element in the expression of prejudice Allport , 1958:360-84 . Typically , members of the dominant society are required to repress certain kinds of impulses and feelings , such as those pertaining to sexual interests or the desire to " goof off " rather than to be industrious . Many times individuals who are unsuccessful in their attempts to completely repress such desires tend to deny them , and instead attribute the same shortcomings to 66 / INSULT AND SOCIETY members of minority groups and deviants . Thus , in the South , the unacceptable sexual impulses and " lazy " tendencies that are unsuccessfully repressed by Protestant morality are projected onto the black population . Likewise , sexual desires and unacceptable needs for relief from the pressure of the " rat race " are projected onto the " hippies " and other deviants . In this way , the anger and loss of self-esteem that would otherwise be directed inward finds an outlet in the ridiculing and insulting of deviants who supposedly embody those traits which the prejudiced person finds undesirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prejudiced , dominant-culture conforming person who uses insult against deviants to raise his own status , the projecting person is not actually employing insult as a social control device , because he is not genuinely interested in transforming the behavior of the deviant ; quite the contrary , he seeks its continuation and indeed " sees " it when it is n't there so that he will have some release for the hostility against the undesirable feelings and traits that he finds in himself but attributes to deviants . Thus , in general , insult against deviants is only partially related to social control . As we have seen , insult and ridicule of deviants often does not serve to change their behavior , but rather tends to reinforce nonconforming patterns . And much of the insult directed at deviants is motivated not by a desire to change the deviants ' behavior , but rather to perpetuate it so that : ( 1 ) dominant values and norms can be reaffirmed , ( 2 ) the insulter might gain status within his own reference group , and ( 3 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project their unacceptable feelings and desires . The Development of Gay Awareness The relatively recent refusal to accept insults is manifest in two general patterns of response to insult among deviants . Since homosexuals are a prime example of a deviant group which has developed a substantial degree of unwillingness to accept insults passively , let us focus on new patterns in the development of minority group consciousness among homosexuals that has occurred largely since the 1960s . Since the development of a " gay awareness , " homosexuals as individuals have increasingly come to regard their sexuality and life styles not as pathologically abnormal , but as valid and worthy of respect . Though there is substantial scholarly dispute // over the sources of the self-hate that homosexuals experience , most gay activists believe that it is largely a product of the internalization of prevailingly negative social attitudes . Thus , it has become especially important for the homosexual to respond in kind ( i.e. , with counterinsult , if not active protest ) to any insult directed against his or her homosexual identity . Such response may consist of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pervasive use of collective insults , and systematic and organized efforts to combat insulting and disparaging definitions of homosexuality . Inspired largely by the efforts of blacks to obtain social justice , a wide variety of minority groups has increasingly fought back against the collective insults directed toward them by prevailing dominant-culture opinions . We have already explored the reasons for which members of the conforming society insult and in various other ways persecute and therefore " control " minority groups . Several organizations have been developed to combat the individual minority group member 's tendencies to internalize , and hence accept as valid , insulting acts , remarks , and gestures . Organized groups such as the Gay Activists Alliance and the Gay Liberation Front have tried to negate prevailing opinions of homosexuals by attempting to eliminate job discrimination and by adopting various other methods of " striking back " at persecution . One example of the accomplishments of such organized and systematic protest was gay activists ' successful attempt to obtain a change in the American Psychiatric Association 's official view of homosexuality as a type of illness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also engaged in sensationalistic demonstrations . For example , a member briefly disrupted a CBS evening news broadcast one evening to protest the insulting portrayals of homosexuals on some of the network 's television programming . Violent response to insult has also been apparent among some gays . In one incident , cited by many gay activists as the real beginning of their movement , homosexuals resisted ? actually fought ? arresting police officers during a 1970 raid on a gay bar on Christopher Street in New York City . At about the same time , homosexuals in a number of cities began to form groups to fight back against gangs of straight youths who took pleasure in beating up homosexuals . On the individual incident level , Richard Troiden provides the following examples of counterinsult against straights . In a restaurant a male homosexual was once insulted by a woman who mocked his effeminate 68 / INSULT AND SOCIETY mannerisms and remarked , " Look at that fag ! " The gay replied , " That 's right , dearie , I may not be straight , but I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! " In another incident , a homosexual was asked by a patronizing acquaintance when he had first become aware that he was not " normal . " The insulted gay replied , " Tell me , when did you first become aware of your heterosexuality ? " Such incidents are significant in that they illustrate homosexuals ' growing awareness of the offensive nature underlying many of the stereotypical attitudes that have previously not been regarded as offensive , and homosexuals have begun to liberate themselves by striking back against insulters Troiden , personal communication . According to Dennis Altman , perhaps the most common form of oppression to which the homosexual is exposed is the patronizing tolerance of would-be liberals . " The difference between tolerance and acceptance , " argues Altman , " is considerable , for tolerance is a gift extended by the superior to the inferior . . . . Such an attitude is far different from acceptance , which implies not that one pities others . . . but rather that one accepts the equal validity of their style of life " Altman , 1971:50-51 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although sometimes unsuccessfully , to " control " the behavior of minority groups which have been regarded by the dominant sociocultural group to be deviant . Are there ways , however , in which insult actually does serve as a major means of social control in primitive , traditional , and modern societies ? Let us examine the relationship between insult , legal systems , and religion . 6 LEGAL SYSTEMS , RELIGION , AND INSULT BEHAVIOR Legal institutions are related to insult behavior in two basic ways . First , in most societies the law provides possibilities for gaining legal redress for insult-related grievances . If a person has been insulted so that his reputation or material interests have been seriously damaged , the legal system of most societies provides mechanisms for him to react in a formal , nonviolent manner . Second , a legal system may constrain an insulted person from responding in a violent manner , by failing to support such forms of retaliation . There are substantial differences between sociocultural systems either in the degree to which their legal frameworks provide a means of redress against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws condone violent response . These functional differences are apparent both between the three general types of societies we have been examining ( tribal-village , caste-estate , and modern industrialized ) and within these three categories . Let us examine the different ways in which the legal systems of various societies are related to insult behavior . Insult and Law in the Tribal-Village Context Many tribal and village societies provide specific legal penalties against insult . In general , based on the evidence we have obtained from ethnographic accounts , interpersonal and interfamilial insults are a more serious 69 70 / INSULT AND SOCIETY offense than in modern societies because of the central importance of individual and family honor in the relatively small-scale tribal and village context . Social status is much more particularistic in such societal milieu , because it is based upon an individual 's or a family 's reputation , than in modern societies where universalistic , essentially impersonal criteria constitute the major bases of status . To an Ashanti tribesman of Africa , for example , having a good name is well-nigh essential to existence . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could cause him to have a bad name in the narrow community in which he lives . Public ridicule and insult are such serious matters to the Ashanti that any individual who is subjected to them is very likely to commit suicide , since life in his small community has become unbearable to him . In a largerscale society , it would of course be possible for an insulted individual simply to ignore and withdraw from his tormentor . The impossibility of such passive response in the Ashanti society is one significant reason why the tribe has developed a relatively complex set of legal proceedings that are invariably and immediately followed by offended parties in instances of personal abuse , slander , and insult Rattray , 1929:309 . Tribal-village societies differ in the degree of complexity of their insultrelated litigation processes . A relatively informal process of legal response to insult is found among the Trobriand Islanders . According to Malinowski , the rare quarrels that occur among the Islanders usually take the form of a public expostulation in which the parties involved , supported by friends and relatives , publicly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allows them to give vent to their feelings in a nonviolent manner which does not disrupt the ongoing social processes and which effectively heads off the possibility of a vicious circle of violence , revenge , and feuding Malinowski , 1926:60 . In some societies , the legal system imposes fines upon the insulter . Among the Formosan aborigines , a person who has made a slanderous remark is at first requested to retract it and to ask for pardon . A refusal to do so means that the offender will be forced to pay a fine to the insulted party Plaut , 1903:12 . In some Indonesian village cultures , the legal penalties against insult are relatively complex : fines are established in relation to the degree of seriousness of the insult . These fines involve three plates for an ordinary insult , three plates and a pig for a serious insult , and ten plates for insulting a chief . A number of Vietnamese village societies also provide specific kinds of sanctions for various kinds of // insults . In the Vietnamese village of Co-Ninh in the Tonkin province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with another must address the grievance to the village chief . If a person insults someone instead of going to the chief , he must pay a fine . In addition , noninvolvement of neighbors is not tolerated as it is in more " civilized " societies : neighbors who fail to intervene in a dispute involving mutual insults must also pay a fine to the village chief Nguyen Van Khoan , 1942:2-3 . The laws of many tribal and village societies function to uphold and maintain the existing status order by imposing more severe penalties for insults against persons of status higher than the insulter . In many societies the legal system , by imposing unequal penalties for insults that implicitly threaten the social order , is one medium whereby the social control of insult behavior is directly related to the maintenance of stratification patterns . Thus , it appears that one purpose of legal prohibition and penalties against insult is to preserve the social system against implicit attacks upon the established order that are manifest in insults directed against those who occupy positions of high social standing , either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the family . For example , lower status Vietnamese individuals who insult their social superiors are more heavily penalized than those who insult their social equals or inferiors . Young Vietnamese who have insulted superiors or aged persons , or women who have insulted their husbands , are punished with a fine double the usual amount . Even more serious in Ashanti tribal society is any abuse or slander of a head chief or any of his dead ancestors . Due to the chief 's peculiarly sacred position , such insults are considered a tribal taboo and are punished severely in the rare instances of their occurrence Rattray , 1929:309 . Some tribal and village societies do not have formalized legal systems that provide sanctions against insults . In many such societies , religion and magic provide a kind of functional equivalent to legal means of redress in insult-related grievances . Let us examine how religion functions as a supernatural control over insult behavior in several different tribal and village societies . Religion and Magic as Functional Equivalents of Law in Tribal-Village Societies In many tribal and village cultures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of insult behavior . First , religion and 72 / INSULT AND SOCIETY witchcraft provide an indirect means of responding to insults . By using magic and performing ritual curses against those who have insulted him or her , an insulted person is able to avoid direct , violent response against an offender . Such use of the supernatural as a response to insult also has the positive social side-effect of avoiding the threats to the solidarity of the tribe or village posed by overt violence . Secondly , the supernaturalization of response to insult constitutes a powerful social control mechanism that is functionally equivalent to the attempt of secular legal systems to deter insult : the possibility of a supernatural response to insult means that an offender has to face and contend with not only the person he has insulted , but also the supernatural forces which the offended party is able to invoke against the tormentor . Let us look at some examples of the use of religion as an equivalent of legal response to insult in the absence of secular means of redress . A good example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response is found in the African tribal society of Ganda , where it is taken for granted that a person with a legitimate grievance for which he or she can get no other satisfaction will resort to sorcery . Just as an offended person in a modern society might go to a lawyer , the Ganda tribesman visits a reputable magician , who prescribes , for a fee , the correct type of spells and curses to inflict upon the insulter Mair , 1934:252 . A similar pattern exists among the Maori , whose fear of supernatural retribution serves as an effective deterrent of insult . In instances where Maori are insulted , the magical rites designed to cast a spell against the insulter are so impressive that they often cause the offender to abandon his home and leave the district . Such Maori rituals are quite elaborate : for example , a wizard hollows out a small pit in the earth and puts his head in it , keeping it there as he repeats the words of the spell Best , 1924:334 . In many societies whose role structures do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective substitute for both legal and magical response to insult , as well as constituting an effective deterrent . Among the Azande tribespeople of Africa , for example , belief in witchcraft is a valuable corrective to uncharitable impulses , since an insult // may cause serious repercussions . In Azande society , the very ambiguity of the role and identity of witches is a significant part of witchcraft 's effectiveness as an insult-deterrent . Since the Azande do not know who are and who are not witches , they assume that all their neighbors may be witches and are thus careful not to offend any of them without good cause Evans-Pritchard , 1929:112 . A similar utilization of witchcraft as a deterrent to insult is found among the Sanpoil Indian tribe of the American Northwest , where there is no direct taboo against quarreling , but care has to be taken about insulting another or incurring his ill will for fear that he or she might have supernatural powers and thus be able to inflict misfortunes as retaliations Ray , 1933:124 . The fear of supernatural powers serves in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Old persons are often viewed as the most likely holders of supernatural power ; hence , younger members ' fear of their supernatural abilities allows old people a certain defense against insult and ridicule which they would not otherwise be able to possess because of their relative inability to respond to insult in an overt , violent manner . In this sense , advanced age of older members of many tribes allows them to be spared the full measure of abuse that might be directed toward them in the absence of their culturally defined supernatural powers . A good example of the way supernaturalism can serve as a protection for old people is afforded by Hallowell 's account of a customary warning given by Saulteaux Indian fathers to their children : " Do n't laugh at old people . Do n't say to any old person that he is ugly . If that person has magical power , he can make you ugly also . " There is no abstract ethical ideal involved for the child in avoiding insults against old people ? avoidance of offense is simply a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that lack secular , legal systems to ensure older people the necessities of life , the supposed supernatural capacities of old people function as a means of making sure that the younger members of the tribe or village do not forget their responsibilities to their elders . In some tribes , no one dares to insult an old person by not offering him any beer or not sharing meat with him . If an old man possessing supernatural powers receives no meat , he will prevent the killing of any more animals . 74 / INSULT AND SOCIETY Displacement of Response to the Supernatural Realm In addition to providing a deterrent against insult , in many tribal and village societies supernaturalism also provides a clear equivalent of legal response to insult . Just as the legal system of industrialized societies serves in part to provide a mechanism whereby violent and hence socially disruptive responses to insult might be kept at a minimum , thus supernaturalism provides for many tribal and village societies a means of minimizing the occurrence of insult-related violence by displacing aggression to the supernatural realm . This displacement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serves as a locus for the redirection of aggressive retaliation away from the offender ; potentially disruptive violence is thereby avoided . Second , persons whom the society defines as witches can serve as scapegoats for those who seek redress for being insulted or ridiculed . In both instances , the supernaturalization of response to insult constitutes a functional equivalent for legal retribution in that it allows tribal and village societies to " keep the peace " in the absence of formal legal institutions comparable to those of modern societies . In the Maori tribal culture of New Zealand , for example , quarrels and feuds are prevented from developing into overt violence by redirecting response to insult into the spiritual realm . If two men quarrel , their guardian spirits are said to have quarreled ; if a man dies , the guardian ghost of someone he has offended is held responsible . In this way , the offense is depersonalized ; it is not an insulted possessor of black magic who causes an offender to be punished , it is rather the force of the magic . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that might result from an insult to the sinfulness of the offender , which can of course be influenced only by magical means . By displacing and depersonalizing the causes of offense , the Maori culture provides a mechanism for preventing overt , violent retaliation against an insulter Best , 1924:334 . A similar pattern of substituting the supernatural for violent retaliation against insult and abuse is found in the Arande society , one of the Australian aboriginal tribes , where it is customary to avoid overt aggression by using magical influences to bring about the downfall of an offender . The Aranda method involves the " wonderfully potent " practice of " pointing " death at a man , who may or may not be present or visible . This form of magical curse is referred to as " pointing the bone , " or simply " boning " Basedow , 1925:174 . // In other cultures , the supernatural mode of response does not necessarily involve the suggestive power of magic or a curse of death , but rather the wish that the gods punish the offender . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who feels he has been offended by another asks the offender ( if he has denied the accusation ) to take an oath before the altar of a spirit . Both parties ask that the true offender be punished by the spirit . Once the ritual takes place before the altar , the quarrel is ended and retribution for any offense is left to the gods . In this manner , overt violence is avoided in much the same way that secularized legal systems of modern industrialized societies provide formalized means of short-circuiting violent response to insults both by providing a means of ascertaining whether an offense has been committed , and determining the proper punishment Rouilly , 1929:20 . Witches as Scapegoats for Insult-Related Hostility In his analysis of Navaho tribal society , Kluckhohn emphasizes the role of witchcraft as a means of redirecting aggressive response to insult and abuse Kluckhohn , 1944 . The sociocultural system of the Navahos , according to Kluckhohn , places great normative restraint upon the overt expression of hostility through violence . The role of the witch in Navaho society involves two closely related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal systems found in industrialized societies . First of all , the witch is the only legitimate object of insult and abuse in a society which does not otherwise legitimate , interpersonal hostility . The witch is the person whom , the ideal patterns of the culture say , it is not only proper but necessary to hate . Instead of saying all the bitter and insulting things he has felt against , for example , his father-inlaw , the Navaho avoids the social disapproval and economic consequences of such recrimination by redirecting his hostility against a totally unrelated witch in the community . Thus , the scapegoat role of the witch serves both to maintain family and kin group solidarity within the tribe and to prevent disruptive violence and feuding between the various kin groups within the community . A second , closely related function of the role of witches in Navaho society is its provision of a legitimate object for responding to abuse and insult . A Navaho who has been offended is , by and large , constrained by the Navaho norms which proscribe overt retaliation from 76 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an insult . The only means of response open to him is to define the insult as having been caused by the evil influence of a witch upon the offender . Thus , the culture provides a means whereby the hostility engendered by abuse or insult can be directed away from the actual offender onto the culturally defined source of the insult ? the witch-scapegoat . Why do the Navahos , as well as many other tribal-village societies , place such a strong emphasis on inhibiting and controlling the overt expression of hostility and insult-related aggression by providing supernatural means both for responding to insults and for abusing others ? Kluckhohn maintains that the Navaho cultural patterns of prohibition of violence and hostility can be explained in terms of the actual helplessness of many people in a scattered and inadequately policed society . Such circumstances , together with the lack of a legal system capable of providing protection against abuse or retaliation against perceived insult , make the playing down of overt aggression on the part of most tribal and village peoples a highly adaptive response . Is the same adaptive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to insult in more complex societies ? Let us look at how the legal frameworks of the American South differ from those of tribal and village societies and from the modern industrialized societies ' methods of insult control . Insult and the Law in the American South As we have already mentioned in an examination of the institution of duelling , the traditional American South exhibited many characteristics of the typical caste-estate systems . The South has always placed a great value upon the maintenance of individual honor . This subcultural pattern is particularly true in Texas , where certain characteristics of the Southern caste system are combined with the frontier subculture . Although Texas is now becoming increasingly urbanized and homogenized with the dominant American culture , there have been and still are some significant differences between the statutes of Texas and of other non-Southern states in relation to the norms regarding violent response to insult . An interesting example is the subcultural differentiation evinced by the Texas insultrelated statutes . In American common law as a whole , provocative and insulting words are not recognized as adequate provocation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no matter how " abusive , aggravating , contemptuous , false , grievous , indecent , insulting , opprobrious , provoking or scurrilous " the words might be , according to the Corpus Juris Secundum . The few exceptions to this rule of common law are found in cases that occurred in the South . One prominent exception was a Texas statute repealed in the 1930s which stated that insulting words or insulting conduct by the person killed , directed toward a female relative of the perpetrator of a murder , was a sufficient cause to have a charge of homicide reduced to one of manslaughter . In this instance we see very clearly the influence of the Southern subculture upon laws governing violent response to insult . Since the South has always valued the honor of its womanhood , the law until relatively recently has tended at least in Texas to support those who avenge any attempts to cast aspersions upon that honor . We are reminded of the duel between the two judges in Arkansas which resulted because one of them had " slighted the honor of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South are much more lenient than the legal norms of the non-Southern states toward violent response to insult . Such a response is much more likely to occur in , say , Texas or Arkansas than in New York . Among New York City inhabitants , it is well known that the law provides little or no support for someone who reacts violently to insult ; the law requires one to walk away from another who is attempting to provoke a fight . This subcultural contrast can be highlighted by comparing the judge 's opinion in an Arkansas case with a similar case in California . According to the Southern judge , " Insulting words . . . may be considered in determining the degree of murder , or in assessing the punishment of murder , if the law provides more than one possible penalty . " In a 1956 California decision , on the other hand , it was ruled that " provocative words . . . can not justify or excuse an assault likely to produce great bodily injury " People v. Mears , 1956 . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made the basis of legal action . In most of the United States , a person can not take action against another merely for having been insulted . The law requires that some definite damage have been done to an individual 's business or professional reputation before he can be afforded legal redress for insult-related grievances . An exception to this can be found in Mississippi ; there , according to a particular legal statute , 78 / INSULT AND SOCIETY words which from their usual construction and common acceptance are construed as insults and tend to breach the peace are actionable . In contrast to other states , which make no legal provision for the damages to an insulted person 's feelings , the Mississippi statute maintains that the basis for insult-related legal action is the " insult to the feelings of the offended person , rather than the intention of the person using the insulting words . " Let us look for a moment at a particular case in which the Mississippi statutes pertaining to insult and response to insult were applied . The case involved a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Huckabee to complain about the weight of a chicken which Huckabee had sold earlier to Nash 's servant . According to witnesses , Nash felt he had been cheated and began arguing heatedly with Huckabee . In the course of the argument Nash drew a pistol and pointed it at Huckabee , saying to him , " You God damned son of a bitch . " Huckabee reached for a knife that was lying on a counter and rushed at Nash with it . Nash , threatening with his pistol , ordered Huckabee to drop the knife . He complied , whereupon Nash put his pistol back in his pocket and walked out of the store . Interestingly enough , the court case that arose out of this incident had nothing to do with the threats and counterthreats of violence , but with whether or not Nash , who first insulted Huckabee , could obtain damages against Huckabee for having been the object of a counterinsult . The problem revolved around the fact that after having been insulted by Nash , Huckabee returned the insult by using the same language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nash could not collect because he had been the instigator of the verbal combat . As the ruling stated , one person can not insult another and then expect to take legal action if the latter replies in kind . The significant point , however , is that Nash would even think that he could obtain damages Huckabee v. Nash , 1938 . In other parts of the United States , the case would never even have made it to court because of the absence of any statutes that could make it possible to gain legal redress for having been insulted . It is also significant that the Mississippi court implicitly condoned the overt threats of violence of the two parties : that Nash and the legal authorities evidently considered the spoken insults more legally actionable than overt threats and narrowly averted mayhem tells us that the Southern subcultural norms evidently considered a spoken offense against one 's honor more significant than a threat against a person 's life . // Not surprisingly , the statutory definitions of libel vary substantially according to regions . The laws in various states of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an aristocratic attitude . In North Carolina it is considered libellous " to destroy the reputation of innocent and unprotected women , whose very existence in society depends upon the unsullied purity of their character .... " But in states such as North and South Dakota ( as well as in most other northern and western states ) , libel laws do not recognize the gender of the victim of a libelous action Wittenberg , 1947:8-9 . A news item from the Cincinnati Post of July 15 , 1975 , shows how some of the Southern laws regarding insult behavior have been and continue to be changed : James Dillard has won a new trial on murder charges because of an old Texas " paramour law " that allowed a husband to kill his wife 's lover if he caught them committing adultery . The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals , in a 3-2 decision , reversed a five-year sentence against Shaw for the August 20 , 1971 slaying of Eugene Hintz . The appeals court ruled that a Houston judge failed to tell the jury that convicted Shaw of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been repealed under a new Texas penal code . The subcultural differences that we have illustrated do represent the survival of certain features of the Southern subculture which derive fundamentally from the caste-estate type social order which has until relatively recently characterized the traditional Southern sociocultural order . And we have seen how the various possibilities of response to insult , as well as the degree of toleration of violent response , are different in most other regions of the United States . Americans are occasionally surprised to learn how other modern industrialized milieux have made legal provisions for dealing with insult phenomena . One example is provided by Peter Berger , who related an incident that took place as he was traveling with a friend along the German autobahn . At one point in the trip , Berger 's companion , who was driving , was slow in getting out of the way of a car which wanted to pass in the fast lane . As the car passed , the evidently irritated driver of the other car turned around , and looking at Berger 's friend , pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stupid . Berger was surprised when his companion recorded the other driver 's license number and later reported the incident to the German equivalent of the state police . Sometime later , Berger inquired about the matter and found that the driver of the other car had received a citation for " insult on the autobahn " Peter Berger , personal communication .                     