@@773442

txt The word family is so plain , the kind reality to which it refers is so close to da experience that one may expect to be co fronted in this chapter with a simple situation . Anthropologists , however , are a strange breed ; they like to make even the " familiar " look mysterious and complicated . As a matter of fact , the corn pan . tive study of the family among many different peoples has given rise to some of the most bitter arguments in the whole history of anthropological thought and probably to its more spectacular reversal . During the second half of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth , anthropologists were working under the influence of biological evolutionism . They were trying to organize their data so that the institutions of the simpler people would correspond to an early stage of the evolution of mankind , while our own institutions were related to the more advanced or developed forms . And since , among ourselves , the family founded on monogamic marriage was considered as the most praiseworthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies ? equated for the purpose with the societies of man at the beginning of its existence ? could only have something of a different type . Therefore , facts were distorted and misinterpreted ; even more , fanciful " early " stages of evolution were invented , such as " group marriage " and " promiscuity " to account for the period when man was still so barbarous that he could not possibly conceive of the niceties of the social life it is the privilege of civilized man to enjoy . Every custom different from our own was care-300 fully selected as a vestige of an older type of social organization . This way of approaching the problem became obsolete when the accumulation of data made obvious the following fact : the kind of family featured in modern civilization by monogamous marriage , independent establishment of the young couple , warm relationship between parents and offspring , et cetera , while not always easy to recognize behind the complicated network of strange customs and institutions of savage peoples , is at least conspicuous among those which seem to have remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tribes like the Andamanese of the Indian Ocean Andaman Islands , the Fuegians of the southernmost tip of South America , and Nambikwara of central Brazil , and the Bushmen of South Africa ? to quote only a few examples ? live in small , semi-nomadic bands ; they have little or no political organization and their technological level is very low since , in some of them at least , there is no knowledge of weaving , pot-making , and even sometimes hut-building . Thus , the only social structure worth speaking of among them is the family , mostly monogamous . The observer working in the field has no trouble identifying the married couples , closely associated by sentimental bonds and economic co-operation as well as by the rearing of children born from their union . There are two ways of interpreting this pre-eminence of the family at both ends of the scale of developemnt of human societies . Some writers have claimed that the simpler peoples may be considered as a remnant of what can be looked at as a " golden age , " prior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization ; thus , man would have known in that early stage the bliss of monogamic family only to forego it later until its more recent Christian rediscovery . The general trend , however , except for the so-called Vienna school , has been that more and more anthropologists have become convinced that familial life is present practically everywhere in human societies , even in those with sexual and educational customs very remote from our own . Thus , attar they had claimed for about fifty years that the family , as modern societies know it , could only be a recent development and the outcome of a slow and long-lasting evolution , anthropologists now lean toward the opposite conviction , i.e. that the family , consisting of a more or less durable union , socially approved , of a man , a woman , and their children , is a universal phenomenon , present in each and every type of society . These extreme positions , however , suffer equally from over-simplification . It is well known that , in very rare cases , family bonds can not be claimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a very large group living on the Malabar coast of India . In former times , the warlike type of life of the Nayar men did not allow them to found a family . Marriage was a purely symbolical ceremony which did not result in a permanent tie between a man and a woman . As a matter of fact , married women were permitted to have as many lovers as they wished . Children belonged exclusively to the mother line , and familial as well as land authority was exercised , not by the ephemeral husband but by the wife 's brothers . Since land was cultivated by an inferior caste , subservient to the Nayar , a woman 's brothers were as completely free as their sister 's temporary husband or lovers to devote themselves to military activities . Now , the case of the Nayar has been frequently misunderstood . In the first place , they can not be considered as a vestige of a primitive kind of social organization which could have been very general , in the past , among mankind . Quite to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of social structure and , from that point of view , they do not prove very much . On the other hand , there is little doubt that the Nayar represent an extreme form of a tendency which is far more frequent in human societies than is generally acknowledged . There are a large number of human societies which , although they did not go quite as far as the Nayar in denying recognition to the family as a social unit , have neverthelees limited this recognition by their simultaneous admission of patterns of a different type . For instance , the Masai and the Chagga , both of them African tribes , did recognize the family as a social unit . However , and for the same reason as among the Nayar , this was not true for the younger class of adult men who were dedicated to warlike activities and consequently were not allowed to marry and found a family . They used to live in regimental organizations and were permitted , during that period , to have promiscuous relations with the younger class of adult girls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side by side with a promiscuous , nonfamilial type of relations between the sexes . For different reasons , the same type of dual pattern prevailed among the Borbre and several other tribes of central Brazil , the Muria , and other tribes of India and Assam , et cetera . All the known instances could be arranged in such a way as to make the Nayar appear only as the more consistent , systematic and logically extreme case ) f a situation which may eventually reap ? ear , at least in embryonic form , in modern society . This was well shown in the case of Nazi Germany , where a similar cleavage was be ; inning to appear in the family unit : on the me hand , the men dedicated to political and warlike activities , with a great deal of freelom resulting from their exalted position ; nd on the other hand , women with their 3K " functional assignment : Kuche , Kirche , Kinder , i.e. kitchen , church and children . ) ne might very well conceive that , had the ame trend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funcions between men and women , together with the accompanying differentiation of heir respective status , could very well have ed to a type of social organization where he family unit would receive as little recognition as among the Nayar . During recent years anthropologists rave taken great pains to show that , even Imong people who practice wife-lending , eiher periodically in religious ceremonies or on a statutory basis ( as where men err per . mitted to tinter into a kind of institutional friendship entailing wife-lending among members ) , these customs should not be interpreted as survivals of " group marriage " since they exist side by side , and even imply , recognition of the family . It is true enough that , in order to be allowed to lend one 's wife , one should first get one . However , if we consider the case of some Australian trite* as the Wunambal of the northwestern part of the continent , a man who would not lend his wife to her other potential husbands during ceremonies would be considered as very greedy , ' i.e. trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group to be shared between numerous persons equally entitled to it . And since that attitude toward sexual access to a woman existed along with the official dogma that men have no part in physiological procreation ( therefore doubly denying any kind of bond between the husband and his wife 's children ) , the family becomes an economic grouping where the man brings the products of his hunt and the woman those of her collecting and gathering . Anthropologists , who claim that this economic unit built up on a " give and take " principle is a proof of the existence of the family even among the lowest savages , are certainly on no sounder basis than those who maintain that such a kind of family has little else in common than the word used to designate it with the family as it has been observed elsewhere . The same relativistic approach is advisable in respect to the polygamous family . The word polygamy , it should be recalled , refers to polygyny , that is , a system where a man is entitled to several wives , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where several husbands share one wife . Now it is true that in many observed cases , polygamous families are nothing else than a combination of several monogamous families , although the same person plays the part of several spouses . For instance , in some tribes of Bantu Africa , each wife lives in a separate hut with her children , and the only difference with the monogamous family results from the fact that the same man plays the part of husband to all his wives . There are other instances , however , where the situation is not so clear . Among the Tupi-Kawahib of central Brazil , a chief may marry several women who may be sisters , or even a mother and her daughters by former marriage ; the children are raised together by the women who do not seem to mind very much whether they nurse their own children or not ; also , the chief willingly lends his wives to his younger brothers , his court officers , or to visitors . Here we have not only a combination of polygyny and polyandry , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the co-wives may be united by close consanguineous ties prior to their marrying the same man . In a case which this writer witnessed , a mother and daughter , married to one man , were together taking care of children who were , at the same time , stepchildren to one woman and , according to case , either grandchild or stepbrother to the other . As to polyandry proper , it may sometimes take extreme forms , as among the Toda where several men , usually brothers , share one wife , the legitimate father of the children being the one who has performed a special ceremony and who remains legal father of all the children to be born until another husband decides to assume the right of fathership by the same process . In Tibet and Nepal , polyandry seems to be explained by occupational factors of the same type as those already stated for the Nayar : for men living a semi-nomadic existence as guides and bearers , polyandry provides a good chance that there will be , at all times , at least one husband at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal , economic , and sentimental identity of the family can be maintained even in a polygynous or a polyandrous setup , it is not sure that the same would be true when polyandry exists side by side with polygamy . As we have already seen , this was to some extent the case among the Tupi-Kawahib since polygynous marriages existed , at least as a chiefs privilege , in combination with an elaborate system of wife-lending to younger brothers , helpers , and visitors from different tribes . Hem one might argue that the bond between n woman and her legal husband was more different in degree than in kind from s gamut of other bonds which could be arranged in order of decreasing strength : from rightful , semi-permanent lovers to occasional ones . However , even in that case , the children 's status was defined by the legal marriage , not by the other types of unions . We come closer to the so-called " group marriage " when we consider the modern evolution of the Toda during the nineteenth century . They had originally a polyandrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ female infanticide . When this was prohibited by the British administration , thus restoring the natural sex-ratio , the Toda continued to practice polyandry ; but now instead of several brothers sharing one wife , it became possible for them to marry several . As in the case of the Nayar , the types of organization which seem remotest to the conjugal family do not occur in the more savage and archaic societies but in the relatively recent and extremely sophisticated forms of social development . Therefore , it becomes apparent why the problem of the family should not be approached in a dogmatic way . As a matter of fact , this is one of the more elusive questions in the whole field of social organiza.tion . Of the type of organization which prevailed in the early stages of mankind , we know very little , since the remnants of mar during the Upper Paleolithic Period of about 50,000 years ago consist principally o : skeletal fragments and stone implement . which provide only a minimum of informa tion on social customs and laws . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies which havf been observed since , let us say , Herodotus time until present days , the only think which can be said is as follows : monogamic conjugal family is fairly frequent . Wher ever it seems to be superseded by differen types of organizations , this generally hap pens in very specialized and sophisticates societies and not , as was previously expected in the crudest and simplest types . Moreover , the few instances of non-conjugal family ( even in its polygamous form ) establish beyond doubt that the high frequency of the conjugal type of social grouping does not derive from a universal necessity . It is at least conceivable that a perfectly stable and durable society could exist without it . Hence the difficult problem : if there is no natural law making the family universal , how can we explain why it is found practically everywhere ? In order to try to solve the problem , let us try first to define the family , not by integrating the numerous factual observations made in different societies nor even by limiting ourselves to the prevailing situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what we have in mind when we use the word family . It would then seem that this word serves to designate a social group offering at least three characteristics : ( 1 ) it finds its origin in marriage ; ( 2 ) it consists in husband , wife , and children born out of their wedlock , though it can be conceived that other relatives may find their place close to that nuclear group ; and ( 3 ) the family members are united together by ( a ) legal bonds , ( b ) economic , religious , and other kinds of rights and obligations , ( c ) a precise network of sexual rights and prohibitions , and a varying and diversified amount of psychological feelings such as love , affection , respect , awe , et cetera . We will now proceed to a close examination of these several aspects in the light of the available data . MARRIAGE AND THE FAMILY As we have already noticed , marriage may be monogamous or polygamous . It should be pointed out immediately that the first kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but even much more than a cursory inventory of human societies would lead to believe . Among the so-called polygamous societies , there are undoubtidly a substantial number which are au- thentically so ; but many others make a strong difference between the " first " wife who is the only true one , endowed with the full rights attached to the marital status , while the other ones are sometimes little more than official concubines . Besides , in all polygamous societies , the privilege of having several wives is actually enjoyed by a small minority only . This is easily understandable since the number of men and women in any random grouping is approximately the same with a normal balance of about 110 to 100 to the advantage of either sex . In order to make polygamy possible , there are definite conditions which have to be met : either children of a given sex are voluntarily destroyed ( a custom known to exist in a few rare cases , such as female infanticide among the Toda already referred to ) , or special circumstances account for a different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Eskimo and some Australian tribes where many men used to die young because their occupations ? whale-hunting in one case , warfare in the other ? were especially dangerous . Or else we have to look for a strongly hierarchical social system , where a given class : ancients , priests and sorcerers , rich men , et cetera is powerful enough to monopolize with impunity more than their share of the womenfolk at the expense of the younger or the poorer people . As a matter of fact , we know of societies ? mostly in Africa ? where one has to be rich to get many wives ( since there is a bride-price to pay ) , but where at the same time the increase in wives is a means to increase wealth , since female work has a definite economic value . However , it is clear that the systematic practice of polygamy is automatically limited by the change of structure it is likely to bring up in the society . Therefore , it is not necessary to wonder a great deal about the predominance of monogamic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nature of man is sufficiently evidenced by the fact that polygamy exists in widely different forms and in many types of societies ; on the other hand , the prevalent* of monogamy results from the fact that , unless special conditions are voluntarily or involuntarily brought about , there is normally , about just one woman available for each man . In modern societies , moral , religious , and economic reasons have officialized monogamous marriage ( a rule which is in actual practice breached by such different means as premarital freedom , prostitution , and adultery ) . But in societies which are on a much lower cultural level and where there is no prejudice against polygamy , and even where polygamy may be actually permitted or desired , the same result can be brought about by the lack of social or economic differentiation , so that each man has neither the means nor the power to obtain more than one wife and where , consequently , everybody is obliged to make a virtue of necessity . If there are many different types of marriage to be observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the last case , polygynous , polyandrous , or both ; and whether by exchange , purchase , free-choice or imposed by the family , et cetera ? the striking fact is that everywhere a distinction exists between marriage , i.e. a legal , group-sanctioned bond between a man and a woman , and the type of permanent or temporary union resulting either from violence or consent alone . This group intervention may be a notable or a slight one , it does not matter . The important thing is that every society has some way to operate a distinction between free unions and legitimate ones . There are several levels at which that distinction is made . In the first place , nearly all societies grant a very high rating to the married status . Wherever age-grades exist , either in an institutional way or as non-crystallized forms of grouping , some connection is established between the younger adolescent group and bachelorhood , less young and married without children , and adulthood with full rights , the latter going usually on par with the birth of the first child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive tribes but also in peasant western Europe , if Daly for the purpose of feasts and ceremonies , as late ea the early twentieth century . What is even more striking is the true feeling of repulsion which most societies have toward bachelorhood . Generally speaking it can be said that , among the socalled primitive tribes , there are no bachelors , simply for the reason that they could not survive . One of the strongest field recollections of this writer was his meeting , among the Borbro of central Brazil , . . . a man about thirty years old : unclean , ill-fed , sad , and lonesome . When asked if the man were seriously ill , the natives ' answer came as a shock : what was wrong with him ? ? nothing at all , he was just a bachelor . And true enough , in a society where labor is systematically shared between man and woman and where only the married status permits the man to benefit from the fruits of woman 's work , including delousing , body painting , and hair-plucking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Borbro woman tills the soil and makes pots ) , a bachelor is really only half a human being . This is true of the bachelor and also , to a lesser extent , of a couple without children . Indeed they can make a living , but there are many societies where a childless man ( or woman ) never reaches full status within the group , or else , beyond the group , in this all important society which is made up of dead relatives and where one can only expect recognition as ancestor through the cult , rendered to him or her by one 's descendants . Conversely , an orphan finds himself in the same dejected condition as a bachelor . As a matter of fact , both terms provide sometimes the strongest insults existing in the native vocabulary . Bachelors and or . phans can even be merged together with cripples and witches , as if their conditiom were the outcome of some kind of super natural malediction . The interest shown by the group in the marriage of its members can be directly ex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospective spouses , if they are of marriage able age , have first to get a license and the ' to secure the services of an acknowledge* representative of the group to celebrate their union . Although this direct relationship between the individuals , on the one hand , and the group as a whole , on the other , is known at least sporadically in other societies , it is by no means a frequent case . It is almost a universal feature of marriage that it is originated , not by the individuals but by the groups concerned ( families , lineages , clans , et cetera ) , and that it binds the groups before and above the individuals . Two kinds of reasons bring about this result : on the one hand , the paramount importance of being married tends to make parents , even in very simple societies , start early to worry about obtaining a suitable mate for their offspring and this , accordingly , may lead to children being promised to each other from infancy . But above all , we are confronted here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that although marriage gives birth to the family , it is the family or , rather , families which produce marriage as the main legal device at their disposal to establish an alliance between themselves . As New Guinea natives put it , the real purpose of getting married is not so much to obtain a wife but to secure brothers-in-law . If marriage takes place between groups rather than individuals , a large number of strange customs become Immediately clearer , For instance , we understand why in some parts ' of Africa , where descent follows the father 's line , marriage becomes only final when the woman has given birth to a male child , thus fulfilling its function of maintaining her husband 's lineage . The so-called levirate and sororate should be explained in the light of the same principle : if marriage is binding between two groups to which the spouses belong there can be without contradiction a re- " placement of one spouse by his brothers or by her sisters . When the husband dies , the levirate provides that his unmarried brothers have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sometimes differently put , share in their deceased brother 's duty to support his wife and children ) , while the sororate permits a man to marry preferentially in polygamous marriage his wife 's sisters , or ? when marriage is monogamous ? to get a sister to replace the wife in case the latter remains childless , has to be divorced on account of bad conduct , or dies . But whatever the way in which the collectivity expresses its interest in the marriage of its members , whether through the authority vested in strong consanguineous groups or , more directly , through the intervention of the State , it remains true that marriage is not , is never , and can not be a private business . 41 . PEASANT FAMILY TYPES Let us now . . . ask under what conditions we may expect to find either a predominance of extended over nuclear families , or the reverse situation . What are the factors which underlie the differential distribution of family types among peas-ants ? The first is the nature of the food supply footnote Source : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Reprinted by permission of Prentice-Hall , Inc. , Englewood Cliffs , New Jersey . itself . Obviously , where the food supply is scarce , as it is among many primitive peoples , units larger than the nuclear family will have difficulty in keeping together at any one time , and may build up only during seasons of temporary surpluses or for some specific purpose , as for the collective hunting of game . Expectably , therefore , extended families and domestic groups larger than the nuclear family occur more frequently among cultivators where the tasks of cultivation and the pursuit of part-time specialties both permit and require a larger labor force . This association of the extended family with larger food supplies and increasingly diversified specialties has received statistical confirmation ( Nimkoff and Middleton , 1960 ) . Not that the surrounding cultural context is irrelevant , however . On the contrary , it is relevant in two ways . First , the techniques of production , including those of cultivation and craft production , must be such as to benefit from the presence of additional permanent workers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a permanent labor force in one domestic unit . The stress in these two sentences is on the word permanent . Many kinds of cultivation can benefit through the addition of more workers ? for instance , when crops have to be brought in during a short harvesting season . But the harvest can sometimes be brought in by hiring seasonal workers who collect their wages and move on , or by patterns of cooperative labor in which neighbors help each other on stipulated critical occasions but do not participate in one domestic unit . In both these cases , which are frequent enough , additional workers are not permanent members of the domestic group . Permanent members have to be fed , 307 housed , clothed , and provided with other satisfactions over a prolonged period of time . Hence , the technical requirements of the domestic economy must both require their presence and be sufficiently productive to permit it . This condition is most likely where a domestic group controls most or all of the natural resources and skills required to maintain itself , and where all or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit . Such a complex domestic unit may in fact show considerable division of labor within it . While some workers engage in production , others carry on processing . While some work in the fields , others may take care of livestock . Some draw water , others hew wood . At the same time , many hands can be massed for repetitive tasks that require large bodies of workers , such as forest clearance or a harvest . In the South Slav . . . zadrugas , the men plowed , mowed , cut wood , made furniture , and worked in vineyards and orchards . The women gardened , cooked , cleaned , embroidered , and worked lace . Men aided the women in weaving ; the women aided the men in hoeing and reaping . Children and unmarried girls were charged with livestock tending , and old people performed minor tasks around the house or in the fields . A specialist supervised care and herding of draft animals and other livestock ; another managed weaving operations . In another variant situation , the extended group no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but needs money to acquire them . Nevertheless , the group still controls land and houses , and land and houses along with money form the strategic springboard for its operations . Such a group can pool land and money to its advantage in ways which a fragmented nuclear unit could not dupli ; ate . Thus , we get some extended families , given where nuclear or maternal arrangenents are in the majority . In China , for extemple , where the extended family was supported not only by the instrumental facors discussed above , but received strong eremonial emphasis , extended families were largely found among so-called middle peasants , well-to-do peasants , and land lords , but lacking among farm laborers and poor peasants . Under such conditions , the permanent massing of labor in a family is both a prerequisite and a consequence of economic well-being . In China , furthermore , the extended family acted both as an organization for the concentration of resources and labor , and as a defense against the inevitable process of decline that attends fragmentation . Due to the rule of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided equally among sons upon the death of the father . The rule of inheritance may have been promulgated originally by the state in order to maximize the number of tax-paying units . The interests of the peasant family , however , may best be served by keeping as much land together as long as possible . The extended family may thus be seen as a means for avoiding the consequences of partition . Moreover , the Chinese proverb says it clearly , " land breeds no land . " It was only when a landed family established a beachhead in trade or in officialdom that it could embark on the accumulation of nonagricultural resources , such as trade goods or money . It could also send a son to school , to become and official and to connect the family with the governmental structure and its sources of revenue . It was thus not only a bulwark against decline , but also a springboard to mobility . Additional wealth may also be gained by sending able-bodied sons or daughters to seek wages outside the peasant holding . While some members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together under one administration , others leave ? seasonally or periodically ? to add to its liquid capital holdings through the injection of outside funds . Such a unit also has great resistive capacity in periods of decline or economic difficulty . In times of economic depression or war , outside members may return to the fold to be tided over during the time of troubles . The extended family can thus function as a device for social security far more flexibly than the smaller conjugal or nuclear family , which la weak because its viability depends upon the productive abilities of one member of each sex . If wife or husband falls ill , or if the husband is a bad cultivator or unable to gain supplementary income , the economic balance of the unit is more directly threatened , unless effective mechanisms for social security are set up by some external organization , such as the state , to supplement falling or deficient income or unless means for storing releasable capital are institutionalized . Surprising as it may sound , therefore , extended families ? partly living off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have persisted even in the socialist Soviet Union , as shown by a recent study of the village of Viriatino on the border of the socalled black earth belt ( Dunn and Dunn , 1963 ) . Although the extended family thus has advantages which the nuclear family does not share , it must also pay for its gains . The extended family creates tensions which are not as evident in the nuclear family . First , there are the inevitable tensions between successive generations , involving the problem of succession to the decision-making roles in the household . The aging father who has hitherto managed the resources of the group must yield to one of his children . The aging mother who has managed house and kitchen must yield eventually to a replacement , usually the wife of the son who has stepped into his father 's shoes . A second set of tensions surrounds the relations among siblings . If the property is to be maintained intact , one of the sons must make the decisions while the others must yield to them . Yet there are always some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brother 's authority . Thirdly , there are tensions between the men and women in such a unit . The women are often outsiders , coming to the family unit from other families located on other farms . In a male-centered authority system , such as prevails among most peasants , the women must learn to adjust their claims to the prior claims of their husbands . Because of such tensions , in the Chinese extended family , for instance , then was often a silent struggle of sons against their father , a struggle especially sharp and bitter where the father clung to traditional ways , while the sons looked towards the introduction of new techniques and customs . Pearl Buck , in her novel The Good Earth , has given a fine literary account of such tensions . Similarly , we see that the Chinese family suffered from the bitter antagonism between mother-in-law and daughter-inlaw . The daughter-in-law entered the group as a total stranger , who was entirely subservient to her mother-in-law , until her husband succeeded to the managerial role in the family and she assumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1939 ) . Again , we see in the Chinese extended family the way in which in-marrying women must yield to the demands of familial cohesion and mute their claims on their husbands , who were schooled in turn to yield to the father . The tensions implicit in this subordination of the conjugal ties to the lineal tie emerged when the father died and a set of brothers was left to dispute the inheritance . Frequently , it was the demand of the wives which led to the division of the household . With each woman attempting to gain advantages for her own conjugal unit , the cohesion of the group was subjected to strain until it ruptured . A similar illustration comes from India . In Khalapur , a Rajput village located in the North Indian plain , tensions and quarrels among women are the most frequent source of division in the domestic group . The process of division may take place by stages . First , each nuclear family sets up its own hearth , though the father continues to run the farm and the older women remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ration . Later , however , the courtyard may be divided by a wall , or a rebellious nuclear family may move to a new house . Such a move implies division of movable property : of milk cattle , furniture , and food . For a while , the land is still farmed as a unit , but each daughter-in-law takes over the charge of distributing food rations to her own family . Moreover , she can sell ' snail stores of grain and spend the money for , say , Jewelry without asking permission of the mother-in-law . Finally , the land is divided , usually when the father dies and the remaining brothers cut the one remaining link ( Minturn and Hitchcock , 1963 ) . To these intrafamily squabbles we may add also the tensions arising from the relations of core members of the domestic group to peripheral kin , such as the unmarried aunts and uncles of father and mother , and the notorious difficulties attending relations between a step-mother and step-children , as well as the problems of relations with servants or slaves . Taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ containing such family units will have to provide strong reinforcements to keep the unit from flying apart . We can expect to find such reinforcements especially in the ceremonial sphere , providing both rewards for proper conduct and sanctions against disruptive behavior . On the other hand , such units protect themselves against disruption also by inculcating appropriate behavior patterns in the young . Recent cross-cultural studies of socialization techniques ( Whiting , 1961 ) lend statistical support to the hypothesis that societies rating comparatively high in their ability to accumulate food resources ? such as peasant societies ? are more likely to favor socialization techniques which render their members dependent on the socializing group , because dependence training will favor the routine execution of routine tasks . In contrast , societies with low abilities to accumulate food resources ? such as hunting and gathering societies ? are more likely to favor socialization techniques productive of self-reliance and drives towards individual achievement , which presumably would favor the control of an impermanent and erratic food supply . More precisely still , there appears to be a tendency on the part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic group by indulging their children with oral gratifications for prolonged periods of time . This practice rewards the continued seeking of economic support from the family unit , and makes the family unit the main agent in meeting such needs . At the seam ' time , however , such families show a strong tendency in their socialization techniques to curb the show of aggression and sexuality , thus attempting to instill in children the control of impulse required for group coordination . Such socialization not only prepares the growing child to become a permanent member of a group already in existence . It also sets the stage for marriages in which the new couple must make its home with such an enduring group . In contrast , nuclear families tend to de-emphasize oral dependence , and to punish aggression and sexuality less stringently , thus allowing the individual more free play in his relationships with others . Where extended families socialize for group continuity , nuclear families socialize for affinity , for the establishment of new and independent nuclear dyads . With ceremonial support and socialization techniques which " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family , such units therefore can remain operative as long as the massing of resources and labor proves functional . Yet extended domestic groups are also fragile in the sense that they must always contain complex tensions which , if the sanctions against disruption do not suffice , can easily get out of hand and threaten disintegration . Where the tensions cross-cutting the extended family derive in the main from filiation ? from the linkage of persons to the family line ? or from sibling conflicts , the tensions in the nuclear family surround the conjugal bond . The children of the nuclear couple will experience stress and strain in breaking free of their parents , but they must seek their own way , setting up separate families and domestic groups of their own . This requirement makes for independence , but at the same time places a considerable burden on the new family . Its continuity is all too quickly called into question if one of the conjugal partners , for whatever reason , is unable or unwilling to perform his duties with regard to the other . In what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families dominant in peasant socie-ties ? We may find them , first , as a temporary phenomenon under frontier conditions , where land is plentiful in relation to population and offers opportunities for young couples wishing to break off from their families . These conjugal families may prove temporary , however , because they may turn into extended families if conditions are favorable . We may find them , secondly , in situations where land has grown so scarce that a family can no longer use landed property as the base for further consolidation and must turn to other sources of income to make up its deficits . This can occur where family property has been subdivided several times in the process of inheritance , so that each plot of land has become too small to feed even a family nucleus . Frequently , where such subdivisions into tiny holdings occur , larger units can only be created through buying or renting additional land , but few families will have sufficient resources to afford to pay current prices for land or rents . In such a situation , therefore , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the poor grow poorer and their household smaller . Similarly , larger households have more potential for craft specialization in addition to cultivation . Yet , at the same time , growing scarcity of landed resources will put a growing strain upon the solidarity of extended families , accentuating all the centrifugal tendencies that are usually restrained as long as there is a sufficiency of land and other resources . Moreover , as the members of such families begin to seek various alternatives to the tasks they have hitherto shared in common or carried out in conjunction , they begin to pursue a variety of interests . Some of these will disengage them from the larger group , sometimes at considerable psychic cost . These pressures are added to the exacerbated tensions within the organization itself , often until it breaks down and its constituent members are reconstituted into a series of nuclear families . The prevalence of wage-labor Is a third condition for the emergence of the nuclear family . As soon as peasants turn into wagelaborers the likelihood that nuclear families will prevail increases vastly , especially where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor performed , without any additional relations between employer and worker . Under such circumstances , the worker is hired only for his labor and released when that labor is completed . People are employed for their individual labor-power , not for that of their entire families . The process of breakdown into nuclear families can , however , be slowed or stemmed where the employer accepts responsibility for maintaining manystranded relations with his employee who in turn accepts a lifelong commitment to the employer , as in some Japanese factories ( Abegglen , 1958 ) . Such relations do not merely involve the individual worker , but his entire domestic group . There is , however , still a fourth set of conditions which favor the nuclear family over the extended type . These are conditions of greatly intensified cultivation wherein a nuclear family , properly equipped , can produce a sufficiency of crops on a limited amount of land . The land yields enough and more , and the nuclear family may well furnish any additional labor to cover temporary needs by hiring full-time or part-time help . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , whether they produce grain or high-cost crops like grapes grown in concentrated , highly capitalized vineyards , as in the Rhine country of Germany or in the valleys south of the Brenner pass in the South Tyrol . Leaving out the first ? temporary ? set of conditions , we can see that the last three cases all have something in common . They involve a stepped-up division of labor in society , as compared to peasant societies dominated by extended families . Extended families carry on many more conjoint productive processes on their own land , and produce many more items which they consume than do the nuclear families . The nuclear ramllles may lack sufficient land to rely mainly on cultivation . They increase the social division of labor by taking up part-time or full-time specialties in order to buy food ; or they specialize in selling their labor power ? thus becoming wage-workers . In intensified cultivation , on the other hand , agricultural output is raised to the point where only a few products are grown in large quantities , but the nuclear family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy the major part of its food supply as well as handicraft or industrial products . A wheat farmer , raising wheat intensively , can not eat only wheat , even if he turns all of it into bread . A wine producer can not live on wine alone ; he must sell wine to obtain food and other commodities . Hence we may say that we are likely to find nuclear families where the division of labor is accentuated in society , but not in the family , while extended families are consistent with an accentuated division of labor within the family , but not in society . Division of labor is , of course , heavily stepped up with the growth of industrialism . Industrialism has an almost immediate effect on the number of people in agriculture . As jobs in injustry become available , those under-employed or only seasonally employed in agriculture emigrate to seek factory jobs . This migration depletes the population on the land , leaving an increased amount of land and capital per capita in the rural area . The effect is to raise the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur . Where capital is used to improve the technology of agriculture , the effect is of course increased . As machines replace man , or as work is so organized that fewer men can do the work , the need for labor in agriculture decreases . The surpluses produced by the smaller number remaining go to fewer heads of households ; thus , there is a rise in income . Rising income , in turn , enables the peasant to buy more industrial commodities . Indeed , they may now have to buy them , since emigration decreases the number of parttime specialists who previously furnished the peasant household with goods . At the same time , the shift of demand from agricultural produce to industrial products has important implications for the continued existence of the peasantry . Where economic , social , and political conditions permit , the investment of massive amounts of capital in agriculture will lead to the establishment of " factories in the field , " as long as the rate of profit to be derived from such enterprises equals that of industry . This change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displacement of the peasantry . Where the rate of profit on investments in agriculture is markedly lower than in industry , however , the scale of farms remains small ; thus , the nuclear family will be the dominant social group in peasant farming . 42 . RELATIVES IN AMERICAN SOCIETY What the anthropologist calls kinsmen are called " relatives , " " folks , " kinfolk , " footnote Source : David M. Schneider , American Kinship : A Cultural Account , pp. 21-29. ? 1968 . Reprinted by permission of Prentice-Hall , Inc. , Englewood Cliffs , New Jersey . " people , " or " family " by Americans ; the possessive pronoun may precede these terms . In different regions and dialects various words may be used , but people from different parts of the country generally understand each other and share the same fundamental definitions even when they do not use the same names for the same cultural categories . I will use the American term " relative " as the very rough equivalent for the anthropologist 's term " kinsman , " but this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Americans readily provide is that a relative is a person who is related by blood or by marriage . Those related by marriage may be called " in-laws . " But the word relative can also be used by Americans in a more restricted sense for blood relatives alone and used in direct opposition to relative by marraige . Thus it may be said , " No , she is not a relative ; my wife is an in-law . " Or it may equally properly be said , " Yes , she is a relative ; she is my wife . " One can begin to discover what a relative is in American culture by considering those terms which are the names for the kinds of relatives ? among other things ? and which mark the scheme for their classification . American kinship terms can be divided into two groups . The first group can be called the basic terms , the second , derivative terms . Derivative terms are made up of a basic term plus a modifier. l " Cousin " is an example of a basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Second cousin " is an example of a derivative term . " Father " is another example of a basic term , " - in- law " a modifier . " Father-in-law " is an example of a derivative term . The basic terms are " father , " " mother , " " brother , " " sister , " " son , " " daughter , " " uncle , " " aunt , " " nephew , " " niece , " " cousin , " " husband , " and " wife . " The modifiers are " step- " " - in- law , " " foster , " " great , " " grand , " " first , " " second , " etc. , " once , " " twice , " etc. , " removed , " " half , " and " ex- . " The " removed " modifier is reserved to " cousin . " The " half " modifier is reserved to " brother " and " sister . " The " ex- " modifier is reserved to relatives by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " mother , " " son , " and " daughter " when they have first been modified by " grand , " as in " great grandfather . " " Great " and " grand " do not modify " cousin , " " brother , " " sister , " " husband , " or " wife . " Otherwise modifiers can be used with any basic term . ' The modifiers in this system form two different sets with two different functions . One set of modifiers distinguishes true or blood relatives from those who are not . These are the " step- " " - in- law , " and " foster " modifiers along with the " half " modifier which specifies lees than a Hill blood sibling . Thus " father " is a blood relative , " foster brother " is not . " Daughter " is a blood relative , " step-daughter " is not . The other set of modifiers defines the range of the terms as infinite . These are the " great , " " grand , " " removed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " modifiers . That is , the range or extent of the terms is without limit . There are , therefore , two different kinds of modifiers . One kind , the restrictive , sharply divides blood relatives from those in comparable positions who are not blood relatives . The other kind of modifier , the unrestrictive , simply states the unrestricted or unlimited range of certain relatives . One more important point should be noted about the modifiers . The unrestrictive modifiers mark distance , and they mark it in two ways . The first is by degrees of distance . Thus " first cousin " is closer than " second cousin , " " uncle " closer than " great uncle , " " great uncle " closer than " great great uncle , " and so on . The second way of marking distance is on a simple " inout " basis . Husband is " in , " ex-husband is " out . " ( But note that " first , " " second , " etc. , as modifiers of " husband " and " wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) This structure states a substantial part of the definition of what is and what is not a relative . The first criterion , blood or marriage , is central . The two kinds of modifiers are united in their functions ; one protects the integrity of the closest blood relatives . The other places relatives in calibrated degrees of distance if they are blood relatives , but either " in " or " out " if they are relatives by marriage . If a relative is a person related " by blood , " what does this mean in American culture ? The blood relationship , as it is defined in American kinship , is formulated in concrete , biogenetic terms . Conception follows a single act of sexual intercourse between a man , as genitor , and a woman , as genetrix . At conception , one-half of the biogenetic substance of which the child is made is contributed by the genetrix , and one-half by the genitor . Thus each person has 1(X) per cent of this material , but 50 per cent comes from his mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his conception , and thereby is his " by birth . " Although a child takes part of the mother 's makeup and part of the father 's , neither mother nor father shares that makeup with the other . Since a woman is not " made up of " biogenetic material from her husband , she is not his blood relative . But she is the blood relative of her child precisely because the mother and child are both " made up of , " in part , the very same material . So , too , are the father and child . It is believed , in American kinship , that both mother and father give substantially the same kinds and amounts of material to the child , and that the child 's whole biogenetic identity or any part of it comes half from the mother , half from the father . It is not believed that the father provides the bone , the mother the flesh , for instance , or that the father provides the intelligence , the mother the appearance . In American cultural conception , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinship is whatever the biogenetic relationship is . If science discovers new facts about biogenetic relationship , then that is what kinship is and was all along , although it may not have been known at the time . Hence the real , true , verifiable facts of nature are what the cultural formulation is . And the real , true , objective facts of science ( these are the facts of nature too , of course ) are that each parent provides one-half of his child 's biogenetic constitution . ' The relationship which is " real " or " true " or " blood " or " by birth " can never be severed , whatever its legal position . Legal rights may be lost , but the blood relationship can not be lost . It is culturally defined as being an objective fact of nature , of fundamental significance and capable of having profound effects , and its nature can not be terminated or changed . It follows that it is never possible to have an ex-father or an ex-mother , an ex-sister or an ex-brother , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible , and so is an ex-motherin-law . But an ex-mother is not . It is significant that one may disown a son or a daughter , or one may try to disinherit a child ( within the limits set by the laws of the various states ) . The relationship between parent and child , or between siblings , may be such the two never see each , other , never mention each other 's name , never communicate in any way , each acting as if unaware of the other 's existence . But to those directly concerned , as to all others who know the facts , the two remain parent and child or sibling to each other . Nothing can really terminate or change the biological relationship which exists between them , and so they remain blood relatives . It is this which makes them parent and child or sibling to each other in American culture . Two blood relatives are " related " by the fact that they share in some degree the stuff of a particular heredity . Each has a portion of the natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possession . If they need to prove their kinship , or to explain it to someone , they may name the intervening blood relatives and locate the ascendent whose blood they have in common . It is said that they can trace their blood through certain relatives , that they have " Smith blood in their veins . " But their kinship to each other does not depend on intervening relatives , hut only on the fact that each has some of the heredity that the other has and both got theirs from a single source . Because blood is a " thing " and because it is subdivided with each reproductive step away from a given ancestor , the precise degree to which two persons share common heredity can be calculated , and " distance " can thus be stated in specific quantiative terms . The unalterable nature of the blood relationship has one more aspect of significance . A blood relationship is a relationship of identity . People who are blood relatives share a common identity , they believe . This is expressed as " being of the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common biological constitution , and aspects like temperament , build , physiognomy , and habits are noted as signs of this shared biological makeup , this special identity of relatives with each other . Children are said to look like their parents , or to " take after " one or another parent or grandparent ; these are confirming signs of the common biological identity . A parent , particularly a mother , may speak of a child as " a part of me . " In sum , the definition of a relative as someone related by blood or marriage is quite explicit in American culture . People speak of it in just those terms , and do so readily when asked . The conception of a child occurs during an act of sexual intercourse , at which time one-half of the biogenetic substance of which the child is formed is contributed by the father , its genitor , and one-half by the mother , its genetrix . The Blood relationship is thus a relationship of substance , of shared biogenetic material . ' he degree to which such material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The act that the relationship of blood can not be aided or altered and that it is a state of almost mystical commonality and identity s also quite explicit in American culture . " Relative by marriage " is defined with eference to " relative by blood " in American kinship . The fundamental element which donnas a relative by blood is , of course , blood , a substance , a material thing . Its constitution is whatever it is that really is in nature . It is a natural entity . It endures ; it can not be terminated . Marriage is not a material thing in the same sense as biogenetic heredity is . It is not a " natural thing " in the sense of a material object found in nature . As a state of affairs it is , of course , natural ; it has natural concomitants or aspects , but it is not in itself a natural object . It is terminable by death or divorce . Therefore , where blood is both material and natural , marriage is neither . Where blood endures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such " thing " as blood of which marriage consists , and since there is no such material which exists free in nature , persons related by marriage are not related " in nature . " If relatives " by marriage " are not related " in nature , " how are they related ? Consider the step- , - in- law , and foster relatives . The fundamental fact about these relatives is that they have the role of close relatives without , as informants put it , being " real or blood relatives . " A step-mother is a mother who is not a " real " mother , but the person who is now the father 's wife . A father-in-law is a father who is not Ego 's own father , but his spouse 's father . And a foster son is not one 's own or real son , but someone whom one is caring for as a son . It is possible to describe a foster-child 's relationship to his foster parents , or a stepchild 's relationship ( and this is the word which informants themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its main outline , a parent-child relationship in the sense that it is a pattern for how interpersonal relations should proceed . The natural and material basis for the relationship is absent , but relatives of this kind have a relationship in the sense of following a pattern for behavior , a code for conduct . The classic tragedy of a step-child in Western European folklore , Cinderella for instance , states exactly the nature and also the problem of this relationship . A woman 's relationship to her own child is one in which she has an abiding love and loyalty for it ; her relationship to her husband 's child by his earlier marriage is one in which that child is someone else 's child , not hers . What she does for her step-child she does because of her husband 's claim on her . Hence , if her husband does not protect his child , she may be cruel to it and favor her own child . This is seen as tragic because a child should have a mother who will mother it , and the parent-child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The cruel step-mother of folklore should rise above the literal definition of her relationship to her step-child , and have the kind of relationship ? affection , concern , care , and so forth ? which a mother has for a child . When a person is related to a blood relative he is related first by common biogenetic heredity , a natural substance , and second , by a relationship , a pattern for behavior or a code for conduct . The spouse , on one hand , and the step- , - in- law , and foster relatives , on the other hand , are related by a relationship alone ; there is no natural substance aspect to the relationship . The distinctive feature which defines the order of blood relatives , then , is blood , a natural substance ; blood relatives are thus " related by nature . " This , I suggest , is a special instance of the natural order of things in American culture . The natural order is the way things are in nature . It consists in objects found free in nature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really exist . The feature which alone distinguishes relatives by marriage is their relationship , their pattern for behavior , the code for their conduct . I suggest , this is a special instance of the other general order in American culture , the order of law . The order of law is imposed by man and consists of rules and regulations , customs and traditions . It is law in its special sense , where a foster parent who fails to care properly for a child can be brought to court , and it is law in its most general sense ; law and order , custom , the rule of order , the government of action by morality and the self-restraint of human reason . It is a relationship in the sense of being a code or pattern for how action should proceed . All of the step- , - in- law , and foster relatives fall under the order of law . It is in this sense that a mother-in-law is not a " real " or " true " mother ? not a genetrix , that is ? but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spouse . It is in this sense that a stepmother is not a " real " mother , not the genetrix , but is in a mother-child relationship to her husband 's child . The crux of the Cinderella story is precisely that where the " real mother " is related to her child both by law and by nature , the step-mother lacks the " natural " basis for the relationship , and lacking this natural substance she " feels " no love except toward her " own " child and is thus able to cruelly exploit the child related to her in law alone . If there is a relationship in law without a relationship in nature , as in the case of the spouse , step- , - in- law , and foster relatives , can there be a relationship in nature without a relationship in law ? Indeed there can and there is . What is called a " natural child " is an example . He is a child born out of wedlock , a child , that is , whose mother and father are not married . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case his relationship to his parents is by nature alone and not by law as well ; he is an " illegitimate " child . Similarly , the " real mother " of a child adopted in infancy , whether legitimate or not , is a relative in nature alone and not in law , and so is the genitor of such a child . Although the child is adopted and has every right and every duty of the blood child , in American belief it remains related to its " true " mother and father , its genitor and genetrix , in nature though not in law . In sum , the cultural universe of relatives in American kinship is constructed of elements from two major cultural orders , the order of nature and the order of law . Relatives in nature share heredity . Relatives in law are bound only by law or custom , by the code for conduct , but the pattern for behavior . They are relatives by virtue of their relationship , not their biogenetic attributes . Three classes of relatives are constructed from these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatives in nature alone . This class contains the natural or illegitimate child , the genitor or genetrix who is not the adoptive father or mother , and so on . The second class consists of relatives in law alone . This class may be called " by marriage " or it may be called " in law . " It contains the husband and wife , the step- , - in- law , foster , and other such relatives . The third class consists in relatives in nature and in law . This class of relatives is called " blood relatives " and contains the " father .. . daughter , " " uncle . . . grand-daughter , " " cousin " sets , and so on . The second and third classes of relatives can each be divided into two subclasses . The second class , relatives in law alone , consists of the subclass of husband and wife and the remainder , a subclass which contains the step- , - in- law , and foster relatives , and those for which there are no special lexemes . Husband and wife take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Husband and wife are the only relatives in law on a par with the closest blood relatives ( the " father .. . daughter " set ) . Father and mother are properly also husband and wife . Finally , husband and wife are the only true relatives " by marriage " in one sense of martriage , namely , that sexual relationship be . tween a man and a woman . The third class also consists+ of two subs classes . The first consists of the " father . . . daughter " set of relatives , the second of those relatives who take the " uncle . . granddaughter " and " cousin " terms . The modifier functions symbolize the difference between these subclasses : the first subclass is marked by the restrictive modifier , the second by the unrestrictive modifiers . That is , the " father . . . daughter " subclass is sharply restricted and distinguished from other kinds or degress of " father , " " mother , " etc. , while the " uncle . . . granddaughter " and " cousin " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of distance . Table I represents this summary . I have put this summary in terms of the different classes or categories of relatives in American kinship . Yet these categories are built out of two elements , relationship as natural substance and relationship as code for conduct . Each of these elements derives from or is a special instance of the two major orders which American culture posits the world to be made up of , the order of nature and the order of law . The Role of Women in Cross-cultural Perspective The social position of women in premodern societies was connected to the types and functioning of marriage systems . Although our knowledge of the social organization of extinct preliterate societies is incomplete , there is some anthropological evidence to assert that at least among some hunters and gatherers there was no strict monogamy as we know it in Western culture or exclusive sexual rights for either one of the marriage partners . This is certainly true of the Australian Aborigines and the Eskimo . Some anthropologists speculate that with the advent of horticultural societies , marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " pairing marriage , " as we know it , with sexual rights exclusively reserved to marriage partners . In hunting and gathering societies there was communal production and distribution of food as well as communal ownership of household and children . Women were important economic units and had some decision-making power , and no distinction between the public roles of men and the private roles of women was known . Some anthropologists argue that it was with the origin of private property that the family became separated from the clan and there was a switch from matrilineal to patrilineal systems and monogamy to insure the inheritance of private property from father to son . The following selections deal with the availability of evidence on the equality of sexes in primitive societies and , more importantly , with the cultural and social reasons for the social inequality of women which many anthropologists , including women anthropologists , concede to be prosent in most known societies . 319 43 . THE POSITION OF WOMEN Kathleen Even in hunting societies it seems that women are always in some sense the " second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This varies . Eskimo and Australian aboriginal women are far more subordinate than women among the Kadar , the Andamanese or the Congo Pygmies ? all forest people . I suggest that women have greater power and independence among hunters when they are important food obtainers than when they are mainly processors of meat or other supplies provided by men . The former situation is likelier to exist in societies where hunting is small scale and intensive than where it is extensive over a large terrain , and in societies where gathering is important by comparison with hunting . In general in hunting societies , however , women are less subordinated in certain crucial respects than they are in most , if not all , the archaic states , or even in some capitalist nations . These respects include men 's ability to deny women sexuality or to force it upon them ; to command or exploit their labor or to control their produce ; to control or rob them of their children ; to confine them physically and prevent their movement ; to use them as objects in male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from them large areas of the society 's knowledge and cultural attainments . Especially lacking in hunting societies is the kind of male possessiveness and exclusiveness regarding women that leads to such institutions as savage punishments or death for female adultery , the jealous guarding of female chastity and virginity , the denial of divorce to women , or the ban on a woman 's remarriage after her husband 's death . For these reasons , I do not think we can speak , as some writers do , of a class division between men and women in hunting societies . True , men are more mobile than women and they lead in public affairs . But class society requires that one class control the means of production , dictate its use by the other classes , and expropriate the surplus . These conditions do not exist among hunters . Land and other resources are held communally , although women may monopolize certain gathering areas , and men , their hunting grounds . There are rank difference , role difference , and some difference respecting degrees of authority between the sexes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 320 As Engels maw , the power of men to exploit women systematically springs from the existence of surplus wealth , and more directly , from the state , social stratification , and the control of property by men . With the rise of the state , because of their monopoly over weapons , and because freedom from child care allows them to enter specialized economic and political roles , some men ? especially ruling-class men ? acquire power over other men and over women . Almost all men acquire it over women of their own or lower classes , especially within their own kinship groups . These kinds of male power are shadowy among hunters . To the extent that men have power over women in hunting societies , this seems to spring from the male monopoly of heavy weapons , from the particular division of labor between the sexes , or from both . Although men seldom use weapons against women , they possess them ( or possess superior weapons ) in addition to their physical strength . This does give men an ultimate control of force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ band or family survival , it is usually men who kill them . Infanticide ? rather common among hunters , who must limit the mouths to feed ? is more often female infanticide than male . The hunting of men seems more often to require them to organize in groups than does the work of women . Perhaps because of this , about 60 percent of hunting societies have predominantly virilocal residence . That is , men choose which band to live in ( often , their fathers ' ) , and women move with their husbands . This gives a man advantages over his wife in terms of familiarity and loyalties , for the wife is often a stranger . Sixteen to 17 percent of hunting societies are , however , uxorilocal , with men moving to the households of their wives , while 15 to 17 percent are bilocalthat is , either sex may move in with the other on marriage . Probably because of male cooperation in defense and hunting , men are more prominent in band councils and leadership , in medicine and magic , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sickness , or to initiate boys into manhood . Women do , however , often take part in band councils ; they are not excluded from law and government as in many agrarian states . Some women are respected as wise leaders , storytellers , doctors , or magicians , or are feared as witches . Women have their own ceremonies of fertility , birth , and healing , from which men are often excluded . In some societies , although men control the most sacred objects , women are believed to have discovered them . Among the Congo Pygmies , religion centers about a beneficent spirit , the Animal of the Forest . It is represented by wooden trumpets that are owned and played by men . Their possession and use are hidden from the women and they are played at night when hunting is bad , someone falls ill , or death occurs . During the playing men dance in the public campfire , which is sacred and is associated with the forest . Yet the men believe that women originally owned the trumpet and that it was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forest spirit . When a woman has failed to bear children for several years , a special ceremony is held . Women lead in the songs that usually accompany the trumpets , and an old woman kicks apart the campfire . Temporary female dominance seems to be thought necessary to restore fertility . In some hunting societies women are exchanged between local groups , which are thus knit together through marriages . Sometimes , men of different bands directly exchange their sisters . More often there is a generalized exchange of women between two or more groups , or a one-way movement of women within a circle of groups . Sometimes the husband 's family pays weapons , tools , or ornaments to the wife 's in return for the wife 's services and later , her children . In such societies , although they may be well treated and their consent sought , women are clearly the movable partners in an arrangement controlled by men . Male anthropologists have seized on this as evidance of original male dominance and patri local residence . Fox and others , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out-marrying patrilocal bands , linked together politically by the exchange of women . The fact that fewer than two-thirds of hunting societies are patrilocal today , and only 41 percent have band exogamy , is explained in terms of modern conquest , economic change , and depopulation . I can not accept this formula . It is true that modern hunting societies have been severely changed , deculturated , and often depopulated by capitalist imperialism . I can see little evidence , however , that the ones that are patrilocal today have undergone less change than those that are not . It is hard to believe that in spite of enormous environmental diversity and the passage of thousands , perhaps millions , of years , hunting societies all had band exogamy with patrilocal residence until they were disturbed by Western imperialism . It is more likely that early band societies , like later agricultural tribes , developed variety in family life and the status of women as they spread over the earth . There is also some likelihood that the earliest hunters had matrilocal rather than patrilocal families . Among apes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the troop or are driven out . Females stay closer to their mothers and their original site ; males move about , attaching themselves to females where availability and competition permit . Removal of the wife to the husband 's home or band may have been a relatively late development in societies where male cooperation in hunting assumed overwhelming importance . ' Conversely , after the development of horticulture ( which was probably invented and is mainly carried out by women ) , those tribes in which horticulture predominated over stock raising were most likely to be or to remain matrilocal and to develop matrilineal descent groups with a relatively high status of women . But where extensive hunting of large animals , or later , the herding of large domesticates , predominated , patrilocal residence flourished and women were used to form alliances between malecentered groups . With the invention of metallurgy and of agriculture as distinct from horticulture after 4000 B.C. , men came to control agriculture and many crafts , and most of the great agrarian states had patrilocal residence with patriarchal , maledominant families . 44 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Other " ? Are women universally the " second sex " ? Like Simone de Beauvoir ( 1953 ) , who raised these questions in what must remain one of the most articulate and penetrating essays yet written on women 's position in human societies , we ask them not simply out of some sort of abstract , intellectual curiosity , but because we are searching for ways to think about ourselves . Along with many women today , we are trying to understand our position and to change it . We have become increasingly aware of sexual inequities in economic , social , and political institutions and are seeking ways to fight them . A first step in that direction involves the recognition that in learning to be women in our own society , we have accepted , and even internalized , what is all too often a derogatory and constraining image of ourselves . Contemporary feminists have only begun to uncover the depth and pervasiveness of our inegalitarian sexual ideology ? to perceive , and then to question , assumptions about the nature of the female that obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What once seemed necessary and natural has began to look arbitrary and unwarranted . What once could be assumed , ignored , or tacitly acknowledged now seems problematic and difficult to explain . And what has been true of common cultural stereotypes has , of course , been true of the view of women implicit in Western social science . For the most part , scholars have taken for granted a view of women as passive sexual objects , as devoted mothers , and as dutiful wives . There have been exceptions ? a handful of ethnographies that take a woman 's perspective ( Chinas , 1973 ; Fernea , 1965 ; Goodale , 1971 ; Kaberry , 1939 , 1952 ; Landes , 1938 , 1947 ; Leith-Ross , 1952 ; Strathern , 1972 ; Wolf , 1972 ) , some theoretical essays ( Ardener , 1971 ; Schlegel , 1972 ) , two collections of articles on women in specific geographic areas Paulme , 1963 ; Sweet , 1967 ) , some writings on child rearing and the suggestive explorations into the relations of culture and sexuality associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , anthropologists in writing about human culture have following our own culture 's ideological bias in 323 treating women as relatively invisible and describing what are largely the activities and interests of men . In order to correct that bias , to alter our conceptions of the female , and to understand their source , what we need are new perspective . Today , it seems reasonable to argue that the social world is the creation of both male and female actors , and that any full understanding of human society and any viable program for social change will have to incorporate the goals , thoughts , and activities of the " second sex . " Within the field of anthropology , a concern to understand and to change women 's position has generated a number of important questions . Are there societies that unlike our own , make women the equals or superiors of men ? If not , are women " naturally " men 's inferiors ? Why do women , in our own society and elsewhere , accept a subordinate standing ? How , and in what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do women help to shape , create , and change the private and public worlds in which they live ? New questions demand new kinds of answers . The development of a science depends on discovering in facts previously taken for granted , a field for serious investigation and research ... . Perhaps the first question that arises in an anthropological study of women is whether there are societies , unlike our own , in which women are publicly recognized as equal to or more powerful than men . This question was addressed in the evolutionary theories of nineteenth-century writers like Bachofen ( 1861 ) and L. H. Morgan ( 1851 , 1877 ) , who suggested that in an earlier stage of human development the social world was organized by a principle called matriarchy , in which women had power over men . Although this view has excited the imaginations of several recent feminist writers ( Davis , 1972 ; E. Morgan , 1972 ) , most academic anthropologists have dismissed it out of hand . The matriarchal arguments draw on several kinds of evidence : data from contemporary societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data from societies in which descent is reckoned through women ( ma- triliny ) , rather than through both parents ( bilateral ) or from father to son ( patriliny ) ; myths of ancient rule by women ; archaeological remains suggesting that there have been female goddesses , queens , or a tendency to kill infant males in certain earlier societies . As against this , the current anthropological view draws on the observation that most and probably all contemporary societies , whatever their kinship organization or mode of subsistence , are characterized by some degree of male dominance . Whereas some anthropologists argue that there are , or have been , truly egalitarian societies ( Leacock , 1972 ) , and all agree that there are societies in which women have achieved considerable social recognition and power , none has observed a society in which woman have publicly recognized power and authority surpassing that of men . Everywhere we find that women are excluded from certain crucial economic or political activities , that their roles as wives and mothers are associated with fewer powers and prerogatives than are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , that all contemporary societies are to some extent male-dominated , and although the degree and expression of female subordination vary greatly , sexual asymmetry is presently a universal fact of human social life . The archaeological data are more problematic , since they have to be interpreted in terms of a set of assumptions based on our knowledge of existing cultures or on some presumed but not presently observed patterns . Elaborate female burials might , for example , indicate a world in which women were the rules ; but they could equally be the remains of wives , mistresses , concubines of male elites , or women who became heads of state in lieu of male heirs in a royal family . Female sculptures may represent goddesses , but there are historically documented and well-studied contemporary societies that manifest female fertility cults while at the same time placing political power in the hands of men . Similarly , myths of primordial female eminence are found today in male-dominated societies , nd moot anthropologists believe that such myths , rather than reflecting history , are expressions of a culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the societies in which they are told . The issues involved here are complex , but the evidence of contemporary anthropology gives scant support to an argument for matriarchy . Though our knowledge of the past is sometimes sketchy , there is little reason to believe that early sexual orders were substantially different from those observed around the world today . Matriarchal accounts of past societies have , of course , the advantage of suggesting that contemporary sexual asymmetry is in no way natural . And one might even argue that the idea of matriarchy constitutes a useful myth , a guide for present action , and that it is important insofar as it enjoins us to imagine a world in which women have real power ( Webster and Newton , 1972 ) . At the same time , these accounts often have the disadvantage of highlighting woman 's failure as a ruler , and so legitimize a social order dominated by men . As a myth or a utopian vision , the idea of matriarchy has currency today as a source of hope for women . As a recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . .. . What , then , do anthropologists know about our heritage ? Does the rejection of martiarchy as an accurate description of early society imply that female subordination is somehow necessary and natural , that it is determined by the biological constitutions of the human species ? There are , of course , a number of ways of answering these questions .... In order to explain the apparent universality of male dominance , one can , for instance , ask what is its origin and seek evidence for a fixed and given core of " human nature " in biological data , in parallels between the social lives of humans and primates , or in reconstructions of the life of early women and men . Or putting aside the questions of origins , one can ask what features of the organization of all known human societies have permitted them to produce and reproduce an inegalitarian sexual order . . . . Surely no one would question that the sexes differ in biological constitution . Women lactate and bear children , and this fact has important consequences for human social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of hormonal endowments , and probably in size and potential physical strength . ( For some recent reviews of the relevant literature , see Maccoby , 1966 ; Bardwick , 1971 ; Hutt , 1972 ; Money and Ehrhardt , 1972 . ) But the observation of physical differences itself tells us little about the social worlds we live in ; for humans , biology becomes important largely as it is interpreted by the norms and expectations of human culture and society . For example , biologists may tell us that men are , on the average , stronger than women ; but they can not tell us why male strength and male activities in general seem to be valued by people in all cultures . Again , it is a biological fact that women lactate , but the behavioral consequences of the fact will differ , depending on the availability of bottles , the amounts and kinds of protein in the diet , or the prevalence of an ideology holding , for example , that children need to be fed every time they cry . Humans , unlike animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their biological constitutions , to regulate their behavior through the mediation of symbolic forms , like language . Although science has not yet determined the extent to which hormones shape the behavior of humans , it seems likely that humans are not subject to the same sorts of behavioral programming that characterize the lower primates . In fact , it has been argued that human biology requires human culture . In Geertz 's words , one striking fact about our " central nervous system is the relative incompleteness with which , acting within the confines of autogenous patterns alone , it is able to specify behavior " ( 1962 : 729 ) . Human activities and feelings are organized , not by biology directly , but by the interaction of biological propensities and those various and culture-specific expectations , plans , and symbols that coordinats our toLions and so permit our species to survive . The implication of such an argument for understanding human sex roles is that biological differences between the sexes may not have necessary social and behavioral implications . What is male and what is female will depend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's mode of life . Recent investigations of the biological bases of human behavior encourage a similar conclusion . The evidence from primate studies and from examinations of human infants , adult hormones , and the behavior of hermaphrodites and others who have been called " sexual anomalies " ( Hutt , 1972 ; Money and Ehrhardt , 1972 ) all points to the conclusion that biology constrains but does not determine the behavior of the sexes , and that differences between human males and females reflect an interaction between our physical constitutions and our patterns of social life . So , for example , whereas early theorists sought the origins of human sex roles and even of the modern Western family , in the activities of certain primates , many researchers today emphasize that primate species differ with respect to extent of sexual dimorphism , male-dominance behavior , aggression , and the like . What is more , the behavior of the sexes within even a single primate species ( Rowell , 1972 ) has been shown to vary from expressions of dominance to relatively egalitarian relations , depending on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , whatever the biological determinants of their behavior , primates , like humans , seem to have an impressive capacity to adopt new forms of social relationships in new social and physical worlds . In a similar vein , recent studies of human hormones and of sexually dimorphic patterns of behavior indicate , first , that sexlinked behavioral differences are of a quantitative rather than a qualitative nature , and second , that hormonal levels ( which are supposed to govern behaviors ) themselves are highly sensitive to changes in one 's social environment . In psychological testing , many males behave " like females , " and on several measures there is more variation in the performances and capacities of a single sex than there is between the two ( Maccoby and Jacklin , 1974 ) . Again , recent evidence that stressful contexts lead to a decrease in testosterone suggests that social contexts and contextually induced behaviors influence the appearance of hormones , rather than the reverse ( Kreuz et al. , 1972 ) . In other words , there seems to be increasing evidence that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that even primates adopt new patterns of behavior when confronted with new environments . That human males and females have fixed , significant , and necessarily distinct behavioral propensities is far from clear . Just as foot binding in traditional China created women who were constitutionally incapable to certain kinds of physical exertion , so it seems likely that our culturally specified and different ways of acting themselves influence our physical lives . In short , although we are certain that biological studies will illuminate our understanding of the sexes , we feel that the issues are too complex for definitive treatment in this volume , and furthermore , that they do not determine the relations and evaluations of the sexes in contemporary forms of social life . One other account of the origins of sexual asymmetry deserves our attention . This is the notion that the earliest forms of human society found it adaptive to differentiate the activities of men and women , giving those of men a special value , and that this early adaptation has become part of the sociocultural inheritance of our species . Contemporary evolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominance , have suggested that human social existence originated in the cooperative activities of early men , who were hunters . The argument has been that hunting large animals demands the coordinated efforts of several individuals , and because it often involves danger and extensive travel , it tends to exclude women , who must produce and care for children , and so are constrained in their movements . A related argument is that male strength and sire dictated that men rather than women would adopt the responsibility for intergroup aggression and defense . Hunting , a specifically male acticity , is seen as a creative turning point in human evolution ; it demanded the first forms of social cooperation and it encouraged the invention of our first " artistic " tools . Washburn and Lancaster sum up the implications of hunting by stating , " In a very real sense our intellect , interests , emotions , and basic social life ? all are evolutionary products of the success of the hunting adaptation " ( 1968 : 293 ) . Whereas those who view evolution in terms of Man the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in early social life , they assign the latter only secondary importance . More recently , Linton ( 1973 ) has explored the role of Woman the Gatherer and , in redressing the balance , has noted that women contribute the bulk of the diet in contemporary huntinggathering populations , that small-game hunting practiced by both sexes may have preceded the advent of big-game hunting , and that some early tools ( in additon to containers not preserved in the archaeological record ) may have been aids in gathering . She also speculates that gathering and the socialization of children , both women 's activities , required cooperative and communicative skills as complex as those involved in hunting , and so would have had an important impact on the creation of early social and cultural patterns . This second reconstruction ( further developed in recent work by Tanner and Zihlman , n.d. ) emphasize that role of women as well as that of men , and seems preferable to the Man the Hunter version of human evolution ; but whatever account one chooses , it is clear that our knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that the development of biggame hunting and warfare promoted an eithic of male dominance , it is difficult to see why biases associated with man 's earliest adaptations should remain with us today . The question then becomes : why , if our sodal worlds are so dif Brent from those of our ancestors , has the relation of the sexes continued to be asymmetrical , and how is it that social groups , which change radically through time , continue to produce and reproduce a social order dominated by men ? 45 . WOMEN IN CLASS SOCIETIES When we note how the position of women declined from Mbuti and Lovedu to Ganda , and since this is correlated with the domestication of women 's work and the development of production for exchange and private property , it is tempting to conclude that Engels was right after all ? that private property and production for exchange lead to women 's domestication and subordination . Many anthropologists accept something like Engels 's view of the relationship between private property and the growth of social inequality and classes . I too suspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in nonclass societies than in class societies . But I do not think that male property ownership is the basis for male supremacy in class societies . First , not all males own productive property . Second , in many class societies women as well as men own productive property ? even in societies with a strong pattern of male dominance . In the latter case , a wife 's ownership of property does give her a substantial amount of domestic power in relation to her husband ( Friedl , 1967 ) . But class societies result in a sharp dichotomy between the domestic and public spheres of life , and this domestic power is not translatable into social power or position in the public sphere . Moreover , in class societies the economic and political autonomy of a household is quite restricted . Thus , in necessary dealing in the public sector women are at a disadvantage . This probably militates against even domestic equality . It seems likely , then , that in class societies the subordinate position of women derives not from domestic property relations but from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The 329 question then become. , why do class societies have male public power and ideals of male social dominance ? For an explanation , the focus must shift from the domestic to the societal level . We have seen that public or social labor is the material basis for adult social status . It follows that a society would have to exclude women from public labor to deny them social adulthood for any length of time . This seems to have been the case , at least for precapitalist agrarian states of Eurasia ( Boserup , 1970 ) . Leaving aside for the moment the obvious exception of industrial capitalism , what were the circumstances that may have led class societies to exclude women from social production ? Class societies are exploitative , which means that many people must work for the benefit of a few . Whereas tithes and taxes on domestically producted goods can serve this end , even agrarian societies do not rely exclusively or , I think , mainly on this form of production . Corvee for public works ( both sumptuary and productive ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage work for the rulers ? all collective forms of social or public labor ? are important productive activities in class societies . Although these may not necessarily bulk large from the local viewpoint , they are crucial nationally for creationg the " surpluses " by which rulers and their states are maintanined . Though women may or may not engage in domestic agriculture , they do not seem to participate in these large-scale forms of social production . It seems that class societies tend to socialize the work of men and to domesticate that of women . This creates the material and organizational foundations for denying that women are adults , and allows ruling classes to define them as wards of men . But why would this happen in a class society ? With the development of socialized production for a ruling class , domestic production for subsistence becomes more precarious , forcing people into greater reliance on production for exchange ? laboring for the rulers in exchange for their subsistenoe ( alternatively , rulers can fords people to work for them as a condition of access to subsistence resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they are more mobile , but probably more significantly because they can be more intensively exploited than women , not having to nurse and rear children . Clark ( 1968 ) provides rather gruesome data from seventeenth-cwntury England , a period preceding and setting the social conditions for later industrialization . Peasants were being forced off the land and were swelling a class of rural , landless laborers . The idea of wages as something paid for a task was not yet fully institutionalized . This belief contended with the earlier notion that an exployer was in some way obligated to meet the subsistence needs of his workers . Yet payments were so low that a landless family was barely able to survive . A man or woman without children could survive , but prevailing remuneration did not allow for reproduction and rearing of the next generation of laborers . Indeed , they did not reproduce themselves . Clark shows that the laboring class grew in size only from constant new recruits from the peasantry . Women and children were deliberately excluded from wage work by employers , who felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not bear the burden of supporting nonproductive dependents . In human terms the results were an abandonment of women and their early death , and in organizational terms a largely male public labor force . Once such a dichotomy is made ? women in domestic work for family use ; men in social production for exchange ? there is an organizational basis for a sexual divide-andrule policy . Whether such policies are conscious or not , debates about motivation or conscious conspiracy are irrelevant here . The effect of state legal systems and other aspects of ideology developed mainly by ruling classes has been to convert difference between men and women in terms of their roles in production into a system of differential worth . Through their labor men are social adults ; women are domestic wards . Men are more directly exploited , and often collectively so  --  a situation where the possibility exists that they can act collectively to change it . Women 's field of activity and major responsibility is restricted to the household , which neither produces nor owns the means of production for more than domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done to institute social change in a class society . This situation has several consequences . First , women are relegated to the bottom of a social pecking order ( a man 's home is his castle ) . Second , because of their isolation and exclusion from the marketplace , women can be used as a conservative force , unconsciously upholding the status quo in their commitment to the values represented by home , family , and children . Finally , the family is the sole institution with responsibility for consumption and maintenance of its members and for rearing children ? the future generation of exchange workers . It is necessary labor if the system is to be perpetuated , but women are forced to perform it without compensation . Modern capitalism has maintained this pattern of exploiting the private domestic labor of women , but since industrialization women have been heavily involved in public or wage labor . Meeting the heavy labor burden that capitalism places on the family remains socially women 's responsibilty . Responsibility for domestic work is one of the material bases for present barriers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more exploitable position than men in the public labor force . As Benston shows ( 1969 ) , this domestic work is not considered " real " work because it has only private use value and no exchange value ? it is not public labor . Women 's greater exploitabilty in the modern wage labor force may even derive from a preindustrial adaptation to being excluded from public labor ( ironically , because women were less exploitable in a prewage milieu ) . Only after they had been defined as inadequate for public labor were the conditions right for industrial capitalism to discover women as a source of cheap labor . In short , what I am suggesting is that intensive exploitation in social production by and for ruling classes favored making this men 's work . In turn , ruling classes capitalized on the situation , legitimizing the division of labor by a thoroughgoing system of differential worth . In return for the loss of economic autonomy , they conferred on men exclusive social adulthood and guardianship of women . Under these circumstances , even if women own property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it publicly , and to subordinate the household to the larger society . The key aspect , then , of women 's position , especially in class societies , is social adulth000d , and this comes from participation in social production . This brief examination of the bases of women 's domestic and social status suggests some tentative conclusions about the kinds of economic and social changes necessary for full sexual equality . Although property ownership seems important for women 's domestic position vis-a-vis a husband , the exercise of domestic power , particularly in class societies , is limited by whether or not women have adult status in the social sphere . This in turn is determined by their participation in social production . But the dichotomization of family and society , which is especially strong in class societies , makes women responsible for the production of private use value and makes men responsible for the production of exchange value . The distinction between production for use and production for exchange places a heavy responsibility on women to maintain themselves as well as exchange workers and to rear future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes an additional burden and in no way changes women 's responsibility for domestic work . For full social equality , men 's and women 's work must be of the same kind : the production of social use values . For this to happen , family and society can not remain separate economic spheres of life . Production , consumption , child rearing , and economic decision making all need to take place in a single social sphere ? something analogous to the Iroquois gene as deecribed by Engels , or the production brigades of contemporary China . That is , what is now private family work must become public work for women to become full social adults . If results from recent studies of the ! Kung * people apply to other societies , anthropologists may now have some new clues as to the social , dietary , and demographic changes that took place during the Neolithic Revolution when people forsook lives of hunting and gathering and began to farm and to keep herds of domestic animals . The ! Kung have lived as hunters and gatherers in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least 11,000 years ; but recently they have.begun to live in agrarian villages near those of Bantus . Investigators who are documenting this change find that , among other things , the settled ! Kung women are losing their egalitarian status , the children are no longer brought up to be nonaggressive , and the size of the ! Kung population is The exclamation point refers to an alveolarpalatal click . The tongue tip is pressed against the roof of the mouth and drawn sharply away , producing a hollow popping sound . rapidly increasing rather than remaining stable . The ! Kung 's very existence is anomalous since they have lived by hunting and gathering since the Pleistocene . In his archeological studies , John Yellen of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington , D.C. , finds artificats from Late Stone Age hunter-gatherers , of about 11,000 years ago , at the same water holes where modern ! Kung set up camp . According to Yellen , these prehistoric hunter-gatherers even hunted the same animals as the contemporary ! Kung , including the nocturnal springhare which must be hunted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long deep burrow . As recently as 10 years ago , many of the ! Kung still lived by hunting and gathering . Now , however , less than 5 percent of the 30,000 ! Kung live in this way ; the remainder live in agritural villages . This period of rapid social change coincided with extensive study of these people by numerous investigators throughout the world and from many disciplines . It is difficult to distinguish between changes due to settling down and changes due to acculturation to Bantu society . Investigators have drawn on extensive long-term studies of the nomadic ! Kung in their documentation of the effects of the ! Kung 's adoption of an agrarian life , but can not conclusively state the causes of these effects . One aspect of the settled ! Kung society that has aroused considerable interest among social scientists is the role of women . Patricia Draper of the University of New Mexico reports that ! Kung women who belong to the nomadic bands enjoy higher status , more autonomy , and greater ability 333 to directly influence group decisions than do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agrarian women , Draper believes , may be explained in terms of the social structure of nomadic , as compared to sedentary , groups . Draper postulates that one reason for the higher status of ! Kung hunter-gatherer women is that the women contribute , by gathering , at least 50 percent of the food consumed by a band . Since food gathered by women is so important to the group , the women , of necessity , are as mobile as the men ( who hunt ) , and women and men leave the camp equally often to obtain food . Both the women and men who do not seek food on a given day remain in the camp and share in taking care of the children . The women in sedentary ! Kung societies have far less mobility than the men and contribute less to the food supply . The men leave the village to clear fields and raise crops and to care for the cattle of their Bantu neighbors . The women remain in the village where they prepare food and take care of the shelters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bantu language . Thus when the Bantus deal with the ! Kung , they deal exclusively with the men . This practice , together with the ! Kung 's emulation of the male dominated Bantu society , contributes to increasingly subservient roles for ! Kung women . Also contributing to a loss of female egalitarianism is the different way that agrarian , as compared to nomadic , ! Kung bring up their children . Draper points out that the nomads live in bands consisting of very few people so that a child generally has no companions of the same age . Thus play groups contain children of both sexes and a wide variety of ages . This discourages the development of distinct games and roles for boys and girls . Unlike the nomadic children , the sedentary children play in groups consisting of children of the same sex and similar ages . The boys are expected to help herd cattle , so they leave the village where they are away from adults and on their own . The girls , according to Draper , have no comparable experience but remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In addition to promoting sexual egalitarianism by their child rearing practices , the nomadic ! Kung also discourage aggression among their children . This is no longer the case when the ! Kung become sedentary . The nomadic children observed by Draper do not play competitive games . She attributes this to the wide range of ages of children in a group which would make competitiveness difficult . Moreover , since these children are constantly watched by adults , the adults can and do quickly stop aggressive behavior among children . The children rarely observe aggressive behavior among adults because the nomadic ! Kung have no way to deal with physical aggression and consciously avoid it . For example , according to Richard Lee of the University of Toronto , when conflict within a group of adults begins , families leave for other bands . Lee observed that the sedentary ! Kung , who can not easily pick up and leave , rely on their Bantu neighbors to mediate disputes . In addition to studying social changes taking place when the ! Kung settle down , investigators are studying dietary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interest because the nomadic ( Kung are exceedingly healthy and are free from many diseases thought to be associated with the diets of people in more complex societies . The sedentary ! Kung have substantially altered their diets , thus providing investigators with a unique opportunity to document the effects of diet on the health of these people . The demographic changes taking place among the ! Kung are of interest because the settled ! Kung seem to have lost a natural check on their fertility rates . The diet of the completely nomadic ! Kung , which has been analyzed by geneticists , biochemists , and nutritionists , consists of nuts , vegetables , and meat and lacks milk and grains . All the investigators agree that the diet is nutritionally well balanced and provides an adequate number of calories . They found very few people with iron deficiency anemia , even when they included pregnant and lactating women in their sample . They also discovered that the nomadic ! Kung have a very low incidence of deficiency of the vitamin folic acid and that the concentrations of vitamin B12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal for other populations . These findings led Henry Harpending of the University of New Mexico and his associates to suggest that Stone Age people probably had no deficiencies of these vitamins and that deficiencies first appeared when people settled down into agrarian societies . In addition to being well nourished , the nomadic ! Kung are free from many common diseases of old age . For example , Lee and others have found little degenerative disease among elderly ! Kung , although it is commonplace for these people to live for at least 60 years and some live for as long as 80 years . A. Stewart Truswell of the University of London also finds that the nomadic ! Kung are one of only about a dozen groups of people in the world whose blood pressure does not increase as they grow older . The medical effects of the altered diet and way of life of the sedentary ! Kung are not yet well established . In contrast to the hunter-gatherers , these people consume a great deal of cow 's milk and grain . In his studies of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lee finds that they are , on the average , taller , fatter , and heavier than the nomadic ! Kung . Nancy Howell of the University of Toronto finds that the agrarian women have their first menstrual periods ( menarches ) earlier than the nomadic women . The average age of menarche among nomadic ! Kung is late ? at least age 15.5 according to Howell . Although these women marry at puberty , they have their first children when they are , on the average , 19.5 years of age . This late start to reproductive life helps limit the growth of the population . However , a more significant curb on the size of nomadic populations is the low fertility of the women . Howell finds that the average length of time between giving birth for a nomadic ! Kung woman is 4 years . These women have fewer children than any other women in societies that do not practice contraception or abortion . The low fertility of nomadic ! Kung contradicts previously held theories that the sizes of hunter-gatherer populations were limited solely by high mortality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are so few children born . Combining her studies of the fertility and mortality rates of ! Kung hunter-gatherers , Howell concludes that the long-term growth rate for such a population is only 0.5 percent per year . This is in sharp contrast to the sedentary ! Kung whose population is growing rapidly . The population growth among the sedentary ! Kung results from both a decrease in the age of menarche and a decrease in the average time between births . Lee has found that the birth intervals drop 30 percent when ! Kung women become sedentary . The causes of these reproductive changes are unknown , but some investigators suspect that these decreased birth intervals may result from changes in nursing or dietary habits . Nomadic ! Kung women have no soft food to give their babies , and so they nurse them for 3 or 4 years , and during this time the women rarely conceive . Sedentary ! Kung women , on the other hand , wean their babias much sooner by giving them grain meal and cow 's milk . Irven DeVore of Harvard University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not unexpected , since investigators have observed the same phenomenon in many animals , including monkeys and the great apes . A woman who begins to supplement her infant 's diet while the child is very young would not experience this effect because her child would require less and less milk . Howell and Rose Frisch of the Harvard Center for Population Studies believe that an explanation of the decrease in the age of menarche and in the birth intervals of sedentary ! Kung women may involve the diet of the sedentary ! Kung . They base this idea on a study by Frisch and Janet McArthur of the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston . These investigators showed that the amount of body fat must be above a certain minimum for the onset of menstruation and for its maintenance after menarche . Howell points out that the ! Kung hunter-gatherers are thin , although well nourished . When women from these bands Iactab , they need about 1(XX) extra calories a day . Thus , during the 3 or 4 years that a woman nurses a baby , she may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The shorter birth intervals for sedentary ! Kung women would follow from their shorter periods of last n tion and larger amounts of body fat . Howe ' l notes that this explanation of the low fertility of nomadic ! Kung women can not be verified until more extensive medical studies are performed with these people . Although no one claims that the changes taking place in the ! Kung society necessarily reflect those that took place when other hunter-gatherer societies ' became agrarian , studies of the ! Kung are providing anthropologists with clues relative to the origins of some features of modern societies . Many findings , such as the social egalitarianism , lack of aggression , and low fertility of nomadic ! Kung are leading to new perspectives on the hunting and gathering way of life which was , until 10,000 years ago , the way all humans lived . Political anthropology deals with the study of the mechanisms by which societies maintain social order and resolve disputes among competing groups . Anthropologists disagree on the best way to study political phenomena and on the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropologists suggest that we should study the values and norms which concern political activities , since the holistic approach is in the best tradition of anthropology . Other anthropologists maintain that the allocation of authority is the most important aspect of political phenomena and suggest that political anthropologists should deal with the activities which allocate authority in societies , but others argue that this is appropriate only for the study of societies with centralized authority . This latter group of anthropologists argues that we should formulate a definition of political phenomena that is valid for all societies , since in all societies there exist norms regulating the processes of cooperation and competition through which public goals are implemented ; goals are public when they affect the welfare and interests of the whole group and require the consensus of the whole group for implementation . For instance , every society must provide for internal order and solidarity as well as protection against external threats . These are two public goals and the activities directed toward these goals constitute what we call political activity . Other anthropologists argue that in prestate societies there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social life , since all important social activities are integrated , and they maintain that political functions are performed within the framework of kinship structures . Recently , political anthropologists have been emphasizing political processes to counterbalance the early emphasis on the classification of political forms which was initiated by the pioneer book of Meyer Fortes and E. E. Evans-Pritchard , African Political Systems ( see selection 47 ) . However , students of political processes have not yet produced clear-cut classifications , since they are only at the beginning of a complex task . The emphases on political values or on the allocation of authority or 337 on the implementation of public goals are not exclusive , but complementary , aspects of the same group of social concerns and activities . To avoid the use of concepts which are not universally applicable , we can state that political anthropology deals with the mechanisms and norms of social control which regulate the conflicts among kinship groups and the pursuit of goals which affect the welfare of the society as a whole . We have used the term " social control " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its members to social norms . Some anthropologists , however , maintain that the notion of social control is not specific enough to indicate the regulation of conflicts among kinship groups , since it is used to indicate mechanisms of conformity to reciprocal expectations of members of kinship units . The issue , then , becomes one of whether the notion of law is more appropriate and whether this notion is universally applicable . Some early anthropologists argued that simple primitive societies , especially the hunters and gatherers , have no law , but only customs . In their view , custom differs from la in that it is obeyed automatically because the absolute binding force of traditio Malinowski argued that primitive peopl have laws insofar as they are induced conform to social norms by the principle reciprocity ( see the introduction to the nomics section ) . In fact , in a small and face . to-face society people must meet social expectations if they want others to do the same . However , this notion of law is not different from the general notion of social control or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not differentiate political relationships from other social relationships . For this reason Radcliffe-Brown distinguishes between the general notion of social control and the notion of law which entails the application of force by political society ( see selection 48 ) . ' Besides the issue of the nature of political forms and processes in preliterate and peasant societies , there is also the important question of the " spirit " or humane quality of these forms and processes . This issue is dealt with in the section on economics and in selection 49 of this section . 47 . TYPES OF PRIMITIVE POLITICAL SYSTEMS We illustrate our approach through the analysis of several selected cases : various types of " segmentary " tribes ( mostly African , Apache , Plains Indian , and Pueblo ) , African autonomous village-communities , and some African centralized kingdoms . These societies do not constitute a systematic sample of primitive tribes ( they are mostly African ) , but since our purpose is only to illustrate the feasibility of our approach , this can perhaps be excused . The starting point of this analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations . The first broad group is composed of tribes which seemingly have no specially organized , central political authority or organization ; political activity takes place within the subgroups of the society and through their interaction . Beyond this common denominator there are many differences between these tribes , particularly in the nature of the main subgroups among which interaction takes place , and the extent of and the main social spheres of this interaction ( our sample does not include all variations , but those presented suffice for our preliminary analysis ) . This category includes : ( a ) tribes with but rudimentary political interaction between various loose bands , small family and territorial units ( only cursorily mentioned ) ; ( b ) segmentary tribes organized in corporate lineages between which there is extensive political and ritual interaction ; ( c ) tribes in which , in addition to the organized kinship groups , other important groups and principles of social and political interaction exist , notably in those cases where various criteria of universalistic allocation of roles are manifested in age-groups and regiments ; ( d @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membership and oriented either to ritual or collective ( war ) activities ; ( e ) tribes in which the kinship 339 and lineage groups interact on the basis of a special hierarchical stratification into classes ( mostly in the ritual field ) , and finally ( f ) the co-called " acephalous villages " in which the importance of family and kinship groups diminishes in favor of various specialized associations based on the universalistic criteria of achievement and interacting chiefly in the economic and social spheres . The next category includes those tribes among which central political authority and organization undoubtedly exist , subdivided according to the types of groups which bear the political action and positions . The first are ( g ) tribes in which kinship and lineage groups are the most important units that bear political action ; the second are ( h ) tribes in which some universalistic groups also exist , such as regiments or age-groups , and the last are ( i ) societies in which various types of associations perform such central tasks . While we call each type by a descriptive name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it should be borne in mind that they are not a series of discrete , discontinuous categories , but derive from the analytical criteria enumerated above . I. TYPES OF SEGMENTARY TRIBES A. Band Organization The simplest type of political and social organization can be found among " simple , " noncentralized societies , such as Australian and Pygmy tribes , and tribes such as Jicarilla Apache ( Bellah , 195:212-41 ) , and the Plateau Tonga ( Colson , 1953 ) . They are composed of relatively undifferentiated , loose groups , families and territorial units . There is little division of labor , and the extent of interaction and interdependence is relatively small except for intermarriage . Roles are mainly allocated to members of the family and other small particularistic groups , and there is relatively little scope for individual initiative and achievement , except occasionally in the field of leader . ship . The main goal orientations are adap tive and ritual ; i.e. , adaptation to the physical environment , procurement of wellbeing for the tribe , and maintenance of its main patterns of life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main subgroups of the society and through their interaction . The system of stratification , insofar as it exists , is focused on these units , with status determined in terms of the common ritual values and to some extent in terms of the relative wealth between the various local and kinship groups . In these tribes , we find few fixed " political " positions and a high degree of self-regulation of the main component groups . B. " Classical " Segmentary Tribes The " classical " segmentary societies are best exemplified by the Tallensi ( Fortes , 1940 , 1945 , 1949 ) and Bantu Kavirondo ( Wagner , 1949 ) and less well by the Nuer ( Evans-Pritchard , 1940b ) . Among them , the basic lineage groups ? the various maximal lineages ? are the primary bearers of political roles and tasks . There is a high degree of organized interdependence and cornplementarity among the various component units . The main unit of social specialization is the lineage , i.e. , a segment of the clan in which the members are genealogically related to one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may split off after some generations , but the common identification expressed in terms of common ancestry persists . The lineages and clans are usually localized groups with a strong corporate organization . Their interrelations are defined in corporate terms and the most important political , judicial , and ritual interaction of their members is carried on in the name of these corporate units , the individual members acting as their representatives . The mutual specialization and interdependence of corporate lineages and clans is manifest among the Tallensi in the two types of chiefdoms , the na am and the ritual tendaam ( Custodian of the Earth ) ; the first is related to earth and the second                     