@@773508

txt The Shadow in the Cave class , black militantism , the left , demonstrators , and violent radicals . One problem here is that the groups as defined are not mutually exclusive . . . they were not issues but symbols . To measure the fairness of coverage of symbols , one would have to identify the different symbols of left , center , right , etc. and then measure their relative incidence . Miss Efron 's procedure does not do this . ' Her book aroused a great deal of attention ; it was impossible to ignore the fact that the critics of biased ' news felt that at last something had been proved . The more reasoned the refutations put out by the networks , the more convinced Miss Efron 's supporters became that she was right . Professor Weaver , however , put forward a wholly different explanation for the bias ' of the networks . He argues that it is vain to look for deliberate unfairness ' on the part of the newsmen covering the 1968 Presidential election . They saw their job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the fact that the newsman uses a journalistic model of the political society , one that made him see the election as a series of events to be covered in narrative form in accordance with established professionalisms and definitions of news ' . What Miss Efron discovered , Weaver argues , was not bias against Nixon , but bias against someone like Nixon for reasons of his journalistically-defined situation and identity ' . Traditionally American journalism has seen American political life as a game played by individual politicians for personal advantage ; this picture of politics , whether true ' or not , gives American journalism its sense of realness , its no-nonsense flavour , a knowing air of world-weary wisdom . Against the background of traditional American journalistic practice the candidates are driven constantly to exaggerate their good qualities and minimise or explain away their failings . The electorate 's ability to make sensible choices on the basis of judgement of the issues is severely reduced , as the reporters ( especially in television where a small group of moral themes is restated again and again ) concentrate on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electorate about the events and their personalities . Weaver sees the problem entirely in the inadequacy of the professional notion of news itself . Insofar as we rely on news in forming our mental picture of what is going 100 News ? The Ugly Mirror on in the world , what we are receiving is not a neutral body of information , but rather information gathered and presented to illustrate certain ways of seeing the world , based on certain values and favorable to certain courses of action . ' 42 Weaver poses a serious moral problem of legitimacy - what right do the newsmen have to force us to see the world , fair ' though they may be in presenting it , through their own special lenses ? Weaver might be said to exaggerate the role of traditional journalistic assumptions within television news ; in the United States , the newsman inherits the grand early twentiethcentury tradition of muckraking.43 Broadcasting , however , brings with it an additional ethic , that of its enforced fairness ' , its instinctive quest for the middle ground . The television reporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this territory intellectually implausible . The bias against Nixon can be interpreted as hostility towards a politician who appeared to affront the network of intellectual values within which broadcast news operates . Broadcasting tends to sell its neutrality , and to exaggerate divergences from liberal consensus , because these do not easily connect with the broadcaster 's inherited model of the political world . Although many demagogues and many extremists have made their appeal through radio and television , broadcast news has always to foster liberalism , reasonableness , the view that all problems can be dealt with through discussion , and the evolution of practical solutions . The ideological centre of gravity has shifted considerably in the course of broadcasting history , but so has the general consensus of belief , especially within the West . From Jo McCarthy to Enoch Powell , from Winston Churchill to Spiro Agnew , those who have striven against the political consensus of their time have had a hard time with broadcasting ; they have simultaneously all been felt as some kind of threat to the institutional well-being of broadcasting . It is simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general interpretation of the past and some general and accepted interpretation of the direction in which events and opinion are moving . The reason why in the decade of the 1960s broadcast news has been felt to be left-wing ' ( and in the writer 's view has indeed been so ) is that broadcasters have 101 The Shadow in the Cave accepted the view that that was the general drift of events . A revolutionary student was thought to be more plausible than a John Birchite student because he was felt not necessarily to be taking the correct view , but was probably taking the historically predictive position . News values in print and in broadcasting are two different intellectual traditions which have been fused in the period which has seen the rise of broadcast news . While it was possible in programmes of general culture and general entertainment for broadcasting to occupy a widely agreed neutral ground , it became exceedingly difficult to do that when news became the dominant form within broadcasting , and television the dominant medium in the culture. ; News values have to imply a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social phenomena which they illumine . The bias which was for instance noticed in the period prior to Nixon 's election to the presidency was the result not of a personal or group political bias but of the situation of the entire phenomenon of broadcast news . The question is whether news as a form is outmoded , in that society no longer sustains the consensus of values on which news depends . Broadcasting in general became the centre of a controversy because its news values came under fire . If society fails to re-adopt consensual values , it is unlikely that broadcasting ? so long as it remains a means of news collecting and dissemination ? will find shelter from the storm . VI Broadcasting absorbed the highest version of journalism 's most sacred code ? that of precision and factuality . In the West at least broadcasting built its news ethics around an extremely highly developed sense of pure truthfulness.44 The growth of the power and quantity of broadcast news over that emanating from other media and its gradual growth in credibility over other media have tended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the content of any given society ; that concentration of attention has produced a realisation , now fairly complete , that the factuality of news does not in itself lead to a satisfactory mirror-image ' emerging . As social belief 102 News ? The Ugly Mirror in the possibility or usefulness of objectivity ' has declined the value of factuality in itself has accordingly declined.45 If no individual person can be objective ' , can , that is , reproduce in words a description of reality ' from a sufficiency of perspectives and angles to satisfy all his hearers that a truthful picture has been given , then reliability on fact in itself declines in value . Since no single large audience is satisfied with the fairness ' of the picture presented , the defence that every word spoken is true ' is simply not useful . The critic of news complains nonetheless against the practitioners rather than against the phenomenon of news in itself . News is a genre , a literary kind ' , like drama , epic , the ode , the pamphlet , the novel , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originated in the desire of people to have a suitable format in which to receive information about the world around them , information about events which they knew were occurring but which they were unable to see occur for themselves . The work of collecting news to fill this format , in whatever medium , implies a news judgement ' , exercised in the mind of an editor . Men of letters discussed for many centuries the kind of historical event which was suitable for the epic form ; for thousands of years poets have argued about the kind of emotions which were appropriate to various verse forms . Historians have argued about what facts constitute history ' . To understand news one must try to delineate some of the elements which together compose the news judgement ' . They function as an unconsciously held group of criteria which enable an editor to decide which facts and which methods of presentation are appropriate to the cultural form which he practises . News is not supposed to provide a pure view of reality ' ; it is not the same thing as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the mimetic kinds ' . It has its own rules and criteria , each of which can appear to be equally a useful tool or a distorting element . The first criterion operating within a news judgement ' is one that insists upon the recency of an event . The newer the event the more probable that the editor will include it . Old facts are less useful than new ones , old events less interesting . In itself this criterion of news validity contains an inbuilt bias 103 The Shadow in the Cave against explaining the previous events which have led to a new development . News tends to underplay what it calls background ' . The very fact of newness as an element in newsworthiness means that news events have a tendency to be presented as isolated phenomena , tips of unstated icebergs . The choice of which events to choose in order to present the full background ' of a new event itself involves an extremely complex set of issues which are similar to the issues faced by historians . For instance , in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full chain of events which have led to a given bombing or assassination . Every event in Irish history implies every other event along the wretched chain of circumstances which have resulted in the present . The second criterion of news judgement is a geographical one ; if the news form under preparation is destined for showing to the population of Birmingham only , then the events contained must have some validity in the minds of the people of Birmingham ; the unemployment figures in Barnstaple are of little interest unless they are believed to act as some kind of heuristic device aiding comprehension of the situation in Birmingham . If the news is destined for a national audience , then the events described must carry some meaning for the nation involved . This fact tends to lead towards a bias on the side of authority , because government itself is the main centralised manifestation of the national audience , and the activities of government and its principal personalities naturally loom large in the mind of an editor of a national news bulletin ; government will , in a sense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of individuals . The geographical criterion also gives an advantage in publicity to people and things already well known within the geographical area concerned ; the divorce of a pop-singer whose songs are nationally sung will tend to be reported more fully than that of , say , a Welsh pop-singer who sings only in the vernacular , be he as famous a voice in Wales as Paul McCartney in Britain as a whole . The national criterion naturally provides a built-in bias against foreign stories , especially if they involve the internal politics of another nation . Domestic news also takes precedence over equal news from another country . The national criterion also tends to give news a special interest in the 104 News ? The Ugly Mirror question of social order ; events which tend to disrupt the very cohesion of a society ( whether they are matters of scandal or of violence ) will tend to provide the news editor with that sense of instant interest and audience involvement , which he is of course looking for in his material . The third criterion can best be described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if relatively unimportant , if it is part of a long-running story which the editor has been covering thoroughly all along . An explosion in Belfast will be reported because it provides some sort of guide to the intensity of conflict or of crisis within the Irish situation as that situation flows through the weeks and months . There is a converse force operating within the news imagination , which forces certain events into obscurity after a long-running story has become boring ; thus , casualty figures in Vietnam have ceased to be stated daily on British news , although every murder and shooting in Ireland has continued to be . Fourthly , there is a priority given to events which will tend to interest a mass ' audience ; there are stereotyped formulae for mass journalism , human ' stories , stories of humble heroism , folksy sentimentality , stories which confirm or are felt to confirm stereotypical images which float about within mass society . These formula-stories have been part of the stock-intrade of mass journalism for over a century but in broadcasting they are important tokens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to leaven the concentration upon importance ' in the events selected and they re-emphasise the relationships and values of the newsmakers towards the audience . They are part of news as a genre ' precisely because they are unimportant . People who fall from high windows without hurting themselves , mothers who return from Australia after sixty-five years to meet their brothers and sisters , children who wander from home and are returned by strangers ? their triviality combined with high interest value serve to confirm various of the assumptions which are contained within the relationship between audience and communicator in a mass medium . Fifthly , there is a group of stories which gain prominence in any medium because they appeal to the technology of that 105 The Shadow in the Cave particular medium . There are events which fit supremely into the needs of television , dramatic filmable rituals , processions , disasters , stories which involve grief-stricken faces , collapsing buildings , great fires and fiestas . These will inevitably gain some kind of imaginative precedence over stories which relate to finance or education and are much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relates to the programme structure of the news itself ; stories will be chosen which help to provide a pattern within the structure of a long news programme . In the course of thirty or more minutes there need to be high points of interest and low points , as in any other creative narrative exercise ; the editor or producer of a given news programme will therefore include and order stories which will improve the feel ' of the whole programme and turn it into an entertainment which will hold the interest of the audience . The need for radio and television to maintain a continuity of unbroken interest in the audience is of course greater than that of print . Beyond the six which I emphasise , there are other criteria which tend to colour the judgement of news editing , in television especially . News reporters , for instance , can not all be specialists , nor can specialists where they do exist always be sent to cover stories involving subjects with which they are familiar . News therefore contains a bias ' towards the inter-disciplinary aspects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of a situation , as well as the human ' elements and the non-technical . The believed public mood ' of the moment will act as a powerful agent of choice of stories ; if the public is thought to be bored with demonstrations or suffering from a surfeit of economic disaster then only the bigger demonstrations and the more disastrous of the economic events will fight their way to the front of the queue of events awaiting selection.1 The fact that any given news programme is in competition with other similar programmes for audience or for general critical approval means that all the criteria I have singled out will tend to gain in emphasis ; editors will look for highlights ' and highlights of highlights in the daily search for competitive advantage .. The final factor which tends to influence and to intensify all the other factors is the very speed with which news has to be 106 News ? The Ugly Mirror prepared ; a news editor internalises all the criteria because they have to operate within his mind by reflex . While other cultural disciplines can afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methodology , news must move along with the momentum of events and it is seldom that the news gatekeeper ' can afford to examine his own motives for specific decisions , in the manner of an historian , say , or a sociologist . News therefore contains within its own nature a series of characteristics which oblige it to give a news ' view of the world rather than an objective-realistic ' view . News is a cultural discipline , choosing it an intellectual skill , collecting it a profession . Within the confines of the broadcasting institution the news organisation absorbs the institution 's picture of the society and inherits the professional assumptions and methods of newsmen in other media . News is only a single vessel in which broadcasting strives to catch reality . The answer to the problem of in-built distortion ' of the disseminated picture of society is to create and to encourage other parallel disciplines for the broadcast representation of reality . The BBC has for many years separated its current affairs ' from its news ' , giving each of them a slightly different role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different ideas of what kind of event and what kind of treatment are most appropriate to their own nature.46 The documentary , similarly , is an additional discipline and needs to be encouraged to grow separately . When all the various disciplines of factual programming are brought within the same organisational routines , either for the sake of administrative convenience or financial economy , the intellectual divergences of approach tend to be flattened . The result of necessity is that the criteria of news come to predominate ; the programme unit with the most urgent needs has to be helped to reach them first , In any competition for attention or for resources news almost always has to win . Within small broadcasting organisations news can take up a huge and disproportionate section of the resources . In Israeli television for instance , with a tiny population to serve and an accordingly small budget , the news operation designed to fill a 30-minute daily bulletin absorbs well over a quarter of the total technical facilities ( in camera crews , editing facilities , reporting 107 The Shadow in the Cave personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within factual programme-making are relatively starved of resources . The capacity of news to exploit facilities is almost infinite , as near to infinity as events in the world . The social value derived from the predominance of this single genre needs to be critically examined . News everywhere has become the source of a remorseless daily competition , avidly pursued , for viewers ; broadcasting organisations can not allow themselves any longer to fail with their news operations if they are to succeed at all . Yet news has become the most contentious of all broadcast forms , the one which plays the greatest part in colouring the view of the world imparted to every citizen within it and the one which presents the greatest range of moral and political problems . There have been many arguments advanced for the growth of a pluralism ' within news . Miss Efron argues for the employment of Nixonite newsmen to ensure that the picture of American society and American politics is more fairly balanced.48 There is a very attractive view advanced especially in the United States which argues apparently for a kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this way:49 ' In a heterogeneous society , in which no one version of the truth necessarily prevails , the most reasonable solution , it seems to me , is to have as much diversity and pluralism , both of viewpoints and of perspectives in reporting an event as possible . What I think we need is a pluralistic set of news media , which do not only reflect the predominantly middle-class values of the journalistic profession , but also report the viewpoints , the events and the perspectives of every cultural and political group in the society , be they rich or poor , young or old , left or right , black or white , educated or uneducated . ' Even setting aside the problem of how Professor Gans proposes to reach this ideal condition , there remains a far more intractable conceptual problem involved in introducing pluralism ' to broadcasting . Without its central national professional discipline , news becomes a different genre altogether ; there is no need for a news programme ' , no need to bring together a series of heterogeneous reports of events which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of the world . News based upon the idea of a 108 News ? The Ugly Mirror homogeneous mass audience ( in the sense that it has a common frame of reference for what constitutes a news event ' ) listening to an account , as accurate as can be humanly ascertained , of actual daily events . The whole idea of news is that it is beyond a plurality of viewpoints ' . The fact that the world has to a great extent ceased to believe in the intellectual possibility of such objective facts does not mean that one can quickly devise a new set of organisations in which new pluralistic facts ' can be gathered and disseminated . Ten separate news bulletins would not provide a more accurate picture even if we listened to all of them . A society which demanded its news from ten separate perspectives would not be receiving news . Ten views of reality do not between them add up to a new objectivity ' to exchange for an old one . In the Middle East where conflict is so intense between adjacent population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true ' account even of their battles , they tend to use the BBC 'S overseas broadcasts as a yardstick of reality . Even then they find a good deal to dispute . But their inability to find a mutual basis for credible news-reporting is an apt reflection on the total nature of the conflict . Credibility in the mind of the actual audience is the sine qua non of news . All else is either propaganda or entertainment . There is therefore no easy recipe for solving what one might call the contemporary crisis in news credibility . Indeed , if one looks at the present conflict in a detached way one can see plenty of room for the traditional consensus of credibility to continue . Only over certain social and international problems ? and they perhaps of a temporary nature ? has the new disbelief arisen . What is more likely to happen in the medium term is that the news organisations will shift their centre of intellectual gravity to include some of the newly self-identifying forces which have been complaining of the bias ' against them in news-reporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has mounted a steady campaign against the news organisations which have allegedly failed to report industrial disputes from a standpoint which satisfies them as being truly neutral.50 Strikes tend to be presented as the result of antisocial activity on the part of workers rather than , say , malice or 109 The Shadow in the Cave incompetence on the part of employers . Some of the expositions of this point of view have been eloquently and effectively put.51 It is probably true that among news reporters only a minority has hitherto been able to gain experience in the reporting of industrial disputes , and throughout the field of reporting work in the broadcast media , certainly in Britain , there has been a relative dearth of attention paid to working-class issues ' prior to the outbreak of industrial disputes . It is likely ? perhaps even predictable ? that there will be in the near future a noticeable growth of thorough reporting of topics previously ignored or underplayed . Where some have been arguing for trade union time ' on television during which reporters with a more familiar understanding of working-class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that the news will in the course of time simply mop up the areas of discontent , in order to regain credibility . Freedom of access to the air can be argued for in powerful and convincing terms , but not , I think , sufficiently for us to abandon the use of central news sources . What is more important is that the other genres which deal in factual reporting should be extended and encouraged . In that way we can preserve the social centrality of news without turning it into the instrument of a kind of socialising tyranny . There is plenty of scope for the fragmented presentation of reality in documentary programmes and special interview programmes and discussions . Indeed , there is a growing movement for reporting affairs through the eyes of a single person ; there are many truths which are incomplete or observable only from single perspectives . It is unlikely that the phenomenon of news which has lived and struggled for so many centuries to be free from political interference will cease to exist in our time . 110 Chapter Four Sharing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than he who enacts statutes or pronounces decisions . ' Lincoln , 1858 I have tamed that savage stenographic mystery . I make a respectable income by it . I am in high repute for my accomplishment in all pertaining to the art , and am joined with eleven others in reporting the debates in Parliament for a Morning Newspaper . Night after night I record predictions that never come to pass , professions that are never fulfilled , explanations that are only meant to mystify . I wallow in words . ' Charles Dickens , David Copperfield Gentlemen , when Jesus Christ wanted to found a religion , he had to be crucified , dead and buried , and to rise on the third day from the dead . If you want to convince mankind , go and do likewise . ' Talleyrand When a modern politician considers his electorate he is contemplating a relationship vastly different from that which prevailed before the mass franchise . Disraeli and Gladstone were both conscious of the fact that they had to address themselves to a much greater body of voters in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , they felt , of number rather than kind . The audience of the politician , however , had changed in a manner similar to the audience of the journalist ; the voters were now an undifferentiated mass in the mind of the political communicator , as they were in the mind of the new 111 The Shadow in the Cave newspaper magnates . In fact , several of the latter , ( Northcliffe , Rothermere , Beaverbrook ) found it increasingly difficult to distinguish between their journalistic functions and their political aspirations . The politician found that the difference between his professional political audience and his electorate was growing ; while he could speak to the former as in a drawingroom , the latter , increasingly , had to be reached through mechanical devices , through the filter of a mass press which imposed its own merchandising exigencies on the material which it fashioned for a purchasing public numbering millions . The most important aspect of the new public ( new in its political power ) was its ignorance . It did not possess the quantity of information about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of urgent issues which would have enabled the politician to speak to it on terms of greater equality . Nor could it be expected to respond in a homogeneous way to any single communication ; it was an aggregate audience , consisting of a number of inconsistent but overlapping publics , which would read a given message in totally different ways . Yet all of these groups were equally important in that all of them collectively possessed power over the political life and death of a national leader . A speech which could be made in one place without raising a murmur could raise a riot if delivered in a different city or to an audience composed of members of a different class . Politicians had always been familiar with this problem ; now , however , it was as if the politician had been given a single megaphone through which to reach all of them . He was unfamiliar with their attitudes and ways of life ? all he knew was that in every pronouncement he played with dynamite . Yet the new mass society continued to hold a picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the previous society . Although voting power had changed hands the electorate was still spoken to as if it sat in the same Victorian drawing-room as its predecessor . The role of the press was still thought of as a means by which ideas circulated , by which individuals received arguments and were influenced by them , by which facts about current issues were disseminated . In fact the press was becoming part of a complex process for manipulating large groups of people psychologically ; politicians were 112 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship becoming a group of highly organised professionals who were obliged to sell ' to the public a product , which was themselves . Within the new mass society there was present a traditional set of assumptions about the press , assumptions about the need for freedom of expression ' which had been fashioned in quite different societies . The sentiments which people used about the press and which implied a certain model of the communication itself went back to Milton , Hume , 2 Sheridan , 3 Mill and Palmerston , 4 and belonged to a discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coterie politics , where discussion was on the basis of shared terms of reference . Even today we use the same terms as those employed in the treatises of the four who have been mentioned , and with the same emotional overtones , but the model of political communication in a mass society is utterly different . The modern politician has neither to inform his public nor to convince it ; public opinion is moulded slowly ( and scientifically ) by processes which are psychological rather than logical . Opinion shifts in actuarial blocs . Most of the voting public votes according to slowly changing concepts of themselves and their personal identities within the massive blocs that constitute a modern society . The relationship between the politician and his public , in mass society , is befuddled by the fact that both sides imagine themselves to be in a completely different kind of relationship and behave as if this other relationship actually existed . From the very beginning of mass society politicians have been increasingly concerned about their new psychological relationships ; the politician , as for instance in Graham Wallas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public as at a photographic plate on which he must imprint his picture slowly and forcefully : he must therefore at all costs be consistent so that the picture is not blurred as if a bird suddenly flew across the plate ' , he must acquire physical symbols by which he is popularly recognised , a case , a pipe , a moustache , a special kind of overcoat . The modern politician , especially in an age when the microphone and the camera have joined the popular newspaper as the means through which he has to operate , develops a second personality , a duplicate of himself , his image ' , which is something more than a static picture in the mind of third 113 The Shadow in the Cave parties , it is a picture of himself which inhabits his own mind and his own world . He lives the life of his image , as much as the life of his primary self ; the two overlap and breed a special kind of self-consciousness . Traditionally the politician has had to cope with the problem of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derision . He has enjoyed traditional forms of protection against this , in libel laws , laws to prevent sedition , or by resorting to strong-arm methods . What he has not had to deal with until the present century is the force of a medium which proclaims its neutrality , and which is licensed to exist only by virtue of its neutrality . In a society with a free press , a politician can hope to win one section of it to his side ; at least its traditional ethic will force the press to give the politician some kind of access to his public . But the broadcast journalist is free neither to express opinions nor to allow any other opinion to prevail . The whole art of advocacy is therefore lost on him ; the broadcast journalist is a eunuch in the harem of ideas . The politician is therefore torn between treating him as a journalist and treating him as a kind of mass telephone , a common carrier of messages . The politician finds he can not treat the broadcasting organisation as a ministry , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As an institution it lies outside the normal range of familiar arenas ; as a set of skills it demands things of him which he may not be able to give . Yet the prominent politician increasingly depends on radio and television for his very existence . Politics within mass society is inextricable from the technology which provides contact between the few and the many . The periodic outbursts of fury and vengeance between the broadcasting organisations of the world and their respective political communities follow inevitably from the very existence of broadcasting . An Estate ' , wrote Benjamin Disraeli , is a political order invested with privilege for a public purpose . There are three Estates : the Lords Spiritual , the Lords Temporal and the Commons .... The House of Commons is not an Estate of the Realm , its members are only the proxies of an Estate . ' 6 The world of broadcasting is in this technical sense an Estate ; it is a political order in that it has a precise function within the 114 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship management of the society , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control over a national asset and it has a public purpose of providing information for which that privilege has been granted . True , it exercises its privilege by proxy on behalf of the viewers and listeners , but then the House of Commons exists by proxy too . Like the Lords Spiritual it has access to every house and heart in the nation , like the Lords Temporal it works within a statutory system of rights and obligations , it exercises its influence by power over the air , almost as important in a modern state as power over the land . When Edmund Burke lifted his hand in a theatrical gesture towards the gallery of the House of Commons and shouted Yonder sits the Fourth Estate , more important than them all ' , he was expressing the feelings of a man who had just perceived the implications of the establishment in 1772 of the right of publishing Parliamentary debates . That right , like the right of franchise to broadcast about political and Parliamentary affairs , changed the relationships of the politicians with the people , relationships between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual politician . With the advent of mass society and mass media those relationships were transformed yet again . The broadcaster 's particular addition to the armoury of journalistic tools , as far as politics is concerned , is to add the discipline of public theatre to the arena of politics . The broadcast interview , the standard formula of political communication , is a fusion of a journalistic technique with a theatrical one . The politician is seen not to be the orchestrator of his own affairs , but merely one of the instruments . The struggle between the politicians and the broadcasters is a constant battle fought to prevent the usurpation of specific sets of functions which each lays claim to as of right . The politician needs privacy , the appearance of dignity , the right to time his actions and statements and the right to change his mind ; he wants to address his public when it is in his own interests to do so . The broadcaster claims the rights of traditional journalism and employs additional tools ; he demands the right of timing and scheduling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretension that he represents the public ' ( which they both claim ) ; the broadcaster wants the politician 115 The Shadow in the Cave to appear when it is to the latter 's disadvantage as well as when it is to his advantage . These claims are not of course in constant active conflict but they are always in latent conflict . To show how the peculiar functions of the broadcaster emerge as a source of actual political power if uncurbed by statute I shall take an example from the eastern world rather than the western where political television as it is practised in America , Germany , Scandinavia and Britain , for instance , is in its infancy . One of the political changes which took place in Poland in the wake of the riots in Gdansk and the arrival in power of Edward Gierek was a decision to use television to communicate information about the far-reaching series of political changes directly to the people over the heads of the middle-rank party officials and party organs . Several senior members of the party appeared on a semi-regular series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ? in which a panel of interviewers put to them a series of questions , most of which had been sent in or telephoned in by viewers throughout Poland . In the earlier programmes the questioning was very stilted , all of it passing through the hands of a trusted senior official of Polish television . In the third of the series , however , the politician involved was Stefan Olszowski , later to become Foreign Secretary , although in this programme he addressed himself formally to the subject of education . Questions poured in , were sifted , and put to Olszowski who , unlike his predecessors in the series , discovered a skill for parrying difficult ones in a friendly fashion , answering some quite probing points with an openness and frankness that did him great credit , and evading others promptly and politely . Although he performed these tasks with neither the accumulated reserves of experience nor the dexterity of a senior western politician , he revealed an undoubted flair . The questions put to him were harder than those put to his predecessors and many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monk rang and complained of discrimination against religious people in the universities , farmers complained of lack of consultation on the fixing of annual targets , people rang wanting to know the fate of the recently deposed Party Secretary , Gomulka . The producer of the programme and the question-master Michal Szulczewski7 116 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship ( Head of the Political Department of Polish Television ) were creating deliberately for their guest certain tensions which they realised ? in a psychological and theatrical sense ? would enable him to thrive . The unanticipated , the pressing supplementary question , the almost random selection of a topic , revealed that they too were exercising a form of political power which consisted in the power to test ' Olszowski ; had he failed to rise to the occasion his political personality would have suffered considerably as a result , even in a relatively closed political society like Poland . Because he coped extremely well with this novel political situation he gained considerably in national stature from the performance . It was his own personal political identity that was being moulded through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mimetic with the informational . He was becoming , to a small extent , a mass society politician ; his public existence would to some extent be formalised , settled ' for some time to come by his performance in a single programme . When he was asked questions about long-haired youth he took a fairly square ' line , that which would have been shared by the older generation in his audience but he angled his answer towards a position of tolerance , arguing that a man 's intelligence was not to be judged by the length of his hair and that the long-haired youth , misguided though they might be , should not be persecuted for their hair styles . He kept his audience clearly in mind throughout the performance and gave himself a credible role within that audience , keeping it consistent throughout the run of questions on quite disparate issues , but trying to broaden his appeal . The producers in the course of their work were gradually realising that an extraordinary power had suddenly devolved upon them , the power to orchestrate a political event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been formally elected , which they realised emerged from their professional skills within this particular mass medium . Their judgements were production judgements , decisions about how to make the programme interesting for a mass audience , rather than overtly political ones , but the result was that they found themselves exercising a political power . They had started to become an Estate ' , in Disraeli 's sense.8 117 The Shadow in the Cave It is virtually impossible to measure the direct influence of a televised political performance upon the voter ; the influence consists to a great extent in the impact of broadcasting upon the identity of the politician , upon his status within the world of politicians . The impact of broadcasting on society is in the way it transforms the whole complex of these relationships . The mass audience does not sit and listen to arguments judging issues in a rational ' manner , according to the classic view of political discussion . The individual member of the audience absorbs from the screen and the radio receiver that part of the message which reinforces his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coterie world of politics will watch the performance of one of their number with perhaps the same set of attitudes as they do within the political drawingroom , although that too will be modified by the fact that they are watching him to see how well he does on television . Broadcasting has thus emerged in itself as a special source of political power . That power is exercised always potentially and sometimes actually ; the intense interest which politicians take in it demonstrates this permanent potentiality ? that in itself is a factor in modern politics , even in societies in which there exists no leeway for an individual broadcaster to intrude into the political process . But the presence of broadcasting in every home brings about a much wider set of influences and pressures in society , a broader impact on the working of authority as a whole . Broadcasting is at present the dominant medium , and that means not only that it is the subject of the greatest amount of investigation and complaint but also that more forces are at any given moment competing to register its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the dominant medium , all those seeking attention within society for political ends would behave in a manner which would achieve the most useful impact upon newspapers and those who wrote them . When radio became the dominant medium ? albeit for a fairly short period ? there was an adjustment of political styles to take account of its special needs . George Bernard Shaw was certain that radio would abolish humbug in politics , that it would profoundly alter the political style which made phrase-making the major technique of successful politi-118 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship cians . Already several front-bench celebrities , ' he wrote in 1935,9 unaware of the magic of Mike the Detective , have tried their rousing election speeches and their dollops of solemn post-prandial humbug on the millions of sober fireside listeners , only to be laughed at , slept through , or switched off . No corrupt control can neutralise a change of such subtlety . ' He was being excessively optimistic . The arrival of television as the dominant medium , however , has brought about a greater pessimism ; it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of a range of activities of which the common characteristic is that they are conspicuous visually . In the last decade we have seen the growth of major public demonstrations , hi-jackings of aircraft , dare-devil exploits at public gatherings such as the Munich Olympic Games which provide for those desiring to send out a political message a kind of world stage on which to perform . The styles of political speech have also changed to accommodate the greater intimacy of the studio and the camera . At one end political life has become more dramatic ; at the other much more low-key , informal and unhistrionic . To list the effects ' of television on politics is to list a series of seemingly contradictory phenomena , a rag-bag of factors , all apparently self-evident but all simultaneously ascribable to other influences . Every effort to reveal a pure cause-and-effect relationship between a given political occasion and a given quantity of political coverage tends to disappear under the weight of the attendant issues which have to be taken into account . The messages which are fed into society turn up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are fed into the messages in the first place . Would Ireland have erupted without television , or would it have erupted sooner and less violently had television paid attention to the situation a decade earlier ? Would the Vietnam war have ended sooner without constant presence of cameras ? or would it have been possible for the American government to fight the war more rapidly and victoriously if television cameras had stayed away ? In an era which possesses the tool of television , its exclusion from a specific situation can only be deliberate and therefore in itself manipulative. 119 The Shadow in the Cave Was television responsible for the spread of the student rebellions of 1968 ? If it was , it did n't enable them to spread much more rapidly than those of 1848 . Certainly a long list of other causes ' can be made which could explain historically the outbreak of a student rebellion , widespread and extremely militant , without the attendance of television cameras ; nonetheless it was impossible for a major movement of that kind to spring up without its being registered ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similarly impossible for it to exist without it attempting everywhere to capture the attention of the dominant medium of the time . The whole problem involved in studying the political effects ' of television is that of finding a suitable model of social influence ' . For a very long time investigators concentrated on finding a cause-and-effect pattern within the political world ; there were many studies conducted , some of them extremely complex and sensitively executed , which were done on an underlying assumption that the contents of a mass medium were injected into the body politic and into the individuals which composed it as serum through a hypodermic needle . As they began gradually to realise that the results were extremely meagre some concluded that television had little influence at all . Since few voters could be produced who had been converted ' from voting one way to voting another by watching television , perhaps there lay no power in the Box after all . The fears which had affected so many in the 1920s about the effects of propaganda began to evaporate . Research studies piled up without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the increase in reported acts of violence in recent years have conducted direct effects investigation , assuming that there must be a cause-and-effect connection between the enormous amount of violent acts portrayed on the screen at peak hours and the incidence of violence among the young . The codes on violence employed by the IBA and the BBC in Britain , and similar codes devised by the National Association of Broadcasters in America , have resulted from a proper sense of caution induced by fears that there might be a direct connection . Naturally , it is eminently sensible although 120 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship extremely easy to equate a series of new social phenomena with a newly dominant medium ; the decline of respect for authority , the increase in crimes of violence , the spread of moral laxity , the increased pursuit of consumer goods , the decline of religion , the trivialisation of politics , the growth in the power of the party leadership and the decline of the power of the backbenchers , all of these are variously ascribed to the influence of television . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television . But every attempt to discover through research and the use of questionnaires the actual path by which the influence travelled from person to person has tended to become bogged down in its own methodology or else has come up with only trivial results . In their celebrated study of the British General Election of 1959 Joseph Trenaman and Denis McQuail concluded that television merely increased voters ' knowledge without altering voting intentions.10 They could find no correlation between television-viewing and the alteration in party affiliations even of those who did actually change their affiliation during the course of the campaign . They spoke of a barrier between sources of communication and movements of attitude in the political field at the General Election ' .11 After the election of 1964 Martin Harrison studied the use of television in the campaign and wrote that Television ... may inform or reinforce attitudes , but it rarely converts ' .12 That remained for some time the prevailing view . The publication of the study by Jay Blumler and Denis McQuail into the use of television in the 1964 election has helped to change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; 13 it is an astonishingly elaborate and intuitive piece of work and examined television in relation to the actual circumstances of the election . Blumler and McQuail examined the motivation of the people who watched television most during the campaign in an effort to find out why they used the medium , what they looked at in particular and what they themselves therefore thought the influence of television consisted in . They conclude that television played an enormous part in the mental activity of those voters ? quite a large group ? who were rethinking their political position in the period leading up to polling day 1964 . Television could naturally 121 The Shadow in the Cave therefore play a major part in the lead-up to a crucial election , that is , one in which an important section of the population were thinking hard about politics , since we knew that television was a major source of fundamental impressions of the political leaders and of factual information about the issues at stake . In relating television to the actual circumstances of an election they were using a model of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less hypodermic ' . In fact they see election broadcasting and political broadcasting in general as a kind of aerosol spray ; one vital section of the electorate ? namely those thinking of changing their minds ? sniff harder than the rest , as it were , and therefore skilfully informative programmes can play not a trivial role , as had previously been imagined , but a major role in the result of an election . Nonetheless one is left feeling that the impact of television must be greater than that implied in the Blumler ? McQuail diagram ; so much energy and skill is diverted into the process of inducing many millions of people night after night to pay attention to the political and other messages on their screens ; so many phenomena in modern society are simply felt to be the result of television . There must be traceable another pattern of influence which will somehow amount to an explanation of what we instinctively feel to be the massive influence of television . The most elaborate and systematic examination of the influence of television in general and the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Klapper . He has correlated all the hundreds of existing small studies and amalgamated their total range of discoveries into five simple laws.14 He dismisses the traditional behaviouristic model which would have us accept that the individual member of the audience simply responds to a set of stimuli , and that his behaviour can be therefore influenced by a sufficiency of such stimuli accompanied by a sufficiency of promised rewards ' . ( With this theory a voter would be expected to change his opinion simply if he has been subjected to enough . ' political messages and been tempted at the same time with enough ' promises of a good life . Similarly a teenager could be turned into a criminal 122 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship simply by injecting ' him with enough screen murders accompanied by a promise that he could get away from the police . ) Klapper explains that mass communication ordinarily does not serve as a necessary and sufficient cause of audience effects , but rather functions among and through a nexus of mediating factors and influences ' . These influences , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause but only as one among a group of contributory factors . Klapper , thirdly , explains that when direct influence does occur , it does so only when for some reason all the other mediating factors have ceased to function or when they all impel the individual towards the same end . Fourthly , Klapper finds certain situations in which mass communication does produce direct effects ? where in itself it fulfils some special psychophysical function . Then , fifthly , he identifies a number of characteristics of communication processes which enhance their efficacy , notably the fact that the media confer special status ' on the issues and individuals they make prominent ? if you matter you will be seen on television and if you are on television , then you must matter ' . Klapper therefore leaves us with a highly enriched picture of the working of mass communication within society , but his is still only a version of the traditional picture . It is a long way from the Huxleyan vision of mass manipulation ; it is even further from Orwell 's 1984 . A number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on television have changed the structure of the mental picture of television influence by emphasising how the technology of television itself , coupled with the professional attitudes of those in charge of it , has exercised a kind of tyranny over events . Kurt and Gladys Lang , on the basis of a series of minutely studied major events in the United States , 15 reached the conclusion that the television camera stage-manages reality , personalises politics ( by forcing the viewers to concentrate on , say , the trustworthiness of the speaker rather than on his argument ) and forces the unauthentic into being a kind of reality . We see a demonstration on the screen and believe that the people taking part are all actually motivated by the message of the demonstration ; in fact , most of them have come to look at the crowd , attracted perhaps by the presence of television . 123 The Shadow in the Cave Their presence on the screen , however , is beyond doubt and the whole affair is registered in the viewer 's mind as an important valid political event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its inherent capacity to reveal a scene live and direct ; you believe what you see on the screen far more readily because the camera makes you believe you have observed the primary evidence for yourself ; in reality the event has been distorted by a series of factors , many of them themselves the result of television . The Langs were the first to express and codify this argument which increased in forcefulness during the years of the greatest growth of television . In 1968 television was blamed for distorting the nature of some of that year 's many demonstrations , especially those which took place at the Chicago Convention of the Democratic Party.16 It was also blamed for the fact that viewers , seeing the events on the screen , took action themselves of a political nature which they would not have taken had they realised that the screen events were being stage-managed by the cameras , or otherwise distorted . In the aftermath of the convention a considerable literature was generated which gradually helped to persuade perhaps a majority of people that this was an inherent and dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own self-erosion ? the more people understand this inherent effect ' of television , the less they are willing to believe what they see . The coil of selfrepeating cause-and-effect thus begins to unwind of its own accord . The case against television on the grounds that it causes the events it records is not merely confined to the machinery of television ; it also embraces the people who use that machinery , in that the producers and reporters of news events are allegedly also induced because of the potentialities of their technology and the competitive ( and ideological ) pressures upon them to indulge in the practice of falsifying events . The Fcc Inquiry into the coverage of the Chicago Convention put the allegations into very detailed terms . As well as listing all the letters of complaint received concerning bias in the reports against Mayor Daley of Chicago and his police , and bias against the Administration 's Vietnam policy , the FCC investigated claims that imc 124 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship cameras and their producers had distorted the proceedings at the Convention , stimulated rumours , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectacular activities . Inevitably the uproar against the FCC 'S intrusion into such minute matters of political reporting was considerable , though not as great as the clamour against the networks ' coverage of the events . The networks provided equally detailed replies to all the detailed accusations.17 But a new dilemma henceforth hung over the whole business of political reporting and its alleged influence , the danger that the recurrence of public investigations into the decision-making of broadcasters would itself become a source of further distortion . As Howard Monderer , one of the lawyers retained by NBC , later put it : 18 Few spectres can be more frightening to a person concerned with the vitality of a free press than the vision of a television cameraman turning to one aspect of a public event rather than another because of a concern that a governmental agency might want him to do so , or fear government sanction if he did not . ' One might go further than this and add that the entire structure of licensing and organisation within which the cameraman operates helps to decide the direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the anticipated rewards which surround him , financially , institutionally , and politically , will shape his decisions . He will interpret the collectivity of these as news values ' , private processes of unconscious decisionmaking , but he will be responding to the pressures of an entire social system as these filter down into the processes of televisionmaking . Under the pressure of the events of the 1968 Presidential campaign , especially those which occurred during the nominating conventions , both the parties inevitably altered their own dispositions towards television . A party can alter the nature of its coverage by simply refusing to admit cameras to certain areas of the convention hall or certain hotels . The more skilful the televised become in manipulating their arrangements with the producers , the less powerful the built-in distorting effects of the technology and the more powerful the message-makers themselves become in the process . That , at least , is how one train of thought goes . There is however a further countervailing 125 The Shadow in the Cave power in the viewer 's awareness of all these processes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are being kept from them and speculate on the nature of those things . The viewer , as he becomes increasingly sophisticated himself , can acquire the experience to accept or reject parts of what he sees or hears . The whole question of the influence of television on an event gradually disappears through a mesh of three inward-facing convex mirrors ? the cameras , the observed event and the audience . All three are mutually dependent ; they are resistant each of the other , and increasingly so ; all three are locked in a situation of permanent ever-evolving interdependence . The producer is only trying to make the event interesting ' ; the viewer exercises his right of selection , perception and selective retention of the material offered him , resisting that which he does n't like ' ; the observed politician constantly catches up with the skill and knowledge of the professional communicator in order to find more effective ways of getting his own message across and resisting those activities of the producer which might tend to diminish his credibility or despoil his image . It is clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are going to be able to handle the mesh of issues which now arise in any investigation of the political effects ' ( or any other effects ) of television . The first characteristic of a useful model is that it should not try to isolate the individual act of communication , certainly not before the whole context of communication is clearer . The individual viewer is receiving impressions and images which are manufactured precisely to satisfy his own anticipated needs and beliefs and his supposed powers of comprehension ; they may end up either by confirming them or disturbing them . Those images and impressions are being produced by a large and carefully supervised and licensed organisation which processes them heavily to ensure primarily that they do not disturb its political needs ; in other words the broadcaster can not place himself in permanent political jeopardy ? but the terms in which he can rescue himself from this are profoundly related to the totality of the dominant beliefs of the society he is serving . 126 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship The viewer is therefore receiving a processed message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mass society been involved in processing . Not only is every programme by implication an interpretation of some part of his special experience ( constantly being confirmed or disturbed by other parts of his social experience ) but the entire process of broadcasting is in itself a reflection of certain of the deepest meanings of his society . Every message in broadcasting has layers of meaning as impacted as the skins of an onion and every viewer possesses an astonishingly complex though unconsciously held code which enables him to strip the layers . Just as an advertiser can not sell soap through the medium of television unless his audience has already , through a myriad of influences , developed a realisation of the importance of hygiene , so a politician can not win the recognition of a society which has not acquired ( or has lost ) a belief in the necessity for order ; the political messages of television therefore depend upon the totality of all other messages in the life of an individual if they are to have any validity or effect at all . Finally our new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a minute fragment of material in all ; the words in a news bulletin fill less than the front page of a newspaper , the number of individual news stories reflected in an entire day is but a minute portion of the total number of events in the life of a nation and a world . The events selected are chosen for their extreme significance , because their content has been chosen by all the processes of broadcasting as being of extreme importance ? historical , symbolic or emotional ? to the viewing society . It is almost irrelevant that the immediate selectors of those events feel a sense of randomness about their choice ; for they too have been evolved and chosen by and must retain their positions within the complex system . The communicators send out their heavily processed and finely selected messages to an audience which receives them , in a sense , twice over ? once as individuals and once as a mass ' . As individuals they observe , select what they need or what appeals to them in the light of their individual experiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information it provides a whole world of interpretations of their own . 127 The Shadow in the Cave As a mass audience they are receiving constantly symbolic messages embedded in the programme content , lessons about goods and wealth , power and social mores ; at one section of the day they watch certain aspects of the battle for political power being argued out and at another time a different battle , in a way symbolic of the former , is being fought out in fiction , entertainment and drama ? the categories within which daily serials , westerns and thrillers and the other characteristic forms of mass entertainment work out their themes encompass the same problems of authority and ways of life which are reflected more directly in the informational content of the screen . In any process of communication the speaker first of all hears himself ; he therefore objectifies himself and his interlocutor undergoes precisely the same process when he receives and recognises the nature of the message . The importance of what we term communication ' , writes George Herbert Mead , lies in the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the individual may become an object to himself .. . it is when he not only hears himself but responds to himself , talks and replies to himself as truly as the other person replies to him , that we have behaviour in which individuals become objects to themselves . ' 19 What goes for the individual goes also for the mass . We communicate and are communicated with within mass audiences and in so doing recognise our mass nature in addition to our individual nature . We recognise the distinction between the products of mass culture and the products of individual culture and we realise too that variations of quality and purpose are possible within the former . We are no more susceptible to directly injected messages as masses than we are as individuals , that is to say , only sometimes . We digest and reject whole forms , and indeed whole media , resist or devour them , all the time conscious of our development as a mass audience . Soap operas and serials , formulae for news and entertainment arise and decline in response to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional makers . The screen is not trying to enforce a set of rules or to undermine a set of rules or principles , it is trying to interpret a set of social principles already present in the society . The communicators are scanning the mass audience exactly as the electronic 128 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship dot scans the cathode tube , registering light and darkness and returning again and again across the same electronic path in order to build up a picture . There are therefore two screens in television , the one on which the audience registers the communicators ' messages and interpretations of its world , and the one at which the communicators look when they try to discern the features of their audience . The content of each screen reflects ( and distorts through its imprecision ) the content of the other . It seems to me impossible to consider the problem of direct effects ' of broadcast content on an individual in the audience or upon the whole audience without recognising the pre-eminence of the two-way movements which are at the root of the mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a compounded haze of stereotypes , constantly freshened by the efforts of organised audience research and by the ensuing efforts to create a pressurised and personalised single image of the audience . The primary function of radio and television , as far as the political process is concerned , is to confer fame and status . Fame is itself a kind of coinage , a commodity used as the means of conducting transactions between the client politician and the broadcasters . Broadcasting depends upon the general or collective goodwill of the political community in every country ; the politician depends upon the broadcasting instrument for not only enabling the smooth process of government to take place through the easy distribution of information , but also for publicising himself and his expanding or contracting potential as a statesman . The great fear of politicians from the earliest moment when the political potential of broadcasting was first realised was that it would intrude into that part of the political world in which reputations are made and lost . Politics has its own methods for recognising rises and falls in the political fortunes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high skill in the management of political affairs it became necessary at an extremely early stage to devise methods for preventing broadcasting from usurping certain of these political functions . Although Parliament had of course taken a permanent interest in all matters pertaining to broadcasting from the 129 The Shadow in the Cave 1920s , the moment at which their attention became especially focussed on the news dissemination processes of broadcasting came a little later . The crisis of 1926 clearly registered radio as a medium of far-reaching political importance when , virtually overnight , it became almost the only national means of communication when the mass newspapers disappeared in the course of the General Strike . Nonetheless the debate about broadcast news , as we experience it today , only emerged in the course of the following decade . John Coatman , who was News Editor at the BBC in the early thirties20 gives the turning point as October 1933 when a fierce debate broke out in Parliament over a broadcast talk by Vernon Bartlett , the BBC 'S international correspondent , at the time of Germany 's leaving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rows between politicians and the BBC which have become staple in more recent times.21 The BBC was accused of being pro-German and the cry went up for responsibility ' to be shown by the BBC as the only alternative to censorship . The incident marks the point from which BBC News became a major focus of political attention and , in Coatman 's view , the point at which it began to grow increasingly timid in the face of Parliament and Government . Naturally , the war acted as a great watershed in this relationship . The BBC grew enormously in stature . The style of politics in Britain was transformed . New pressures , notably concerning the growth of commercial broadcasting , preoccupied the politicians . The BBC began to be much more adventurous in the presentation of controversial issues ; until 1928 the government used its power under the Licence to forbid any material of a controversial nature . After 1928 the regulation which forbade BBC editorialising was interpreted far more narrowly . Nonetheless the BBC always took good care that nothing it broadcast would be interpreted as government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The parties themselves made various efforts to ensure that they controlled the flow of invitations to Members of Parliament ; the party leaderships were anxious to avoid a situation in which individual politicians could build themselves national personae outside the structure of their parties . The BBC never totally gave away the right to choose who would broadcast but it made various 130 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship concessions ; Winston Churchill for instance was prevented from broadcasting on areas of policy ( India and Disarmament ) which the Conservative Party found embarrassing when he became a party rebel . The BBC did not wish to offend the party as a whole and since the opposition parties did not feel inclined to nominate Churchill as their spokesman on either re-armament or India ( the two issues which most concerned him ) he was effectively silenced , although he made a number of broadcasts on other topics and was fully reported in the news . This same fear of intervening in the internal processes of party management inhibited the BBC towards the end of the war when a number of politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party warfare , wished to make controversial statements on matters under current parliamentary discussion . The leaders of both parties feared that the uncontrolled re-emergence of party controversy would undermine their own plans for ending the Coalition , and the BBC , after much discussion , introduced a rule , which seems curious and even outrageous to us today , by which no issue due to be discussed in Parliament within fourteen days would be discussed on the air . In vestigial form the Fourteen Day rule remained in force as late as 1956.22 The rule had been introduced originally as a kind of self-denying ordinance which would enable the BBC to ration airtime for senior ministers without appearing to be ordering them about or restricting them . It became in the course of time a great weapon in the hands of party managers , a weapon of internal party patronage and of internal discipline . For some years after the war the ordinance was applied spontaneously but gradually the BBC developed an antagonism to the rule on professional grounds . The party leaders , however , resisted any change and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue it with a formal instruction to enforce the rule because it was no longer suitable to apply it voluntarily . I hereby require ' begins the Order which then ensued , ( a ) that the Corporation shall not , on any issue , arrange discussions or ex-parte statements which are to be broadcast during a period of a fortnight before the issue is debated in either House or while it is being so debated ; ( b ) that when legislation is introduced in Parliament 131 The Shadow in the Cave on any subject , the Corporation shall not , on such subject , arrange broadcasts by any Member of Parliament which are to be made during the period between the introduction of the legislation and the time when it either receives the Royal Assent or is previously withdrawn or dropped . ' 23 It reads today as an extraordinary , indeed impertinent statement , which no broadcasting organisation outside a totalitarian political system could countenance . Nonetheless it seemed a plausible and proper measure in its time . Among the parties only the Liberals opposed it . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would prevent broadcasting eroding the centrality of the Houses of Parliament as the national forum of political debate.25 In February 1956 , after a period during which opposition to the Fourteen Day rule had been mounting in the press and among certain groups of Parliamentarians , the House of Commons set up a Select Committee to discuss the question ; the Committee , after hearing a wide range of views , decided not to support the BBC 'S and the ITA 'S request to drop the rule but to recommend instead merely reducing the period to seven days.26 A free vote in the House of Commons on 30 November 1955 voted 2:1 in favour of keeping the rule . By the end of the year , however , further pressure and public discussion persuaded the Government to drop it for an experimental period after which it disappeared altogether . A similar issue arose over a programme called In the News ' in the early fifties in which a group of prominent backbench Mr 's would discuss one or more issues in a provocative and polemical manner . The party leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain non-orthodox party members into national celebrities . They firmly demanded that we should use mainly reliable party politicians even at the cost of less attractive broadcasting ' , writes Lord Simon of Wythenshawe of the incident.27 On the whole I think our critics were right and we were wrong ; the BBC gave way to the protests and thereafter chose more representative speakers . ' Michael Foot , Robert Boothby and the others whose presence in the programme had caused the trouble were soon booked by one of the new rry companies for a similar programme entitled Free 132 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship Speech ' . Even today there continues a constant although normally gentle pressure between the party managers and the broadcasters and executives of the BBC over the choice of speakers . At election times , the party managers still formally have a great deal of power , at least to recommend speakers , although the BBC jealously guards the privilege of issuing invitations ; there is no fixed line between the two sides , not a line , that is , which the parliamentary Whips in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party political broadcasts ( programmes which are wholly given over to the parties for use as unpaid propaganda time ) the parties make all the decisions , although the BBC retains ultimate editorial authority . The fear that the broadcasters will choose speakers who by their presence will tend to manipulate the distribution of privilege within their parties has found it hard to die . The history of the rule , however , illustrates the permanent fear that nags politicians ? the fear that their own functions will be usurped by the broadcasting media and the functions of their own institutions . They are of course quite right . Broadcasting inevitably alters the structure of discussion , it helps to build up or to undermine politicians who , left to the career-making mechanisms of their party organisations and those of Parliament , would develop in different ways . Politicians who are able to use ' television are undoubtedly aided in their political careers . Those who are involved in issues which give themselves to television coverage are more likely than others to be seen on the screen and become known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcasts organised by the BBC and the rrA , in the way that television has expanded the annual party conferences into annual national institutions , in the frequency with which ministers and shadow ministers appear on the screen arguing the details of their white papers , green papers and bills with one another and with the public , it is clear that television and radio have both entered the political world and equally that the latter has absorbed and digested the changes which electronic publicity has imposed upon it . The politicians however still fear the usurpation of their freedom . In Britain they have found a way to transfer the drawing-rooms of politics to the screen ; the political discussion 133 The Shadow in the Cave on British television , although extensive compared with many other countries , is nonetheless coterie ' television ? it helps to carry on the general debates of politics , but it is doubtful whether it has helped to extend very greatly the actual world of those actively interested in the details of politics . The relationship between the political community and the broadcasting authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every country . Perhaps the United States is the only place in which the broadcasters can feel that their interests could survive even major buffetings by the political world . ( The American Civil Liberties Union , however , has documented a process which it describes as the engineering of restraint ' throughout the American media as a result of a major assault by the Nixon administration. ) 28 In Germany the public structures which were created to safeguard freedom of expression and the institutional independence of every broadcasting organisation administered by the Lander have been put under very great strain in the era of saturation television ; in many of the Lander the argument for control , formal or informal , by a single ruling group within the Land administration has become overwhelming . Strangely enough , in countries where the ruling political community has gained the upper hand ( France , Germany , Israel , Italy , for example ) the actual conflict between broadcasters and politicians has not diminished , in many cases it has increased . Israel attempted to construct a governing body for her television organisation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day War of 1967 , in a manner which would exclude partisan influences ; the controlling authority was designed to be representative of a number of communities within the nation ? economic , trade union , educational , academic , theatrical , etc. ? yet within a matter of months the posts , while still being held by the post-holders designated in the law , have been in fact given to people with a party allegiance . The Chairman , a government appointee , is a member of the same party fraction as the Prime Minister . The Plenum of the broadcasting authority has thirty-one members ; one of them has to be a representative of the Jewish Agency , and the other thirty are members of the public recommended by the Government after consultation with the representative 134 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship organisations of writers , teachers and artists in Israel , the institutions of higher learning and the Hebrew Language Academy , and other public bodies concerned with broadcasting affairs , provided that not more than four of the members be State employees ' .29 Yet the vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one party or another . The entire atmosphere of Israeli television is bedevilled by politicking ; the employees are themselves far from blameless for the gradual erosion of confidence between Parliament and broadcasting organisation . In microcosm Israel affords an example of what can happen in any democratic system in which the broadcasting body is neither strong nor independent . The group most disappointed by the results are the politicians themselves who feel , naturally , that they still fail to extract from the broadcasters the degree of coverage which their political hold on the organisation should provide . Six directors of television were despatched within three years of the new statute being enacted . The politician , used to pulling the levers of power , finds that when he grasps the levers of broadcasting and pulls them , the intended result often fails to transpire . He blames the personalities of the broadcasting world , or the techniques of journalism , or bias , or untrammelled trivialisation ; he fails to find within the broadcasting organisation anyone who understands ' his point of view . Politicians tend to be guilty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcasting organisations ; they find it hard to understand an organisation which is wholly owned by the public but which eludes the grasp of the politician . They fail to understand the full range of pressures which play upon the broadcasters , of which they are only a single one , and indeed one which the broadcaster 's atavistic journalistic ethic obliges him to feel it is his duty to thwart . The relationship between the broadcaster and his society is a powerful and complex bond ; he tends to reflect the cynicism or boredness of the viewer with politics . He may wholly misinterpret it but nonetheless it weighs upon his mind and he feels that scepticism is often a valid general attitude to hold towards all politics . The broadcaster 's own position of enforced neutrality tends to make him withdraw from political involvement , to see the political world as a game ' played between 135 The Shadow in the Cave equal sides . Endemic in broadcasting is the thought that , to keep the attention of the mass audience , politics must be displayed as an entertainment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has developed a kind of testing-game ' between the television interviewer and politician in which the former tries to be as challenging as he dares ; certainly , the broadcasting community tends , quite wrongly , to measure the success of the political coverage of a programme in terms of its daring ' rather than its information . Increasingly the modern ' politician who has grasped the pressures and processes of broadcasting connives at the playing of this game . Television is an international medium and , like journalism , has developed a set of widely agreed standards of excellence of its own . Journalists and broadcasters thus tend to use the same standards for judging one another 's work , even across social systems . Lucien Pye , in his study30 Communications and Political Development , remarks on the widespread nature of the assumption that objective and unbiased reporting of events is possible and desirable and that the sphere of politics in any society can best be observed from a neutral and non-partisan perspective .... The emergence of professionalised communications is thus related to the development of an objective , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a society which has developed such professionalised communications is therefore likely to be influenced to believe that neutral positions are possible and desirable in politics , possible too that neutral institutions are similarly desirable . Television imposes its nature upon all that it touches ? that is one of its direct effects ? and the phenomenon which it is most likely to influence is the medium of politics itself . The paradox goes even further . The course of the protracted efforts of politicians and broadcasters to come to terms with their new relationship is simultaneously the history of the development of television as a means of government . The press , too , struggled for many years for its independence before discovering that it had become equally a tool of government and a means of scrutiny of government . In the United States the 1950s saw the rapid development of television as a reporting tool ; its live cameras transformed the whole nature of the 136 Sharing the Labours of Statesmanship nominating conventions . President Eisenhower ordered no more long boring speeches ' ; tiresome procedural elements were removed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down ; the organisers ensured that the content of the convention was comprehensible , entertaining and bereft of anything that might offend . The cameras came to show the people what actually happened in an important but private meeting at which Presidential candidates were chosen ; after the first major attempt they came to show the American people what actually happened inside a convention when it was televised . The same process of change occurred in the British annual party conferences from 1960 onwards , when the Labour Party finally agreed to allow television full access . There was a decade during which politicians came to understand that certain of their regular rituals had to be made into public spectacles in the name of electronic democracy ; there was much grumbling as they were persuaded to cooperate . A new generation arrived in the world of politics who understood instinctively that large areas of their lives had to be henceforth lived in a kind of arc light . But then television became far more flexible an instrument , and political activity for a time moved into the streets ; a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its climax at the Chicago Democratic Convention of 1968 and the ensuing post-mortem . The forces of law and order , despatched by Mayor Daley to preserve outward calm at all costs , used methods which were unacceptable in societies which now conducted much of their political business in the open ; police clubbed down dozens of reporters and cameramen , as well as demonstrators , all in broad daylight . In vain did Mayor Daley protest that the cameras failed to reveal the provocations which had been inflicted on his police . Although Daley was proved to be factually correct in a large number of respects , it was evident that no longer could the political demonstrator and the policeman be allowed to clash at public gatherings before so large an audience . The bloodletting at Chicago proved to be a turning point in the new broadcasting situation , and the lessons of Chicago were learned throughout the world , not least in Britain , where intense public interest in a vast public demonstration on 137 The Shadow in the Cave 27 October of the same year outside the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of publicity which had preceded the occasion and had helped to defuse and almost ritualise it . Henceforth both sides had as much to lose from a violent clash with the police , street politician and administration . The de-escalation of passion towards the end of 1968 helped to make television once again a neutral ground . The politics of protest gave way ? not entirely of course ? to the politics of participation . Television after a time became more discursive , more thoughtful , offering its facilities to a far wider section of the politically-interested community than previously . New demands were made for wider spread in the political coverage of television ? on both sides of the Atlantic . Television may be on the way to turning into a new kind of political forum . Different types of people involved in new types of consumer politics and grass-roots activity are beginning to want to use the screen and are discovering the way in which television forces them to groom themselves , modify their messages to suit a mass audience , to use low-key persuasive argument and be conscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to admit them . In Britain the most important single group are perhaps the trade unionists who , after many years of deliberate withdrawal from and hostility towards electronic and other media , are demanding better-informed treatment of trade union affairs on the screen . At the same same time the public has had to adjust itself to new kinds of argument on an adjusted range of issues ; which involve wages , working amenities , fair practices , issues which they were formerly used to hearing about only from the lips of formal party spokesmen . To say that television is developing as a new kind of political forum does not alter the fact that the same tiny group of people issue all the tickets , and that admission remains by ticket only . It means only that the producers and institutions are just beginning to realise that there is a public interested in more than the traditional gladiatorial display between the distinguished interviewer and the prominent statesman . In Britain we can expect the decline of the dramatic protest following a programme attempting to prise from a politician something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or his policies than he was otherwise prepared to vouchsafe . The public is felt to have ceased to sympathise either with the injured Goliaths of the networks or the would-be Davids in the political world . Nonetheless the new terms of reference ? more open , more catholic , based on a wider interpretation of the meaning of politics ? depend upon the willingness of the broadcasting institution to recognise them . That too will depend on the central institution 's perception of a newly identified set of audience needs . The wider the demands for broadcast time , the more crucial become the internal processes of the broadcasting institution . 139 Chapter Five Broadcasting Autonomy Under Threat This purpose you undertake is dangerous ; the friends you have named uncertain ; the time itself unsorted ; and your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so great an opposition . ' Henry IV , at : iii The right to broadcast and the physical opportunity to do so are granted only by the state . A few pirate stations have managed , briefly and in great discomfort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governmental permission . Pirate broadcasting suffers from the disadvantage that it cuts itself off from the open supply of its own raw material . It is at best a flimsy and temporary method of broadcasting , more useful as a form of protest against some lacuna in a nation 's broadcasting arrangements than a viable means of carrying on with the tasks of mass dissemination of entertainment and information . No matter how popular his programmes , the broadcaster has to obtain and retain official approval and protection if he wishes to carry on the business of broadcasting . The central dialogue in the life of broadcasting is a dialogue with the state ; whatever the relationships with the public , radio and television are both engaged in an eternal quest ( publicly or privately conducted ) to safeguard their autonomy within the state . All broadcasting begins with a franchise granted by government and depends for its continual existence on periodical renewal . The autonomy of a broadcasting institution is a delicate flower , nervously planted , tenderly nurtured and easily plucked up by the roots . A broadcasting organisation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Threat to be under the actual control of the people who in title are its managers ; the programmes have to be believed to be the responsibility of the men who are seen and heard presenting them . A society which is obliged to watch broadcasting of however high a technical quality which emanates from a manipulated or state-managed set of professionals rapidly comes to distrust the information with which it is being fed . A mass medium bereft of credibility becomes a colossal albatross around the neck of its audience . In Britain , a society which has produced broadcasting institutions that have retained a relatively high reputation for reliability and truthfulness , there has of course been a long tradition of independent media . The principles by which the worlds of journalism , theatre and education operate free of state intervention were laid down decades or even centuries ago . Radio and television benefit from the fact that they obtain their material from groups of people trained in Fleet Street , the theatre , the cinema , and so on , but the overall control of these two media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dint of vigilant and constant effort . There is a delicate set of balances which separate the broadcasting institutions from the apparatus of state , and an equally delicate set which govern the relationship between the Governors ( chosen by the government ) and the senior staff of the BBC . From the earliest days John Reith began to work out a viable system , a set of ritualised rights which separated his powers , as the senior executive , from those of the Governors . The harmonious operation of that system made all those involved in broadcasting develop a sense of their independence . At any moment there was nothing to stop any reigning government from simply walking into the building and taking over the control of the programme-making . In fact in 1926 Winston Churchill , Minister of Information at the time of the General Strike , wanted to take over the BBC and run it , during the prevailing national emergency , under his direct ministerial control.l It would have become , like the temporary government newspaper set up in the days of the strike , a straight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have regained the national belief in its durability and independence . 141 The Shadow in the Cave In 1956 during the attempted Suez invasion there was a plan devised by the Prime Minister , Anthony Eden , to take over the running of the BBC . The BBC resisted this threatened measure and continued to operate its traditional system by which the Leader of the Opposition is allowed to reply to Prime Ministerial statements . This meant that the BBC continued to reflect something of the national controversy over the Suez adventure under its own set of rules the formal ritual of which was rigidly stuck to ( to the fury of the impatient Leader of the Opposition ) .2 These two episodes and others which have cropped up from time to time have left in their wake a powerful internal mythology which has bolstered the BBC 's sense of independence . Autonomy feeds upon pride . The relationship between the organisation and the government is therefore the most crucial of all the relationships which bind a broadcasting organisation to its society . Ministers often find it difficult to separate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those which would enable but not entitle them to interfere . After all , any member of the public has the right to suggest and complain to the chief executive and the programme-makers . Why should I , the Minister of X and Y , be deprived of the same basic citizen right ? The political coverage of broadcasting is the minefield on which the constitutional life of the organisation and the actual programme content overlap . A minister may have some excellent editorial copy in his mind , but if he chooses to offer it in certain ways he may be guilty or be thought to be guilty of trying to intrude a government view into a programme . The BBC makes arrangements for ministerial broadcasts and counter-ministerial replies to be made whenever some major piece of governmental policy needs to be publicly presented . The ministerial broadcasts , like the party political broadcasts which occur during and between election campaigns on a carefully rationed basis , are not thought to be greatly enjoyed by the audience . They tend to interrupt the flow of programming ; they are clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposition . Nonetheless they provide a safety valve for the political community ? a valuable cushion against pressures which might otherwise become 142 Broadcasting Autonomy Under Threat overwhelming , rather than a Trojan horse threatening autonomy . Far more important than the relationship with government is that with opposition . The freedom with which the broadcasters contact , invite and discuss questions with the opposition is the touchstone of broadcasting independence . If that can be guaranteed , then government too will succeed in conducting its dialogue credibly with its society . That crucial freedom however depends on the structure which enables a state-appointed functionary ? in Britain the Chairman of the Board of Governors ? to supervise his organisation in the general public interest while allowing it to make its own judgements and dispositions about what it actually transmits . It is impossible to lay down what the rights and duties of the Chairman actually are , but if he oversteps his function in either direction , he certainly jeopardises the autonomy of the entire enterprise , or alternatively the rights of the public . In 1931 , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Postmaster-General started the practice of sending to every new Governor on appointment a copy of a document ( drafted by Whitley with the approval of Reith ) which spelt out the proper relationships between the Board of Governors , the BBC executive chiefs and the British public . Relations between Reith and Whitley 's predecessor , Lord Clarendon , had been bad ; henceforth the divisions of responsibilities were laid down : With the Director-General they discuss and then decide upon major matters of policy and finance , but they leave the execution of that policy and the general administration of the Service in all its branches to the Director-General and his competent officers . The Governors should be able to judge of the general effect of the Service upon the public , and , subject as before-mentioned , are of course finally responsible for the conduct of it . ' 3 Many have found this set of definitions too subtle for easy practice . Lord Simon rejected the formula when he came to look back on his own period of chairmanship , on the grounds that it prevented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect of the BBC ' .4 The relationship , while difficult to 143 The Shadow in the Cave live up to in its delicate separation of overlapping rights , nevertheless contained a set of broadcasting rights which served the public as a whole . The Whitley document was a kind of Magna Carta . In the Governors the public enjoyed a form of representation , certainly no right of choosing or removing them , but nonetheless there was within the structure of broadcasting a group of powerful people who were looking not to the immediate advantage of the BBC but to a set of national interests . The vagueness and inadequacy of the arrangement are easy to perceive . Nonetheless it was better than a system in which the public had no visible stake in the internal affairs of broadcasting . There has been carefully spelt out a territory between broadcasters and government , which the public could regard as its own . When that ground was lost , a major conflict between government , public and broadcasters was almost inevitable . When commercial competition came to Britain , the Governors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governors in charge of another rival broadcasting system , one that after initial setbacks started to compete fiercely and endanger the stability of the BBC . Inevitably an element of protectiveness crept into their attitude towards the BBC . Increasingly they felt that they were part of the BBC as well as public scrutineers of it . Different chairmen and different directors-general of course came and went and built up different relationships . The crucial distinctions of function remained , however , and the most crucial element , that of the executive supremacy of the professional chief , the DG ' , most prominently remained . Sir Hugh Greene , Director-General for most of the decade of the sixties , maintained his supremacy within and over the system.5 His relationship with the chairmen with whom he had at first to deal ( Lord Normanbrook , a former chief of the Civil Service , reigned for most of the early period ) was peaceful and cooperative . The BBC adopted courses which caused enormous public controvery . The Greene method of leadership was to take a considerable personal interest in crucial individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead the BBC into a culturally vanguard ' position.6 In the context of British society at the time this was an immensely successful role for the BBC ; its daring built for 144 Broadcasting Autonomy Under Threat it an international reputation as the pacemaker among broadcasters . It was the decision of Harold Wilson , on becoming Prime Minister , to curb ' the BBC by putting Lord Hill ( until then chairman of the ITA ) into the chairmanship of the Board of Governors which undermined the traditional system . Lord Hill made himself the chief executive of the entire organisation . ' He lived for much of the time in the building . He came into frequent conflict with Greene . Eventually Greene departed and was replaced by Charles Curran who arrived in the job at a time when Hill had established himself firmly at the helm ; he had no choice but to continue as a kind of number 2 . Lord Normanbrook had at times asserted his right , as a chairman , to have the final say on programme content8 but Hill interpreted this reserve right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organisation the change occurred imperceptibly but over a period of years the entire balance of editorial power had clearly shifted . The rise of the chairman to the position of senior executive meant that his role as public guardian was no longer simultaneously credible . True , Hill was merely taking a stage further a process which had been occurring , by fits and starts , over a very long period . Nonetheless he made explicit the new role of the chairman at a moment when television was becoming a highly contentious medium . The crunch occurred over a programme , transmitted in June 1971 , entitled Yesterday 's Men ' . It was a light-hearted , at moments extremely cynical , look at the senior members of the erstwhile Labour administration , one year after their ousting at the General Election of June 1970 . The programme produced an enormous furore . It became a basic text in all subsequent disquisition and analysis of the evils of broadcasting . The crucial element in the affair however was that on the insistence of the Chairman , the Board of Governors had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , setting aside vigorous protests from Harold Wilson , decided to transmit it , with one sentence deleted . When the transmission brought about a further and increased bout of fury in the press , Parliament and the postbag of the BBC , an inquiry was held by the Board of Governors who in the 145 The Shadow in the Cave light of meticulously culled evidence9 decided that the programme had been compiled in a proper fashion , apart from the title and the attendant title song , which had not been communicated to the participants during the making of the programme . The programme-makers were criticised for this , but defended on a further series of charges made by Wilson and Richard Crossman.10 The report of the Board of Governors ' inquiry was treated contemptuously by a great section of public opinion , both in the press and in Parliament . The Governors had put themselves in the position of acting as judge and jury as well as investigators into a decision for which they themselves had been responsible . The public found itself therefore , in 1972 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it could in any way regard as its representatives . The Board of Governors of the BBC was now a purely executive Board running a busy national enterprise in a competitive way . The pressure for some new form of public scrutiny of broadcasting which would investigate complaints and lay down journalistic standards grew rapidly and considerably . It gained support among people who wanted to curtail the freedom of broadcasters as well as among groups who wanted to reduce the independence of the BBC in the interests of various forms of democratisation ' . Mr Julian Critchley MP argued that the setting up of an impartial body for the investigation of grievances would be of some reassurance to the outraged , and would , over a period of time , build up a code of practice . Its sanctions would be indirect ; but it is unlikely that a public corporation like the BBC would choose to ignore its findings , and the television companies , whose franchises are at risk , would take care not to offend ' .11 The BBC 'S response to the pressures and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Men ' was to set up a Complaints Commission , specially housed and salaried by the BBC itself , to whom complainants would be referred if they rejected as unsatisfactory the replies they received to complaints which had been sent directly to the BBC . The Commission consisted of three retired public servants of great distinction , one of them a former Ombudsman , one a former Speaker , and 146 Broadcasting Autonomy Under Threat one a former Lord Chief Justice ( who died within the first year ) . The cases they received in the first year were very few in number . ' 2 Their very existence tended to do little to assuage those demanding a full-scale Broadcasting Council outside the BBC and the ITn and governing the standards of both . The judgements they handed down were treated with some scorn within the broadcasting world , because they revealed the investigators ' lack of knowledge of the way in which programmes were put together and because their investigations were held in secrecy and at the expense of the BBC itself . The complaints dealt with were treated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professionals called in for investigation had , in effect , the status of witnesses in a legal action against the BBC . ( The complaints were referred to the Commission only if the BBC 's own prior machinery was exhausted without satisfying the complainant . ) It seemed that once the original machinery for representing the interests of the public had ceased to function ( with the redefinition of the role of the Governors ) there was no separation of power within the structure . The future opened up the possibility of an infinite regression of new layers of public bodies replacing and supervising other public bodies . The task of separating broadcasting from the direct interference of government or Parliament became much more difficult . The setting up of the Commission does not affect the constitutional functions of the Governors , the programme responsibility of the executive , or the role of the General Advisory Council as the principal advisory body to the Governors ' was the BBC 's insistent defence of the new structure.13 Nonetheless its judgements could do nothing but begin to change the canons of practice within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or they did not ; when a court makes bad judgements , there must either be new and better judges or new laws . British broadcasting was being governed by a court which had no laws and appeared to be making bad judgements . There was no viable source of new and more credible law . In the Complaints Commission , the viewing public did not gain a source of accountability . Shortly before the replacement of Lord Hill as Chairman of the BBC ( at the expiry of his term of office ) by Professor Sir Michael 147 The Shadow in the Cave Swann , Sir Hugh Greene , former Director-General , attacked the Commission in scathing terms in a public speech in London . It is possible that in the post-Hill era the whole policy of the BBC towards public accountability will be thought out again . There is a case to be made for increasing pluralism within the national system of broadcasting , whereby more elements within the society can obtain a chance to broadcast or alternatively a chance to participate in controlling broadcasting . There is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to weaken or confuse internal lines of control while continuing to exclude the public from any positive rights within the workings of the broadcasting system . No broadcasting system can escape from being the possession ultimately of government . The Legal Adviser to RTB of Belgium , Monsieur A. Namurois , aptly summarised the impossibility of guaranteeing freedom of speech ' through broadcasting within a system which is licensed by the state : A Government supervision of the pin-prick kind ; in skilful or overskilful use of air time under cover of a legal provision regarding official announcements , and intolerable moral constraints on the director-general designed to make him a mere creature of the Executive , would seriously impair the necessary autonomy of the broadcasting institutions in news or programmes . ' 14 Since pressure or advice can not be channelled through government to the broadcasters without endangering the sensitive relationship which exists between the two , various plans have been considered and urged in a number of countries for institutions which would interpose themselves between government and broadcasting institution , and which , with varying degrees of advisory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representing a public interest ' without acting as an agency of official pressure . The aim in all of these proposals is to pre-empt or evade direct government intervention in the editorial processes . The first post-war plan for a council of this kind came in 1947 in the recommendations of the Commission on the Freedom of the Press under the chairmanship of Robert M. Hutchins of Chicago University . ' 5 The Hutchins Commission wanted : the establishment of a new and independent agency to 148 Broadcasting Autonomy Under Threat appraise and report annually upon the performance of the press . ' The problems to which it was intended that the commission should address itself were those of setting up and supervising professional journalistic standards , observing processes of concentration of ownership , encouraging the growth of professional training in journalism , and investigating complaints of inaccuracy and misrepresentation . During the Home Secretaryship of J. Chuter Ede a British Royal Commission on the Press was set up and was active between 1947 and 1949 ; it too recommended that the press set up its own General Council which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sense of responsibility to the public ' .16 The aim was to oblige the British popular press to take note of public disquiet over its vexatious faults and set its own house in order . In Britain the proposal was adopted and a Press Council , later given an independent chairman and some non-journalist members , but consisting largely of editors of newspapers , supervises Fleet Street , apportioning blame after considering specific complaints sent in by aggrieved members of the public . The press , however , consists of a number of privately-owned agencies which perform an important social function . They have chosen to surrender albeit under public pressure internal functions to a common supervisory body in order to demonstrate that , though still privately owned , they have a collective spirit of public responsibility . All broadcasting is publicly controlled from its inception . The problem has always been to make it live and be seen to live outside the purview of the executive . Those who support the various proposals for a Broadcasting Council argue that they want it to have functions similar to Fleet Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a Broadcasting Council would merely duplicate the intended functions of the existing Boards of Governors but in a form which might simply develop as a gigantic inhibitory pressure . Lord Aylestone , Chairman of the Independent Broadcasting ( formerly Television ) Authority , said to the Select Committee on Nationalised Industries , when pressed on this point : ' I have always felt the Broadcasting Council idea is simply imposing above the Authority or the BBC Board of Governors another body doing precisely 149 The Shadow in the Cave the same sort of thing . ' 17 In a letter to the same committee , the Managing Director of the small ITV Company , Channel Television , points out that the dividing line between censorship and responsible control , as regards the Authority 's relationship with the companies , is a narrow one . It does at least indicate that there could be no justification for a Broadcasting Council as far as ITV is concerned , as the Authority itself , not being a programme producer , adequately fulfils that position . ' 18 Nonetheless although the Authority , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own programmes , it has the right to do so and has the prerogative of sharing editorial control with the programme companies which it supervises . Its position is no different from that of the BBC . Both systems contain a delicate tracery of constitutional arrangements which enable them to represent the public interest while being responsible for programme-making . Only when the confidence of either of the parties who are impliedly represented within this arrangement ( i.e. the programme-makers and the public ) is broken down does the need arise for some additional supervisory body , or court of last resort . One of the more interesting attempts to introduce a measure of pluralism to the broadcasting system by means of a Broadcasting Council is that of Sweden , where an unconventional mixture of private finance and public control is made to cope with public complaints through an open forum of argument and adjudication . Swedish Radio is a private company , of which 20 per cent is owned by the manufacturing industry of radio and television , 40 per cent by the press , and 40 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Board , who between them can outvote the five members who represent the interest of the stock-owners . The Company is financed by a combination of licence fees and advertising , and the annual dividend is fixed at five per cent . The Government , however , owns the transmitters outright.19 In some ways the structure resembles that of the old British Broadcasting Company which preceded the present Corporation between 1922 and 1926. 150 Broadcasting Autonomy Under Threat The Swedish organisation has been restructured on a number of occasions , the principal ones being in 1959 when a new agreement and new regulations were made to take cognisance of the changed conditions of the television era , 20 and in 1967 when preparations were made for a new second television channel . The Agreement between Swedish Radio and the Government which was approved in May 1959 spells out in some detail the general code of practice according to which the system should operate . It emphasises the need for cultural diversity and for political impartiality . The Agreement gives broadcasting a central national role and contains elements which might strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clause 1 states that the Corporation is required to disseminate , in objective , impartial and suitable form , information on current events and to orient the general public towards more important cultural and social issues , as well as to encourage debate on such issues ' . In the 1960s a more detailed Code of Broadcasting Practice21 was drawn up , which continues to emphasise not only the need for the strictest impartiality in all programmes but also contains a positive instruction to observe a scientific objectivity . Nonetheless Swedish Radio is obliged to create platforms for controversial and minority opinions and to undertake that all of these are adequately put and cogently contradicted by other views . The existence of a published and fixed code of journalistic conduct and programme practice means that the public can judge ( or at least conjecture ) whether a given programme has infringed the organisation 's rules . Sweden has also a Broadcasting Council which since 1967 has consisted of seven independent individuals appointed by government , and drawn from the ranks of professional , managerial and intellectual groups.22 The function of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before it by members of the public , Swedish Radio has infringed the Agreement of 1959 made with the Government . The Government , under the law , has no right of prior censorship or prior supervision of programme content ; the Council has no right to interfere in the making of programmes , but only to judge whether , after the event , they were consistent with the basic 151 The Shadow in the Cave law . The Council can not judge , nor even approach an individual producer . Like the BBC 'S Complaints Commission , it can address itself only to the Corporation as a whole . In the first three years of its existence the Broadcasting Council ( unlike the BBC 'S Complaints Commission ) held 64 meetings and received 626 complaints.23 It ignored 91 complaints as being outside its jurisdiction and dismissed 399 . It decided that 45 of the complaints were justified and of these there were 14 violations of the Agreement which it felt involved issues of principle of sufficient importance to be detailed in its annual report . It decided , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a King ? ' was over-simplified in its treatment of the constitution , betrayed the presenter 's personal prejudice but was not in basic breach of the Agreement.24 It received a complaint that the record by Jane Birkin , Je t'aime , moi non plus ' ( famous for its heavy breathing as much as its melody ) was being unconstitutionally discriminated against in being omitted from a Top of the Pops ' record programme even though it figured very prominently in the charts which officially registered the popularity of records . The Council argued in its judgement that the non-playing of a single record ? irrespective of its quality ? would not be regarded as a breach of the Corporation 's duty to provide good quality amusement and entertainment , while paying attention to the complete range of the audience 's taste . ' Swedish Radio is enjoined to provide material to satisfy all cultural predilections , but the Council decided that the normal selection procedures could not be held binding so as to make a single departure from them a violation of the Agreement . ' 25 However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tougher political issues . A programme on Berlin , The Dying City ' , 26 was judged to have been unbalanced . In it building projects in East Berlin had been described as if they were already in existence . The programme had exploded as false a report that a certain youth had been wounded by East Berlin guards when trying to escape to the West ; but the programme had not explained that such incidents did actually occur , even though this particular incident had been fraudently reported in 152 Broadcasting Autonomy Under Threat the West . The programme had held up the views of one German student who disliked West Berlin as if he were representative of all students in the Western part of the city ; this student did not refer to the fact that there was any lack of personal liberty in East Berlin . A classic and highly contentious issue arose over a series of programmes entitled From Socialism to Increased Equality ' 27 which gave a Marxist interpretation of the history of the Swedish labour movement . The Commission decided that this series was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council dissented , saying that This series can not be regarded as fulfilling in a completely acceptable manner the expectations of impartiality and objectivity . ' The Council had been obliged to listen to several days of testimony from a group of independent historians , while Swedish Radio and the producers of the programme provided their own expert witnesses as to their historical validity . The existence of a legal machinery for investigating breaches and non-breaches of a law enforcing objectivity ' has a curious effect within any culture . While in the Anglo-Saxon tradition the broadcaster makes an effort at impartiality in a spirit of honest endeavour , the Swedish system has transformed it into a theology . Professor Jorgen Westerstahl , who has conducted several investigations on behalf of the Broadcasting Council into programmes concerning Vietnam and the coverage of the election of 1968 , insists28 that there are definite yardsticks by which objectivity ' can be established , both in practice and in the breach . Truthfulness , relevance , balance and neutral presentation ' are the four basic requirements of objectivity , Westerstahl asserts , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taste . He argues that subjective reporting is a bad new tendency which is creeping into broadcast journalism , a tendency which could lead away from the democratic idea which guarantees each citizen objective information ' . If broadcasting is to be used as a tool for intelligent exchange of cultural products , political information and controversial disquisition , it needs to be left flexible and left alone . Its independence has to be guaranteed , together with the autonomy 153 The Shadow in the Cave of any organisation which is empowered , under whatever institutional arrangements , to conduct the business of broadcasting . To make it publicly accountable to super-bodies with power to investigate the details of the intellectual work of individuals must surely be spiritually destructive of any serious broadcasting industry and destructive of the very democratic idea ' which Professor Westerstahl wishes to preserve . If the dilemma of power inherent in the act of broadcasting is to be resolved only by the creation of legalistic norms of ' impartiality ' to be mechanistically determined by public trial , then it is unlikely that broadcasting will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new forms of Broadcasting Council is that they will further internalise in the minds of broadcasters a set of strictures which have more to do with the politics of institutions than the health of broadcasting . Something has to be interposed between the state and the actual organisations which conduct and organise broadcasting , but a pseudo-judiciary is not likely to be an answer that will satisfy in the long run the needs of those demanding it , still less those who are concerned to increase the quality and vitality of the broadcasting product . The dilemma is almost unresolvable within the present technology and structure of broadcasting . It is a pain we have to learn to live with rather than one for which we should seek cheap placebos. 154 Chapter Six France and the ORTF : Personal Power plus Television Monopoly Equals Gaullism Being a journalist working for the oRTE is not like being a journalist elsewhere . Whether you like it or not , ORTF is the voice of France . You who write the news must always keep in mind that you are not talking for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your government . ' President Pompidou The connecting line of execution extends downwards uninterrupted from the minister to the individual subject , transmitting the law and orders from the government unto the last ramification of the social order , with the speed of electric fluid . ' M. Chaptal , a minister in the government of Napoleon Bonaparte The dread of disturbance and the love of well-being insensibly lead democratic nations to increase the functions of central government as the only power which appears to be intrinsically sufficiently strong , enlightened and secure to protect them from anarchy . ' De Tocqueville Two weeks before the evenements ' of May 1968 , M. Gorse , the French Minister of Information , made a speech in which he spoke scathingly of the political pressures which were formerly , in the dark days of the Fourth Republic , allowed to interfere with the work of French radio and television . M. Gorse was severe with his predecessors : Every new Minister of Information 155 The Shadow in the Cave would receive as his first commission on taking office an instruction to take a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fortnight of making the speech M. Gorse himself was swept away in a vast crisis of French society , one aspect of which was the distrust of a broadcasting system believed to be nothing more than a tool of the Gaullist administration . France has created the most unstable set of broadcasting institutions in Europe , if not the world . They have suffered crisis after crisis since the beginning of radio in 1924 in an endless and fruitless search for a point of equilibrium ; no one can say with confidence that even now any enduring principle has been established in structure or programme content . It is uncertain whether the French will finally settle for private or public institutions , commercial or non-commercial ones , government-controlled or independent . Nor has any combination of any of these proved hitherto sufficiently reliable to endure . Although for many years the aim has been to set up some form of public service ' it is never clear , when the phrase is used on French lips , whether it implies a cultural aim or an administrative instrument . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallen has tended to be the same : the extent to which the instrument of broadcasting should be placed at the disposal of the prevailing political group . Although every new set of institutions which have been set up to house broadcasting in France has resulted from a fresh effort by government to make broadcasting ( especially television ) politically responsive , it is certainly possible to view the fifty years of upheaval as merely a series of accidents , the product of administrative resourcefulness rather than sinister chicanery . In the 1920s France 's radio stations were run either by departments of national and local government , or specially licensed private bodies , under a law of November 1923.2 Revenue was provided by government and through advertising , under the supervision of the PTT , the Administration of Posts and Telegraphs . By 1933 there were 24 stations altogether broadcasting from French soil , and it was decided to levy a licence fee on each receiver in order to improve the revenue . All the political groups in France had been using radio for propaganda and discussion purposes and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contending party to share broadcasting time . After the election new regulations were enacted forbidding all local station controllers to touch news or politics , which henceforth was concentrated in the Paris station . Throughout the period prior to the outbreak of war the local stations though state-owned were all under the control of locally elected management committees , chosen by all the radio licence-holders in a given community . With the arrival of advertising , however , their existence became of doubtful , or at least complex , legality , since they had been set up under a law governing only non-profit-making enterprises . Finally , when war came broadcasting control was centralised completely and the local committees were all sent home ; the PTT Minister handed over control to the ministers responsible for waging war . In the areas under the Vichy Government , however , things went a step further and the government removed all the permissions for local stations to broadcast at all ; their facilities were taken over for direct military use . By a series of haphazard processes in the period of social emergency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of no permanent plan . Then radio was finally silenced altogether in the dark days of the Occupation.3 It was in Britain , in the studios of the BBC , that a new system of French broadcasting was born . Brigadier de Gaulle made his historic broadcasts to the people of Occupied France from British soil . It is uncertain whether many people heard him , certainly in the early months when millions were fleeing from their homes and the Germans had attempted to confiscate every single radio receiver in the northern part of France . Nonetheless the political personality of de Gaulle , which was decades later to be the foundation stone of the broadcasting structure , was created at that moment by the transmitters of the BBC . It was at that time that he first realised , more powerfully and more skilfully than any other world leader , the political potential of broadcasting and its particular applicability to the chaotic conditions of the French nation . As M. Raymond Aron later wrote of this period : Radio London was a more powerful political reality in France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' 4 157 The Shadow in the Cave Under the law of October 1941 , enacted by de Gaulle 's exiled government , an organisation called the RTF ( **25;246;TOOLONG Franrcaise ) was created . It automatically operated as a monopoly and was the employer of all broadcasting workers on French soil . It existed under the direct supervision of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet . This system prevailed when de Gaulle returned to France , at which point all the existing stations went off the air . ( Some of their operators were later imprisoned for acts of collaboration with the Germans . ) The problem of the 1940s was an appalling scarcity of all means for disseminating information in print , by wire and through broadcasting . The state monopoly of 1945 was a result not of policy but of scarcity . Furthermore it confirmed a situation which had emerged step by step during the war . When , later , de Gaulle was accused of interfering with broadcasting he was able to blame not his own Fifth Republic , but the Fourth for having initiated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can detect five separate factors which led to the monopolisation of broadcasting in France.5 Firstly , there was the tradition of government control of the telegraph initiated in the middle of the nineteenth century because of fear of its use by enemies of the regime . Secondly , there was no real debate within France over who was to control broadcasting ; it had grown very slowly ( television in particular ) and continued to grow slowly until de Gaulle arrived again in 1958 . State control was a convenience rather than the result of a firm policy . Thirdly , the newspapers seeing that radio elsewhere , and later of course television , was potentially a usurper of advertising revenue became staunch supporters of a system by which the state would guarantee the financial viability of a French system of broadcasting . Fourthly , broadcasting was seen as a primary instrument of the traditional French policy of cultural diffusion . In private hands , as in the United States , broadcasting automatically became an instrument of low culture ; the French , with their deeply-held feeling that France had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw that centralised control of broadcasting was the only guarantee that the instrument would be employed to ensure that high culture // would prevail . ( Matthew Arnold might well have agreed . ) Finally , there has been throughout the century an anxiety in many sections of French society that their state lacked coherence and a centre of gravity ; there were fears constantly that French society might crack up altogether and the knowledge that broadcasting was centralised and in public hands made society as a whole that much more secure . This combination of factors certainly ensured that all who controlled broadcasting in France would realise that it was no mere toy that lay in their grasp . The French government ended up running broadcasting because no one else was available uncontentiously to do so . Conditions in France had not made it possible for the growth of instruments of public control outside government as occurred in the Anglo-Saxon countries . There could be no gentlemen 's agreements ' between outside public bodies and the French state or government ; in the years that followed the Second World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of that besetting vice of all authority : interference . The underlying problem with French broadcasting , especially in the television age , was that it found no administrative resting place ; although in the hands of the state , broadcasting went through a series of convulsions , no suitable administrative system emerging . Between 1948 and 1964 . television gradually became a major force , and for the whole of that period before and during the years of de Gaulle , the universe of French broadcasting remained a bureaucratic one , its mental picture of the audience that of a patient with the hypodermic needle of French high culture pointed at him . The problems of broadcasting in this period , at the end of which a new broadcasting organisation ( the ORTF ) emerged with a guaranteed statutory identity , bear witness not to a French dilemma about the role of broadcasting so much as a French dilemma about the nature of social administration itself . The Fifth Republic found an interim solution to the problem of administration because in concentrating power completely in the centre it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other social problems . Philip Williams and Martin Harrison have aptly described the bureaucracy of Gaullism ; they refer to II 159 The Shadow in the Cave the growing army of specialists dispatched to run the nationalised industries and the vast penumbra of parapublic bodies , to keep the ORTF docile , or to serve in ministerial cabinets or the influential entourages of Matignon and Elysee .... Thus the Fifth Republic , with its belief in hierarchy and depoliticisation , its indifference to meaningful consultation , and its elimination of so many of the former constraints and interferences , has given many of its technocrats exceptional opportunities . ' 6 Broadcasting passed from the hands of amateur and uncaring bureaucrats in the 1950s into the hands of experts . Nonetheless each fresh reorganisation left it with an unsolved problem of interference ' from one quarter or another . In the 1940s radio in France had settled down to a pattern of four channels , two of them the National Programme and the string of FM stations concentrating on serious music , talks and discussion of cultural questions of a fairly highbrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Parisian network ? concerned largely with popular music and light entertainment . From the chaos of war an organised listening public grew up ; by 1960 it owned 10 million receivers on each of which a tax was paid . Television , however , was struggling . Before the war there had been about 400 sets in all France and although various forms of experimentation continued during the war years , television was reinstated on a regular basis only in 1948 , when for a few hours a week a privileged group of 3000 Frenchmen ( confined to only 30 per cent of the geographical area of France ) were able to receive programmes . By 1960 , when television had come of age in most other countries and was on the verge of reaching saturation level in almost every country of the West , still only a million sets had been sold in France . Television had remained an exclusive luxury . It was broadcast on 819 lines , a unique system which could not be connected to any other television system in the world and which enabled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly protected market . But there were still only fifty hours of television programmes per week being transmitted at the end of the 1950s . The administration of the RTF was inseparable from that of the Prr . Its budgeting was not independent , nor was its central 160                     