@@773429

txt mats in the field would think twice before they reported views that might be exhumed by future McCarthys seeking to purge them from the . service . There was food for thought in the accusation by McCarthy 's critics that he could not possibly have helped the Communist cause more if he had been on Moscow 's payroll . Communists rejoiced as he tore the nation asunder . In effect , he attempted to burn down the barn to get rid of a few rats . He caused many worthy citizens to forget that if one gives up basic liberties to purchase security , one may wind up with neither liberty nor security . WAS TRUMAN A NEAR-GREAT PRESIDENT ? A Missouri dirt-farmer , an ex-haberdasher , a small-time machine politician in Missouri , and then U. S. Senator , Harry S Truman fell heir to the presidency after serving only seven weeks as Vice President . He was almost completely unbriefed by President Roosevelt as to the earthshaking commitments at Yalta and elsewhere . Yet this ordinary-appearing " average man 's average man " plunged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and displayed both courage and decisiveness in handling the unprecedented number of " gutty " decisions that had to be made at his desk . It bore the motto , " The Buck Stops Here . " Truman was a great surprise , rather than a great President , in that he managed his office far better than most people had reason to expect . His appearance and manner to the contrary , he was far more than an " average man . " 2l Spunky Harry Truman was a fighter . He fought for the rights of labor ( he vetoed the Taft ? Hartley " slave labor " bill ) ; he fought for civil rights for Negroes ( thereby splitting off the Southern wing of his party in 1948 ) ; he fought to protect the Executive Branch of the government from legislative interference ( thereby inviting the McCarthyite investigations ) ; he fought to cover up for his political cronies when they were caught using their influence for pecuniary gain ( the " Missouri gang " ) ; he fought Congress ( which overrode twelve of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his office " in his own right " ; and he fought during his second administration to achieve the social reforms ? in public housing , social security benefits , rent control , and minimum wages ? embraced in his program known as the Fair Deal . // Some of Truman 's " great decisions , " which were commended at the time , do not look so statesmanlike in the long view . Dropping the atomic bomb , though supported by his key advisors , could have been avoided . His abrupt cancellation of lend ? lease was , by his own admission , a blunder . The creation and hasty recognition of Israel , partly for partisan purposes , foreclosed other alternatives which might have proved less harmful to America 's long-run interests . The effort to persuade the Chinese Communists and Nationalists to form a coalition government was doomed from the outset , and the " dumping " of Chiang Kai-shek in 1949 , though probably inevitable , was done with a brutality that is best explained by political motivations . Intervention in Korea and its aftermath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was questionable , in view of its sudden reversal of established military policy ? and the Korean problem dragged on for decades , despite enormous expense and bloodletting . The sacking of MacArthur was justified , though handled in anger and with all the finesse of a punch in the nose . When the administration authorized the General to go north , it brought in China , which the established itself beyond doubt as a Far Eastern military power in fighting the Americans and their associates to a standstill . The emergence of Red China in turn led to American fears for Indochina , and in the spring of 1950 ( a decision often overlooked ) the Truman administration authorized the first of hundreds of millions of dollars to support the French against the rebellious Ho Chi Minh ? a momentous initial step in the nation 's Vietnam entanglement . Critics of Truman , especially left-wingers , are prone to blame him for heating up the Cold War . But his reactions were part of a vicious circle for which no one in particular was to blame ; conflict was inherent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doctrine , which may or may not have saved Greece and Turkey , had much to commend it , but the President was less than far-visioned in making it applicable to the entire world , including Vietnam . The Marshall Plan , on the other hand , is generally accounted ( in non-Communist circles ) an enormous success and an act of genuine statesmanship . The Berlin airlift may have saved this key ' city for the West , and the entangling NATO alliance of 1949 provided a bulwark against further Soviet penetration in Europe . One obvious moral of the Truman days is that policies can not be properly assessed until events have run their course . Many historians , impressed with the surprising decisiveness of the peppery President and // unduly concerned with immediate results , have classified him as a " Near Great . " A more cautious judgment would be that he was unexpectedly competent , rather than great , but even this is a compliment . 38 The Eisenhower Interlude War hero Dwight D. ( ' Ike ' ) Eisenhower was elected President in 1952 on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the Democrats drafted ? one of the few cases in American history of a genuine presidential draft . The General , a middle-o f-the-roader who tended to be a strict constructionist of the Constitution , assembled a Cabinet dominated by wealthy businessmen . ' His first administration was bedeviled by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy 's ruthless drive against alleged Communists in government , but this self-appointed prosecutor finally overreached himself . Eisenhower consented to run for reelection in 1956 , despite a near-fatal heart attack in September 1955 . The ensuing electoral campaign was complicated by an acute international crisis growing out of Egypt 's seizure of the Suez Canal , provoked in part by the United States . Simultaneously the Soviets brutally suppressed rebellious Hungary . With a war-experienced hand evidently needed at the helm , Eisenhower defeated a warmed-over Governor Stevenson by an even wider margin than before . During his second administration , especially the last two years , Eisenhower displayed unexpected energy . Presidential Assistant Sher- // man Adams was forced to resign under a cloud , in September 1958 , and Secretary of State Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then compelled to assume more responsibilities and show more vigor , especially in foreign affairs . Eisenhower was no crusader where civil rights were involved . He routinely backed the desegregation decision of the Supreme Court and finally intervened with federal troops in Little Rock , Arkansas , to protect a few black pupils . Despite a dampening business recession in 1958 , he remained immensely popular to the end of his second term . WAS EISENHOWER A TRADITIONAL MILITARY MAN ? After twenty long years of Democratic Presidents , the Republicans regained the White House in 1953 by capitalizing on the war-born popularity and glamorous grin of five-star General Dwight D. Eisenhower . The country was still prosperous but the voters were especially weary of professional politicians , of the so-called corrupt " mess in Washington , " and of the unending " no-win " Korean War . Candidate Eisenhower won immense acclaim when he promised , if elected , to go to Korea and see what he could do to end the miserable affair . So great was his personal popularity that he made a far more impressive showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they narrowly won control of that body for only two of " Ike 's " eight years . Eisenhower was a West Point graduate , the former commander of victorious Allied armies in World War II , and a long-term professional soldier . But he was far from being cast in the same mold as other professionals such as General Zachary Taylor or General Ulysses S. Grant . Gifted as a coordinator , a conciliator , and an accommodator , he was a natural choice to command the multination Allied forces in North Africa and Western Europe . Diplomatic affairs had by now become so intimately intertwined with military affairs that Eisenhower soon gained unusual experience in dealing with many of the leaders of Europe , both military and civilian . His Republican backers also pointed out that he had been further " civilianized " by serving for two years as President of Columbia University after World War II . But many educators were critical , arguing that just as nations do not summon academicians to lead their armies , they should not call on generals to head their academies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his element ; the impression deepened that the clean old general was above dirty politics . Despite his presumed grasp of military affairs , the General ? President pursued a defense policy vulnerable to criticism . Largely in the interests of economy , he cut back the conventional armed forces and relied heavily on " massive retaliation " with nuclear weapons ( " More bang for the buck , " the saying went ) . The difficulty with this approach was that without a " flexible response , " involving some conventional forces , the nation could not deal effectively with small , brush-fire wars . The danger loomed that in a major crisis the choices would be holocaust or humiliation , a blowup or a backdown.2 Unlike military men who are accustomed to giving orders and having them obeyed with heel-clicking celerity , Eisenhower as President proved to be humble , modest , teachable , prudent , dignified ( unlike Truman on occasion ) , capable of growth , blessed with common sense , and lacking a craving for power . He did not like to be bothered with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason he delegated much authority under arran ments that resembled the staff system of the army . He much pref are to have the essentials of an important decision brought to him on a single sheet of paper . Not surprisingly , he unloaded much of his responsibility on Secretary of State Dulles and on Presidential Assistant Sherman Adams , who for nearly six years was one of the most powerful men in Washington , although not holding an elective office . Eisenhower 's Republicanism , at least at the start , was hardly more than skin deep : like Grant in 1868 , he might have had the presidential nomination of either party . When he began singing the praises of the Republicans with high-sounding moralities , he seemed to be badly out of character . He became so discouraged with his attempts to force his liberal " Modern Republicanism " on the reactionary elements among his following that he gave serious thought to forming a new party . ' To the end , he was still something of a military man , but his breadth of vision was highlighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned the nation against the growing power of the vast " military-industrial complex . " He warned more wisely than he knew . WAS PRESIDENT ? GENERAL EISENHOWER A FIGHTER ? Despite his record as a professional fighter , Eisenhower did not distinguish himself as a fighting President . Having led the great Crusade in Europe ( the title of his memoirs published in 1948 ) , he had no desire to lead a great crusade in America . He was a tranquilizer rather than a stimulant . Remembering what his civics textbook had said about delicate checks and balances among the three branches of the government , he showed unusual deference to Congress , which was embarrassingly Democratic during the last six of his eight years . He leaned on that body perhaps as much as he led it , especially in the early months , when he was undergoing on-the-job training . Unlike Truman , he did not let fly with charges of a " do-nothing , " " no-account " Congress . He had potent retaliatory weapons at his command , but he refused to get down " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even when that Red-baiting demagogue was attacking Eisenhower 's own Department of Defense . Critics frequently accused the President of abdicating moral leadership . Eisenhower was a man of peace ; he had seen enough carnage . One of his great regrets when he left office was that he had not insured world peace , although Republicans boasted ( with exaggeration ) that during his administration no American soldiers had been killed by enemy action on foreign soil . ' Some of his problems were swept under the rug for later corners to the White House , but he did contrive to bring a shaky truce to Korea ( on stalemate terms which President Truman would have been pilloried for accepting ) ; he did restrain his more warlike advisors ( including Vice President Nixon ) from rushing into Vietnam when the French were collapsing in 1954 at Dien Bien Phu ; 5 he did manage to avoid a clash with China while protecting Chiang on Taiwan from the Communist Chinese ; he did contrive to uphold Allied rights in Berlin ; he did refrain from backing the British , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1956 ; and he did resist the clamor to intervene on behalf of the Hungarian revolutionists against the Soviets . Another close call came in the eastern Mediterranean during 1958 . Congress had given the President a blank check in 1957 ( the Eisenhower Doctrine ) which authorized him to use the armed forces to protect any nation in the Middle East that requested such assistance against " armed aggression from any country controlled by international communism . . . . " Responding to an urgent appeal from Lebanon , Eisenhower hastily landed some 14,000 men in July 1958 . As the event proved , the Eisenhower Doctrine was not really applicable ; the threat was an internal one , compounded by machinations from Egypt , which was not " controlled by international communism . " Nevertheless , quiet was restored after many anxious days . WAS EISENHOWER A E- CTIONARY ? " Ike " was a split personality : he regarded himself as a moderate liberal in human relationships and international affairs , but as a moderate conservative in economic affairs , especially government finance . One basic reason why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inclinations to the contrary , was a desire to save his country from isolationism , particularly that favored by conservatives within his Republican party . As the business man 's ideal , he had an obsessive concern for " fiscal responsibility " and balanced budgets . To his dismay the budget was out of balance for three of his eight years , for a total of about $20 billion in red ink . Eisenhower Republicans found the various New Deal measures so deeply rooted that most of these changes could not be eliminated . Like the Jeffersonians of 1801 , the victors not only accepted much of what they found , but even expanded some of it , including Social Security . Ironically , their clamor about the " corrupt mess " in Washington came home to plague them . As was inevitable , several cases of wrongdoing hit the headlines , conspicuously the case of Sherman Adams , the aloof and tough-fisted presidential assistant . His offense was to accept expensive personal gifts from a New England manufacturer , a longtime friend , and then make three brief inquiries on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call from the White House usually carries considerable weight , even if routine , and Adams conceded that he had been imprudent . President Eisenhower reluctantly accepted his resignation after the administration continued to suffer political damage . American Presidents roughly fall into two categories : the activists such as Jackson and the two Roosevelts , and the caretaker type such as Coolidge . After two major wars , the country wanted a breathing-spell President , and Eisenhower filled the bill . A frequent criticism was that with his immense popularity and ingratiating personality he should have developed a leadership of Congress that would have " made things happen . " Instead , these critics charged , he " hoarded " his popularity and presided over the " Great Postponement , " giving scant attention to various pressing domestic problems , including equality for Negroes . True , in 1957 he called out the federal troops to protect nine black children in their right to attend Central High School in Little Rock , Arkansas , but he did not act until the burning issue had caught up with him . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chiang 's refugee China , Castro 's Cuba , and others were put off to plague his successors . WAS " IKE " A DO-NOTHING PRESIDENT ? In defense of Eisenhower one must add that he was hobbled by Democratic Congresses during six of his eight years , even though their leadership proved unusually cooperative . He was able to keep them reasonably well under control with the veto bludgeon . Moreover , he was not a well man much of the time . During a dark period about halfway through his eight years he suffered successively a near-fatal heart attack , a serious abdominal operation , and a mild stroke . When , in February 1956 , he consented to run for a second term , some five months after his heart attack , he frankly told the American people that he could be only a parttime President . But so great was " the national love affair " that they elected him overwhelmingly on these terms , and despite a warning from candidate Stevenson ( who died before Eisenhower did ) that the President probably would not live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower spent much time in rest and recreation , especially golfing ( " eight long years of golfing and goofing , " declared the Democrats ) . During his last two years , after Sherman Adams had been forced out and Secretary Dulles had died , he was compelled to take charge himself . During this period the " New // Eisenhower " provided more aggressive leadership than ever before. ? If he reigned too much and ruled too little , he did so with dignity , decency , and dedication . If he did not accomplish as much constructively as possible , at least he avoided rushing into situations that might have proved catastrophic . Some critics have concluded that his place in history is better assured by what he did not do than by what he did . Many historians , predominantly Democrats , have not given Eisenhower especially high marks , ranking him in the same low average bracket with the impeached President Andrew Johnson.8 But the voters held him in much higher regard . He may not have been a " great " President , but during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more millions of American voters than anyotlier occupant of the White House . WAS THE DESEGREGATION DECISION OF 1954 CONSISTENT ? As far back as 1896 , in the landmark case of Plessy v. Ferguson , the Supreme Court had decreed , by a vote of 7 to 1 , that separate but equal facilities for Negroes traveling on railroads were permitted by the Constitution . Such was the legal support for separate schools for blacks . In 1954 , in the more famous case of Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka , the Supreme Court ruled , by a vote of 9 to 0 , that separate but equal schools for Negroes were unconstitutional because , by being separate , they were " inherently unequal . " Countless Southerners , forced by the Court 's ruling to desegregate their schools , were vehement in their criticism of this " sociological " decision . The Constitution in 1954 was the same as the Constitution of 1896 , except for a few inapplicable amendments , yet what had been almost unanimously constitutional in 1896 had become unanimously unconstitutional fifty-eight years later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlook of the judges had ; and the Constitution is what the Court says it is . By 1954 many sociologists and psychologists had concluded that statutory desegregation imposed a feeling of rejection , inferiority , and discrimination on the black child that warped his // personality and impaired his capacity to learn . Hence separate schools , by their very nature , could not be equal , even when the physical plant and teaching were equal , which all too often they were not . Little Rock , Arkansas became a storm center in 1957 . In an effort to protect a few black pupils in their right to enter Central High School , Eisenhower was forced to dispatch federal troops , in a situation reminiscent of bayonet-enforced Reconstruction . The truth is that he never was a flaming champion of Civil Rights for blacks , and for various reasons he never publicly expressed support of the Supreme Court 's decision of 1954 , though later writing that he privately favored it.9 Despite the successful Montgomery bus boycott by Negroes in 1956 , to say nothing of numerous sit-ins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of the pressures that were building up for the Black Revolution . It burst in full fury during the administrations of his successors . WAS DULLES A SUPERLATIVE SECRETARY OF STATE ? John Foster Dulles , an experienced diplomat and a distinguished international lawyer , served as Secretary of State during the six years from 1953 to 1959 , when he was cut down by cancer . Upon his death , President Eisenhower , unable to choke back tears , declared that Dulles was not only the greatest Secretary of State he had ever known , but that he was one of the " truly great men of our time . " There can be little doubt that the elderly Dulles wielded more power than any other Secretary of State before or since . The primary reasons were that the ailing President leaned heavily on him in directing foreign affairs , and that the nation , with its immense nuclear arsenal , commanded more power than ever before . Yet Dulles proved to be , and remains , a highly controversial figure . Determined at the outset to maintain good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's inquisition to penetrate the State Department and the Foreign Service , thereby undermining the morale of those vital agencies . As a prominent Presbyterian layman , the Secretary preached high-sounding moralities which did not always square with stern realities . As frequently is true of loquacious men , he suffered from an advanced case of " foot-in-mouth " disease . He spoke of the " liberation " of Communist-captive peoples in Europe as more desirable than mere containment , with the result that the rebellious Hungarians and others were tragically led to expect American assistance . He was associated with " unleashing " Chiang for attacks on the Chinese mainland , when in fact Chiang was making only minor raids from Taiwan and did not have the strength to launch a major one . Dulles described the " art " of going " to the brink " of war , but not over the brink , in facing down an adversary ? a process that the journalists called " brinkmanship. " 10 ( This is the kind of thing that statesmen have to do on occasion , but they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In line with Eisenhower 's policy , Dulles further aroused anxieties by promising instant and " masive " retaliation against aggressors . Although proclaiming rollback and " liberation , " Dulles soon found himself back on the old Truman road of containment , desperately holding the line . In so doing , he clung to frozen policies , such as the nonrecognition of Communist China and her nonadmission to the U.N. , although one must concede that American public opinion strongly supported such ostracism . He also felt obliged to support dictatorial regimes , like that of Franco in Spain , in holding the dike against communism . Finally , he regarded neutralism , such as that of India , as immoral , even though America had pursued such a course for protracted periods . Critics of Dulles who deny that he was a great Secretary of State can not challenge his record as the greatest traveler among the Secretaries up to that time . Reluctant to delegate responsibility , he visited 46 countries and logged some 560,000 miles , or 22 times around the world , mostly in airplanes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems and foreign statesmen , while savirfig time . On the other hand , his appearance undercut the resident American ambassador , made for hurried decisions , and tended to stall the diplomatic machinery in Washington until he returned . His successors likewise used the airplane extensively . Dulles did manage to keep the right-wing isolationists of his party from throwing overboard the new postwar internationalism . He helped negotiate the Soviet withdrawal from Austria in 1955 ; and in 1954 , working through the Central Intelligence Agency ( headed by his brother ) , overthrew a Communist-oriented government in Guatemala . He also helped to deter an invasion of Nationalist China ( Taiwan ) by the Communist Chinese . He added substantially to the number of defensive pacts which bound the United States to various nations , thereby increasing America 's entangling commitments to 42 ( " pactomania " ) . He // presumably strengthened America 's posture in Eastern Asia by SEATO ( Southeast Asia Treaty Organization ) and in the Middle East by the Baghdad Pact ( CENTO ) . Both combinations were weak , and the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dulles managed to keep the nation out of war . Yet he had narrow escapes in Vietnam in 1954 ; in Lebanon in 1958 ; and in Chinese waters in 1958 , when Chiang was in jeopardy . Dulles ' management of the Suez crisis brought the world to the brink of war , but luckily the worst was averted . Dulles probably proved to be about as satisfactory a Secretary of State as could have been expected . He served when the might of Soviet Russia was on the rise , and merely to hold the line was something of a gain.12 WAS DULLES PRIMARILY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SUEZ CRISIS ? Colonel Nasser , leader of poverty-cursed Egypt , had long dreamed of constructing a high dam at Aswan , on the upper Nile . Though estimated to cost about $2 billion and to take fifteen years , it would add perhaps one-third to Egypt 's arable land and also supply an immense amount of electric power . Late in 1955 , the United States and Britain , in collaboration with the World Bank , proposed to finance the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Egypt and thus averting the possibility of a Communist takeover engineered from Moscow . Nasser , after delaying acceptance of the British ? American offer , came back with unrealistic counterproposals . Working both sides of the street , he strongly hinted that the Soviets , who had long coveted a power base in the Middle East , were prepared to treat him more generously . But Washington was in no mood to be " blackmailed " into pouring funds into unfriendly countries under the threat of their moving into the Kremlin 's camp . Other nations , including those friendly to America , would be tempted to play this same game , with financial results that could ruin the Washington Treasury . Congress was also becoming restive . Nasser had recently recognized Red China ; he had been snuggling up too closely to the Soviet Union to please many Americans ; he had mortgaged his cotton crops by making a huge arms deal with Soviet-dominated Czechoslovakia . Doubts multiplied as to Egypt 's capacity to pay off a loan for the Aswan Dam . footnote i2 Fur a balanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Politico , arid Congressmen from the cotton-growing South saw no point in subsidizing the production of competitive cotton ; Jewish voters opposed strengthening Nasser ( Israel 's implacable foe ) ; and American voters were becoming increasingly uneasy about billion-dollar foreign aid . One significant result was that the Senate Appropriations Committee included in a report ( July 1956 ) the stipulation that no funds voted under the Mutual Security Act could be used to finance the Aswan Dam , without prior approval of the Committee . But we should note that this wags only a committee report , not an act of Congress , and that the door vas/'left partially open . After a silence of many weeks in Cairo regarding the offer of a loan , Secretary Dulles took action . He informed the Egyptian ambassador , on July 19 , 1956 , that in view of Egypt 's lack of interest and her unacceptable counterproposals , Washington considered its proposal withdrawn , with Britain going along . President Nasser thereupon denounced the United States and eight days later nationalized the Universal Suez Canal Company , ostensibly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous international crisis since World War II . President Eisenhower concedes in his memoirs that Dulles ' abrupt handling of the question may have been " undiplomatic . " He further suggests that if Washington had dragged out the negotiations indefinitely , Egypt would have had less excuse to seize the Canal . Dulles , in his defense to the President , insisted that the Egyptian leader was well aware of the collapse of negotiations ; that Nasser had been thinking ( by his later admission ) of seizing the Canal for about two years ; that he had merely been seeking a pretext ; and that " If I Dulles had not announced our withdrawal when I did , the Congress would certainly have imposed it on us , almost unanimously . " ' ' This last statement is open to challenge . The adverse Senate report was only a conditional statement of dubious force . Negative action by both houses of Congress might well have consumed weeks , even months . By this time Nasser would have had to react without the provocation of a dramatic slap for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body , after many weeks of public discussion , would have been less humiliating . So many months of delay had already occurred that a few more probably would have been advisable . // WAS EISENHOWER 'S SUPPORT OF NASSER JUSTIFIED ? The Universal Suez Canal Company , most of whose stockholders were British and French nationals , was a private concern operating on sovereign Egyptian territory . Its expropriation by Nasser was supportable under international law , provided that fair compensation was paid to the owners . But all too often such adjustments prove to be unsatisfactory , although this case proved to be an exception . " British shippers were the heaviest users of the Canal , and all of Western Europe was almost fatally dependent on it for vital oil supplies . Neither the British nor the French felt secure with President Nasser astride this life-giving waterway ; Egypt had in fact barred Israeli shipping from the Canal since the war of 1948-1949 . European technicians had been largely responsible for operating the Canal , and the British and French were certain that it could not function under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without a hitch for weeks before the attempted seizure by Britain and France . ) Prestige was highly important to the two Western powers . The once-proud British Empire was fast shrinking ( the last British troops had been forced out of Egypt earlier in 1956 ) ; the French Empire was also crumbling , with Nasser aiding France 's Algerian rebels . Both Western nations remembered how they had faltered when Hitler seized the Rhineland in 1936 , and they were determined to overthrow Nasser , the potential Hitler of the Nile , before he united the entire Arab world against them . British and French leaders , allies of the United States in NATO , made it clear from the outset that they would resort to force , if necessary , to regain the Canal . They regarded such action as thoroughly justified by self-defense , as sanctioned under Article 51 of the United Nation . Charter . But Eisenhower had other views . He realized that such an ai t of aggression , in reaction to a presumably legal expropriation , would flout America 's nonaggression commitments under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not believe that the United States could have one set of rules for its enemies , such as the North Korean aggressors , and another for its friends . He perceived that if the U.N . could be successfully overridden in this major instance , any real hope of peace through collective security would receive a shattering blow . Moreover , there was good reason to believe that an Anglo ? French ? Israeli aggression against Egypt would not even be sanctified by succes , as it was not . Committed to such views , Eisenhower attempted tp ork out compromise solutions through Secretary Dulles . None of then proved satisfactory or they fell under vetoes in the Security Council , wielded by the USSR ( on behalf of Nasser ) and by Britain and France ( on their own behalf ) . The British and French quickly developed a deep distrust of Dulles , for they suspected that he was merely stalling while Egypt tightened its grip on the Canal . In any event , Washington 's outspoken opposition to violence strengthened Nasser in his determination to stand pat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fully aware that Eisenhower would oppose strong measures , the British and French decided to attack Egypt without notifying Washington in advance . For more than a week there was a blackout of news from London and Paris . On October 29 , 1956 , the superbly trained armies of Israel , aided by French aircraft and possibly French pilots , invaded Egypt and speedily penetrated to the Suez Canal . The Israelis were provoked by Egyptian raids , desirous of striking a preventive blow , and determined to open the long-closed Suez Canal and the Gulf of Aqaba . Two days later , British forces assaulted Egyptian centers after issuing an ultimatum that was spurned . Attacks by Britain and France , though not well coordinated , came so soon after those of Israel as to suggest prior collusion , which the British and French leaders flatly denied . Ten years later the then French Foreign Minister , Christian Pineau , confessed that the three nations had made a definite mutual commitment in France on the eve of the assaults.17 Explanations by the British and French officials , then and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canal open ( which it already was ) , to separate the Israeli and Egyptian armies , and to prevent World War III . Yet the Egyptians were fully prepared to block the Canal with sunken ships , as they promptly did for five months . Moreover , the proposed separation of the Israeli and Egyptian armies seemed insincere // because the British and French were clandestinely supporting the invasion and the Israelis had voluntarily pulled back from the borders of the Canal . As for preventing World War III , the British ? French incursion came perilously close to triggering it . Invading Anglo ? French forces nearly won their immediate military objectives , but under various pressures London and Paris pulled back . A cease fire was arranged , and a U.N . peacekeeping force was established on the Israeli ? Egyptian frontier . To this extent the invaders saved some face . The British in particular were restrained primarily by partisan criticism at home ; by the alienation of world opinion , including that of the United States ; by the threatened defection of key members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure . Russian threats of nuclear annihilation are often credited with having tipped the scales , but we should note that such bomb-rattling did not come until after Washington had made clear that it would not support the British and French . Numerous indeed were the repercussions of the Suez invasion . The NATO alliance , weakened by the refusal of Washington to support its allies , was almost fatally cracked . The Soviet Union emerged more than ever as the friend of colonial peoples and deepened its foothold in the Egyptian sands . Nasser came through stronger than before . Israel , forced to pull back on the basis of assurances from the U. S. and U.N. , got neither security nor access to the Suez Canal . In 1967 , eleven years later , the Israelis felt compelled to launch a " preventive war " in an attempt to secure them . The irony is that , in the teeth of opposition from the United States , the strong-arm methods of 1956 were severely handicapped from the start . Nasser was bound to block the Canal , as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighboring Arabs , as they were . The British in particular were not prepared militarily for a lightning invasion ? the only kind that held out any real prospect of immediate success . The Kremlin may not have been bluffing when it threatened to pour in Russian " volunteers , " and it almost certainly would have provided abundant arms , as it has since done . The Victorian age of gunboat imperialism had clearly passed . SHOULD THE U. S. HAVE INTERVENED IN HUNGARY ? Eisenhower was especially annoyed when the British and French chose the last days of his 1956 campaign for reelection to present him with the embarrassment of an attack on Egypt . The Soviets were no less incon- siderate , for they simultaneously invaded Hungary and bloodily repressed a revolt in this unhappy Communist satellite . Moscow 's intervention was peculiarly inopportune . While America was successfully restraining the assault by its French and British allies on Egypt , Eisenhower was in no position to curb the Soviet attack on Hungry or to force a withdrawal . Stalin had died in 1953 , and a successor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Russia 's iron-fisted dictatorship . In response to this freer atmosphere , serious disorders occurred in Poland in 1956 , and then a full-fledged revolt in Hungary . Washington 's official policy of " liberation " and " rollback , " combined with appeals by U. S. sponsored radio broadcasts , " caused these oppressed peoples to increase their resistance and to expect a kind of aid that could hardly have been forthcoming . Hungary was virtually landlocked , surrounded by neutral or unfriendly states . If an adequate American or United Nations force had been immediately available ( which it was not ) , and if it could have moved with instant speed ( which it could not ) , it would have had to force or fight its way through adjoining countries . Such an attempt would have meant delay and probably large-scale warfare . The United States could not in good conscience atom-bomb the Soviets in Hungary , but it might have threatened Russia with nuclear weapons . The Kremlin , with the victim so near , probably would have dismissed such a threat as a bluff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumably doubted that America would invite global incineration ( including Hungary ) on behalf of Hungarian freedom . Better , from Washington 's point of view , that a nation should lose its liberty ? perhaps temporarily ? than that a planet should die . A perplexed United States , despite bitter charges from the Hungarian freedom fighters and their relatives in America , did about all it could . It supported a condemnation of the USSR in the United Nations , sent aid to the refugees , and permitted a considerable number of them to enter its immigration gates . DID THE U-2 AFFAIR RUIN THE SUMMIT CONFERENCE ? Worried about Russia 's growing nuclear arsenal , the United States by 1960 had for several years been photographing Soviet installations from // specially designed aircraft . These U-2s were then capable of flying above the range of antiaircraft missiles or interceptor airplanes , to the great annoyance of the Soviets . Using improved missiles , the Russians managed to shoot down an overflying U-2 and capture the pilot , Francis G. Powers , on May 1 , 1960 , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington officials into making a series of denials that were proved to be lies before the whole world.19 The image of America as an upright , truth-telling nation suffered a besmirching blow . President Eisenhower , seeking to make a clean breast of the whole affair , admitted full responsibility for authorizing the overflights . He then defended them as necessary in view of Premier Khrushchev 's boasts of destroying America . Espionage flights over another nation 's territory were generally regarded as a violation of international law . Internal spying , depending on the tactics used , is ordinarily a violation of a country 's domestic law rather than international law . The Soviets , in their appeals to the U.N . over the U-2 affair , plainly did not come into court with clean hands . All major powers engage in espionage , none more so than the secretive and suspicious Russians . Soviet embassies have traditionally been notorious spy centers , and this fact partially accounts for the reluctance of some nations to maintain diplomatic relations with the USSR . Soviet agents have repeatedly been caught operating in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U-2 pilot , was eventually exchanged for a convicted Soviet spy in 1962 . But nothing so sensational as the U-2 affair had occurred , and the humiliating public confession by the head of a state was not only without precedent but widely regarded as naive . Better than lying denials or defiant confessions would have been silence , or " We are investigating , " or " Regrettable if true . " The Soviets were so notorious for faking evidence 20 that the absence of a confession would have left many doubts . A Paris summit conference had been scheduled for May 16 , 1960 , consisting of Premier Khrushchev , President Eisenhower , Prime Minister Macmillan of Britain , and President De Gaulle of France . But both Washington and Moscow had publicly taken such inflexible positions on the burning Berlin issue that any such gathering seemed doomed from the start . Khrushchev evidently seized upon the U-2 affair as the means of browbeating Eisenhower and breaking up the Conference before it could get off the ground . If the Kremlin leaders had wanted the meeting to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conceal the U-2 mishap . The fact that they did not do so , together with their failure to protest earlier overflights , is persuasive evidence that they either did not want the summit conference to be held or were sure that it would fail . The U-2 espionage , though a diplomatic disaster , was actually a technological triumph . These high-soaring planes enabled the United States to adjust its arms program more realistically to that of the Soviet Union , while establishing the absence of a " missile gap " highly unfavorable to the United States.21 The criticism that Eisenhower should have called off the last U-2 overflight earlier lest a mishap should jeopardize the foredoomed Paris conference overlooks one factor : the need for taking a calculated risk during photographically good flying weather . So many other previous overflights had gone off without mishap that taking another chance seemed justified . WHO " LOST " CUBA ? Cuba had long suffered from a succession of heavy-handed dictators . The latest of them , Fulgencio Batista , enjoyed at least the tacit support of the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1958 . American capital owned an extraordinary percentage of Cuba 's utilities , mining properties , and sugar-producing facilities ; and partly for this reason the United States government was willing to play along with the corrupt and dictatorial Batista . So great was the distress among the depressed Cuban masses , in contrast to the upper classes , that agricultural reform was desperately needed . Then emerged Fidel Castro , a young left-wing revolutionary , who did not profess to be a Communist , although he had some Communist followers.22 He parlayed a forlorn handful of men in 1956 into a force that took over control of the government on January 1 , 1959 , and compelled Batista to flee with his ill-gotten millions . Many Americans , recognizing the oppression of the Cuban people , were sympathetic to Castro and his presumed plans for agricultural reform ; indeed , Wash- // ington accorded him prompt recognition . After seizing control , he visited Yankeeland , where he evidently neither sought nor was offered substantial financial aid . He apparently was determined to have a real revolution , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constrained by the terms of assistance from the United States and restrained from seizing Yankee properties . Uncle Sam could serve as a rabble-rousing whipping boy . Returning to Cuba , Castro launched sweeping reforms ; expropriated the billion-dollar American holdings ; tied himself economically to the Soviet chariot ; avowed that he was a Marxist ? Leninist ; and became in effect a Communist puppet of Moscow ninety miles off the coast of Florida . Washington did not drive Castro into Moscow 's arms ; he deliberately betrayed the avowed principles of his revolution and threw himself into Moscow 's arms . But the United States did " lose " Cuba in the sense that the island had been first a political and then an economic satellite of the northern Republic . By cooperating with dictators , Washington condoned or fostered the conditions that caused the people to flock to Castro in such numbers that he was able to entrench himself . As in the case of Nationalist China in 1948 ? 1949 , when a regime becomes so corrupt that it does not enjoy the support of its people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be singled out in assessing blame for what happened , but rather the policies that were shaped by the strategic and economic interests of the United States . 39 Kennedy and the New Frontier The Democrats in 1960 chose as their presidential candidate , John F. Kennedy , who ran under a banner of social and economic reform proclaiming the New Frontier . He barely succeeded in winning after a spirited campaign against Vice President Nixon , the Republican nominee . The new Chief Executive , vexed by a hostile coalition of conservative Democrats and Republicans in Congress , made disappointing progress in implementing his program . Perhaps his most significant legislative contribution was to help feed into the pipeline the bills for Medicare and other major legislation that passed under his successor . But Kennedy did wage a valiant fight against inflation , and angrily forced the steel companies to rescind ( temporarily ) price increases in 1962 . The most spectacular developments of these years occurred in foreign affairs , beginning with the Washington-supported but incredibly bungled invasion of Cuba by emigres at the Bay of Pigs in April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had made much of the dangerous " missile gap " between the U. S. and the USSR . But upon reaching the White House he discovered that there was either no missile gap or that it was so small as to be no cause for alarm . ' Such nuclear muscle no doubt was an important factor in enabling Kennedy to maintain American troops in Berlin , and particularly in forcing the Soviets to withdraw their nuclear missiles from Cuba during the fear- // some crisis of October 1962 . In the more relaxed atmosphere that followed this period of acute tension , Washington and Moscow agreed upon a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty ( 1963 ) , which barred all signatory nations from further polluting the atmosphere with open-air testing . Yet this overpraised achievement was offset by a deepening involvement in Vietnam that boded ill for the future . What Kennedy would have done in Southeast Asia no one can say with complete assurance ; he was cut down by an assassin in November 1963 . The crisis that he left in Vietnam was at least as alarming as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ KENNEDY-NIXON " DEBATES " ? In 1960 the Democratic party nominated a United States Senator for the presidency , a youngish ( 43 ) war hero from Massachusetts , John F. Kennedy . He had made an excellent showing in the primaries , largely as a result of his charm , eloquence , energy , organization , and abundant finances . Surprisingly , he tapped as his running mate a presidential rival , Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , then the Senate majority leader . Kennedy evidently suspected that Johnson would not give up his powerful Senate post for the hollow honor of the vice presidency , but he realized that such an overture would partially placate the Southern wing of the Democratic party . To Kennedy 's surprise , Johnson finally consented , and the Kennedy camp grudgingly accepted him as the candidate most likely to strengthen the party where strength was needed . ' The Republicans overwhelmingly nominated as their presidential standard bearer Vice President Richard M. Nixon . He not only had served under Eisenhower for nearly eight years , but had tactfully assumed considerable responsibility during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a series of four debates between the two major candidates , allegedly in the Lincoln ? Douglas tradition . Comparing the hour-long Kennedy ? Nixon encounters with those of 1858 is rather pointless . In 1960 the contestants clashed on television and radio , not in open air meetings three hours long . The first and fourth contests featured opening and closing statements , in the manner of a debate , followed by questions from a panel of journalists . The other two meetings were essentially press conferences , with each candidate answering questions posed by the newsmen and with his rival given an opportunity to answer . In the third " debate " the rivals were separated by a continent , with Nixon in Los Angeles and Kennedy in New York . Nixon appeared to poor advantage in the first engagement : he was campaign-weary ; he had lost about ten pounds as a result of a knee infection and subsequent hospitalization ; his shirt collar hung much too loose ; he presented a ghastly visage , with powder used to cover his dark " five o'clock shadow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been sabotaged by a Democratic makeup man . ) A robust and ruddy Kennedy , crammed with facts and figures , made a better appearance and was generally judged to have won the first encounter . The radio audience , unable to see the rivals , was much more favorably impressed with the invisible than the visible Nixon . An estimated 80 million persons witnessed this first debate ; considerably fewer viewed the remaining three , in which Nixon appeared to better advantage . Throughout all of them he was to some extent thrown on the defensive by having to support the record of two terms of Republicanism . Nixon believed that , although he lost the first debate , he definitely won or at least drew the remaining three . Various public opinion polls gave Kennedy a substantial overall advantage . ' We shall never know who came out ahead because there was no panel of expert and unbiased judges , as was customary in intercollegiate debating . Nor can we say that Kennedy prevailed because he won the subsequent election ( as Douglas had over Lincoln for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and turned on many " if " factors , including the debates . Regardless of how well Nixon did in the exchange of arguments , in a sense he was bound to be the loser . He was then a much better known figure than Kennedy , and by consenting to share his larger audience with his challenger he made a fatal error . This was the same trap into which Douglas , better known than Lincoln in 1858 , had fallen . But , like Douglas , Nixon evidently was confident that his skill and experience as a debater would enable him to overshadow his " inexperienced " rival . The televised debates gave Kennedy a vast amount of free publicity ; caused him to appear as " mature " as the older Nixon ; and almost certainly provided more than the margin of victory . // DID CATHOLICISM HURT KENNEDY IN 1960 ? John F. Kennedy was the second Roman Catholic to be nominated for the presidency by a major party , the first being Al Smith in 1928 . Religious bigotry was bound to raise its loathsome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned about a candidate 's religion . In 1956 , when Kennedy was an unsuccessful candidate for the presidential nomination , his staff prepared and circulated a memorandum ( used again in 1960 ) which argued that Catholicism would be more of an asset than a liability to a presidential candidate . ' Many Catholics , traditionally Democratic , had been wooed away by the glamor of a war hero to become " Eisenhower Republicans , " and they might be wooed back by a co-religionist . The Catholic voters were heavily concentrated in the urban areas of the North , such as New York , Boston , Philadelphia , Chicago , and Detroit , all of which were important for Kennedy 's success . Cleverly using reverse psychology , the Democrats harped on religious bigotry . Their leader repeatedly brought up the nasty subject and deplored the existence of a prejudice which barred the White House to tens of millions of citizens simply because they had been born into the wrong church . Kennedy undoubtedly won some backlash support from conscientious voters who did not want to be condemned as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholics were urged to vote for Kennedy because he was a Catholic ; Protestants were urged to vote for him to prove they were not antiCatholic . ' Kennedy lost a part of the normally Democratic Solid South , specifically Florida , Tennessee , and Virginia , largely because much of the Protestant , Bible-belt South could not stomach his religion . But these states had relatively few electoral votes , and he could afford to lose them . But the states of the populous North , with their large Catholic electorate , he had to carry , and did , including Illinois , Massachusetts , Michigan , New Jersey , New York , and Pennsylvania . Although there is evidence to support both sides , the presumption is that Kennedy 's religion and the religious issue helped more than it hurt him . // WHO INITIATED THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION ? After Fidel Castro began to " sell out " his revolution to communism in 1959 , increasing numbers of Cubans fled to the United States , especially Florida . Many of them yearned to take up arms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrenched . To this end they received much encouragement . Helping revolutionists to win freedom was in the American tradition ? in fact , it went back to Cuba of the 1850s and 1890s . The Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) , emboldened by its success in toppling a pro-Communist regime in Guatemala in 1954 , urged the equipping and training in Guatemala of a small army of Cuba-bound exiles , ultimately numbering some 1,400 men . President Eisenhower sanctioned the formation of this force in March 1960 , without making a definite commitment as to its use . This was the explosive legacy that he left on the doorstep of the incoming Kennedy administration. ? New on the job , Kennedy was undecided what to do about the tiny and poorly trained invasion army . To abandon it would create delicate problems and evoke criticism from anti-Communist elements . To back it would lay the Republic open to charges of violating not only international law but also its own domestic law , the U.N . Charter , the principles of the Organization of American States , and Franklin Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some advisors that the expedition , which was supposed to trigger a popular uprising , had an excellent chance of succeeding . Certainly the overthrow of Castro would delight many Americans . After much hesitation , Kennedy finally gave the order to go ahead but with one crucial restriction : there was to be no direct intervention by the United States . WAS KENNEDY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CUBAN FIASCO ? Just about everything went wrong with the invasion . The presence of the Cuban army-in-exile was advertised months in advance by the press // of Guatemala and the United States . Castro was fully alerted.8 There were to have been three air strikes from Nicaragua by obsolescent American aircraft , allegedly flown by Cuban pilots . Kennedy cancelled the second one after the partially effective first one caused an international uproar , during which Adlai Stevenson , representing America in the U.N. , unintentionally lied in denying his country 's involvement . After the invading exiles had floundered into a desperate position , Kennedy ordered direct supportive intervention with six unmarked carrier aircraft , but they arrived an hour too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get involved . The pathetic invaders , though unofficially assured of active American support , were destroyed or captured , and Castro emerged stronger than ever . America 's moral position was gravely damaged , all the more so because it was tainted with failure . There is an old saying that a thief might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb , and since the United States was so deeply involved there was much to be said for going all the way and attempting to guarantee success . In retrospect , we can see that Castro was too strong militarily ( some 200,000 militia ) , and that the anticipated uprising of the Cuban populace to greet the invaders was based on wishful thinking . ' Only open and massive intervention by the United States could have brought even temporary success to this venture ? and such drastic action could have triggered dangerous reactions , including a possible Soviet seizure of West Berlin . In planning the operation , the Central Intelligence Agency miscalculated and bungled . President Eisenhower should never have allowed the little army to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have expressed them more forcefully ; and the Joint Chiefs of Staff , who wanted a landing at Trinidad ( some distance to the east ) , should have been less acquiescent . Finally , the President was misled in adopting a policy of half in , half out . As we see it now , he should have played for keeps or not at all ; his so-called indirect intervention was so deep as to amount to direct intervention . A few Americans were killed in the invasion attempt . " An inexperienced Kennedy , less than three months in office , // accepted responsibility for the humiliating fiasco . " Victory has a thou . sand fathers , " he sadly remarked , " and defeat is an orphan . " In this case , Kennedy was the one man who could have stopped the expedition or could have ordered full support for it . He did neither , and the responsibility was his . Having campaigned on the pledge to get the country " moving " again and to restore the nation 's fading prestige , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big test and had grievously damaged the national image . " America had seemingly resurrected the old policy of gunboat dollar imperialism , only ineptly so.12 WERE THE RUSSIAN NUCLEAR MISSILES IN CUBA DEFENSIVE ? On October 14 , 1962 , an American U-2 reconnaissance airplane over Cuba , checking on many rumors , secured some shocking photographs . They showed unmistakably that the Soviets were feverishly emplacing about forty nuclear-tipped missiles in Cuba , some of them medium range ( about 1,000 miles ) , others intermediate range ( about 2,000 miles ) . As President Kennedy grimly informed the nation on television , these lethal weapons could wreak fearful damage as far north as the Hudson 's Bay in Canada and as far south as Lima , Peru . ( So could Soviet-based missiles already emplaced in Russia . ) Following the Bay of Pigs fiasco in 1961 , the Soviets had shipped immense quantities of conventional arms to Cuba 's Fidel Castro , who understandably feared another incursion . But even while busily preparing to emplace the nuclear missiles , the Soviets , including Premier Khrushchev , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short-range and for purely defensive purposes . The line between an offensive and a defensive weapon is often difficult to draw , and from the viewpoint of both the Soviets and the Cubans the nuclear weapons were defensive . When they were properly positioned , the Americans would not dare to invade Cuba lest many of // their major cities be wiped out in retaliation . But from the standpoint of Washington these missiles , by about doubling Russia 's first-strike nuclear-missile capacity , were so disturbing to the existing distribution of power as to constitute an intolerable offensive threat . The United States , moreover , would not be able to take a strong position on the explosive Berlin issue and other hot spots if it feared a shower of nuclear warheads from an island off its coast ? an island whose fate had been of real concern to its security for more than a century.13 WAS THE NUCLEAR CRISIS OVER CUBA NECESSARY ? Why the American intelligence agents were caught short will probably always remain something of a mystery . For one thing , the hurricane season delayed aerial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secrecy and celerity.14 Moreover , as was true of the Japanese on the eve of Pearl Harbor , official Washington could not imagine that the Soviets would be that stupid : their national interest clearly did not call for so costly and reckless a military gamble in America 's backyard , where their enemy would have the immense advantage of nearness in a prolonged war over Cuba . Kennedy 's pressing problem was how to induce the Soviets to back down during the scant two weeks between the discovery of their plot and the emplacement of the first missiles . If a substantial number became operational , the United States , he felt , would either have to fight , with terrible destruction to itself , or accept a permanent threat , and learn to live with it . Kennedy 's key advisors comprised what was known as the informal Executive Committee ? about sixteen men all told ? and during the critical thirteen days they threshed over all possible options . To the very end some of the members , both civilian and military , favored immediate action to clean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike " on the missile sites under construction or a formidable American army ( some 100,000 men ) or both . But an aerial " Pearl Harbor in reverse " would no doubt have killed and wounded hundreds of Russian technicians and troops , perhaps thousands , and the Soviets could hardly have failed to react by seizing Berlin or otherwise triggering a nuclear holocaust . Kennedy rejected the " surgical strike " while opting for a land invasion of Cuba , if necessary . One debated solution was a diplomatic deal with the Soviets . They loudly complained that the " Yankee imperialists " had ringed the USSR with missiles in neighboring Turkey and nearby Italy . Then how could the Americans reasonably object if they in turn were partially ringed with nuclear missiles in Cuba ? Oddly enough , the Washington authorities had already concluded that America 's Jupiter missiles in Turkey and Italy were obsolete ; and Kennedy had issued orders to withdraw them . But , to his anger , they were not carried out . It seems entirely probable that Khrushchev , seeking a face-saving exit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this chance to work out some kind of swap ; in fact , he proposed a mutual withdrawal of missiles from Turkey and Cuba , accompanied by a noninvasion guarantee for Cuba by the U. S. and for Turkey by the USSR.1b But Kennedy , with the backing of his Executive Committee , rejected such a concession as an act of weakness that would dishearten Turkey , Italy , and the other NATO allies . He therefore pursued a hard line which came within a hair 's breadth of a nuclear annihilation . " The United States , if averse to a mutual swap , could in any event have " lived " with the Cubanized Soviet missiles , which would still have left the Americans with a heavy superiority in such weapons . Often overlooked is the fact that Soviet intercontinental ballistic missiles , supplemented by nuclear explosives that could be fired off American shores from Russian submarines , had been targeted on the United States for several years . Moreover the American people continued to live under a growing nuclear shadow that proved to be far more ominous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be no doubt that the nation 's credibility as a party to some forty defense pacts would have been gravely weakened if Kennedy had backed down under the nuclear gun . Political considerations of an international and domestic nature , including the upcoming Congressional elections , were in some respect more compelling than the military ones ; taken together they explain why the President was prepared to go " to the brink " in squeezing the Soviet missiles out of Cuba . WHY DID RUSSIA PROVOKE THE CUBAN CRISIS ? The response adopted by Kennedy was to establish a naval blockade of Cuba and warn off any Soviet vessels carrying " offensive " weapons or equipment . Because a blockade is normally an act of war , Kennedy chose the softer word " quarantine , " thereby leaving his military options open and avoiding the moral odium of a sneak attack . The crucial question was : would the Soviets honor or challenge the American interdiction ? Many of their oncoming vessels turned back ; a few , not carrying offensive weapons , were allowed to go through . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Kennedy worked out a face-saving deal . The Russians would pull out their nuclear weapons from Cuba in return for an end to the " quarantine " and a pledge by the United States not to invade Cuba . America 's acceptance of this arrangement was conditional upon U.N . inspectors personally verifying the withdrawal , but an angered and humiliated Fidel Castro refused them permission to set foot on Cuban soil . Technically the United States was thus released from its commitment , although it finally acquiesced in the settlement after verification by aerial reconnaissance . On November 20 , some three weeks after the crisis had passed , the " quarantine " was lifted . Moscow 's official line at the time was that the Soviets had won a stunning triumph . Khrushchev heaps praise on himself in his purported memoirs for this " spectacular success , " though conceding that he was " obliged to make some big concessions in the interests of peace " " He consistently claimed at the time and later that the Russians were only trying to save their good friends , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As soon as Moscow won its point by securing a no-invasion commitment from Kennedy , Khrushchev declared , it had no publicly avowed reason to keep the missiles in Cuba . So the Russians could withdraw , while posing as the champions of peace and rejoicing over their earth-shaking achievement . This made-in-Moscow explanation is unconvincing . " So far as can be ascertained , the Soviets had not previously emplaced nuclear missiles in any of their European buffer satellites under the Warsaw Pact , or for that matter in adjoining China . ( Perhaps they feared that such weapons might be turned around and fired the wrong way . ) Cuba was not deemed essential to the defense of the Soviet Union , as were neighboring Poland , Czechoslovakia , and other nearby nations . For Moscow to incur grave risks and spend hundreds of millions of rubles to bolster a faraway and recent convert to communism that meant nothing to Russia 's basic security bespoke a lack of realism uncharacteristic of the Kremlin . Cuba was clearly in no real danger of invasion , at least not until this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States had its chance to overthrow Castro at the time of the Bay of Pigs , and burned its fingers while keeping hands off . But it did continue to use the weapon of economic boycott . During the subsequent year and one-half , Castro 's army , the second largest in the Western Hemisphere , had been greatly strengthened with generous supplies of conventional Soviet weapons.1 ? American military men estimated that some 25,000 to 40,000 casualties would be incurred by the invaders in the proposed invasion , which was only a day or so off when Khrushchev knuckled under . The Soviets , caught with their missiles down , no doubt suffered a humiliating setback , as the skeptical Chinese Communists pointed out with malicious glee . An embittered Castro thought so too . Moscow 's official line was the one best calculated to save face : the Soviets had undertaken to safeguard a " heroic little Cuba " and had accomplished this end . The probabilities are that they had set out primarily to strengthen their position in the Cold War by placing Uncle Sam even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other explanation makes much sense.20 Two years later , when Premier Khrushchev was sacked and made an " unperson , " one of the charges brought against him was that his reckless Cuban gamble had brought danger and humiliation to the Soviet Union . WAS THE NUCLEAR TEST BAN TREATY EFFECTIVE ? For several years the Americans and the British , both stockpiling nuclear weapons , had been urging a ban on air-poisoning atmospheric tests . The Soviets had not warmed to such a pact , but in July 1963 , Moscow expressed a desire to negotiate . What its motives were can only be surmised . Russian scientists had recently completed a series of exceptionally " dirty " tests , and the Kremlin may have felt that a ban on testing would bring strong moral pressure to bear on France , and particularly China , not to persist with their development of nuclear weapons . Communists and non-Communists both breathed the same air . Negotiations proceeded rapidly in Moscow . In August 1963 the British , Americans , and Russians signed the partial nuclear test ban treaty . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by the three signatories and subsequently adhered to by many other nations.21 By its terms the participating powers bound themselves not to test nuclear devices in the atmosphere , in outer space , or under the water . Underground testing , which presumably would not spew radioactivity into the air , was permissible , and any one of the signatories could back out after three months ' notice if troubled by " extraordinary events . " The high hopes entertained for the treaty were disappointed . France and China , both of which refused to sign , pushed ahead with atmospheric testing , as the Americans , British , and Russians had previously done . Large-scale and accelerated explosions continued underground in Russia and the United States . Stocks of nuclear weapons were not destroyed or decreased ; the fearfully costly race in armaments expanded . Other nations , if they had the will and the technical capacity , could join the nuclear club uninvited , as China did in 1964 . About the only tangible result was that the atmosphere was less radioactive than it would have been if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a substantial gain . But the diplomatic atmosphere between Moscow and Washington continued strained , even though the test-ban treaty was the first pact in 18 years that the West had been able to conclude with the Soviets regarding the control of nuclear weaponry . WHO KILLED PRESIDENT KENNEDY ? On November 22 , 1963 , while riding in an open limousine in Dallas , Texas , Kennedy was killed by bullets fired from a telescopically equipped rifle aimed from the upper levels of a nearby building . The alleged assassin , Lee Harvey Oswald , was quickly seized , for the circumstantial evidence pointed overwhelmingly to him . Two days later , before Oswald could confess or explain the reasons for his crime , he was shot and killed by a self-appointed avenger , Jack Ruby , an emotionally unstable local nightclub operator with an unsavory reputation . Rumors of a complicated conspiracy immediately began to circulate . Oswald , with strong leanings toward Marxism , had married a Soviet woman , had lived in Russia from 1956 to 1962 , and evidently was connected with the pro-Castro Fair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America and abroad , could easily imagine that he was merely the hatchet man for the plotters of Moscow or Havana . Such suspicions were deepened by the counterassassination of Oswald by Ruby , who conceivably was acting under orders to silence Kennedy 's killer before a confession could be wrung from him . In these circumstances a thorough investigation by a prestigious body was called for , and President Lyndon Johnson appointed such a group a week after the assassination . Headed by Chief Justice Warren , it consisted of two prominent Senators ( one Democrat and one Republican ) and two prominent Representatives ( one Democrat and one Republican ) , plus Allen Dulles , former head of the Central Intelligence Agency , and John J. McCloy , former Assistant Secretary of War . The investigation consumed nine months and resulted in a lengthy summary report , September 24 , 1964,22 supplemented by some twenty volumes of evidence ( about 500 pages each ) for possible later publication . Included was the testimony of eyewitnesses , of experts on firearms and ballistics , and of medical authorities . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advice or assistance , " and that Jack Ruby was not // part of " any conspiracy , domestic or foreign . " The Commission , unable to find any satisfactory motivation for Oswald 's crime , could present only suppositions . Americans generally accepted the Warren Report , but many citizens and a host of foreigners retained their initial suspicions . The official explanations seemed all too simple . A number of books and articles were soon forthcoming to advance the thesis that Oswald was only the " fall guy " in an elaborate conspiracy and that rifle fire occurred simultaneously from different positions . The Warren Report was perhaps too hastily compiled , for there were some inherent inconsistencies . As is almost invariably true when there are many eyewitnesses , some will contradict others . It was all too easy to seize upon dubious testimony ( rejected for good reason by the Commission ) which seemed to prove the points critics were trying to make . Even so , the main conclusions of the Warren Report seem not to have been invalidated , despite the efforts of sensation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragic circumstances of Kennedy 's death , as was true of Lincoln 's , tended to maximize his successes and minimize his failures . Despite much ballyhoo , the New Frontier program was not a resounding success . Kennedy prodded Congress rather than led it , and that body was refractory . Although the President had a nominal Democratic majority , the Democratic conservatives , generally from the South , joined hands with the Republican conservatives to defeat or delay much of his key social and economic legislation , including tax reform and Medicare . Much of what was actually passed had been largely rewritten or watered down by Congress.24 Ten days before Kennedy 's death the New York Times concluded , " This has been one of the least productive sessions of Congress within the memory of most of the members . " Yet an assassination-jarred Congress , under President Johnson 's arm-twisting leadership , enacted an extraordinary body of legisla- // tion , much of which no doubt would have been passed in due time without this tragic stimulus . And one must not forget that under Kennedy Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It also passed a few major bills , including the highly significant Trade Expansion Act ( 1962 ) , which clothed the President with unusual powers to cut tariff rates . Kennedy has been criticized for failing to anticipate the Black Revolution , which burst about his head , conspicuously with the riots at the University of Mississippi over the admission in 1962 of the first black student , James Meredith . Here again Kennedy was hampered by Congress . He dared not offend the Southern members by pressing for Negro rights ? that is , if he hoped to secure the key reform measures of the New Frontier . But by executive action , which involved the appointment of a few blacks to federal office , he attempted to dampen some of the pressures that were developing . DID KENNEDY SUCCEED IN FOREIGN AFFAIRS ? As a diplomatist , Kennedy compiled a spotty record . The immature young President got off to an incredibly bad start with the Bay of Pigs blunder . Later in 1961 he journeyed to Vienna for a meeting with Khrushchev , who sobered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including Berlin . When Khrushchev threatened to turn that controversial city over to the East Germans , Kennedy reacted ? perhaps overreacted ? by calling up the reserves . The next Soviet move was suddenly to erect a wall or barricade between East and West Germany , as a means of halting the exodus to freedom . Kennedy has been condemned for not having pushed the wall over with American tanks , but such a drastic response would almost certainly have provoked countermeasures that might well have touched off World War III . When the Cuban missile crisis came in October 1962 , Kennedy emerged with colors flying . But there might have been no such crisis if he had not impressed Khrushchev with his weakness at the time of the Bay of Pigs or if his administration had been more vigilant . As previously indicated , there were diplomatic alternatives to the reckless eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation . And Castro remained angry , defiant , and more deeply entrenched than before . Kennedy was unsuccessful in his Grand Design for the commercial and military unification of Western Europe , with America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been blocked in any // event by the imperious and nationalistic President de Gaulle of France , but Kennedy 's separate negotiations with Britain , to the exclusion of France , did nothing to mollify the touchy French leader . America 's deepening involvement in Vietnam boded ill for the future ( see next chapter ) . Truman had sent financial aid to the French to help them fight their Vietnamese rebels ; Eisenhower had provided military assistance , money , and some 700 military advisors ; Kennedy , in fateful decisions reached in 1961 , undertook to swell the American contingent , who numbered about 16,000 at the time of his death . Whether he would have sunk in as deeply as his successor , Lyndon Johnson , is a matter for debate.25 But if the dam had begun to break , as it did in 1964-1965 , he could not have easily turned tail with this many American military men involved . One should also remember that the hawkish advisers whom President Johnson had at his elbow ? Secretary Dean Rusk , Secretary McNamara , McGeorge Bundy , Walt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom Kennedy had as his counselors . As events turned out , the alternatives were a humiliating retreat or a widening war . WAS KENNEDY A " GREAT " OR " NEAR GREAT " PRESIDENT ? The untimely death of this handsome , charming , and idealistic young leader , cut down in his prime , led to an amazing outpouring of grief and affection , not only at home but all over the world . His " Thousand Days " ( actually 1,037 ) were regarded as but a foretaste of finer things to come during the succeeding more than five years . His reelection in 1964 seemed reasonably certain , and he surely would have achieved a second term if Senator Barry M. Goldwater had been the Republican nominee , as he proved to be . A legend of Lincolnian greatness and of outstanding achievement rapidly developed . Theodore C. Sorensen , Kennedy 's intimate associate and major speech writer , wrote appreciatively that " the man was greater than the legend " and that he could not be ranked below " any of the great men who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This would include Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt , who served eight and twelve years respectively . ) Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , a prominent historian and White House intimate , cautiously refrained from such dubious comparisons but boldly employed sweeping generalizations : Yet he had accomplished so much : the new hope for peace on earth , the elimination of nuclear testing in the atmosphere and the abolition of nuclear diplomacy , the new policies toward Latin America and the third world , the reordering of American defense , the emancipation of the American Negro , the revolution in national economic policy , the concern for poverty , the stimulus to the arts , the fight for reason against extremism and mythology.27 Upon careful analysis , this list is actually less impressive than it first seems . The " new hope for peace " was at best fleeting , and the Cold War continued to get hotter . " Nuclear testing in the atmosphere " was not eliminated : France and China continued with their dirty-air experiments . " Nuclear diplomacy " was not abolished ; diplomacy continued to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number and potency every year since Kennedy took office . The " new policy toward Latin America " was the Alliance for Progress , which consisted of costly financial help in the interests of reducing poverty and inequity . This scheme fell far short of expectations primarily because the wealthy groups were unwilling to promote a redistribution of wealth . The " third world , " including Latin America , clearly benefited from a Peace Corps consisting mostly of idealistic young American technicians and teachers who went out to " underdeveloped " countries to help the people improve their lot . Kennedy borrowed both the terminology and the idea 28 which proved to be a resounding success , and a relatively inexpensive one at that . Under Kennedy there occurred , as Professor Arthur M. Schlesinger states , a " reordering of American defense " by a shift from massive nuclear retaliation to a " balanced " military force capable of providing a " flexible response . " But this meant that troops were available for Vietnam when the temptation grew strong to intervene . The American Negro was not " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The " revolution in national economic policy " took place only in the sense that there were significant shifts , including a commitment to deficit financing by a reduction of taxes in the face of a heavily unbalanced budget . This legislation was not passed , however , until after the President 's death . Kennedy no doubt had a " concern for poverty , " but // the expensive War on Poverty , begun on a large scale under Johnson , resulted in a victory for poverty . The New Frontiersmen certainly provided a " stimulus to the arts " and a " fight for reason against extremism , " but the gains in both these areas were less than epochal . This is not to say that there were not substantial achievements , including legislative . To have come out of the Cuban crisis of 1962 without nuclear incineration was , as events shaped up , to Kennedy 's credit . The teletype " Hot Line " was subsequently established between Moscow and Washington to facilitate instant communication in critical situations . The program designed to put a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Project Apollo , was carried through with spectacular success in 1969 , at a cost of some $24 billion . Kennedy planted seeds of hope but did not live to reap the harvest . He was as much a promise of a President as he was a President ; one fellow Harvard admirer wrote that he was great not for what he did but for " what he was about to do . " A man of both ideas and ideals , he developed a distinctive " style " and grew visibly before his people . The personal and national tragedy lay in his being cut down after receiving his expensive on-the-job training and before he had a full opportunity to attain his far-reaching goals . 40 The Ordeal of Lyndon Johnson Kept on a back seat as Vice President , Lyndon Johnson burst into full view as President . As a skilled legislative leader with a social conscience , he had an obsessive desire to attain the stature of the man he called his political " daddy , " Franklin Roosevelt . Applying unremitting pressures on Congress , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been bottlenecked under President Kennedy . In the presidential election of 1964 , Johnson overwhelmed the right-wing Republican candidate , Barry M. Goldwater , and won endorsement in his own right . Seeking a catch phrase like the " New Deal , " he seized upon " The Great Society " 1 for his program of social and economic betterment . Congress , lopsidedly Democratic as a result of the recent elections , responded to the lash of his leadership by turning out an impressive stack of bills . The frenzied pace slowed down to a walk after 1966 , when the resurgent Republicans sharply narrowed the Democratic majority in Congress . Johnson 's management of foreign affairs was much less satisfactory . Politically sensitive to the try of " soft on Communism , " he hastily landed troops in the revolution-torn Dominican Republic in 1965 in an effort to avert a Castrolike coup . This reversal of noninterventionism , as proclaimed in 1933 under Franklin Roosevelt , was a violation of // various international commitments . It consequently aroused violent criticism among liberals in general and Latin Americans in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were withdrawn . Vietnam proved to be Johnson 's undoing . Committed by his predecessors to support a dictatorial anti-Communist regime in South Vietnam , he gradually escalated the conflict to immense proportions in the hope of forcing the Communist enemy to the peace table . With antiwar or " dovish " sentiment in America growing more violent and disruptive , he declined to run again in 1968 . On the eve of the election he announced a cessation of all bombing of North Vietnam , in the hope of starting meaningful peace negotiations . This last-minute concession was not quite enough to save the Democrats , whose nominee for the presidency , Hubert H. Humphrey , was narrowly defeated by the Republican challenger , Richard M. Nixon . WAS NORTH VIETNAM BOTH NATIONALIST AND COMMUNIST ? For about 800 unhappy years , commencing with the second century A.D. , Chinese overlords imposed their rule on what is now Vietnam . Then , beginning about 939 A.D. , and for approximately the next 900 years , the Vietnamese freed themselves from foreign control . Subsequent fears in the Western world that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China did not take fully into account the tenacity of Vietnamese nationalism and a millennium-long hatred for the Chinese . Some Western students of Southeast Asia concluded that a Communist Vietnam would add little or no strength to the Communist camp , but would create further dissension by providing a Yugoslav-type of Communist-nationalism ( Titoism ) , subservient to neither Peking nor Moscow . ' New threats to Vietnamese independence came in the 1850s and 1860s , when imperial France , following the murder of some French Catholic missionaries , seized a substantial part of southern Vietnam . The intruders widened this foothold in the I880s by establishing control over the northern area.a Resistance to French domination gained ground with the proclamation of self-determination , so eloquently advocated by Woodrow Wilson and others during World War I. ' But the Vietnamese uprisings of 1917 and the 1930s were ruthlessly crushed . Significantly , the most effective opponents of French imperialism were the Communists , into whose camp many Vietnamese nationalists naturally gravitated . In 1940-1941 , during World War II , the Japanese invaded Vietnam and forced the Vichy French regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , led by Ho Chi Minh and taking the name of Vietminh in 1941 , waged a sporadic guerrilla warfare against both the French and the Japanese . American agents not only encouraged the Vietminh to resist the common foe , but provided aid and led them to believe that the United States sanctioned their struggle for independence . Such assurances were bolstered by Roosevelt 's declaration of self-determination in the Atlantic Charter and by American radio broadcasts . When World War II ended in 1945 , the Paris government , with General Charles De Gaulle as provisional president , ' had an excellent opportunity to cut loose from its Indochina empire . ( The British and Dutch , under pressure from Washington , liquidated vast holdings in Asia . ) But the French decided to hang on , partly for reasons of prestige and economic gain , and partly for fear that independence would provide an incendiary example to their valuable holdings in North Africa . The Washington government , desiring a French ally in Europe to hold back Communist Russia , was reluctant to antagonize Paris by persistent de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remain , a clash was bound to occur , as it did , amid charges of broken promises . War began on a full scale in November 1946 , when the French fleet bombarded Haiphong , killing some 6,000 North Vietnamese civili.cti .. WAS SELF-DETERMINATION THE U. S. CONCERN IN VIETNAM ? Before 1949 Washington had shown relatively little interest in Vietnam , other than urging the French to grant the Vietnamese their independent r . But 1949 marked a turning point . Late that year the Soviets exploded their first large atomic device . In December the Communists completely engulfed mainland China , as Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek fled to Islethope Taiwan . In February 1950 the Communist Russians and the Cotn- // munist Chinese concluded a thirty-year mutual defense treaty , and in June 1950 the North Korean Communists lunged into South Korea in a bold attempt to unite the entire country under their banner . All this seemed to be proof of a great Communist " monolith " striving to take over the entire world . In May 1950 , the month before the North Korean incursion into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic aid to the French in Vietnam . On June 27 , two days after the Korean onslaught , Washington announced the dispatching of a thirty-five-man Military Assistance Advisory Group ( MAAG ) to Vietnam , the first of a gradually increasing number , to instruct the anti-Communist Vietnamese in the use of American weapons . Such advisors were not formal combat units ? these did not come until some fifteen years later ? but they inevitably suffered casualties . Their first injuries were reported in October 1957 ; their first fatalities in July 1959 . American financial grants to France for the war in Vietnam totaled hundreds of millions of dollars , and rose to over $1 billion for the fiscal year 1954 , or about 80 percent of the current cost of the conflict to the French. ? Thus America 's ' obsessive fear of the mythical Communist " monolith " led to a deepening involvement which flew in the face of tradition . The Americans had once been subject peoples , fighting to be free from imperial control , with the aid of French allies . The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesmen , had long been associated with self-determination and the end of colonialism . In Vietnam the United States , far from helping a colonial people to be free , was supporting with much money and a few men the efforts of France to subjugate some 25 million unwilling people . Ironical indeed is the fact that when the Democratic Republic of North Vietnam issued a declaration of independence in 1945 , it followed the style of the American Declaration of 1776 and incorporated verbatim a part of its preamble . In the eyes of many Vietnamese , Ho Chi Minh was a George Washington . WAS VIETNAM " PARTITIONED " AT GENEVA ? By 1954 the tide of battle was running heavily against the French in the Vietnam war . They had lost control of about three-fourths of the country , although they still maintained several hundred thousand men // under arms , mostly loyal Vietnamese , and held a number of the most important cities . A crushing blow fell when some 12,000 men were trapped in a prolonged siege at Dien Bien Phu , in northwestern Vietnam , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Simultaneously a multipower conference was meeting in Paris for the purpose of ending the war . Ho Chi Minh 's Vietminh were confident of controlling the entire country after another year of hard fighting , while the French were eager to cut loose and emerge without undue loss of face . Pressure was evidently applied to the Vietminh by their Communist friends , Russia and China , to accept a political rather than a military settlement . Continued fighting might well bring America into the war , as it ultimately did , and neither the Chinese nor the Russians , remembering Korea , welcomed this eventuality . At Geneva in 1954 the French and the Vietminh ( The Democratic Republic of Vietnam ) formally signed a bilateral agreement to end hostilities and also approved the Final Declaration . In essence these two documents provided that the war should stop and that a temporary line of demarcation should be run about midway through Vietnam , roughly along the 17th parallel . ( This was not a formal partitioning of Vietnam , as often stated , but a purely provisional division for withdrawals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be such . ) The Vietminh troops would withdraw to the north of this line , and the French troops , with their loyalist allies , to the south , concurrently with the voluntary interchange of populations . ( Some 900,000 refugees , mostly Roman Catholics , went south. ) 7 " Free general elections by secret ballot " were to be held in July 1956 , to determine the political composition of all Vietnam under one government . ' In addition to signatories France and the Democratic Republic of North Vietnam , the understandings at Geneva in 1954 were agreed to orally by the USSR , Red China , Britain , Laos , and Cambodia .. Official Washington , alarmed by these gains for the Communist juggernaut and fearing the adverse effects of a " Munich " on the Congressional elections of 1954 , declined to approve the Geneva Agreements . A similar course was followed by the State of South Vietnam , already erected by the French under their weak puppet Bao Dai , with his capital at Saigon . But // the official American spokesman at Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the threat or use of force to disturb " the agreements . Nevertheless , he asserted , Washington would view with " grave concern " any renewal of aggression . ' WHY WERE THE 1956 ELECTIONS NEVER HELD ? The so-called Pentagon Papers , filched from the Pentagon in Washington and sensationally published by The New York Times in 1971 , reveal that the National Security Council viewed the Geneva settlement as a " disaster " for the free world . Official Washington , despite its hands-off pledge , regarded Vietnam as two nations , contrary to the specific intent of the Geneva Conference . Moreover , American policy actively supported the emergence of the Republic of South Vietnam with money and military aid . " South Vietnam , " the anonymous writer for the Pentagon concluded , " was essentially the creation of the United States . " 10 Far from refraining from force , as pledged , Washington began secret operations against the Vietminh in June 1954 , while the Geneva Conference was still in session . A team of special agents contaminated the oil supply of buses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the engines would be ruined , and also sabotaged a railroad.1 ' If it is true , as probable , that the North Vietnamese were engaged in similar clandestine activity while the Geneva Conference was in session , then both sides were performing acts of aggression even before the agreements were ever whipped into final form and accepted.l2 The Vietminh clearly felt that they had won at the Geneva conference table what they could have won by another year or so of warfare . Otherwise they would not have consented to these terms . They were counting on " free general elections " being held in July 1956 , as stipulated , for they seemed certain to win . They already controlled the populous North ; they had a popular war hero and liberator ( Ho Chi // Minh ) to put up against the flabby Bao Dai . President Eisenhower later wrote that if the elections had occurred at the time of the Geneva Conference , the Communists would have received 80 percent of the vote.l3 The elections were never held , primarily because the government in South Vietnam feared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they were almost certain to be won by the Communists . Washington , still attempting to hold the dike against communism , encouraged the anti-Communist Saigon government in its refusal and provided heavy financial support.14 The Hanoi regime in North Vietnam naturally felt betrayed ; and this largely explains why thereafter it showed scant interest in another Geneva Conference . HOW BINDING WAS THE U. S. COMMITMENT TO SOUTH VIETNAM ? Late in 1954 an unexpectedly strong anti-Communist leader emerged in South Vietnam as prime minister , Ngo Dinh Diem . The next year he managed to depose Bao Dai , the Chief of the State of South Vietnam , and become president of the newly named Republic of South Vietnam , on the basis of an obviously rigged election ( 98.2 percent favorable ) . As a Roman Catholic strongly backed by Washington , Diem flatly rebuffed all attempts to hold the unification elections of 1956 or even to negotiate about them.la He argued that his recently created country had not approved the Geneva Accords , and that conditions for genuinely free elections must be demonstrated first by North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an appeal from the then Prime Minister Diem for help , President Eisenhower wrote a memorable letter in which he promised assistance , contingent upon " needed reforms " being undertaken . ( They were never satisfactorily achieved under Diem . ) The wording of the letter was rather ambiguous , and it contained no clear-cut promise of military support . But Eisenhower // undertook to dispatch large quantities of military hardware and a few more military advisors , ultimately about 700 , to help train the South Vietnamese army . Secretary Dulles , contrary to the spirit of the Geneva Accords , questionably invoked his brainchild , the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization , to support South Vietnam . President Kennedy , at one stage acting secretly , fatefully expanded the commitment of his predecessor in 1961 ; by the time of his assassination in 1963 he had increased the American noncombat contingent to about 16,000 men . But the Communists continued to gain . In the same month as Kennedy 's own assassination , President Diem and his brother were murdered in a military coup brought on by nepotism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reforms ( " Diemocracy " ) , opposition by the numerous Buddhists , and growing resistance by Communist South Vietnam guerrillas known as the Viet Cong . Washington was so visibly relieved to be rid of Diem as to arouse suspicions , fully supported by the documents , that it had aided and abetted the coup.16 Then came a musical-chairs succession of governments , all told eight more during the nineteen months following Diem 's death . Finally , in June 1965 , another military coup brought in General Thieu as head of state and Air Vice-Marshal Ky as premier . COULD THE U. S. HAVE HONORABLY WITHDRAWN ? In later years the argument was often heard that the United States would lose too much face if it withdrew its troops from Vietnam . It had allegedly made a solemn commitment to win a complete victory , and if it reneged , its forty or so allies under various defense pacts could thereafter repose no confidence in it . Actually , the initial Eisenhower pledge of support was contingent on reforms that were not introduced . The original assurances were given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ envisaged fighting the battles of corrupt military dictatorships until crushing victory over the Vietnamese Communists was achieved . Nor had such commitments contemplated , when made , sending an American army of some 550,000 men to fight the war for an undemocratic South Vietnamese regime . The bill for assistance finally mounted to over 8100 billion , over 45,000 American combat deaths , and over 200,000 wounded , to say nothing of the sick , including numerous drug addicts . America 's allies could hardly complain that the United States had fallen short of a determined attempt to honor its word.17 President Johnson clearly went much beyond his predecessors when , on January 1 , 1964 , he publicly assured the Saigon military government ( soon overthrown ) , " We shall maintain in Vietnam American personnel and material as needed to assist you in achieving victory . " 18 But critics argued that he had no constitutional authority to bind the nation to a never-ending war . Moreover , they charged that his repeated campaign pledges not to send American boys to fight Asia 's wars involved a higher commitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of South Vietnam.19 One disturbing fact is that after the Communist " monolith " was revealed as no monolith , following the Moscow ? Peking rift in the 1960s , the basic reason for American intervention had disappeared . But by that time the nation was so deeply involved that such considerations as national honor and credibility of commitments argued against withdrawal . The official " line " proclaimed that the United States was fighting so that these people could freely determine their own destinies without outside interference . If applied consistently all over the world , this philosophy would soon bankrupt even a superpower . WAS THE VIETNAM CONFLICT A CIVIL WAR ? As often noted , Washington in 1950 could have regarded the Korean conflict as an internal upheaval : an attempt by the north to reunite the entire country under Communist leadership . In its beginnings the Vietnam War was basically a civil war.20 One must continue to remember that the Geneva conferees had regarded Vietnam as one country , with the 17th parallel line of demarcation as only temporary . When the shooting stopped in 1954 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North , whereas a considerable number returned to or remained in their homes in the South . When the // elections of 1956 were not held and Diem not only failed to carry through land reforms but mercilessly persecuted dissenters , these exVietminh finally resorted to organized guerrilla warfare against their own government after 1956 . In 1960 the rebels , popularly known as the Viet Cong , set up their own central authority , the National Liberation Front ( N.L.F. ) . Rather belatedly they were encouraged and then substantially aided by the North Vietnam regime in Hanoi , which by 1959 undertook to provide a flow of men and supplies . In the circumstances this delay was surprising . If one accepts the Geneva Accords as the true basis of judgment , the conflict actually did begin as a civil war . The Chinese and Russians aided North Vietnam with war materiel , while the United States aided the seceding Saigon regime in the south with money , military supplies , and advisors . Ultimately hostilities spread to Laos and Cambodia , and military contingents of varying size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam from Thailand , South Korea , New Zealand , Australia , the Philippines , and Taiwan . Support for the Republic of South Vietnam thus turned the clash into an international conflict , but that was not how it began.21 Washington , with its politically ingrained fear of dealing with any brand of communism , steadfastly refused to negotiate any terms with the Viet Cong , even though these guerrillas were South Vietnamese . Yet there is an elementary rule that if one wishes to bring about an end to a conflict , one must deal with the parties who are fighting it . WHO WERE THE AGGRESSORS IN VIETNAM ? The successful attempt of the temporary South Vietnamese regime to set up a separate state could be regarded as one phase of an internal civil war . When the Viet Cong arose and ultimately won the support of North Vietnam , the parties most directly involved were all Vietnamese , except for a handful of American military advisors . Viewed by the North Vietnamese , the United States was the aggressor , especially after Washington began bombing North Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onto South Vietnamese soil to fight the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese . When the // Americans proposed to end their bombing of the North if the Hanoi Communists would stop their aggression ( which consisted of supporting fellow Vietnamese ) , the reply was that this was not true reciprocity . The United States , Hanoi argued , was the real aggressor , while the South Vietnamese were only fellow countrymen in rebellion . If the North Vietnamese had been bombing American soil , a reciprocal stoppage of bombing would make sense , but not otherwise . Washington resolutely maintained that the real aggressor was North Vietnam , backed with arms by Red China and Red Russia . The South Vietnamese , exercising their right of self-determination , had declared their independence of North Vietnam and wanted to live in peace , as was true of the South during the American Civil War . The Viet Cong , to be sure , had resorted to guerrilla warfare , as had the Loyalists in the American Revolution . But , declared the United States , the North Vietnamese assumed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " South Vietnam in support of the guerrillas . Much depended on what facts were emphasized.22 WERE THE TONKIN GULF INCIDENTS DELIBERATELY PROVOKED ? According to official reports received in Washington , North Vietnamese torpedo boats twice attacked U. S. destroyers in the international waters of the Gulf of Tonkin early in August 1964 . These clashes may have been cases of mistaken identity , 23 for small South Vietnamese gunboats , contributed by the United States and directed by American officers , had recently engaged in hostile action in this area . The first incident , which occurred in bright daylight on August 2 , 1964 , involved the U. S. destroyer Maddox , then allegedly on " routine patrol " but actually on an electronic eavesdropping mission . After allegedly venturing within the twelve-mile limit claimed by the North Vietnamese , this warship was pursued outside territorial waters by three speedy , menacing torpedo boats . The Maddox , omitting warning shots , fired directly at its pursuers , who fled after harmlessly discharging torpedoes and inflicting one half-inch bullet hole . One North Vietnamese torpedo boat evidently sustained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Maddox was not only ordered to remain but was reinforced by the U. S. destroyer Turner Joy . Two days later , during the dark and overcast night of August 4 , 1964 , these two warships allegedly experienced torpedo attacks by unknown assailants during a furious two-hour battle . Two of the enemy were reported sunk . The American destroyers suffered no damage whatever , and the unknown foe left no debris that was discernible the next day . If there were strange vessels present , they could have been North Vietnamese torpedo boats or fishing craft 24 or even Chinese ships of some kind . Tricky weather effects , faulty sonar or radar , strange engine noises , or plain nerves may have touched off the fusillade . The two American ships may have mistaken each other for the enemy.25 The North Vietnamese denied having made such an attack , although acknowledging that they had chased the " intruding " Maddox two days earlier . Within a few hours after the second reported attack , President Johnson hastily announced on television and radio that he had ordered a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along 100 miles of the coast . ( Altogether sixty-four sorties were flown . ) Oddly enough , Johnson proclaimed the strikes before they had actually occurred , to the possible jeopardy of American airmen . Cynics charged that he wanted to extract the maximum political advantage during his current campaign for election against " bomb-happy " Senator Goldwater . Johnson states in his memoirs that since both North Vietnamese and Chinese radar would pick up the attacking planes , he wanted all parties to know precisely the nature and limited objectives of the attack.26 Johnson 's two-fisted response electrified red-blooded Americans and provided the President with enthusiastic public support . The alleged attacks and the retaliatory responses were significant in two respects . They heralded the initial bombing of North Vietnam by the United States ? a small-scale effort indeed compared with the deluge to come . They provided Johnson with an excuse to ask Congress for a blankcheck resolution to prosecute the war in Southeast Asia . Passed with only two dissenting votes in Congress three days after the second alleged attack , this authorization came to be known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                