@@773895

txt 60 Meat Science nature of growth varies between individual muscles . Other hormones have a differential effect on the growth of muscles . Thus , growth hormone from pituitary preferentially increases the growth of masseter , quadriceps , supraspinatus and diaphragm ( Greenbaum and Young , 1953 ) . These same muscles ( with the exception of masseter ) lost weight much more rapidly during starvation . Clearly the protein lability of some muscles of the body is greater than that of the body as a whole . Reference has already been made to a condition , apparently controlled by a single recessive gene and presumably mediated by hormones of some kind , in which there is a marked increase in the proportion of muscular tissue in the animal ( Doppelender hypertrophy ? McKellar , 1960 ) . The overall hypertrophy of the musculature is about 2 ? 3-fold ; but it is selective for individual muscles , being most pronounced in those which are the latest to develop ( Pomeroy and Williams , 1962 ) . The musculature which develops is quite normal ( Lawrie , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the growth stimulus could be elucidated and regulated , it might be possible to produce cattle , sheep and pigs of enhanced meat content . As in the case of the animal as a whole , it is normal for muscles to lay down both intracellular and extracellular fat . This occurs as a result of age or because of a high plane of nutrition ( Helander , 1959 ) . 3.4 . ABNORMAL GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT IN MUSCLE A variety of factors can cause abnormal growth and development in muscle . Such may be superficially manifested by an unusual increase or decrease of normal muscular tissue or by the production of atypical tissue , which may be accompanied by an overall increase or decrease in size . At the present moment , most of these abnormalities would automatically preclude the affected musculature from consumption as meat on aesthetic grounds or on those of public health ; but they should be considered , since they help to indicate the nature of muscle , and it is conceivable that one day some may be utilized deliberately to produce desired qualities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Genetic Aspects The muscular hypertrophy of " doppelender " cattle and the stunted growth of " snorter " dwarf cattle have already been mentioned as being due to recessive genes . In neither case is the musculature other than entirely wholesome as meat . Imperfections in embryogenesis account for a number of conditions where there is anomalous development in muscle or where muscles fail to develop at all . Club-foot exemplifies one of the conditions where development is faulty : histological examination shows that the muscle fibres are of uniformly small diameter . When congenital absence of muscles occurs , those which most frequently fail to develop are the pectorals ( Bing , 1902 ) . In recent times , the ingestion by pregnant women of tranquillizers such as thalidomide has emphasized the susceptibility to mutation of the genes controlling muscular development . Many other abnormalities of development have been shown to be heritable . These include various diseases in muscle where inflammation by infecting organisms is not involved ( muscular dystrophy ) . The heritable types are characterized by the relative absence of regenerative activity : they are largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adams , Denny-Brown and Pearson , 1962 ) . The muscle fibres have a greatly lessened capacity to retain creatine ( Ronzoni et al. , 1958 ) and potassium ( Williams et al. , 1957 ) , more collagen ( Vignos and Lefkowitz , 1959 ) and a decreased ability to produce lactic acid by glycolysis due to lowered contents of aldolase , phosphorylase and creatine kinase ( Dreyfus , Schapira and Schapira , 1954 ; Ronzoni et al. , 1958 ) . In Duchenne muscular dystrophy the electrophoretic pattern of the lactic dehydrogenase enzymes ( cf. Fig. 4.1 ) reverts to that of the embryonic muscle ( Emery , 1964 ) . The contractile proteins are relatively unaffected . The most important histological feature of the dystrophies is the disappearance of muscle fibres , which proceeds , in phases of hypertrophy , atrophy , splitting and fragmentation , to degenerating myoblasts . A series of heritable glycogen storage diseases are known ( Cori , 1957 ) . Certain of these are characterized by the deposition of large 62 Meat Science quantities of glycogen in muscle . They are distinguished from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on account of which the accumulation occurs . In one condition " debranching enzyme " is deficient and the structure of the glycogen deposited is abnormal : in another phosphorylase is deficient , but the glycogen is normal . It should be mentioned , however , that the glycogen concentration in the muscles of the new-born pig is normally very high ( about 7 per cent compared with 1 ? 2 per cent in the muscles of older animals : McCance and Widdowson , 1959 ) . Familial periodic paralysis , in which potassium accumulates ( McArdle , 1956 ) , and a spontaneous discharge of muscle pigment with myoglobinuria ( Biorck , 1949 ) , exemplify two other types of heritable abnormalities of muscle growth . 3.4.2 . Nutritional Aspects Reference has already been made on the differential effects which animal age and the general plane of nutrition have on the development of various groups of muscles . Provided the diet is qualitatively adequate such growth is normal ; but the absence or excess of specific substances can cause atypical development . Dystrophic muscle which is superficially white , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pigs through a deficiency of vitamin E : the latter appears to be essential for the integrity of muscle ( Blaxter and McGill , 1955 ) . Histologically , there are distinct pathological features such as hyaline degeneration ( cell transparency ) , and phagocytosis . Characteristically , long segments of fibres show " coagulation necrosis " : areas of regeneration are found concomitantly ( West and Mason , 1958 ) . Biochemically , there is an increase of y-myosin ( Kay and Pabst , 1962 ) . Vitamin E-dystrophic muscle has a greater capacity for proteolytic breakdown , which may be attributed , in part , to increased dipeptidase activity ( Weinstock , Goldrich and Milhorat , 1956 ) ; a lowered capacity for respiration ( Schwartz , 1962 ) ; a greater content of connective tissue protein , fat and water ; and a lower content of total nitrogen ( Blaxter and Wood , 1952 ) . Structural The Structure and Growth of Muscle 63 changes in myosin are also induced by vitamin E dystrophy ( Lobley , Perry and Stone , 1971 ) . The content of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of myosin ( Perrie and Perry , 1970 ) apparently fails to be synthesized and its Ca++-activated ATP-ase is markedly depressed . A diet containing appreciable quantities of unsaturated fatty acids , especially linoleic acid , predisposes to vitamin E deficiency ( Lindberg and Orstadius , 1961 ) , emphasizing the antioxidant aspects of the role of vitamin E. A dietary absence of selenium also produces muscular dystrophy , which vitamin E counteracts ; here its role is unknown ( Blaxter , 1962 ) . As in the case of vitamin E deficiency , it seems possible that an excess of dietary vitamin A increases the proteolytic activity of muscle , perhaps by increasing the permeability of the membrane within which catheptic enzymes are contained ( Fell and Dingle , 1963 ) . The ingestion of specific toxins , such as the diterpenes pimaric and abietic acids , is also thought to be responsible for the occurrence of white , exudative muscle and myoglobinuria ( " Haff disease " ; Assmann et al. , 1933 ) . 3.4.3 . Physiological Aspects A white , exudative appearance is a superficial symptom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetic or nutritional factors ; as we have seen , in these microscopic examination reveals pathological features . In recent years much interest has been shown in a condition in the muscles of pigs which resembles the nutritional or genetic dystrophies superficially , but in which virtually no pathological changes can be observed . According to Bendall and Lawrie ( 1964 ) its most immediate cause is physiological . Despite the absence of pathological features the condition has been referred to as " Muskeldegeneration " ( Ludvigsen , 1954 ) and " la myopathie exudative depigmentaire du porc " ( Henry , Romani and Joubert , 1958 ) ; the original name " wasseriges Fleisch " ( Herter and Wildsdorf , 1914 ) or the description " pale , soft , exudative " 64 Meat Science ( PSE ) musculature ( Briskey , 1964 ) are more appropriate . Nevertheless , the histological features are uncommon and resemble those which can be artificially produced by a fast rate of post-mortem glycolysis . In longitudinal section there is frequently an alternate array of strongly contracted and adjacent passively kinked fibres ; or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fibres ( Lawrie , Gatherum and Hale , 1958 , Bendall and WismerPedersen , 1962 ) . These bands penetrate into the depth of the fibre ( Fig. 3.7 ) and appear to consist of denatured sarcoplasmic protein , which has precipitated on to the myofibrils , lowering the extractibility of the latter ( Bendall and Wismer-Pedersen , 1962 ) . The sarcoplasmic precipitate includes the enzyme creatine kinase ( Scopes and Lawrie , 1963 ) and in this respect the condition conforms with the true dystrophies above . There may be a fast rate of pH fall during postmortem glycolysis , with a normal ultimate pH ( 5.5 ) , or an unusually low ultimate pH ( 5.0 ) . Either would tend to denature muscle proteins and lower their capacity to hold water in the former case because a relatively low pH would be attained whilst the temperature of the The Structure and Growth of Muscle 65 carcass was still high ( Bendall and Wismer-Pedersen , 1962 ) . Arakawa , Goll and Temple ( 1970 ) have shown that the regulatory functions of a-actinin and tropomyosin ? troponin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) has demonstrated ( in porcine 1 . dorsi ) that the lower the pH at 90 min post-mortem , the lower the water-holding capacity , the ATP-ase activity and the extractability of the myofibrillar proteins . It is evident that a fast rate of pH fall post-mortem is also effective in denaturing the contractile proteins . A high environmental temperature , struggling immediately before slaughter and delayed cooling of the carcass cause the condition to be manifest ( Bendall and Lawrie , 1964 ) . Briskey ( 1969 ) and Kastenschmidt ( 1970 ) have presented biochemical evidence , however , which suggests that the degree of struggling at death is not the main reason for a high rate of post-mortem glycolysis in stress-susceptible pigs . They believe that the inherent constitution of the muscles in the latter is such that they are more readily made anoxic post-mortem and hence encourage a fast rate of lactic acid production . The efficacy of relaxant doses of magnesium sulphate administered preslaughter in slowing post-mortem ATP breakdown ( Howard and Lawrie , 1956 ) and in preventing PSE ( Briskey , 1969 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vasodilatory action . Although the preslaughter injection of magnesium sulphate slows the rate of ATP breakdown in pigs of Pietrain , Landrace and Large White breeds , and there is a marked reduction in exudation postmortem in the former two breeds , this is less so with the meat from Large White animals , suggesting that there may be influences other than the rate of post-mortem glycolysis affecting water-holding capacity ( Lister and Ratcliff , 1971 ) . The Ca++-accreting ability of the sarcoplasmic reticulum from muscles showing exudative character is said to be less than that of normal porcine muscle ( Greaser et al. , 1969b ) . This feature would exacerbate any tendency for a fast rate of pH fall post-mortem and this , in turn , increases the damage to the sarcoplasmic reticulum ( Greaser , 1969a ) . " Giant " fibres are particularly prevalent in the musculature of exudative pork ( Cassens , Cooper and Briskey , 1969 ) . They have low amylo-phosphorylase and high ATP-ase activities and are thus biochemically intermediate 66 Meat Science between " red " and " white " fibres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cortisone to stress-susceptible pigs ( Ludvigsen , 1957 ) . At rest the level of 17-hydroxycorticosterone in the blood serum is 50 per cent greater in stress-susceptible than in normal pigs ( Topel , 1969 ) ; and , on exposure to stress , the level falls in the former , whereas it rises in normal pigs . The intravenous injection of aldosterone induces a pale , soft exudative condition in pig musculature . This effect is prevented if an oral drench of aldactazide ( a competitive inhibitor of aldosterone ) is administered 30 min beforehand ( Passbach et al. , 1969 ) . Another index of the potentially stresssusceptible pig is the presence of lactic dehydrogenase isozyme V in the blood serum : usually isozyme I is found . A high isozyme V ( I ratio in blood samples would indicate a tendency to develope PSE post-mortem ( Addis , 1969 ) . There are said to be enhanced levels of creatine phospokinase in the blood serum of stress-susceptible pigs ( Allen and Patterson , 1971 ) , and of glucose-6-phosphate in muscles sampled by biopsy ( Schmidt , Zuidan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compatible with a physiological explanation of the condition . Nevertheless , Benda and Lawrie ( 1964 ) consider that increased liability to produce watery pork may represent a genetically controlled difference in the nature and quantity of glycolytic enzymes : such may have inadvertently arisen in breeding for high-feed conversion rates and for large muscles . Wismer-Pedersen ( 1969b ) has shown that the proteins from watery pork have a much lower capacity to form stable emulsions than those from normal porcine muscles ( Fig. 3.8 ) . He suggests that the greater insolubility of sarcoplasmic proteins in such meat ( see above ) prevents myofibrillar proteins forming the strong membrane round fat globules to which , he believes , emulsion stability is due when sausage meat is heated . It seems likely , however , that the connective tissue proteins also affect the stability of sausage meat emulsions . It is of interest , in this regard , that the epimyseal connective tissue appears to have significantly more saltsoluble collagen and a greater amount of heat-labile collagen , when derived from watery pork than from the flesh of normal pigs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science Henry et al . ( 1958 ) , Lawrie ( 1960 ) and Scopes and Lawrie ( 1963 ) attribute the paleness largely to the absence of myoglobin : whereas Wismer-Pedersen ( 1959a ) and Goldspink and McLoughlin ( 1964 ) attribute it to denaturation of myoglobin . Scopes and Lawrie ( 1963 ) found little evidence for the latter . Complete disuse of muscles causes a physiological atrophy . Histologically , there is a reduction in the mean diameter of muscle fibres ( Tower , 1937 , 1939 ) . Conversely , continuous training increases the size of muscles ( Morpurgo , 1897 ) . This reflects an increase in the number of fibres which have a large diameter rather than an increase in the width of all the component fibres ( Goldspink , 1962a , b ) . The muscle fibres increase in diameter both by the elaboration of new myofibrils and by an increase in sarcoplasm ( Morpurgo , 1897 ) . Such coarsening of texture would tend to make the muscles tougher as meat ( Hiner et al. , 1953 ) . Physiological hypertrophy is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " normal " , such as the effect of androgens ( male hormones ) in increasing the muscle size of males . On the other hand , disorders of the pituitary , thymus , thyroid and adrenal cortex glands are frequently associated with excessive or stunted muscular development . Little analytical work has been done on such material . Overhydration of muscle has been noted in impaired adrenal function ( Gaunt , Birnie and Eversole , 1949 ) and fatty infiltration in hyperthyroidism ( Adams et al. , 1962 ) . 3.4.4 . Various Extrinsic Aspects Atrophy is a common reaction of living muscle to injury . This response may follow directly from crushing or cutting of the muscle substance , ionizing radiation , excessive heat or cold , or high voltage electricity ; or indirectly , by section of or damage to the muscle 's blood supply , nerves or tendons . These circumstances are fully discussed by Adams et al . ( 1962 ) . There is generally some degree of reversion to the primitive foetal muscle structure ( Denny-Brown , 1961 ) . Histologically , the reaction ranges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Muscle 69 sarcoplasm to total dissolution of the muscle fibre . Regardless of the precipitating cause , an orderly series of changes can be observed . There is firstly an enlargement of the nuclei and a tendency for these to migrate centrally to form rows . Next there is an accumulation of granular sarcoplasm around the nuclei and then , depending on the extent of the injury , regeneration or degeneration occurs , i.e. budding of new muscle tissue or fragmentation and splitting of the tissue into spindle cells , respectively ( Denny-Brown , 1961 ) . Intermediate doses of ionizing radiation ( ca. 1000 rad1 ) before slaughter increase the water-holding capacity of the subsequent meat and decrease its catheptic activity ( Silaev , 1962 ) . Large doses ( ca. 5000 rad ) may cause disappearance of cross-striations and vacuolation of the sarcoplasm ( Warren , 1943 ) , oedema ( Wilde and Sheppard , 1955 ) , a rise in sodium and a fall in potassium and aldolase ( Dowben and Zuckerman , 1963 ) . The effects of massive , megarad , doses on muscle in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Bywaters , 1944 ) and high voltage electricity ( ' Biorck , 1949 ) cause substantial changes in muscles . They may lose most of their myoglobin , potassium and other soluble sarcoplasmic material . A series of inflammatory conditions in muscle ( myositis ) is known and in each there is destruction of the muscle fibres and proliferation of connective tissue ( Adams et al. , 1962 ) . The inflammatory agent may be parasitic ( e.g. trichinosis in pork ) , bacterial ( e.g. spontaneous acute streptococcal myositis ) , viral ( e.g. Bornholm diesease , caused by Coxsackie Group B virus ) or metabolic ( e.g. various rheumatic con ditions ) . Muscle tissue itself rarely elaborates into carcinomata : these are found generally as invasions of muscle by direct extension of a primary growth in another tissue . In such cases compression atrophy may result . // CHEMICAL AND BIOCHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OF MUSCLE 4.1 . GENERAL CHEMICAL ASPECTS In a broad sense the composition of meat can be approximated to 75 per cent of water , 18 per cent of protein , 3.5 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fat , but an understanding of the nature and behaviour of meat , and of its variability , can not be based on such a simplification . On the contrary , it must be recognized that meat is the post-mortem aspect of a complicated biological tissue and muscle , and that the latter reflects the special features which the function of contraction requires , both in the general sense and in relation to the type of action which each muscle has been elaborated to perform in the body . As outlined in Chapter 3 , the essential unit of muscular tissue is the fibre which consists of formed protein elements , the myofibrils , between which is a solution , the sarcoplasm , and a fine network of tubules , the sarcoplasmic reticulum ; the fibre being bounded by a very thin membrane ( the sarcolemma ) to which connective tissue is attached on the outside . The spatial distribution , between these structural elements , of the 18 per cent of protein in the muscle is shown in Table 4.1 ( compiled from various sources ) , together with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muscle , after rigor mortis but before marked degradative changes . The principal amino acids in fresh muscle are a-alanine , glycine , glutamic acid and histidine ( Tallan , Moore and Stein , 1954 ) . 70 72 Meat Science 4.1.1 . Muscle Proteins The proteins in muscle ( Table 4.1 ) can be broadly divided into those which are soluble in water or dilute salt solutions ( the sarcoplasmic proteins ) , those which are soluble in concentrated salt solutions ( the myofibrillar proteins ) and those which are insoluble in the latter , at least at low temperature ( the proteins of connective tissue and other formed structure ) . The sarcoplasmic proteins ( myogen and globulins ) are now known to represent a complex mixture of about 50 components , many of which are enzymes of the glycolytic cycle ( cf. Fig. 4.1 ; courtesy R. K. Scopes ) . Band F3 has been isolated as a basic protein by Scopes ( 1966 ) . Although it constitutes 2 per cent of the total sarcoplasmic proteins ( in pig 1 . dorsi ) it does not appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glycolytic pathway . It will be observed that several enzymes consist of more than one molecular species ( " isozymes " ) . Almost all the sarcoplasmic proteins have been crystallized ( Scopes , 1970 ) . Apart from the differences in charge implicit in Fig. 4.1 , the sarcoplasmic proteins differ in various other parameters including their relative susceptibility to denaturation ( BateSmith , 1937b ; Scopes , 1964 ) , but their individual characteristics as proteins will not be considered here . Myosin is the most abundant of the myofibrillar proteins . Its identity was a somewhat confused issue for nearly 100 years from 1859 , when the name was first given to a substance in muscle press juice which formed a gel on standing ( Bailey , 1954 ) . The molecule of myosin , which has a molecular weight of about 500,000 is highly asymmetric , the ratio of length to diameter being about 100:1 . Because of its high content of glutamic and aspartic acids , and of dibasic amino acids , it is highly charged and has a strong affinity for calcium and magnesium ions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? light ( L ) and heavy ( H ) meromyosins ( SzentGyorgyi , 1953 ) . H-meromyosin , which contains all the ATP-ase and actin-combining properties of myosin , is sited on the periphery of the myosin filaments . The properties depend upon free-SH groups in the molecule ( Bailey , 1954 ) . Tropomyosin was discovered in 1946 74 Meat Science by Bailey . Once extracted from muscle it is soluble at low ionic strength but in situ is extracted only at high ionic strength . Its amino acid composition is similar to that of myosin ( Bailey , 1954 ) and like the latter , there are few free amino groups : it appears to be a cyclopeptide ( a chain of amino acids forming a closed figure ) . It has been suggested that actin filaments are attached to the Z-line by a meshwork of tropomyosin ( Huxley , 1963 ) ; and the tropomyosin extends along the helical groove in the actin filament . The other major protein of the myofibril is actin " Straub , 1942 ) . It can exist in two forms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a molecular weight of about 70,000 , and Factin , in which these globular units are aggregated end to end to form a double chain ( cf. Fig. 3.5 ) . G-actin polymerizes into F-actin in the presence of salts and small amounts of ATP . It is F-actin which combines with myosin to form the contractile actomyosin of active or pre-rigor muscle and the inextensible actomyosin of muscle in rigor mortis ( cf. ? 4.2.1 ) . The interrelation of actin , myosin and ATP is complex ( Bailey , 1954 ) and will not be discussed in detail . Relatively small quantities of other proteins , which are associated with the myofibrils , have been isolated ; and functions have been assigned to them ( Ebashi and Endo , 1968 ; Schaub and Perry , 1969 ; Maruyama , 1970 ) . Thus troponin promotes the aggregation of tropomyosin and prevents actomyosin formation ; a-actinin promotes the lateral association of F-actin ; 9-actinin inhibits polymerization of F-actin ; and the M-line substance promotes the lateral polymerization of light meromyosin , but not than of H-meromyosin . Tropomyosin B is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been removed from tropomyosin as it occurs naturally . Because of its high content of a-helix , tropomyosin B is capable of contributing mechanical stability to the muscle filaments . Troponin itself is composed of two members which are intimately concerned in the contraction process ? a calcium-sensitizing factor , troponin A , and an inhibiting factor , troponin B ( Schaub , Perry and Hacker , 1972 ) . The inhibitory factor has been separated into components having molecular weights of 14,000 , 37,000 and 23,000 , the latter being the major Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 75 inhibiting protein ( Wilkinson , Perry , Cole and Trayer , 1972 ) . The function of the 37,000 dalton fraction has not yet been ascertained . All three components have distinct amino acid compositions . The distribution of amino acids in the various myofibrillar proteins of the rabbit is shown in Table 4.1a ( after Bodwell and McClain , 1971 ) . It will be noted that there is a higher content of aromatic residues in actin , the actinins , troponin A and H-meromyosin than in the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contents of proline . The latter is particularly low in L-meromyosin and tropomyosin B. In that portion of muscle which is insoluble in concentrated salt are the mitochondria , containing the insoluble enzymes responsible for respiration and oxidative phosphorylation , the formed elements of the muscle membrane ( sarcolemma ) and the collagen , reticulin and elastin fibres of connective tissue . The collagen of connective tissue has the highest content of hydroxyproline of any common protein ( 12.8 per cent : Bowes , Elliott and Moss , 1957 ) . The hydroxyproline content of muscle is , therefore , frequently used as a measure of its connective tissue content . The protofibrils representing the ultimate structural units of collagen ( Fig. 3.3 ) consist of a triple helix of amino chains , the most common sequence in these being glycine proline or hydroxy ? proline ? other amino acids . There is a high 76 Meat Science proportion of hydroxy ? amino acids ; trytophan is virtually absent ; and hydroxylysine is found . The latter occurs in no other protein . Ascorbic acid is required for the formation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after it has already been incorpor-ated into the polypeptide chain , into hydroxyproline ( Stone and Meister , 1962 ) . In ascorbic-acid deficiency an elastin low in hydro-proline is formed ( Barnes , Constable and Kodicek , 1969 ) . When heated in water at 60 ? 70 ? C , collagen fibres shorten to about one-third or one-quarter of their initial length . The temperature of shrinkage is sharp and is characteristic of the source . When the temperature is raised to about 80 ? C , collagen begins to be converted into the water-soluble molecule gelatin . Reticulin , unlike collagen , which it resembles in other respects , does not yield gelatin on boiling ( Kramer and Little , 1953 ) . It is of interest that the collagen of intramuscular connective tissue is move highly cross-linked ( and insoluble ) than that of the corresponding tendon ( Mohr and Bendall , 1969 ) . Unlike collagen and reticulin , elastin is not broken down on ex-posure to heat . It is a unique protein containing a chromophoric residue which gives elastin its characteristic yellow colour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properties of elastin fibres are due to an unusual cross-linking between adjacent polypeptide chains , which does not involve S ? S bridges . The polypeptide at the cross-link areas has recently been shown to contain two hitherto unknown amino acids ? desmosine and isodesmosine ( Thomas , Elsden and Partridge , 1963 ) . These are salts of tetramethyl-substituted pyridine . Elastin also differs from collagen in having only 1.6 per cent hydroxyproline and few polar amino acids ; and the valine content ( 18 per cent ) is much higher than that in collagen ( Partridge and Davis , 1955 ) . 4.1.2 . Intramuscular Fat Although the fat of adipose tissue generally consists of true fat ( i.e. esters of glycerol with fatty acids ) to an extent of more than 99 per cent , the fat of muscle , like that of other metabolically active tissues , has a considerable content of phospholipids and of unsaponi-fiable constituents , such as cholesterol ( Lea , 1962 ) . Only three or four Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 77 fatty acids are present in substantial amounts in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Table 4.4 , p. 95 ) ; and of the four types of glyceride GS3 , GS2 U , GSU2 and GU3 ( S and U represent saturated and unsaturated fatty acids respectively ) , certain isomers greatly predominate . In the majority of fats which have been examined by partial degradation using pancreatic lipase , saturated acids are found preferentially in the alpha or exterior positions of the glycerol molecule ( Savary and Desnuelle , 1959 ) . Pig fat is exceptional , however , in that unsaturated acids are usually found in the alpha position . Although the fatty acids are not randomly orientated in animal fats , they can be so arranged artificially by heating with an esterification catalyst . This causes a marked improvement in the texture and plasticity of the fat and other characteristics which are useful in baking ( Lea , 1962 ) . The phospholipids ? phosphoglycerides , plasmalogens and sphingomyelin ? are more complex than the triglycerides . In the phosphoglycerides one of the three hydroxyl groups of glycerol is combined with choline , ethanolamine , serine , inositol or glycerol . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ esterified with a long-chain fatty aldehyde instead of with fatty acid ; and in sphingomyelin the amino alcohol sphingosine is bound by an amide link to a fatty acid and by an ester link to phosphorylcholine . There are also present in muscular tissue complex sugar-containing lipids ? glycolipids . The effect of such factors as species , age and type of muscle in the composition of the phospholipids is still little known ( Lea , 1962 ) . Of the total phospholipids in beef muscle , lecithin accounts for about 62 per cent , cephalins for 30 per cent and sphingomyelin for less than 10 per cent ( Turkki and Campbell , 1967 ) . Accompanying the triglycerides are small quantities of substances which are soluble in fat solvents , e.g. vitamins A , D , E and K and cholesterol derivatives . 4.2 . BIOCHEMICAL ASPECTS 4.2.1 . Muscle Function in vivo The thick filaments which were apparent in Fig. 3.4g consist essentially of myosin and the thin filaments of actin . The latter are 78 Meat Science continuous through the Z-line , but do not traverse the H-zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A-band only . The three-dimensional aspect of this arrangement was briefly outlined in Chapter 3 and shown diagrammatically in Fig. 3.5 when it was indicated that there are six straight rows of projections or " feet " running longitudinally along the side of each myosin filament , the sets of feet being symmetrically distributed around the periphery of the latter , so that one set of feet is opposite one of the six filaments of actin which surround each myosin filament ( Fig. 3.4g ) . The twodimensional aspect of this arrangement is shown in Fig. 4.2 ( Bendall , 1969 ) . This shows , in diagrammatic form , a longitudinal section of the sarcomeres ( a ) at rest length , ( b ) when extended and ( c ) during contraction . The thick myosin filaments are depicted with ( above and below ) two of the six actin filaments with which they are associated . The degrees of interdigitation , and of linkage between the myosin heads and the actin , in each condition will be apparent . Figure 4.2 also depicts the patterns seen in cross-sections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , as the muscle is extended beyond rest length , it becomes narrower and the hexagonal array of myosin and actin . filaments becomes tighter . Conversely , when the muscle contracts , the cross-sectional area , and the distance apart of the myosin and actin rods , both increase . In muscle at rest in the living animal ( or in the pre-rigor state in the dying muscle ) , the beads comprising the actin filaments are prevented from combining with the corresponding projections on the myosin by the magnesium complex of adenosine triphosphate ( MgATP ) : the latter acts as a plasticizer . A possible sequence of events in contraction may be outlined ( Davies , 1963 ) . Activation of the muscle , usually as the result of a nerve stimulus arriving at the motor end plate and depolarizing the sarcolemma , releases bound Ca++ ions from the latter and the sarcotubular system , mainly in the region of the Z-lines . This calcium then diffuses , and after several cycles of electrostatic linkage with sarcoplasmic phosphates , forms firm chelate links between the bound ADP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be bound at the end of an asymmetrically extended , rapidly snaking polypeptide Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 79 ( which is part of the cross-bridge of H-meromyosins of the thick myosin filaments ) . The calcium link , by its formation , neutralizes the residual electric charge of the bound ATP so that the polypeptide can now spontaneously twist and contract to form an a-helix by the energy of formation of about forty-six hydrogen bonds and some hydrophobic bonds . This contraction drags the actin along the myosin filament and brings the ATP into the region of activity of the H-meromyosin ATP-ase which now splits off the terminal phosphate of the ATP and thus breaks that link with actin . However , tension will remain as there are 5.4 x 1016 cross-bridges per millilitre of muscle , so some or all of them will be bearing tension at any given moment in activated muscle . The next step , to form another link further down the actin , is for the resultant bound ADP to become bound ATP either by direct exchange 80 Meat Science with cytoplasmic ATP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ATP : AMP phosphotransferase . On rephosphorylation to ATP the a-helix becomes stretched and the hydrogen bonds are broken to form a more extended polypeptide chain . This movement is caused by the repulsion of the negative charge on the ionized ATP and a postulated fixed negative charge on the H-meromyosin , so the work is done at the expense of a distortion of the ATP bonds . The ATP will now successfully compete with inorganic phosphate for the calcium bound further down the actin and the whole cycle will be repeated several times during the active state which ends when the relaxing-factor system in the sarcotubular membranes ( the Marsh ? Bendall factor : Marsh , 1952 ) has pumped the Ca++ ions out of the sarcoplasm . The equilibrium level of ATP can now be re-established , the MgATP complex reforms and actomyosin is dissociated . A highly acidic protein , which constitutes about 7'X of the membrane proteins , seems to be responsible for storing Ca++ ions in the sarcoplasmic reticulum ( MacLennan and Wong , 1971 ) . Other views on the contraction mechanism are currently extant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) the contractile effect of Ca++ ions is exerted solely on the Ca++ receptive protein , troponin . These workers believe that in the absence of Ca++ ions , the troponin molecule inhibits the interaction of myosin and actin ; and that this inhibition can be removed by Ca++ ions . The shuttle movement of the latter between two binding sites the troponin molecule and the sarcoplasmic reticulum ? is the essential mechanism underlying the contraction ? relaxation cycle . Perry and Schaub ( 1969 ) have shown that purified troponin requires the addition of tropomyosin for its inhibiting action on actomyosin ATP-ase ( which is due to a component referred to as troponin B ) and its relaxing activity is due to troponin A. Huxley ( 1971 ) has pointed out that interdigitation of the actin and myosin filaments could be due to tilting movements of the cross bridges between the Si subunits of myosin and actin , if one can assume that some structural changes alter the angle of bridging material and that some system of forces keeps the filament // separation approximately constant over short axial distances . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbance of dipole ? dipole and van der Waals forces which determine the distances between actin and myosin filaments during contraction . Apart from its direct use in contraction , ATP is utilized in pumping Ca++ ions back into the sarcoplasmic reticulum after stimulus ceases and in restoring the differential distribution of sodium and potassium which provides the action potential on nerve stimulation . The latter process probably requires only about one-thousandth , and the calcium pump one-tenth , of the energy required in contraction per se ( Bendall , 1969 ) . The sarcoplasmic reticulum has itself some ATP-ase activity , which may be related to muscle activation in response to nerve stimuli ( Engel , 1963 ) . Most other aspects of muscle concern the mechanism of ensuring an adequate supply of ATP . In this both the soluble and insoluble proteins of the sarcoplasm play an essential role ( Needham , 1960 ) . The most immediate source of new ATP is resynthesis from ADP and creatine phosphate ( CP ) , by the enzyme creatine kind , which is one of the soluble proteins of the sarcoplasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sarcoplasm also contains a soluble ATP-ase which operates very slowly in comparison with myosin ATP-ase but is responsible for the small degree of contractility necessary to maintain muscle tone and body temperature : it also causes the depletion of ATP , and hence rigor mortis after death ( Bendall , 1951 ) . But in vivo the major source of ATP is its resynthesis from ADP by respiration , whereby muscle glycogen ( or in some cases fatty acids ) is oxidized to carbon dioxide and water . When energy is needed in excess of the power of the respiratory system to regenerate ATP , the process of anaerobic glycolysis , whereby glycogen is converted to lactic acid , can do so ? although much less efficiently . The mechanism of ATP resynthesis by respiration or by anaerobic glycolysis is complicated : a highly simplified outline is given in Fig. 4.3 ( after Baldwin , 1967 ) . It will be seen that much more ATP can be resynthesized by respiration than by anaerobic glycolysis . Most of the enzymes needed to 82 Meat Science convert glycogen to lactic acid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sarcoplasm . The latter include the muscle pigment , myoglobin , which is quite distinct from the haemoglobin of the blood // ( Theorell , 1932 ) . It exists in two molecular species in horse ( Boardman and Adair , 1956 ) and five species in the seal ( Rumen , 1959 ) ; and it appears to act as a short-term oxygen store in muscle ( Millikan , 1939 ) . The oxygen-utilizing enzymes of respiration , in particular the cytochrome system , and those required to convert pyruvic acid to carbon dioxide and water and to form ATP , are located in insoluble particles , the mitochondria . These are distributed in the sarcoplasm ( Cleland and Slater , 1953 ; Chappel and Perry , 1953 ) . Most of the glycolytic and respiratory enzymes require co-factors which are either vitamins or trace metals ; and the composition of muscle reflects this requirement . 4.2.2 . Post-mortem Glycolysis Since it reflects the basic function of muscle , it is appropriate to consider at this point the irreversible anaerobic glycolysis which occurs when oxygen is permanently removed from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulatory failure will be outlined in Chapter 5 . The sequence of chemical steps by which glycogen is converted to lactic acid is essentially the same post-mortem as in vivo when the oxygen supply may become temporarily inadequate for the provision of energy in the muscle ; but it proceeds further . Except when inanition or exercise immediately pre-slaughter has appreciably diminished the reserves of glycogen in muscle , the conversion of glycogen to lactic acid will continue until a pH is reached when the enzymes effecting the breakdown become inactivated . In typical mammalian muscles this pH is about 5.4 ? 5.5 ( Bate-Smith , 1948 ; Ramsbottom and Strandine , 1948 ) . Glycogen is generally considered to be absent at pH values above this level ; but certain atypical muscles may have as much as 1 per cent residual glycogen when the ultimate pH is above 6 ( Lawrie , 1955 ) . The final pH attained , whether through lack of glycogen , inactivation of the glycolytic enzymes or because the glycogen is insensitive ( or inaccessible ) to attack , is referred to as the ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally about 5.5 , which is the 84 Meat Science iso-electric point of many muscl proteins , including those of the myofibrils , the water-holding capacity is lower than eivo , even if there is no denaturation . Both the rate and the extent of the postChemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 85 mortem pH fall are influenced by intrinsic factors such as species , the type of muscle and variability between animals ; and by extrinsic factors such as the administration of drugs pre-slaughter and the environmental temperature . The effect of species in a given muscle and at a given temperature is illustrated in Fig. 4.4a and the type of muscle in Fig. 4.4b . Variation i 3 time taken for the pH of the 1 . dorsi of different pigs to fall from/6.5 to an ultimate of 5.5 at 37 ? C is considerable ( Fig. 4.5 ) . The intravenous adminstration of relaxing doses of magnesium sulphate before slaughter will slow the subsequent rate of post-mortem glycolysis ; injection of calcium salts ( Howard and Lawrie , 1956 ) and of adrenaline and noradrenaline ( Bendall and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shock ( Hoet and Marks , 1926 ) and the injection of adrenaline ( sub-cutaneously : Cori and Cori , 1928 ) , tuberculin ( Howard and Lawrie , 1957a ) and tremorine ( Bendall and Lawrie , 1962 ) will produce a high ultimate pH through depleting glycogen reserves , but by a different mechanism in each case . The rate of post-mortem glycolysis increases with increasing external temperature ( Bate-Smith and Bendall , 1949 ; Marsh , 1954-cf . Fig. 4.6 ) . Contrary to expectation , however , the rate of postmortem glycolysis also increases as the temperature at which it occurs falls from about 5 ? to 0 ? C ( Newbold and Scopes , 1967 ) . It has been suggested that the exceedingly fast rate of pH fall in the musculature of pigs affected by the so-called white muscle condition ( PES ) 03.4.3 ) , in which the pH may have fallen to about 5.4 in 40 min ( Ludvigsen , 1954 ; Briskey and Wismer-Pedersen , 1961 ; Bendall , Hallund and Wismer-Pedersen , 1963 ) , may reflect the development of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) or immediately pre-slaughter ( Sayre , Briskey and Hoekstra , 1963b ) . On the other hand , there is no doubt that the rate of pH fall is abnorm ally fast even at normal temperature in some pigs and may proceed to an exceptionally low ultimate pH , e.g. 4.7 ( Lawrie , Gatherum and Hale , 1958 ) . It is possible that the complement of the enzymes which effect glycolysis may vary between individual animals . As indicated above ( ? 3.4.1 ) , various genetically determined glycogen storage diseases are known ( Cori , 1957 ) in which certain enzymes in the muscle are deficient . Since it seems feasible that the so-called white Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 87 muscle condition is heritable , a genetically controlled excess or imbalance of glycolytic enzymes could well be implicated . In the musculature of affected pigs post-mortem , certajp sarcoplasmic proteins denature because of the high temperature ? low pH combination ( Scopes , 1964 ) , in particular the enzyme creatine phosphokinase ( Scopes and Lawrie , 1963 ) . In its relative absence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the muscle and this could accelerate post-mortem glycolysis . It has recently been shown that electrical stimulation of excised pig muscle enhances ATP-ase activity ( myofibrillar ) causing a faster than normal rate of pH fall during post-mortem glycolysis ( Hallund and Bendall , 1965 ) . Possibly there is a higher ration of phosphorylase a to b in the stimulated muscles : some imbalance of the glycolytic enzymes is clearly involved . 4.2.3 . Onset of Rigor Mortis As post-mortem glycolysis proceeds the muscle becomes inextensible : this is the stiffening long referred to rigor mortis . Its chemical significance has only recently been appreciated . Erdos ( 1943 ) showed that the onset of rigor mortis was correlated with the disappearance of ATP from the muscle : in the absence of ATP , actin and myosin combine to form rigid chains of actomysin . The observations of Erdos were confirmed and greatly extended by Bate-Smith and Bendall ( 1947 , 1949 ) and by Bendall ( 1951 ) , who has written a comprehensive review of the subject ( 1960 ) . The loss of extensibility which reflects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) then with great rapidity ( the fast phase ) : extensibility then remains constant at a low level . The time to the onset of the fast phase of rigor mortis ( at a given temperature ) depends most directly on the level of ATP which , in the immediate post-mortem period , is being slowly lowered by the surviving sarcoplasmic ATP-ase activity ( Bendall , 1951 ) . Under local control the latter operates in an attempt to maintain body heat and the structural integrity of the muscle cell . The level of ATP can be maintained for some time by a resynthesis from ADP and creatine phosphate ( CP ) . When the store of CP is used up , post88 Meat Science mortem glycolysis can resynthesize ATP ; but only ineffectively ( as has already been pointed out ) and the overall level falls . It will be clear that this will happen sooner if there is little glycogen ; but even with abundant glycogen the resynthesis of ATP by glycolysis can not maintain it at a level sufficiently high to prevent actomyosin formation . Struggling at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the fast phase , as will depletion of glycogen by other means ( starvation , insulin tetany ) . On the other hand , an excess of oxygen , by stimulating respiration , will delay the onset of rigor mortis . With a knowledge of the temperature , the initial store of glycogen and the initial levels of ATP and CP , the time to onset of rigor mortis can be Chemical and Biochemical Conitution of Muscle 89 predicted accurately ( Bendall , 1951 ) . The initial pH alone gives a good general approximation ( Marsh , 1954 ) . The onset of rigor mortis is accompanied by a lowering in water-holding capacity . It is important to emphasize that this is not due solely to the drop in pH ( and the consequent approach of the muscle proteins to their iso-electric point ) or to denaturation of the sarcoplasmic proteins ( Table 5.3 , p. 142 ) . Marsh ( 1952a ) showed that , even when rigor mortis occurred at a high pH , there was a loss of water-holding capacity , due to the disappearance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Marsh ? Bendall factor is still operating in post-mortem muscle , re-addition of ATP , at relatively high concentration , will cause swelling of muscle homogenates and restore the water-holding capacity towards its in vivo level . The plasticizing effect of ATP is thus associated with increased water-holding capacity . An idea of the typical relative time relations of these changes is given in Fig. 4.7 for the 1 . dorsi muscle of the horse ( at 37 ? C ) . Once rigor mortis is complete , the muscle remains rigid and inextensible , provided it is kept free from microbial contamination : there is no " resolution " of rigor ( Marsh , 1954 ) . The patterns of rigor mortis onset can be classified ( Bendall , 1960 ) : ( i ) Acid rigor : characterized in immobilized animals by a long delay period and a short fast phase and in struggling animals by drastic curtailment of the delay period . At body temperature stiffening is accompanied by shortening. ( ii ) Alkaline rigor : characterized by a rapid onset of stiffening and by marked shortening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type : characterized in starved animals by a curtailment of the delay period but not of the rapid phase : there is some shortening . Shortening in rigor mortis involves only a fraction of the muscle fibres , is irreversible and is thus distinguished from physiological contraction ( Bendall , 1960 ) . The characteristics of rigor mortis , e.g. the levels of ATP and CP initially and at onset ; the pH value initially , at onset and ultimately ; 90 Meat Science the initial and residual stores of glycogen ; the activities of sarcoplasmic ATP-ase and of the Marsh ? Bendall Factor , will vary according to intrinsic factors , such as species and type of muscle , and extrinsic factors , such as the degree of struggling and temperature ( cf. Tables 4.6 and 4.23 ) . Abnormal types of rigor mortis are known . Thus , if muscle is frozen whilst the ATP level is at the pre-rigor value , an exceedingly fast rate of ATP breakdown and of rigor onset ensues on thawing ( " thaw rigor " ) . The muscle may contract to 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or drip ( Chambers and Hale , 1932 ) . It has been suggested that the myofibrillar ATP-ase , which is not normally responsible for ATP depletion post-mortem , is activated on freezing and thawing ( Bendall , 1960 ) . This reflects the inability of the sarco plasmic reticulum to reabsorb calcium ions effectively in these cir cumstances ( cf. ? ? 4.2.1 and 10.3.3.1 ) . In contrast , a much delayed onset of rigor mortis has been observed in the muscles of the whale ( Marsh , 1952b ) . The ATP level and the pH may remain at their high in vivo values for as much as 24 hr at 37 ? C. No adequate explanation of this phenomenon has yet been given . Besides the chemical changes which directly affect actomyosin formation , and thereby stiffening in rigor mortis , there are other concomitant reations . Of these the most striking are in the pattern of nucleotides ( Bendall and Davey , 1957 ) . After ATP has been broken down to inorganic phosphate ( Pi ) and ADP , the latter is further dephosphorylated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IMP is dephosphorylated to produce inosine . Ribose is then split from inosine , producing hypoxanthine . Some ADP is deaminated only , forming inosine diphosphate ( Webster , 1953 ) ; and enzymes exist:in muscle to resynthesize nucleotides , IMP being condensed with aspartic acid to form adenylsuccinic acid in the first instance ( Davey , 1961 ) . Ammonia liberation during rigor mortis Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 91 can be related , therefore , to the onset of stiffening . Electrophoresis shows that the pre-rigor pattern consists of small amounts of ADP and relatively large amounts of ATP ; at post-rigor there is a large quantity of IMP , and traces of inosine , hypoxanthine , ADP , ATP , IDP and ITP ( Bendall and Davey , 1957 ) . During and after post-mortem glycolysis some glycogen may be broken down by a-amylase to glucose and hexose ? 1 : 6 ? diphosphate instead of to lactic acid ( Sharp , 1958 ; cf. Table 4.7 ) . 4.3 . FACTORS REFLECTED IN SPECIALIZED MUSCLE FUNCTION AND CONSTITUTION It is possible to classify muscles broadly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1926 ) . This superficial differentiation reflects both histological and biochemical differences . So-called " red " muscles tend to have a greater proportion of narrow , myoglobin-rich fibres ; so-called " white " muscles have a greater proportion of broad , myoglobinpoor fibres ( Denny-Brown , 1929 ; Hammond 1932a ; George and Scaria , 1958 ) . Differentiation of fibres into two types can be demonstrated histochemically by about half-way through the gestation period ( Dubowitz , 1966 ) . Gauthier ( 1969 ) gives a reminder that " redness " and " whiteness " do not invariably correspond to slow and fast contraction rates , respectively . The terms are useful , however . " Red " fibres are rich in mitochondria ( with abundant cristae ) and have wide Z-lines . " White " fibres are poor in mitochondria ( and these have few cristae ) and the width of the Z-lines is about half that in " red " fibres . A ( histologically ) intermediate type of fibre is also found . The latter resemble " red " fibres , but have larger diameter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red fibres tend to operate over long periods without rest ; in these it is found that the mitochrondria , respiratory enzymes and myoglobin are present in greater quantity ( Paul and Sperling , 1952 ; Lawrie , 1952a ) . White fibres tend to operate in short fast bursts with frequent periods of rest and restitution : respiratory enzymes and myoglobin are present in relatively small amounts only ; 92 Meat Science but lactic dehydrogenase activity is high ( Dubowitz and Pearse , 1961 ) . The concentration of the dipeptides , carnosine and anserine , which act as buffers in muscle ( Bate-Smith , 1938 ) , appears to bear an inverse proportionality to respiratory activity ( Davey , 1960 ) . Differences between muscles , however , are considerably more complex than their classification as " red " or " white " would signify . Both the dynamic ( or biochemical ) and static ( or chemical ) aspects of their constitution are elaborate . Their variability reflects the influence of a large number of intrinsic factors related to function . The most important of these are ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iii ) sex , ( iv ) age , ( v ) anatomical location of muscle , ( vi ) training or exercise , ( vii ) plane of nutrition and ( viii ) inter-animal variability , the nature of which is little understood . In addition , various extrinsic factors modify the behaviour of muscle in the immediate post-mortem period and during storage and processing ; and its composition as meat . These are ( i ) food , ( ii ) fatigue , ( iii ) fear , ( iv ) pre-slaugther manipulation , and ( v ) environmental conditions at slaughter , in the immediate post-mortem period and during subsequent storage ; but these are more appropriately considered in Chapters 5 and 7. 4.3.1 . Species Species is perhaps the most easily appreciated factor affecting the composition of muscle ; but its effect is conditioned by the simultaneous operation of many of the intrinsic and extrinsic factors already mentioned . In comparisons between species it is thus desirable to choose definite values for these other variables . Some aspects of the chemical composition of the 1 . dorsi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although it is obvious that the contents of water , of total nitrogen and of total soluble phosphorus are similar in all five species , there are marked differences in the other characteristics . The fat of the 1 . dorsi of the blue whale has a very much higher iodine number than that of the other four . To some extent this is due to the krill on which whales subsist . Another peculiarity of whale meat is its high content of the buffers carnosine and anserine ( Davey , 1960 ) . This fact , together with the relatively high oxygen store held by the myoglobin , helps to explain the diving capabilities of this mammal . Its musculature is constrained to operate anaerobically for prolonged periods . Indeed , in the sperm whale and seal , in which the dives may be especially lengthy , the percentage of myoglobin may reach 5 ? 8 per cent of the wet weight of the muscle ( Sharp and Marsh , 1953 ; Robinson , 1939 ) . Such muscle is almost black in appearance . The low myoglobin content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the flesh of these animals . The myoglobin of pig muscle also differs qualitatively from that of ox muscle . The results obtained using freshly cut surfaces of 1 . dorsi suggest that the rates of oxygenation of myoglobin are fastest in pork , intermediate in lamb and slowest in beef ( Haas and Bratzler , 1965 ) . Wismer-Pedersen ( 1969 ) has given data on the proximate compo sition of the canned meat from I. dorsi of a number of African un94 Meat Science gulates . Of those studied the meat from wart-hog had the lowest water content ( 68.9 per cent ) and the highest content of fat ( 19 per cent ) , whereas meat from the eland had the highest water content ( 75.2 per cent ) and the lowest content of fat ( 4 per cent ) . In Table 4.2 the total nitrogen content ( fat free ) of the 1 . dorsi muscle of the pig and ox are 3.7 and 3.6 respectively . However , the mean values for the entire musculature of pigs and cattle are 3.45 and 3.59 respectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been supposed from the data on 1 . dorsi in Table 4.2 that the intramuscular fat of pigs and cattle always had a comparable iodine number . The danger of such a generalization can be seen , however , from Table 4.3 , in which data for the psoas major muscles of boars and bulls are given . In this case , despite an almost identical content of intramuscular fat in both species , that in the boar has a much higher iodine number . Generally the iodine number of the fat in the pig is higher than that of the ruminant . In Table 4.4 , where the fatty acid composition of the fats from cattle , sheep and pigs are compared , this difference is seen to be largely due to the higher content of linoleic acid in pig fat . This acid has two double bonds . Dahl ( 1958a ) has reviewed the characteristics of the fat laid down by different species . Dietary fat is probably of little influence on the depot fat of all species of ruminant , for ingested and saturated fatty acids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect a change in the length of the fatty acid chains . Nevertheless , there are seasonal alterations in the degree of unsaturation of the depot fats of ruminants , probably because of the ingestion of octadecatrienoic acid during pasture feeding ; and there are distinct differences due to breed ( Callow and Searle , 1956 ) . Cattle regulate the degree of unsaturation of their fat by interchange between stearic and hexadecenoic acids whereas pigs do so by an exchange between stearic and oleic acids . As opposed to cattle , pigs and other non-ruminants such as the horse tend to deposit unchanged dietary fat . Indeed , pigs which have been fed large quantities of whale oil may have rancid fat in vivo ( J. K. Walley , personal communication ) . A high proportion of C18 fatty acids is characteristic of mutton fat ( Dahl , 1958a ) . Rabbits , eating the same grass as horses , lay down much more linoleic acid ( Shorland , 1953 ) . Species differences between the myosins of the 1 . dorsi muscles of ox , pig , sheep and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the degree of cross-reaction is too high to permit clear identification of unknown meats . The tropomyosins of ox , sheep , pig and rabbit have different electrophoretic characteristics ( Parsons et al. , 1969 ) . This is true of the myofibrillar group generally ( Champion et al. , 1970 ) . Quantitative identification of species on the basis of the electrophoretic pattern of 96 Meat Science their proteins is still possible after these have been heated to 120 ? C for 6 min ( Mattey et al. , 1970 ) . Apart from static chemical differences due to species , in a given muscle , differences of a more dynamic kind are found . Thus , for example , the activity of cytochrome oxidase varies considerably in the psoas major muscles of different species ( Table 4.5 ) . Cytochrome oxidase is the enzyme principally responsible for linking oxygen with the chain of electron carriers by which most substances in muscle are eventually oxidized in providing energy . It is therefore not surprising to find that the activity of this enzyme should be particularly high in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and low in those of the rabbit ; and that the staying power of the hare and the relatively easy exhaustion of the rabbit are reflected in the capacity of their psoas muscles to gain energy by oxidation ( Table 4.5 ) . Some of the species differences in enzymic activity are reflected post-mortem . Thus , at a given temperature ( 37 ? C ) and in a given muscle ( 1 . dorsi ) the characteristics of the onset of rigor mortis are different in horse , ox , pig and sheep ( Table 4.6 , Fig. 4.4a ) . The mean chain lengths of glycogens from the 1 . dorsi muscles of horse and ox , pig and rabbit are 17 , 15 and 13 glucose residues respectively ( Kjolberg , Manners and Lawrie , 1963 ) . It will be seen that while the ultimate pH is the same in all four species , the initial pH levels are high in horse and lamb and relatively low in ox and pig and that the pH at the onset of the fast phase of rigor mortis is low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The level of ATP/P at the onset of rigor mortis is particularly high in the I. dorsi of the pig . In the psoas major of the rabbit at 37 ? C , the fast phase of the onset of rigor mortis begins when the ATP/P has fallen to about 15 per cent soluble phosphorus ( Bendall , 1951 ) . It is also interesting to observe that the reserve of creatine phosphate ? which , as mentioned in Chapter 3 , is the most immediate mechanism for resynthesis of 98 Meat Science ATP ? is highest in the horse 1 . dorsi and lowest in that of the pig , apparently reflecting their relative capacity for energy production . Another post-mortem difference in enzymic constitution between the corresponding muscles of different species is shown by the activity of a-amylase . This enzyme converts muscle glycogen to glucose and competes with the system whereby glycogen is converted to lactic acid . Comparative data are given in Table 4.7 from which can be seen the high rate of glucose accumulation in the muscles of pigs and rabbits in comparison with sheep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Breed After species , breed exerts the most general intrinsic influence on the biochemistry and constitution of muscle . A particularly striking effect of breed is found in the horse . The percentage of myoglobin in the 1 . dorsi of thoroughbreds , which arch their backs strongly in running , is considerably higher than in this same muscle of the draught horse in which the 1 . dorsi is moved relatively little . On the other hand , the psoas muscles show no such difference ( Table 4.8 ) . Among cattle , there are differences between those breeds which are primarily used for milk production and those which are more suitable for meat . Thus , the percentage of intramuscular fat in the 1 . dorsi muscle at the level of the 4th , 5th and 6th lumbar vertebrae tends to be markedly greater in beef cattle than in dairy-type animals after the age of 18 months ( Callow , 1947 ; Lawrie , 1961 ) . The percentage of intramuscular fat in specially fattened beef animals ( e.g. Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 99 West Highland show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for 1 . dorsi and psoas muscles from Herefords ( a beef breed ) and Friesians ( predominantly a dairy breed ) are given in Table 4.9 . In sheep the percentage of intramuscular fat is considerably greater among improved breeds such as Hampshire and Suffolk than in semiwild types , such as Soay and Shetland ( Hammond , 1932a ) . In a study of the back and kidney fats of pigs , it was found that introduction of the Hampshire breed led to an increase in the number of pigs producing abnormally soft and highly unsaturated fats ( Lea , Swoboda and Gatherum , 1969 ) . They concluded that , when the cause of softness was not ingested fat , there was a strong correlation between the ratio of the monoene to stearic and palmitic acids , and the melting point . Because of interest in pale exudative pig musculature ( ? 3.4.3 ) , the effect of breed on muscle composition in this species has recently been investigated . At all locations from the 5th thoracic to the 6th lumbar vertebrae , the 1 . dorsi muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a higher ultimate pH than the corresponding muscle from pigs of Landrace breed ( Lawrie and Gatherum , 1962 ) . Again , for a given percentage of intramuscular fat in the 1 . dorsi muscle ( lumbar ) , its iodine number and the area of cross-section of the muscle as a whole are greater in pigs of the Welsh breed than in Landrace , and in the latter than in Large White animals ( Anon. , 1962 ; Lawrie and Gatherum , 1964 ) . The rate of post-mortem glycolysis at 37 ? C in the 1 . dorsi muscles of Large White pigs in the United Kingdom is only one-third to one-half that in the Danish Landrace ( Ben100 Meat Science dall , Hallund and Wismer-Pedersen , 1963 ) . According to Bendall ( 1966 ) , however , such breed differences disappear when pigs are curarized ( or injected with myanesin ) before slaughter . In these circumstances the rate of post-mortem glycolysis in the muscles of Danish Landrace pigs is as slow as that in those of Large White pigs in the United Kingdom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pig only , a long-term stimulation of post-mortem glycolysis which would thus lead to that combination of low pH and high temperature responsible for the PSE condition ( Hallund and Bendall , 1965 ) . Were this the only reason for the superficial manifestations of the condition , however , there would remain unexplained the great variability in susceptibility shown by individual pigs . Moreover , Lister ( 1959 ) found that curare had no effect in diminishing the tendency for a swift production of lactic acid in stress-susceptible Poland China and Chester White pigs . McLoughlin ( 1968 ) found no apparent difference in the proteins of 1 . dorsi when sampled pre-rigor between Landrace and Large White pigs . Sayre , Briskey and Hoekstra ( 1963a ) in the U.S.A. found that the external chain length of glycogen from the 1 . dorsi muscle of Chester White pigs decreases to a greater extent ? but at a slower rate ? during post-mortem glycolysis than that in pigs of the Hampshire and Poland China breeds ; and the same workers ( 1963b ) found that , when subjected to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pre-slaughter , the 1 . dorsi muscles of the latter two breeds became pale and exudative during subsequent post-mortem glycolysis , whereas those of the Chester White pigs remained firm and dark . The activities of phosphorylase and phosphofructokinase were markedly higher in 1 . dorsi muscles of Hampshire pigs then in those of Poland China or Chester White breeds ( Sayre et al. , 1963c ) . 4.3.3 . Sex In general , males have less intramuscular fat than females , whereas the castrated members of each sex have more intramuscular fat than the corresponding sexually entire animals ( Hammond , 1932a ; WierChemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 101 bicki et al. , 1956 ) . Table 4.10 gives comparative data on the 1 . dorsi from a 12-month-old steer and bull of Ayrshire ? Red Poll breed . It will be seen that with the exception of the percentage of intramuscular fat ( which is relatively high ) and the moisture ( which is correspondingly low ) in the steer in comparison with the bull , there are no striking differences in composition . It will be noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intramuscular fat their iodine numbers are the same ; and it is found that , in the lumbar region of 1 . dorsi , the iodine number of intramuscular fat from bulls is markedly less than that from steers at a given level of fatness ( Lawrie , 1961 ) . In comparing castrated mem bers of each sex , it has been found that the depot fats of steers have a more saturated fat than those of heifers ( Terrell , Suess and Bray , 1969 ) . Fats from the latter have a higher percentage of oleic acid . No differences have been noted in the total cholesterol content of the depot fats between steers and heifers . Such sex differences can be further exemplified by comparing the composition of the 1 . dorsi muscle of control steers with those of the same age ( 36 ? 40 months ) and breed ( Friesian ) subjected to the masculizing effect of hexoestrol 102 Meat Science implants ( Table 4.11 ) , there being a somewhat lower content of intra muscular fat in the treated animals , but no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences in muscle composition due to sex are found in the contents of intramuscular fat . The 1 . dorsi ( lumbar ) muscles of hogs ( i.e. castrated males ) contain about 30 per cent more intramuscular fat than those in gilts ( i.e. mature females before preg nancy ) of the same age ( Lawrie and Gatherum , 1964 ) . 4.3.4 . Age Irrespective of species , breed or sex the composition of muscles varies with increasing animal age , there being a general increase in most parameters other than water , although the rates of increment are by no means identical in all muscles . Moreover , different components reach adult values at different times ( Lawrie , 1961 ) . Thus , in bovine 1 . dorsi those nitrogen factions representing myofibrillar and sarcoplasmic proteins have reached 70 ? 80 per cent of their mean adult value by birth , and their subsequent rates of increase become asymptotic at about 5 months of age . Non-protein nitrogen , however , does not attain its characteristic adult value until about 12 months of age ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Muscle 103 about 24 months of age . Intramuscular fat appears to increase and moisture content on a whole tissue basis to decrease , up to and beyond 40 months of age . Before birth , the moisture content of muscle is very high , being over 90 per cent for a considerable portion of the gestation period ( Needham , 1931 ) . On a fat-free basis , however , the moisture content remains fairly constant after 24 months of age . Some idea of the difference in composition of a given muscle in the bovine at two different ages is given in Table 4.12 . The great increase in intramuscular fat and in myoglobin content , the lesser increase in total and sarcoplasmic nitrogen and the decrease in moisture and in stroma with age are evident . These trends are also evident in pig 1 . dorsi ( Table 4.13 ) in which the composition is compared at 5 , 6 and 104 Meat Science 7 months of age ( Lawrie , Pomeroy and Cuthbertson , 1963 ) . Much of the increased saturation of intramuscular lipid in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of C18 to C181 fatty acids in the neutral lipid fraction ( Allen , Bray and Cassens , 1967 ) . It is interesting to note that odd-numbered fatty acids ( C11 , C13 , C15 , C17 ) are quite prevalent in the phospholipid fraction of porcine intramuscular fat . In cattle the iodine number of the intramuscular fat falls very markedly with increasing age . In this species one of the important factors involved is the development of the rumen microflora , which hydro genate dietary fats . Calves , initially , tend to deposit dietary fat rela tively unchanged ( Hoflund , Holmberg and Sellman , 1956 ) . Myoglobin concentration appears to increase in a two-phase manner , an initial swift rate of increment being followed by one which is more gradual . The fast phase lasts about 1 , 2 and 3 years in pigs , horses and cattle respectively . Reflecting the increases in myoglobin with age , there is a concomitant two-phase increment in the activity of the enzymes which govern respiration and , thereby , in energy production potential ( Table 4.14 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the respiratory enzymes increases in a not dissimilar fashion in various muscles . Typical values at birth and in the adult are given in Table 4.15 for horse muscles . These activities are based on the rate of oxygen uptake ( Q0 2 ) of mitochondrial membrane preparations from the muscles concerned Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 105 and are thus relative . They are proportional , however , to the absolute values for the muscles themselves . It will be noted that the cytochrome oxidase activity of the heart has attained 33 per cent of its final value by birth , whereas that in 1 . dorsi is then only 8 per cent of the adult value : values for diaphragm and psoas are intermediate . This order of difference reflects the fact that the heart has been contracting powerfully for a considerable time during uterine life , whereas the other muscles have not : the latter develop preferentially in relation to the animal 's need for increasing power to move about . A similar impression is given by the data on succinic oxidase activity . 106 Meat Science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals than in older ones ( Bate-Smith , 1948 ; Wilson , Bray and Phillips , 1954 ) . The concentrations of both collagen and elastin diminish with increasing animal age ( Table 4.16 ) . As the tenderness of veal and the toughness of older animals testifies , however , the nature of the connective tissue must be different at different ages . The connective tissue in the muscles of young animals may well contain more reticulin ( Boucek , Noble and Marks , 1961 ) . There is a higher concentration of " salt-soluble " collagen ( a precursor of insoluble collagen ) in young or actively growing muscle ( Gross , 1958 ) . The degree of intra- and inter-molecular cross-linking between the polypeptide chains in collagen increases with increasing animal age ( Carmichael and Lawrie , I967a , b ; Bailey , 1968 ) . These involve aldimine and aldol bonds formed from lysine and hydroxyproline ( Bailey , Peach and Fowler , 1970 ) . 4.3.5 . Anatomical Location The most complex of the intrinsic differentiating factors is anatomical . As we have already mentioned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " white " according to whether they carry out sustained action or operate in short bursts . But the variation in shape , size , composition and function of the 300 muscles in the mammalian body obviously reflects a diversity of activity and development the details of which are still largely unknown . Chemical differences may be considered first of all . Ramsbottom and Strandine ( 1948 ) analysed fifty muscles of adult beef animals . Moisture and fat contents ranged from 62.5 and 18.1 per cent respectively in the intercostal muscles to 76 and 1.5 per cent respectively in extensor carpi radialis . The ultimate pH ranged from 5.4 in semimembranosus to 6.0 in sternocephalicus . Comparative data on chemical parameters of various beef and pork muscles are given in Table 4.17 ( Lawrie , Pomeroy and Cuthbertson , 1963 ; Lawrie , Pomeroy and Williams , 1964 ) . Particularly striking is the high iodine number and the low total nitrogen content in superficial digital flexor and its relatively high concentration of hydroxyproline ( as an indicator of connective tissue ) . Using hydroxyproline as criterion , the lowest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psoas major ( 350 ? g/g ) ; in flexor hallucis , however , it can be about 1900 tg/g . Bendall ( 1967 ) measured the elastin content of various beef muscles using a technique whereby the last traces of collagen and myofibrillar proteins were removed . In most of the muscles from the choice cuts of the hind quarter and loin the elastin content was generally less than 5 per cent of the total connective tissue . In semitendinosus , however , it constituted 40 per cent of the total . Of the muscles of the forequarter only 1 . dorsi had a comparable elastin content . Bendall concluded that elastin contributed to the toughness of cooked meat to about the same extent as denatured collagen . Although , within 108 Meat Science a given muscle , there is a hyperbolic relationship between the content of intramuscular fat and its iodine number ( Callow and Searle , 1956 ) this clearly does not hold between different muscles . There is obviously a wide range of values for these chemical parameters and this can be equally exemplified in corresponding muscles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are common to both species it is seen that the muscles listed do not have the same relative composition in the two species . Thus while extensor carpi radialis has the lowest moisture content in beef , it has the highest value in the pig . Clearly both lumbar and thoracic 1 . dorsi muscles have the highest content of intramuscular fat in the pig ; in beef , however , the percentage of intramuscular fat is relatively low in these muscles . Again , the hydroxyproline content of superficial digital flexor is markedly greater in beef than in the other muscles of this species . In the pig , however , the highest hydroxyproline content of this same group of muscles is found in extensor carpi radialis . Data on the ultimate pH of these muscles ( not represented ) show that as the percentage of moisture on a fat-free basis increases so also does the ultimate pH : there is , in fact , a significant positive correlation between these two variables in the pig . This obtains not only between different muscles but within a given muscle also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judged by the hydroxyproline content , the connective tissue concentration is greater in most pig muscles than in corresponding beef muscles . Since pork is generally tender , this again emphasizes that the quality of connective tissue must be considered as a factor additional to its quantity . Studies of the fatty acid compositions of neutral lipids and phospholipids of different muscles have revealed a number of distinctions between them . For example , the phospholipid content and the ratio of C18 to C16 fatty acids in the total lipid are particularly high in the diaphragm ( both in beef and pork ) in comparison with such muscles as 1 . dorsi and psoas ( Catchpole and Lawrie , 1967 ; Allen , Cassens , Bray , 1967 ; Hornstein , Crowe and Hiner , 1968 ) . In Table 4.18A comparative data are given on the fatty acid composition of intramuscular fats from nine muscles of an adult Large Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 111 White x Landrace pig ( Catchpole , Horsfield and Lawrie , 1970 ) . In respect of the major fatty acid components ( oleic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern for the nine locations is not dissimilar . Nevertheless , the ratio of linoleic to oleic differs sub stantially between locations ; and there are noteworthy distinctions in respect of arachidonic and pentadecenoic acids . Differences in the fatty acid pattern between anatomical locations are more marked when muscles are fractionated into functional components ( Table 4.18B ) . Differences between muscles in other parameters are , of course , found ; those in sodium , potassium and myoglobin are shown for five pig muscles in Table 4.19 . In beef animals , in contrast to pigs , extensor carpi radialis does not have an abnormally low content of potassium . This may reflect differences in slaughtering procedures with the two species , as potassium is found at higher concentration in well-drained muscle ( Pomeroy , 1971 ) . The apparent variability in potassium content makes it difficult to accept that the radioactive emanations from K40 could accurately indicate the lean meat content of carcases . Nitrogen distribution may also differ between muscles ( Table 4.20 ) , and this , together with differences in total nitrogen ( Table 4.17a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the proteins of different muscles . Indeed , starch gel electrophoresis reveals that the pattern of soluble , sarcoplasmic pro teins may be unusual in certain muscles . Thus , the heart and , in the rabbit , the small red muscle deep in the proximal portion of the hind limb , differ from skeletal muscles generally in that the bands corresponding to the protein enzymes of the glycolytic pathway are virtually absent . Moreover , such lactic dehydrogenase activity as is present is associated with a completely different protein to that in other muscles ( R. K. Scopes , personal communication ) . Quantitative differences in myoglobin and connective tissue ( as indicated by hydroxyproline ) have already been considered ( Tables 4.17 and 4.19 ) ; many such examples could be given . It is apparent , however , that there are also qualitative differences in proteins between muscles within a given species and at a given age . Thus the proteins of beef 1 . dorsi and psoas muscles differ in their susceptibility to freezing damage . Even when the rate of post-mortem glycolysis and the ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on thawing , nearly twice as much fluid or " drip " . Moreover , the solids content of the drip from 1 . dorsi is about 25 per cent higher than that from psoas ( Howard , Lawrie and Lee , 1960 ) , and the relationship of total solids to ash is quite different in the exudate from the two muscles . Differences in the susceptibility to freeze-drying of the myosins prepared from porcine psoas and 1 . dorsi have been shown ( Parsons et al. , 1969 ) . While the pattern of electrophoretically separable components in both myosins is similar when prepared from fresh muscle , they differ considerably after freeze-drying , 1 . dorsi showing a greater degree of change . Tropomyosins from the two muscles , on the other hand , give similar patterns both before and after freezedrying . Herring ( 1968 ) has found differences in the actomyosins exChemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 113 tracted from naturally tough and tender muscles and Dube et al . ( 1972 ) found that the myofibrillar proteins of bovine 1 . dorsi were less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heating to about 60 ? C ) than those of psoas muscle . Lowey and Risby ( 1971 ) also found differences between the myofibrillar proteins of " red " and " white " muscles , the pattern of light chain components of myosin being dis similar . Other aspects of differences in the types of protein found in various muscles are indicated by the moisture ? protein ratio ( Lockett , Swift and Sulzbacher , 1962 ) and by the relative susceptibility of pig muscles to become pale and exudative post-mortem , 1 . dorsi and semi membranosus being especially labile ( Lawrie , Gatherum and Hale , 1958 ; Wismer-Pedersen , 1959a ) . The susceptibility of myoglobin to oxidize during chill or frozen storage differs between different muscles ( Ledward , 1971a ; Owen and Lawrie , 1972 ) . When the level of ulti mate pH is high , the myofibrillar proteins of 1 . dorsi and semimem branosus are altered less by freeze drying than are those of psoas and biceps femoris . When the ultimate pH is normal , however , the myofibrillar proteins of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in freeze drying ( Table 4.21 ) . In addition to purely chemical differences , muscles also vary in their enzymic constitution . Differences in the activity of the enzymes of the cytochrome system have already been exemplified ( Table 4.15 ) ; comparative data for other specific enzyme activities are given in Table 4.22 . As between species ( Table 4.6 ) , so also between muscles there are broad differences in the pattern of post-mortem glycolysis and of the onset of rigor mortis . Although the nature of these differences is not yet understood in detail , they are most important in relation to the texture and appearance of meat post-mortem . Under controlled conditions muscles may differ in the times to the onset of rigor mortis , in their initial and ultimate pH , in their content of initial and residual glycogen , in the rates of pH fall aerobically and anaerobically , in their initial store of energy-rich phosphate ( i.e. the labile phosphorus of ATP and CP ) , in their capacity for energy-rich phosphate resyn thesis , and in their power to split ATP and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity ) . Such differences are apparent in Table 4.23 , in which data from four horse muscles are represented ( Lawrie , 1952a , 1953a , b , c , 1955 ) . Similar differences are obtained between muscles of beef animals . Post-mortem glycolysis will be considered again in Chapter 5 . The time to the onset of the fast phase of rigor mortis under an-aerobic conditions at 37 ? C tends to be proportionate to the initial store of energy-rich phosphorus and of glycogen . On the one hand , 1 . dorsi has the characteristics of a " white " muscle , capable of short Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 115 bursts of activity , this being aided by the relatively large store of energy-rich phosphorus and a low capacity for the aerobic resynthesis of ? P. On the other hand , the heart has a capacity for sustained activity , represented by its marked ability to resynthesize ? P aerobically , and a low ? P store . It is interesting to note that the power to suppress ATP-ase is least where ? in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are differences in glycogen metabolism between " red " and " white " muscles , the pathway from glycogen to glucose being more active in the former , as shown by the specific activity of residual , and trichloacetic acid-soluble , glycogens after the administration of C14-glucose ( Bocek et al. , 1966 ) . The activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase , 6-phosphogluconic dehydrogenase and glycogen synthetase are also more marked in " red " muscles . On the other hand the enzymes in the pathway from glycogen to lactic acid are more active in white muscle ( e.g. phosphorylase , phosphohexose-isomerase , phosphofructokinase , fructose-1 : 6-diphosphatase , aldolase , a-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase , pyruvate kinase , lactic dehydrogenase ( Beatty and Bocek , 1970 ) . Enzymes involved in the complete oxidation of fat and carbohydrate are more prevalent in red muscles ( e.g. fl-hydroxy acyl CoA dehydrogenase , citrate synthetase , isocitric dehydrogenase , malic dehydrogenase , succinic dehydrogenase and cytochrome oxidase ) . In accordance with the lower power to suppress ATP-ase activity in " red " muscle ( i.e. a lower activity of the Marsh ? Bendall factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sarcoplasmic reticulum isolated from " red " muscle have negligible power to make up Ca ' ' compared with those from " white " muscle ( Gergely et al. , 1965 ) . The elements of the sarcoplasmic reticulum are also morphologically different in the two types of muscle . It is further of interest that it is in the grana of the sarcoplasmic reticulum that the adenyl cyclase systems is found ( Sutherland and Robson , 1966 ) suggesting that the relative metabolism of " red " and " white " muscles may be mediated through cyclic 3 ' -5 ' - AMP . Some hormones , such as catecholamines , appear to direct their control of tissues through the enzyme adenyl cyclase. 116 Meat Science This is said to be located on cell membranes and to govern the synthesis of cyclic 3 ' -5 ' - AMP from ATP . Again , fructose 1,6-diphosphatase ( which is believed to expedite glycogen formation from 2-glycerophosphate ) is high in " white " muscles but low , or even absent , in such " red " muscles as rabbit semitendinosus and heart ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red " and " white " muscles of rabbit in the low-molecular weight components of myosin , separable by electrophoresis in 8 M urea , have been reported by Perrie and Perry ( 1970 ) . They suggest that these differences reflect isoenzyme composition . The myosin from " red " muscle has a higher content of 3-methylhistidine ( Johnson and Perry , 1970 ) . Red muscles use less ATP to develop and maintain isometric tension than " white " muscles ( Goldspink , 1970 ) . The patterns obtained by starch gel electrophoresis of myofibrillar proteins from rabbit , ox and sheep , indicate that , within each species , these differ between different muscles ( Champion , Parsons and Lawrie , 1970 ) . This differentiation suggests a degree of functional specialization beyond that indicated by the degree of " red " or " white " character . In Table 4.23 1 . dorsi may be regarded as a fairly typical muscle , having residual glycogen at an ultimate pH of about 5.5 ( cf. ? 4.2.2 ) . It will be seen , however , that horse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pH of about 6 . This phenomenon is also observed in beef sternocephalicus muscle . In the latter the residual glycogen has a shorter external chain length ( 9 ) than the initial glycogen ( 12 ) ( Lawrie , Manners and Wright , 1959 ) ; but this does not , in itself , appear to explain the cessation of glycolysis . It is conceivable that such qualitative differences in glycogen may represent some kind of specialization of muscle function , e.g. precision of movement , as a factor additional to the ability to contract quickly or in a sustained manner . On the other hand , variations in AMPdeaminase activity between different muscles could explain some of the characteristic differences found in ultimate pH ( Scopes , 1970 ; and personal communication ) . Even within a single muscle there may be systematic differences in composition and constitution . Figure 4.8 indicates how the ultimate pH and pigmentation vary along the 1 . dorsi muscle in Large White and Landrace pigs ( Lawrie and Gatherum , 1962 ) . In the semimem branosus muscles of pigs , areas only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exudative and have an ultimate pH of 4.9 , on the one hand , or be pink and dry and have an ultimate pH of 5.6 , on the other . In two-toned semitendinosus muscle in the pig , it has been shown that the concentrations of myoglobin , and of the cytochrome enzyme system , are higher in the darker ( red ) than in the lighter ( white ) portions ; and the latter have a greater content of sarcoplasmic proteins ( Beecher , et al. , 1968 ) . In other words , the light and dark regions of a given muscle apparently reflect predominant capacities for glycolytic and oxidative metabolism , respectively , as do muscles which are uniformly " red " or " white " . It is a peculiarity of the pig that such " red " fibres as this species has are clustered in the central region of the fibre bun-dles : in other mammalian muscles the " red " fibres have no preferred location ( Cassens , 1970 ) . Variability within a given muscle may also be exemplified by bovine 1 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the region of the 4th , 5th and 6th lumbar vertebrae than in the region of the 8th , 9th and 10th thoracic vertebrae at all ages from birth to 36 months . But , while the iodine number of the intramuscular fat is initially lower at the former location , it Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 119 eventually becomes significantly higher due to the elaboration of a greater proportion of C16 and C18 fatty acids in the lumbar region with increasing age . The physiological implications of such a difference and of the reversal in relative iodine number are unknown . There are marked differences in the enzymic constitution of individual muscle fibres , some being wider in diameter and predominantly glycolytic in their metabolism , others being narrower , having a greater proportion of respiratory activity ( George and Naik , 1958 ; Blanchaer and Van Wijhe , 1962 ) and being supplied by more blood capillaries ( Romanul , 1964 ) . The " red " fibres are able to oxidize fat ? indeed , in prolonged muscle activity , it is the principal fuel ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supply such fibres ( Vallyathan , Grinyer and George , 1970 ) . The glycogen of " red " fibres resembles amylopectin , that of " white " fibres resembles amylose in respect of the colour produced with iodine . The high glycogen content of horse muscles ( cf. Table 4.23 ) and of the " red " fibres of the guineapig ( Gillespie , Simpson and Edgerton , 1970 ) emphasize that this criterion does not invariably signify a dependence on glycolytic , as opposed to respiratory , metabolism . Non-differentiation of fibres into such types is symptomatic of certain diseases in muscle , e.g. Dubowitz , 1963 . Since differences of this order are integrated over the volume of muscle or meat normally encountered , however , they will not be further elaborated on here . 4.3.6 . Training and Exercise Implicit in the differences in constitution in a given muscle between active and inactive species and breeds , between young and old animals , and between " red " and " white " muscles in a given animal , is the concept that constant usage can cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disuse can cause a reversion of such factors . Systematic usage over a period ( " training " ) as opposed to fatiguing exercise immediately preslaughter , or cessation of activity in a previously active muscle , cause opposing changes in constitution . As to what training signifies , Muller ( 1957 ) has shown that hyper120 Meat Science trophy ? and presumably associated changes in muscle constitution ? is not stimulated unless the exercise involves about two-thirds of the maximum resistance which the muscle can overcome . The most obvious alteration in constitution is the elaboration of myoglobin during systematic exercise and its failure to develop in inactive muscles ( Lehmann , 1904 ; Hammond , 1932a ) . This is logical if myoglobin functions as a short-term oxygen store in muscle ( Millikan , 1939 ) which facilitates its ability to develop power . There would appear to be a concomitant increase in the activity of the respiratory enzymes ( Denny-Brown , 1961 ) . Bach ( 1948 ) has shown that if the tendon of the red soleus muscle of the rabbit is transplanted to the tendon of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and becomes a " white " fast-contracting muscle . Such transplants have indicated that it is the nerve fibres supplying a muscle which determine whether it will develop a large proportion of glycolytic fibres , and become fast-acting , or a large proportion of oxidative fibres , and become slow-acting ( Romanul and Van der Meulen , 1967 ) . Another feature of training is the elaboration of increased stores of muscle glycogen , which , of course , leads to a lower ultimate pH post-mortem ( Bate-Smith , 1948 ) . This should not be confused , however , with the depletion of glycogen , and the high ultimate pH , which exhausting exercise immediately prior to slaughter would cause ( Chapter 5 ) . There is some suggestion that training may increase the equilibrium level of phosphorylase a ( Cori , 1956 ) which is responsible for the first step in making glycogen available for energy production both in respiration and under the anaerobic conditions of glycolysis . On the other hand , Gould and Rawlinson ( 1959 ) could detect no difference in the level of phosphorylase ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As mentioned above , muscles , when working aerobically , i.e. when well trained , depend on fat rather than carbohydrate for their long-term energy requirements ( Zebe , 1961 ) . The atrophy which arises when disuse is complete is invariably accompanied by a decrease in total nitrogen and in the percentages of sarcoplasmic and myofibrillar proteins ; and by an increase in the Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 121 amount of connective tissue proteins ( Helander , 1957 ) . Moderate inactivity causes a diminution in the sarcoplasmic and myofibrillar proteins only ( Helander , 1958 ) . 4.3.7 . Plane of Nutrition The general effects of the level of nutrition on the growth of meat animals ( Hammond , 1932a ; McMeekan , 1940 ) are reflected in the composition of the individual muscles . As the percentage of fatty tissue in an animal increases , the percentage of intramuscular fat also tends to increase ( Callow , 1948 ) . This relationship is seen to hold , in general , with the data for cattle and sheep given in Table 4.24 ( Callow and Searle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intramuscular fat also reflects the plane of nutrition when this is deliberately controlled . Data for the 1 . dorsi and psoas muscles of cattle are given in Table 4.25 ( Callow , 1962 ) . 122 Meat Science Moreover , on a high plane of nutrition , a greater proportion of fat is synthesized from carbohydrate ; and such fat has , consequently , a lower iodine number . Ingestion of much unsaturated fatty acid in the diet will lead to deposition of unsaturated , intramuscular fat in pigs but not in ruminants . In these , dietary fatty acids are reduced in the digestive tract . The effects of plane of nutrition on the composition of muscles from ewes of two age groups are shown in Table 4.26 ( Nilson and Verges , 1952 ) . It is obvious that a high plane of nutrition increases the percentage of intramuscular fat and decreases the percentage of moisture in sheep , both soon after birth and in older animals , the effect being superimposed upon trends due to the age . Similar data were obtained by McMeekan ( 1940 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4.27 ) and these show the same trends . Chemical and Biochemical Constitution of Muscle 123 Janicki , Kolaczyk and Kortz ( 1963 ) have shown that , in addition to the above changes in the percentages of intramuscular fat and moisture , there is a progressive diminution in the percentage of myoglobin from 0.08 to 0.05 per cent in the 1 . dorsi as the plane of nutrition is increased in pigs . The moisture content of muscle may also be influenced by the nature of the diet ( Lushbough and Urbin , 1963 ) . Undernutrition causes a marked increase in the water content of muscle . Thus , the muscles of pigs which had been kept severely undernourished from the age of 10 days to 1 year had a moisture content of 83 per cent in comparison with 74 per cent in the muscles of a corresponding 1-year-old , well-nourished pig ( Widdowson , Dickerson and McCance , 1960 ) . 4.3.8 . Inter-animal Variability The least understood of the intrinsic factors which affect the constitution of muscle is the variability between individual animals . Even between litter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the percentages of intramuscular fat , of moisture-and of total nitrogen and in the distribution of nitrogen between sarcoplasmic , myofibrillar and stroma proteins ( Lawrie and Gatherum , 1964 ) . As has been . indicated already ( Chapter 2 ) such differences may be adventitiously determined by the position of the embryo in the uterus ( McLaren and Michie , 1960 ) and , after birth , by the suckling order ( Barber , Braude and Mitchell , 1955 ; McBride , 1963 ) ; but the precise reasons have not been found so far . Recessive genes no doubt account for apparently sporadic differences in the composition of muscles of animals within a given breed . Reference has already been made to the phenomenon of doppelender cattle , in which most of the musculature is hypertrophied and the ratio of muscle to bone and fat greatly increased ( McKellar , 1960 ; Pomeroy and Williams , 1962 ) . Although the musculature concerned ' has been reported as less developed than normal and to contain more moisture and less fat ( Neuvy and Vissak , 1962 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary , that the quality of the 124 Meat Science musculature generally is improved ( in terms of eating quality ) , the content of total nitrogen being greater and the contents of moisture and of hydroxyproline being less than in normal muscle ( Lawrie , Pomeroy and Williams , 1963 ) . The intramuscular fat is also lower in the muscles of doppelender cattle . Selected data are given in Table 4.28 . Such hypertrophied muscles have a lower succinic de-hydrogenase activity than normal , the metabolism on the fibres being more of the glycolytic then oxidative type ( Ashmore and Robinson , 1969 ) . Since the former are thicker it has been suggested that this feature accounts for the muscular hypertrophy as superficially observed . Among more dynamic differences , inter-animal variability in the rate of post-mortem glycolysis in pigs may be considerable ( Fig. 4.5 ) . There is some evidence that a slow rate may be associated with the presence of the enzyme phosphoglucomutase in a dephosphorylated form ( R. K. Scopes , personal communication ) . Clearly , substantial differences in the composition of muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unexplained : their elucidation will no doubt form the subject for a wide area of future research . // THE CONVERSION OF MUSCLE TO MEAT IN CONSIDERING how meat animals grow and how their muscles develop and are differentiated , the distinction between the terms " muscle " and " meat " has not been emphasized . Meat , although largely reflecting the chemical and structural nature of the muscles of which it is the post-mortem aspect , differs from them because a series of biochemical and biophysical changes are initiated in muscle at the death of the animal . Some details of the conversion of muscle to meat will now be given . 5.1 . PRE-SLAUGHTER HANDLING Although , at the most , only a few days elapse between the time when meat animals have attained the weight desired by the producer and the actual moment of slaughter , their condition may change appreciably in this period . This will happen to some extent irrespective of whether the animals are driven on the hoof or transported to the abattoir . There may be loss of weight , bruising and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffocation due to inadequate ventilation . It is increasingly recognized that thoughtless or rough handling of animals in the immediate pre-slaughter period will adversely affect the meat , quite apart from being inhumane . It has been suggested that the transport of pigs in double-decker road vehicles is particularly liable to affect the musculature adversely as meat ( Williams , 1968 ) . Recommendations on ante-mortem care ( Thornton , 1949 ; Houthuis , 1957 ) will not be discussed at length in the present volume : but some aspects of the question should be considered . 125 126 Meat Science It would appear that only recently have attempts been made to study the behaviour pattern of meat animals with a view to improving pre-slaughter handling . With pigs , for example , acknowledgement that these animals tend to fight when awaiting slaughter , especially if they come from different farms , has led Danish workers to employ a halter which prevents biting and damage to the flesh ( Jorgensen , 1963 ) and droving is so arranged that the more cautious animals are led by the bolder ones . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transport and handling depend not only on the stress susceptibility of the animal as a whole , but also on which muscles are being considered . Both the metabolic capability of individual muscles and the duration and severity of transport determine whether the PSE condition will develop or whether glycogen reserves will be depleted sufficiently to produce dark meat ( Anon. , 1971 ) . Much of the stress sustained in transport and handling arise during loading and unloading . Tranquillizing drugs ( when permitted ) may be effective in preventing fighting and struggling ; and may reduce the incidence of exudative meat , injury and death . 5.1.1 . Moisture Loss The moisture content of pork muscle is especially liable to change because of even moderate fatigue or hunger in the immediate preslaughter period ( Callow , 1938a , b ) . When fasted during transit , cattle lose weight less readily than sheep , and sheep less readily than pigs . With the latter species , the wasting can be about 3 lb/24 hr in an animal weighing about 200 lb ( Callow and Boaz , 1937 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had travelled for 8 hr before slaughter yielded carcases averaging 0.9 per cent less than corresponding animals which had travelled for only z hr pre-slaughter . This was regardless of whether they had been fed or not ( Cuthbertson and Pomeroy , 1970 ) . Moreover , the pigs may lose an extra 4 lb if they are given water on journeys over 36 hr in duration ( Callow , 1954 ) . A loss of weight of this order can not be accounted for entirely by the breakdown of fatty and muscular tissues to produce energy and heat The Conversion of Muscle to Meat 127 for the fasting pig and must be due , in part , to a loss of water-holding capacity in the muscular tissues ( Callow , 1938b ) . An animal killed immediately on arrival at a slaughterhouse , after a short journey , may provide both a heavier carcass and heavier offal than an animal which has been sent on a prolonged journey , then rested and fed for some days in lairage ( Callow , 1955 ) . It is difficult to cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The influence of fasting in depleting the glycogen reserve of muscle has been known since the work of Bernard in 1877 . Recognition of the importance of this fact in relation to the meat from domestic species is more recent . Callow ( 1936 , 1938b ) indicates that inadequate feeding in the period before slaughter could lower reserves of glycogen in the muscles of pigs . Bate-Smith and Bendall ( 1949 ) showed that fasting for only 48 ? 72 hr lowered the glycogen content of rabbit psoas muscle sufficiently to raise the ultimate pH from the normal ( for the rabbit ) value of 5.9 to 6.5 . In contrast , when steers are fasted at normal ambient temperatures for periods up to 28 days , the ultimate pH can be unaffected ( Howard and Lawrie , 1956 ) . The importance of exhausting exercise as a factor in depleting glycogen reserves in muscle has also been recognized for a considerable period . Mitchell and Hamilton ( 1933 ) showed that exhausting exercise immediately pre-slaughter could cause a high ultimate pH in the muscles of cattle ; but Howard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deplete the glycogen reserves in this species , even when pre-slaughter exercise and fasting for 14 days were combined ( Table 5.1 ) . Yet such depletion occurred , without fasting , if enforced exercise took-place immediately after train travel . The glycogen reserve of pig muscle , however , is especially susceptible to depletion by even mild activity immediately pre-slaughter ( Callow , 1938b , 1939 ) : a walk of only a quarter of a mile may cause a small but significant elevation of ultimate pH . Bate-Smith ( 1937a ) suggested that if an easily assimilable sugar were fed before death the reserves of muscle glycogen might be restored to a level high enough to permit the attainment of a normal , low ultimate pH ? the latter being desirable to avoid microbial spoilage ( Callow , 1935 ; Ingram , 1948 ) . This principle was confirmed in commercial practice by Madsen ( 1942 ) and Wismer-Pedersen ( 1959b ) in Denmark and by Gibbons and Rose ( 1950 ) in Canada ( Table 5.2 ) . The Conversion of Muscle to Meat 129 If pigs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to restore glycogen reserves naturally , there is danger that animals carrying undesirable bacteria may infect initially unaffected animals , e.g. with Salmonella , which can endanger subsequent human consumers . This fact is reflected in current legislation in the United Kingdom which does not permit holding for more than 72 hr . The existence of some influence controlling the level of muscle glycogen other than fatigue or inanition was suggested by the finding that certain steers which had been well fed and rested , and would therefore have been expected to have ample glycogen in their muscles , yielded meat of high ultimate pH ( Howard and Lawrie , 1956 ) . It appeared that these steers were of an excitable temperament . In such animals , short range muscular tension , not manifested by external movement , reduced glycogen reserves to a chronically low equilibrium level . Drugs given pre-slaughter to induce tremor considerably depleted glycogen reserves , causing a high ultimate pH , and confirmed the view that fear was an important factor in this context ( Howard and Lawrie , 1957a ) . ( The muscles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5.1 ) had a high ultimate pH , whereas those of cattle rested for 14 days after travel had normal values . ) Apart from its effect in enhancing the growth of bacteria ( Ingram , 1948 ) , a high ultimate pH , in the muscles of the cattle , causes the aesthetically unpleasant phenomenon of . dark-cutting beef ? known since 1774 ( Kidwell , 1952 ) ? and in those of pigs that of " glazy " bacon ( Callow , 1935 ) . These points will be considered in more detail in a later chapter . Recognition that stress susceptibility is a factor in determining the condition of animals generally , and thereby the glycogen status of their muscles , has grown as the result of Selye 's ( 1936 ) concept of the general adaptation syndrome . He noted that animals exposed to a variety of stress-producing factors such as emotional excitement , cold , fatigue , anoxia , etc. , reacted by discharge of the same hormones from the adrenal cortex irrespective of the nature of the stress ? adrenaline from the adrenal medulla , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elicit a 130 Meat Science variety of typical responses in the animal . Adrenaline depletes muscle glycogen and potassium : **25;847;TOOLONG and 11-deoxycorticosterone , respectively , restore the equilibrium level of these substances in normal animals . The release of the latter two hormones is controlled by the secretion of ACTH by the pituitary ; and ACTH production is said to be controlled by a releasing-factor produced in the hypothalamus ( Harris , Reed and Fawcett , 1966 ) , the part of the brain which is reactive to external stimuli . As mentioned in ? 2.4.6 , an imbalance at various points in this complicated system can cause so-called diseases of adaptation ( Selye , 1944 , 1946 ) . Such would be expected in individual animals which were stress-susceptible ; and the imbalance could be manifested by low equilibrium levels of glycogen , disturbances in the rates of glycogen breakdown and so on ( ? 3.4.3 ) . In the plasma of pigs which yield pale , exudative flesh , for example , there is a deficiency of **26;874;TOOLONG ( Topel , Markel and Wismer-Pedersen , 1967 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calm stock in transit ; but they are not without danger as they may induce a state of relaxation so profound that the animals can not stand and may be suffocated . The metabolic stresses which affect muscle have been reviewed ( Lawrie , 1966 ) . 5.2 . DEATH OF THE ANIMAL A major requirement for desirable eating and keeping qualities in meat is the removal of as much blood as possible from the carcass , since it can cause an unpleasant appearance and is an excellent medium for the growth of micro-organisms . Except in ritual slaughter , animals are anaesthetized before bleeding . The procedure , at both stunning and bleeding is important . When special precautions are taken to ensure sterility , there is some evidence that unbled muscles undergo the tenderizing changes of conditioning to a greater extent than do those which are bled ( Shestakov , 1962 ) , but this could scarcely be considered a valid or practical reason against bleeding . The Conversion of Muscle to Meat 131 5.2.1 . Stunning Whatever the method of stunning employed it is desirable that the medulla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centre , which controls the heart and lungs , should continue to function for some time , since the action of these organs helps to pump blood out of the carcass when the blood vessels in the neck are cut . Generally , cattle are stunned by a captive bolt pistol or by a blow from a poleaxe . In recent years the dressing of beef carcases has been carried out more frequently as they hang vertically rather than when supine on the abattoir floor . These changing circumstances make it rather less important to ensure that the heart is still functioning as blood can drain quite effectively from the carcass oven when heart action has ceased . In certain countries they are stunned electrically . Sheep and pigs are stunned electrically or anaesthetized by carbon dioxide . It has been observed that in sheep killed by a captive bolt pistol the epithelial lining of the intestines is shed , whereas it remains intact in anaesthetized animals ( Badawy et al. , 1957 ) ; this could have microbial implications which will be referred to later . In electrical stunning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise complete anaesthesia may not be attained and there may be convulsive muscular contractions . The siting of the electrodes is also important , since the current must pass through the brain . Variation in electrical resistance because of differing thicknesses in the skull can cause ineffective stunning . There are three phases in the animal 's reaction : ( i ) as soon as the current is switched on there is violent contraction of all voluntary muscles and the animal falls over ; respiration is arrested ; ( ii ) after 10 sec ( the current being discontinued ) the muscles relax and the animal lies flaccid ; ( iii ) after a further 45 ? 60 sec the animal starts to make walking movements with its legs and respiration starts again . Usually , alternating current at 70 ? 90 V and 0.3 A is used for 2 ? 10 sec ( Croft , 1957 ) . Better relaxation and less internal bleeding is said to result if a high frequency current ( 2400 ? 3000 c/s ; Koledin , 1963 ) and a square wave form , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are employed . 132 Meat Science There is some suggestion that electrical stunning may lower the glycogen reserves of the muscle slightly . The mean ultimate pH of quadriceps femoris from 518 electrically stunned pigs was 5.78 ; that in non-stunned controls was 5.67 ( Blomquist , 1959 ) . In comparison with captive bolt stunning , electrical stunning has been shown to cause an elevation of amino acids in the plasma ( especially of valine ; the concentration of isoleucine falls somewhat ) ( Lynch et al. , 1966 ) . It has been found that the level of corticosteroids in the blood of electrically stunned pigs is higher than that of those anaesthetized by carbon dioxide ( Luyerink and Van Baal , 1969 ) . Carbon dioxide anaesthesia is an effective alternative to electrical stunning provided the concentration of the gas is between 65 ? 70 per cent . If the latter concentration is not exceeded the musculature of the pigs is relaxed and the ultimate pH is slightly lower , and less variable , than with electrical stunning ( Blomquist , 1957 ) . One disadvantage of using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their susceptibility to anaesthesia by the gas , and that individual control of the animals is not feasible . Irrespective of the mode of stunning employed at death three reactions occur : stimulation of the nervous system , anoxia and release of catecholamines ( Anon. , 1971 ) . In principle , and whether or not they are practicable , stunning procedures should be designed to minimize muscle ATP-ase activity . 5.2.2 . Bleeding In cattle and sheep , bleeding is effected by severing the carotid artery and the jugular vein ; and in pigs by severing the anterior vena cava . If the knife penetrates too far , blood may collect beneath the scapula and cause taint by early decomposition ( Thornton , 1949 ) . To avoid entry of micro-organisms , the cut made is minimal , especially with bacon pigs which are subsequently placed in a scalding tank . It has been said that bleeding after electrical stunning is more effective than after the use of the captive bolt pistol , but that it is less so than with carbon dioxide anaesthesia ( Blomquist , 1957 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bleeding only about 50 per cent of the total blood is removed ( Thornton , 1949 ) , different muscles retaining more or less blood according to their nature . In the horse , for example , 50 per cent of the total pigment left in the heart after bleeding is haemoglobin from the blood , whereas in psoas and 1 . dorsi the corresponding values are about 25 and 10 per cent respectively ( Lawrie , 1950 ) . Since the introduction of electrical stunning there has been an increased frequency of " blood splash " , i.e. the appearance of numbers of small dark red areas in the muscles . These had previously been noted when pigs were shot . Blood splash is more frequently observed in 1 . dorsi and in various muscles of the hind limb . Microscopic examination has shown that blood splash arises where capillaries have ruptured through over-filling with blood ( Anon. , 1957a ) . The occurrence of blood splash does not signify that bleeding has been incomplete . When the current is applied there is a considerable rise in blood pressure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood . Subsequently the muscles relax and if the blood pressure is not released by external cutting , blood is forced into the capillaries again with sufficient force to rupture many of them and enter the muscle itself . Emotional stress causes vasodilatation of the blood vessels in skeletal muscle , and may enhance fibrinolytic activity in entrained blood . These effects , especially if combined with electrical stunning , could perhaps explain the higher incidence of " blood splash " reported in excitable animals ( Jansen , 1966 ) . The remedy appears to be to bleed the pigs within 5 sec of administering the anaesthetizing current ( Blomquist , 1959 ) . Bleeding should be performed as soon as possible after stunning whatever the method of stunning employed . 5.3 . GENERAL CONSEQUENCES OF CIRCULATORY FAILURE Stoppage of the circulation of the blood at death initiates a complex series of changes in muscular tissue . The more important of these are outlined in Fig. 5.1 . It will be appreciated , from what has been indicated in Chapter 4 , that the speed and extent of these changes may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment of death of the animal as a whole , its various tissues are continuing their particular types of metabolism under local control . Although muscle is not actively contracting at such a time , energy is being used to maintain its temperature and the organizational integrity of its cells against their spontaneous tendency to break down . The Conversion of Muscle to Meat 135 The ATP-ase of the sarcoplasm , and not that of myosin , is one of the enzymes involved in this context ( Bendall , 1951 ) . The most immediate change caused by bleeding is the elimination of the blood-borne oxygen supply to the muscles and the consequent fall in oxidation production potential . As a result the cytochrome enzyme system can not operate , and the resynthesis of ATP from this source becomes impossible . The continuing operation of sarcoplasmic ATP-ase depletes the ATP level , simultaneously producing inorganic phosphate which stimulates the breakdown of glycogen to lactic acid . The ineffectual resynthesis of ATP by anaerobic glycolysis can not maintain the ATP level and , as it drops , actomyosin forms and the inextensibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . The lowered availability of ATP also increases the difficulty of maintaining the structural integrity of proteins . The lowered pH , caused by the accumulation of lactic acid , also makes them liable to denature . Denaturation is frequently accompanied by loss of the power to bind water and the falling pH causes the myofibtillar proteins to approach their isoelectric point . Both events cause exudation . Denaturation of the sarcoplasmic proteins also makes them liable to attack by the proteases of cathepsins of muscle , which are probably held inactive in vivo within particles known as lysosomes ( De Duve and Beaufay , 1959 ) but are liberated and activated when the particle membranes are weakened by the falling pH . The breakdown of proteins to peptides and amino acids , and the accumulation of various metabolites from the glycolytic process and from other sources , affords a rich medium for bacteria . Although growth of the latter is somewhat discouraged by the extent to which the pH falls , they are no longer subject to the scavenging action of " white " blood corpuscles ( since blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stoppage of the circulation is the cessation of long-term hormonal control of tissue metabolism . As it fails , the temperature falls and fat solidifies . The tendency for the fat to oxidize and become rancid is facilitated by failure of the blood to renew the supply of anti-oxidants , and by the accumulation of prooxidant molecules in the tissues . 136 Meat Science 5.4 . CONDITIONING Although muscle is increasingly liable to suffer microbial spoilage in direct proportion to the time and temperature of holding postmortem , hygienic abattoir operations will generally ensure satisfactory storage for a few days at room temperature and for about 6 weeks if the meat is held just above its freezing point ( ? 1.5 ? C ) . Various processes applied to the commodity , such as curing , freezing , dehydration and irradiation , will vastly extend storage life ; but , in so far as they are artificial , they are not relevant in this chapter . In the absence of microbial spoilage , the holding of unprocessed meat above the freezing point is known as " conditioning " ; and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flavour ( cf. Bouley , 1874 ) . During the first 24 ? 36 hr post-mortem , the dominant circumstance is post-mortem glycolysis . This has already been considered in some detail in ? ? 4.2.2 and 4.2.3 . Even before the ultimate pH has been reached , however , other degradative changes have commenced . These continue until bacterial spoilage or gross denaturation and desiccation of the proteins have made the meat inedible . The extent of these changes , which affect the nature and amount of both proteins and small molecules , is generally limited , however , by the cooking and consumption of the meat . 5.4.1 . Protein Denaturation Muscle , like all living tissues , represents a complexity of organization among molecules which is too improbable to have arisen , or to be maintained , by their random orientation . The structure of the proteins which characterize contractile tissue can only be preserved against the tendency of the component atoms and molecules to become disorientated by the provision of energy ( as ATP ) . Such energy is not available after death and the proteins will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical or intramolecular rearrangement which does not involve hydrolysis of the chemical bonds linking the constituent amino acids of the proteins ' polypeptide The Conversion of Muscle to Meat 137 chains ( Putnam , 1953 ) . It is generally accompanied by an increase in the reactivity of various chemical groups , a loss of biological activity ( in those proteins which are enzymes or hormones ) , a change in molecular shape or size and a decrease in solubility . Proteins are liable to denature if subjected , during post-mortem conditioning , to pH levels below those in vivo , to temperatures above 25 ? C or below 0 ? C , to desiccation and to non-physiological salt concentrations . Of the proteins in muscle , it is generally accepted that the collagen and elastin of connective tissue do not denature during conditioning ( Ramsbottom and Strandine , .1949 ; Wierbicki et al. , 1954 ) . This view is supported by the concomitant absence of soluble , **25;902;TOOLONG molecules , indicating that neither collagen nor elastin have been proteolysed ( Sharp , 1959 ) ; proteolysis would not precede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , by heating beef muscles to 60 ? 70 ? C for 20 ? 25 min , there is a continuous nonenzymic , breakdown to **25;929;TOOLONG derivatives ( Sharp , 1963 ) . Despite the absence of massive proteolysis of native collagen during conditioning , such as would require the action of a true collagenase , there is evidence for the operation of a lysosomal enzyme ( Valin , 1970 ) which can attack the cross-links in the non-helical telopeptide region of collagen ( Etherington , 1971 ) . Such subtle action would not be reflected by a release of soluble , **25;956;TOOLONG substances . The collagen fibres appear to swell during conditioning , a feature which may reflect the breakage of cross-links between the polypeptide chains . As tenderness increases there is a concomitant increase in the titre of fl-glucuronidase , suggesting that the mucopolysaccharide of the ground substance , or carbohydrate moieties in collagen itself , contribute to this attribute of eating quality ( Dutson and Lawrie , 1973 ) . On the other hand , during post-mortem conditioning , the proteins of the myofibril and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and before the onset of rigor mortis , muscles are pliable and tender when cooked . The principal proteins of the myofibril , actin and myosin , are dissociated and myosin is extractable at high ionic strength ( Weber and Meyer , 1933 ; Bailey , 1954 ) . With 138 Meat Science the onset of rigor mortis as we have considered above , the muscle becomes inextensible and is tough when cooked ( Marsh , 1964 ) . As conditioning proceeds , the muscle becomes pliable once more ( and increasingly tender on cooking ) ; but this is not due to the dissociation of actomyosin ( Marsh , 1954 ) ; inextensibility remains.t Extraction of the ( uncooked ) muscle at high ionic strength now removes mainly actomyosin ( Davey , 1964 ) , because ( it has been suggested ) the process of conditioning detaches the actin filaments from the Z line with which their union , probably via tropomyosin ( Huxley , 1963 ) , is The Conversion of Muscle to Meat 139 weaker than with myosin . The actin filaments collapse onto those of myosin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Gilbert , 1967 ) . The process is apparently initiated by the release of Ca++ ions from the sarcoplasmic reticulum ; and it is significant that the Ca++ chelating agent , ethylene ? diamine tetraacetate , should prevent these ageing changes . Despite loss of Z-line material , the myofibrils tend to retain their integrity . ( Possibly resistant traces of Z-line material or the elements of the sarcotubular system are responsible . ) Figure 5.2 demonstrates that aged myofibrils break at the Zlines on mild homogenizing ( Dickson , 1969 ; . Davey and Dickson , 1970 ) . Goll ( 1968 ) suggests that detachment of actin from the Z-lines is non-enzymic . Nevertheless , he and his co-workers ( Goll et al. , 1971 ) have found that there are striking similarities between the structural changes in the myofibrillar proteins during conditioning and those caused by tryptic digestion . During conditioning the Z-lines in " red " muscles appear to be less labile than those in " white " muscles ( Goll , 1970 ) . Penny ( 1970 ) , in an electrophoretic study found evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 days ageing of beef 1 . dorsi ; but little evidence for any alteration in the oc-actinin content of myofibrils after they had been aged for 20 days at 4 ? C , although the capacity of this protein to bind F-actin was somewhat lowered ( Penny , 1972 ) . Arakawa , Goll and Temple ( 1970 ) also concluded that post-mortem changes in neither a-actinin nor the tropomyosin ? troponin complex are the primary causes of modification in actomyosin during conditioning . The extractability at high ionic strength of total myofibrillar proteins decreases by about 75 per cent , with the onset of rigor mortis , from the value immediately post-mortem ; but on subsequent storage at 2 ? C the extractability again rises ? up to and even beyond the initial level ( Locker , 1960a ) . It is significant that , in addition to a predominance of actomyosin , the myofibrillar proteins extractable at high ionic strength now include a-actinin , tropomyosin and the troponin with which the latter is associated in vivo ( Ebashi and Ebashi , 1964 ; Valin , 1968 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           