@@774227

txtp100that cause us to clutch at them , or that tend to envelop us . But it has also always been my contention that some exercise of both approaches must figure in visual art . Nevertheless , the greatest exponents since the Renaissance of the rare type of painting that reveres outside objects for themselves , almost to the exclusion of projecting on to them more than the **28;4583;TOOLONG inner objects , have had the least , or else the tardiest , recognition of their supremacy . Those immenseheroes of painting , Piero della Francesca , Georges de la Tour , Vermeer , * were forgotten and rediscovered only in the last hundred years at a time when texture , the heightened expressiveuse of the matiere of painting , a substitute for pleasures in past ages available from buildings , was much on the increase . Their rediscovery , then , points to the connection between this care for material and a non-grasping approach in general , since it is not at all the surface or texture of paintings by these Old Masters that most characterizes , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I end invoking Piero , de la Tour , and Vermeer since it may be opportune to reassert , in line with much I have written before and with the paper by Dr Segal , t that whatever the projection of narrow compulsions to which I have referred , whatever the primitive and enveloping relationships that ensue , the reconstitutionor restoration of the outside and independent whole object ( expressive equally of coordination in the ego ) whether founded entirely , or less founded , upon what I have called minimumor generalized or ideal and impersonal conceptions , remains a paramount function in art. from Painting and the Inner World , 1963 , pp. 14 ? 16* See Lawrence Cowing , Vermeer ( London , 1952 ) . t H. Segal , ' A Psycho-Analytical Approach to Aesthetics , ' in New Directions in Psycho-Analysis ( London , 1955 ) .  |p101The  Invitation in ArtSince the time , nearly fifty years ago , that Marcel Duchamp sent to an exhibition in New York a porcelain urinal ( described as a fountain ) with the signature of the manufacturer that he , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had an excellent occasion with which to associate new reflections upon the values of art . We realize that adepts at scanning an object for the less immediate significance of its shape , a manner of looking at things that has been cultivated from looking at art , will contemplate a multitude of objects , and certainly , in an august setting , the regular curves and patterns of light on that porcelain object , with aesthetic prepossessions . With less thought for the object 's function than for its patterns and shape , we project on to them a significance learned from many pictures and sculptures . But are we projecting separate experiencesof art ; are we not projecting an aspect of ourselves that has always been identified with them ; and is not the identification an integral factor , therefore , of aesthetic experienceand an aim for art ? This has seemed even more likely since psychoanalysis uncovered a mechanism called projective identification by which parts of ourselves or of our inner objects may be attributed even to outside objects that , unlike artifacts , at first sight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this manner as well that we might discover ourselves to be assimilated in an active aesthetic transformation of the urinal , an object that does not itself communicate to us with the eloquence of art . We , the spectators , do all the art-work in such a case , except for the isolating of the object by the artist for our attention . Structure is ever a concern of art and must necessarily be seen as symbolic of emotional patterns , of the psyche 's organization with which we are totally involved . This reference of the outer to the inner has been much sharpened by psychoanalysis , which tells , for instance , of parts of the self that are withp102difficulty allied , that tend to be split off , and of internal figures or objects that the self has incorporated , with which it is in constant communication or forcible ex-communication . Pattern and the making of wholes are of immense psychical significance in a precise way , even apart from the drive towards repairing what we have damaged or destroyed outside ourselves . As distinct from projections that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contains a heightened concern with structure . The contemplation of many works of art has strengthenedthis habit . I think it is so strong only because in every instanceof art we receive a persuasive invitation , of which I shall write in a moment , to participate more closely . In this situation we experience fully a correlation between the inner and the outer world which is manifestly structured ( the artist insists ) . And so , the learned response to that invitation is the aesthetic way of looking at an object . Whereas for this context it is simpler to speak of structure , of formal relations , such a presentationis far too narrow . Communication by means of precise images obtains similarly in art a wider reference whenever the artist has created for the experience he describes an imagery to transcend it , to embrace parallel kinds of experience that can be sensed . Poetic analogy or image is apt ; felicitous overtones coexist ; the musical aptness of expression hazards wider conjunctionsthan those immediately in mind . In visual art , too , we see without difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference . Similarly , the same formal elements are used to construct more than one system of relationship within a painting itself , and with us who look at it . Whatever the total meaning , the perennial aspect reveals a heightened close connection between sensation significance , that is to say , impact on the perceiving instrument as it organizes the data , and more purely mental content that we then apprehend in the outside terms of sensation significance . Referring to the character of perception , I have in mind what might be called the prejudices of vision uncovered by psychologists . I take these prejudices ' to be an important link between the outer world and the emphatic projection thereon , inp103ordinary and in aesthetic perception alike , of inner process . The forces ' uncovered by the psychology of vision provide the words , the language of visual art . Whereas wide disagreement exists among psychologists as to the way that the visual world is perceived or constructed , none would deny , I believe , that the perceiver participates in what might be called the quandary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or do not easily , achieve restful status . Thus , there is tension in any perceived obliquity , in any departure from an open framework : there is pull , direction , the sense of weight and movement . Even a vertical ellipsestrives upward in the top half , downward in the lower . A vertical line seems to be far longer than a horizontal line of equal length ; and so on . Such forces , such bents , I repeat , are the words , the language , of visual art . Not only are their implicationsof direction , compression , weight , pull , interference , employed by the painter to communicate the sentiment of a pictorial subject-matter , but they mirror , in their inter-working , the power that one part of the self , or one inner object , can exert over the others . Indeed , I hope it is not an outrageous conjecture concerning perception to say that stereotypes for psychical tension may be projected thereby , and that these projectionsin some part may have reinforced the perceptual bents to which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immured biologically in perception , internal situations remark themselvestherein . We are dynamically implicated with visual stress , particularly with the enveloping use that art makes of it . When the final balancing , the Whole that is made up of interactingparts , is suspended for a time by the irregularities of stresses , these same stresses appear to gain an overwhelming , blurring , and unitary action inasmuch as the parts of a composition are thereby overrun , and inasmuch as the spectator'sclose participation , as if with part-objects , removes distance between him and this seeming process . Much of the attraction of the sketch lies in this situation , which arises also whenever we think we find the artist at work , in his calligraphy or flourish , his gesture or touch , and , even more generally , in the accentuations of style . I have particularly in mind the extremeexample of Baroque paintings with a diagonal recession ,  |p104invaded  by a represented illumination , cast diagonally , that cuts across figures , that binds the composition as a movement of masses , without respect for integrity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voids and substances . A principle , a process at work , seems to override the parts . It is one aspect of the ' painterly ' concept formulated by Wolfflin , in which values of what some psychologists have called the visual field ' dominate certain values in ' the visual world ' of ordinary , everyday , perception . We very often associate creativeness first of all with an ability to disregard an order elsewhere obtained , to ignore an itch for finality in favour of a harder-won integration whose image may still suggest an overpowering process , no less than its integrationwith other elements . Hence the invitation in art , the invitation to identify emphatically ? a vehemence beyond an identification with realized structure ? that largely lies , we shall see more fully , in a work 's suggestion of a process in train , of transcending stress , with which we may immerse ourselves , though it lies also in that capacious yet keen bent for aptness , for the embracing as a singleness of more than one content , of one mode for reading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have already referredin regard to form and image . Though they always have the strong quality of coordinated objects on their own , the world 's artifacts tend to bring right up to the eyes the suggestion of procedures that reduce the sense of their particularity and difference ; even , in part , the difference between you and them , though the state with which a work is manifestly concerned be the coming of the rains , or redemption and damnation , or the long dominance of the dead . Most painting styles are what we call conceptual : objects are rendered under conformity to an idea of their genus , to hierarchic conceptions ( with a comparativeneglect of individual attributes and changing appearances ) favouring the power to lure us into an easy identification with an expression of attitude or mood . The depictingof incident thus receives a somewhat generalized imprint , offers a relationship that at first glance saps the symbolism of an existence vividly separate from ourselves . As we merge with such an object , some of the sharpness that isp105present when differentiation of the inner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and multiplicity of the **32;4613;TOOLONG , are at first minimized . Yet I shall note , on the other hand , that under the spell of this enveloping pull , the object 's otherness , and its representation of otherness , are the more poignantly grasped . But I want also to stress the opposite point by indicating in naturalistic styles , which boast far greater representation of the particular and of the incidental , that these works , if they are to be judged art , must retain , and indeed must employ more industriously , procedures to qualify the intimation of particularity , to counter the strong impression of events entirely foreign to oneself by an impression of an envelopment that embraces distinctiveness . I now call the envelopment factor in art ? this compelling invitation to identify ? the incantatory process . I have often written of it , principally in terms of part-object relationship , particularly of the prime enveloping relationship to the breast Where the work of art stands for the breast . I adopt the word incantatory ' to suggest the emphatic , identificatory , pull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal procedures , at any rate , and then absorbed to some extent into the subjectmatteron show , a relationship through whose power each content in the work of art can be deeply communicated . I shall try to indicate further methods and characteristics of visual art whereby the incantatory process comes into being . I believe that much formal structure has this employment , beside entirelyother employment , and that a part of the total content to be communicated is often centred upon unitary or transcending relationships , though they contrast with the work 's coordinationbetween its differing components , this , another content no less primary , whereby the integration of the ego 's opposing facets and the restored , independent object can be symbolized . I believe that the incantatory quality results from the equation enlisted between the process of heightened perception by which the willing spectator reads ' a work of art ? often with a difficulty of which the artist makes use to rivet attention to his patterns ? and inner as well as physical processes ; an equation constructed or reinforced by at least an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process in action . There is vitality in common that suggests a unitary relationship , as if the artifact were a part-object . I shall continue to touch on a few manifest elements in the case of naturalistic art . For it goes without saying that dance , song , rhythm , alliteration , rhyme , lend themselves to , or create , an incantatory process , a unitary involvement , an elation if you will . Thus when I wrote of this matter in 1951 , I did so in terms of the manic . During the next year , 1952 , there appeared in the International Journal of Psycho-Analysis Marion Milner 's paper , renamed in the Melanie Klein Symposium of 1955 , The Role of Illusion in Symbol Formation ' , where , not only in matters of art , she emphasized a state of oneness as a necessary step in the apprehension of twoness . Her key-word here is ecstasy ' rather than ' part-object ' . Her paper derived partly from ideas she had already put forward in her book , On Not Being Able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is easiest grasped . By grasp ' I refer also to being joined , enveloped , with the aesthetic object . But whereas we easily experience the pull of pleasant , poetic , pictorial subject-matter ? classical idylls , fetes champetres , and so on ? there is not so much readiness to appreciate the perennial existence of a wider incantationthat permeates pictorial formal language whatever the subject or type of picture . Similarly a poem , like a picture , properlyappreciated , stands away from us as an object on its own , but the poetry that has gripped , the poetry of which it is composed , when read as an unfolding process , combines with correspondingprocesses by which we find ourselves to some extent carried away , and that our identification with them will have been essential to the subsequent contemplation of the work of art as an image not only of an independent and completed object but of the ego 's integration . Since , as a totality , it is an identification with the good breast , I have often submitted that the identification with processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nurture to be enjoyed from works of art , even while we view them predominantly in the light of their selfsufficiencyas restored , whole objects , a value that thereby we are better prepared to absorb.  |p107The  first power that the work of art has over us , then , arises from the successful invitation to enjoy relationship with delineatedprocesses that enliven our own , to enjoy subsequently , as a nourishment our own corresponding processes , chiefly , it appears to me , the relationships between the ego and its objects , though concurrently the unitary power , inseparable from partobjectrelationship , that transcends or denies division and differences . To take the instance once more of this last relationshipfrom painting , light and space-extension can be employed to override each particularity in favour of a homogeneity with which we ourselves are enveloped . And so , such effects in the picture ? their variety is vast ? construct an enveloping mise en scene for those processes in ourselves that are evoked by the picture 's other connotations . It is easily agreed that pictorial composition induces images of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directions with their counter-directions , contrasts or affinities of shape with their attendant voids , as well as the often precarious balancing of masses . Predominant accents do not achieve settlementwithout the help of other , and perhaps contrary , references : hence the immanent vitality , and a variety of possible approaches in analysing a composition ; hence the ambiguity , in the sense of an oscillation of attention , that others have noted in the inter-weaving of poetic images . It may be thought that this will hardly apply to the representation of balance between static , physical forms as opposed to the representation , in which naturalistic art excels , of movement or of stress and strain . Such immobility , however , often involves a sense of dragging weight , of the curving or swelling of a contour with which we deeply concern ourselves , since we take enormous pleasure , where good drawing makes it profitable , in feeling our way , in crawling , as it were , over a represented volume articulated to this end ; many modes of draughtsmanship , or of modelling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , form of exploration . In one of their aspects , too , relationships of colour and of texture elicit from us the same sense of process , of development , of a form growing from another or entering and folding up into it . And , as I have said , we find ourselves traversing representedp108distances , perhaps enveloped by an overpowering diffusion of light . Finally architecture , possessor of many bodily references , mirrors a dynamic or evolving process as well as the fact of construction . It is necessary to repeat that the unitary relationship between ourselves and on-going processes represented by the aesthetic object contrasts with the integration of its parts , for which we value it as a model of a whole and separate reconstituted object . In a combination that art offers , we find a record of predominantmodes of relationship , to part-objects as well as to Whole objects . I want now to remark an aspect of visual art connected with what I have called the quandaries and prejudices of visual experience that provide the possibility of a stressed language . One exploitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even of a mutilating urge that , paradoxically , is sometimesmore characteristic of naturalistic art than of any other . Extreme foreshortening has been described by Arnheim* as ' contraction , like a charged spring ' . He also speaks , not altogetherwithout justice , of ' the rearrangement of organic parts through projective overlapping ? hands sprouting from behind the head , ears attached to the chin , knees adjoining the chest . Even the most daring modern artists have rarely matched the paradoxical reshuffling of the human limbs that has been presentedas an accurate imitation of nature ' , doing violence to simple patterns of structure , a desired norm ? it is sometimes thought ? for vision . It may be useful to specify for a moment , if only with a handful of examples . I refer very briefly to the place of the unitary breast principle in proto-Renaissance and early Renaisssance naturalism . John White has described a growing tendency to move from the idea of things surrounded by space towards that of space enclosing and uniting things't in much art of fourteenth-century Florence* R. Arnheim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . t John White , The Birth and Rebirth of Pictorial Space ( London , 1957 ) .  |p109and  Siena . The representing of space would much later become wholly an enveloping agent , sometimes an aggressive scoop to carry us into distance , to go far beyond the canvas . But earlier , in the protoperspective space bedecked or jewelled by Giotto , Duccio , and the Lorenzetti , there exists no such manipulation or destruction of the picture surface . Moreover , at the very same time that geometric perspective was institutionalized as a cult in the first half of the fifteenth century , there came about at the hands of those who worshipped there , particularly Piero 's , a supreme use of colour , an echo between forms and intervals , whereby an equality for each shape , a lack of emphasisthroughout the patterning , preserved an unified complexityof picture plane : a miraculous solution of conflicting data , perceptual and physical , and hence of picture-making . Piero 's own books reveal that he estimated perpective not at all for the new power at the artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of harmony and proportion , of the laws of optics , and , indeed , of a mathematically ordained universe to be learned now fully from the image , the painting , no less than from visual experience of which it served as an image . Thereafter , overpowering uses for perspective have sometimesbeen developed . Similarly , though little apparent until much later , from the time of Leonardo there has been some breaking down of the constancies that characterize the visual world , by means of the full employment of chiaroscuro , by means of insistence on a full tonal range that disregards the conventional aspect of an object usually seen to be constant whatever the illumination , just as perspective often utterly distorts , neglects , a characteristic shape of an object on which conceptual art lingers . Although the psychology of ordinary vision does not support it , the abstract quality of such observation , analytic and truthful , has ennobled pictorial incident . Indeed , out of the requirement for enveloping values amid the pursuit of naturalistic detail , European artists particularly have uncovered a degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bold , embracing techniques to which they could then proceed . If what they have thus isolated in the name of naturalism has tended to disrupt both the picturep110plane and the enduring character of the represented objects as such , these same events have called forth unparalleled efforts for their restoration in a new , and indeed more truthful , situationof quandary , truthful especially in regard to the conflicts of the inner life . Hence the greatness , on the whole , of our art since the Renaissance , as well as the utter degradation to which it is prone . I have been describing the suggestion of an overpowering process in the painter 's deployment of perceptual truth that has been largely ignored in the exercise of practical perception . I use the word process ' because the overpowering is felt to be going on by the spectator . I turn now to the major overall process , a reparation , in which both the good breast and the whole , independent mother must figure , a reparation dependent , it seems to me , upon initial attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exists a preliminary element of acting out of aggression , an acting out that then accompanies reparative transformation , by which inequalities , tension and distortion , for instance , are integrated , are made to work ' . I have long held the distinction between carving and modelling to be generic in an application to all the visual arts . These two activities have many differences from the psychological angle , first , I think , in the degree and quality of the attack upon the material . Similarly , this difference of attack is relevant to the old distinction between the decorative and the fine arts where an increase of attack calls forth an increase of creativeness . But if decoration titillates , ornaments , the medium , and if larger creativeness may to some considerable extent oppose its native state , I believe that every work of art must include both activities . A painter , then , to be so , must be capable of perpetrating defacement ; though it be defacement in order to add , create , transform , restore , the attack is defacement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the canvas , or the forcing upon this flat , white surface of an overpowering suggestion of perspective , depth , the third dimension , sometimes seems to be an enterprise not entirely dissimilar to a twisting of someone 's arm . I am inclined to think that , more than anything else , thep111defacement involved of the picture plane accounts for the tardy arrival in pictorial art of an entirely coherent linear perspective . From many angles , extreme illusionism is an extreme form of art , not least in the aggressive and omnipotent attitude to the materials employed . Many ? every month many more ? materials are now consciously respected , set-off , in our art today ; thus made purposive , their naked character bears witness to an independence of these objects . We often deprecatean entire disguise of the canvas 's flatness ; we advocate preservation of the picture plane ' . But whereas the paint , for instance , stays paint in such works , a large part of the impact upon us may proceed from the fact that the canvas is so heavily loaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I am convinced , is an attribute . It is seconds out of the ring ' for every writer as he opposes his first unblemished sheet , innocent of his graffiti . It is even harder to begin to paint . With the first mark or two , the canvas has become the arena in which a retaliatory bull has not yet been weakened ; no substantialassault , no victory , has begun . If a painter be so blatant , so hardy , as to fling , almost heedlessly , upon the canvas , a strong impact , he will at best create an enveloping or transcendentaleffect of omnipotence . Pictures in a gallery , even the pictures in the National Gallery , make an ugly ensemble ; as an ensemble the bare walls would be more pleasing . There is no doubt that the most beautifulensembles of paintings are of those that are abstract and thinly worked , unaggressive in colour . A Ben Nicholson exhibitionvivifies the walls on which it is hung . Some kinds of abstractpainting , then , employ a very subtle attack . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced below a certain minimum , art , creativeness , ceases ; equally , if sensibilityover the fact of attack is entirely lulled , denied . The plainer tricks of perspective drawing can be easily learned and then imposed , should the knack be greedily appropriated without a thought for the numbing distortion of the surface thus worked , and so without aesthetic sensibility . A practised artist will have become habituated , of course , to his bold marks . But he can not be a good artist unless at one time he reckoned pain/fully with the conflicting emotions that underlie his transformationsof material , the aggression , the power , the control , as well as the belief in his own goodness and reparative aim . The exerciseof power alone never makes art : indeed it reconstructs the insensitive , the manic , and often , strangely , the academic . Art requires full-dress rehearsal of varied methods that unify conflicting trends . Such presentation causes composition , the binding of thematic material , to be widely evocative . This is more clearly shown in music than in the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily analysed from a variety of angles , the creative element , that distinguishes a coherent web from clever dovetailing , in general eludes analysis . Hence a vague appeal , sometimes , to organic unity ' . I believe that it is possible to be more specific in speaking of the deep charging of these sense-data with emotive significance , whereby the deployment of formal attributes becomes a vivid language , that is to say , symbols of objects , of relationships to objects and of processes enwrapping objects , inner as well as outer . The word symbol ' here does not indicate parallel structures , but structures wherein the component parts , though possessing no correspondence with the component parts of the original objects , are interlocked and interrelated with an intensity , sharpness , regret , or other feeling-tone that belong at least to one aspect of the original object-relationships , especially to the fact of their coexistence , interpolations , and variety . Whereas the finished work , or the work as a whole , symbolizesintegration , once again while we contemplate and follow out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touch with a process that seems to be happening on our looking , a processto which we are joined as if to an alternation of part-objects . At the beginning of this chapter I said that naturalistic art had need , ipso facto , for particular exertion in initiating the incantatoryprocess , since its apparent aim sharpens the otherness of a represented incident or scene . In conclusion , and to sum up , I think I can now better make clear , in one instance of a representationalaim on which everyone is agreed , how these two objectivesare combined.  |p113Consider  in painting the third dimension , the suggestion of depth . No painting of whatever kind , with any merit , is absolutelyflat in effect . There will be at least a suggestion of oscillation ; something tends to come forward , in a manner that intrigues the senses , in front of something else , though , in general , there be no attempt to disguise the flatness of the picture plane . The surface itself seems to have bulk . Thus , at any rate to a limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , are inseparable from painting and from the artist 's sense of a creative act in his determination to discovereffects for the paint that are revivifying . More clearly in naturalistic painting , the first test of its merit is the degree to which we become attached to the turn of the contours , the degree to which we are compelled to feel our way into spaces , whether populated or whether empty of shapes . This matter is at the heart of painting on a flat surface , distinguishing its appreciation from an apprehension of landscape itself which the eye constructs and contemplates without ado as a threedimensionaldatum . But there are many more ways of intriguing the spectator of a painting with space than by a pedestrian representation of depth . I have emphasized the desirability of preserving the pictureplane . Yet I want now to restrict the matter to the traditionalaspect , the aspect dear to art schools at any rate until very recently , the aspect of which I have been reminded by a gay bit of painting of a Mediterranean harbour that I saw in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painted , perhaps without much effort and even without a visit to the south . The interesting point is that the example I have in mind , and probablymost examples to be found in similar places , have no aesthetic merit , far less than photographs which , for the most part , lack that element of assertive handiwork by which the artist points to his invitation . What is so wrong with the painting , what is the most obvious reason for lack of worth ? Colour , design , and application of paint are not objectionable . But the aesthete would sacrifice these merits , if such they be , to the slightest poignancy in the suggestion of space . Do n't misunderstandme . There is a quay , and a boat with gay sails in thep114water just behind it . You ca n't mistake the scene . The aesthete attaches not the slightest merit to that : nothing he values can be read into the scene since , for the moment , he places no value on blue waters , slim boats , and pretty sails in themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wants to be induced to feel his way over the stones of the quay , bit by bit . Again , he is not interested in the stones of the quay : he is interested in the breadth to the water 's edge , and then in the breadth of the water between quay and boat ; he wants to swim , as it were , in the empty air above them , yet again he wo n't mind if that which he contemplates does evocative service for , but hardly looks like , the width of a quay . There are so many ways , and always new ways , of commenting upon space , and any one of them for the moment will suffice . We want to be certain that the matter has absorbed the artist and to identify with him ; we want to feel volume , density , and the air it displaces , to recog-nizethings perhaps in the manner of the half-blind ; we demand to be drawn in among these volumes , almost as if they were extensions of ourselves , and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Work . It is at work only because the canvas face is , in fact , flat . At the same time the restored othernessof things is asserted by these same means of true draughtsmanship , the means of all good drawings whether of things or of the figure ; at the heart of aesthetic value . Surface value and depth value go hand in hand . For it is obvious that the representation of space , of depth , reflects a metaphor so unavoidablethat one suspects it to be the consequence of a very old piece of concrete thinking concerning ' the layers in depth ' of our mental life and individuality . Nevertheless , incantatory rhythm and movement should be approached as well from an opposite viewpoint that reveals the vibrancy and volume of objects endowed with these qualities . The felicity of art lies in its sustaining power , in a markedly dual content , in multiple forms of expression within one boundarythat harmonize . It demands usually very hard work on the part of a mentality not easily seduced and satisfied by its own products . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have seen , is mastery within the mode of certain emphasesp115upon reconstruction . Whatever else it makes known , art transmitsan enticing eloquence in regard to the varied attachment to objects , and in regard to the coordination of the self . Since the context has been created , I want to add a note concerningan emphasis in our surroundings . I think that normal environment has always brought home to inhabitants both the otherness of things and the sense of processes that echo or amplifyinner processes as such , and even dreams as such , though these meanings may merely alternate . On the other hand , I believethat everything we feel to be out of harmony with the body 's image and with the ways of natural growth or change , everything we feel today to be harshly mechanical , mirrors , in a one-sided manner , an unsettlement of the inner life . In his paper on The Uncanny ' ( 1919 ) , Freud constructed an equation between the psychologically primitive and what appears weird , outlandish , unheimlich , unhomely . Similarly , when contemplatedas a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living , instead of stimulating a preponderantsense of otherness as the result of an unparalleled organization of outer substances , tends rather to suggest abrupt experiences that are both stranger than this and nearer to us , though without the insinuating quality of the incantatory process in art , a setting for further content . In the environment to which I now refer , there is no provision beyond the shock of it . The beauty in our streets is mostly the one of glitter , of flashing lights ; surprising , momentary signals of a confusing ramification within , yet we are arrested by a sense neither of depth nor of surface . I have spoken , in regard to art , of an enveloping effect that accompanies a represented movement . In our towns today we are largely strangers to stillness , to deliberatenessand silence . From the street , even buildings appear to be but boundaries or targets for the movements of traffic , whereas , in the days of the horse 's clop-clop , one moved within the circulation of a whole mother who still reigned fitfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of utter contemplation , that is ? not everyone is prepared to contemplate it at all ? inevitably characterizes much modern art of merit.  |p116The  words humanist ' and humanism ' are hard to define . Whatever may be meant , I am convinced that a desideratum for the humanist is an environment stimulating awareness of othernessin harmony with hopes of an integrated object , outer as well as inner . If the depressive position itself implies humanist attitudes for the adult who has embraced it well , the paranoidschizoidposition , to which the enveloping mechanisms and disconnectingnoises of limitless cities pay court , certainly does not . In the old days , art was a means of organizing the incantatoryelement that had been felt in the length of land or in the restless sea . Today art is entirely outmoded in the choice of such phenomena by the scintillating lack of limitation of urban things in general ; though it strains all the time to keep up . But , of course , in art there exist contemplative purpose , organization , a degree of wholeness . That is why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little less an achievement , than in great ages. from The Invitation in Art , 1965 , pp. 13 ? 3014Art and the Body(i)The basic architecture of the visual arts depends upon the many alternations such as repose and movement , density and space , light and dark , that underlie composition , none of which can be divorced initially from the sense of interacting textures . Aestheticappreciation has an identical root : it is best nurtured by architecture , the inescapable Mother of the Arts . Indeed , the ideal way to experience painting in Italy is first to examine olive terraces and their farms , then fine streets of the plain houses , before entering a gallery . As far as the streets are concerned a similar procedure can be recommended for Holland in preparation for Rembrandt and Vermeer . It is not a coincidence that what we now call Old Amsterdam was rising above smooth water in Rembrandt 's day . Much existed on his canvas , in thep117character of the surface , before he started to particularize , to paint . Now , if we are to allot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body , we must distinguish two aspects of that image , or , rather , two images which are joined in a work of art . There is the aspect which leads us to experience from art a feeling of oneness with the world , perhaps not dissimilar from the experience of mystics , of infants at the breast and of everyoneat the deeper points of sleep . We experience it to some extent also from passion , manic states , intoxication , and perhaps during a rare moment in which we have truly accepted death ; above all , from states of physical exaltation and catharsis whose rhythm has once again transcribed the world for our possession and for its possessiveness of us ; but only in contemplatingworks of art , as well as nature , will all our faculties have full play , will we discover this kind of contemplation in company with the counterpart that eases the manic trend . I refer to the measured impact of sense-data that distinguishes the communicating aesthetic experience from the messages of ecstaticor dreamy states : I refer to the otherness apprehended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An element of self-sufficiency will inform our impression of the whole work of art as well as of turned phrases and fine passages . The poem , the sum-total , has the articulation of a physical object , whereas the incantatory element of poetry ranges beyond , ready to interpenetrate , to hypnotize . Or perhaps precise and vivid images , an enclosed world fed by metre , serve a sentiment that is indefinable , permeating , unspoken . Space is a homogeneous medium into which we are drawn and freely plunged by many representations of visual art ; at the same time it is the mode of order and distinctiveness for separated objects . Musical ensemblescreate perspectives for the ear : as well as the music ' , the enchantment , the magic , there is the exactness of rhythm , harmony , counterpoint , texture , and the enclosed pattern of symphonic shape , handy as a coin . We are presented with discipline , articulation , separateness , and with a blurring incantationthat sucks us in , at the same time , gives us suck , communicates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thep118strength of these effects will differ widely , but the work of art must contain some argument for all of them . There is , then , in art a firm alliance between generality and the obdurate otherness of objects , as if an alliance , in regard to the body , between the positive rhythmic experiences of the infant at the breast and the subsequent appreciation of the whole mother 's separate existence ( also internalized ) , complete to herself , uninjured by his aggressive or appropriating fantasies that had caused her disappearance ( though it was for one moment ) to be mourned as the occasion of irreparable loss : there is the suggestion of oneness , and the insistence on the reality of otherness if only by the self-inclusive object-character of the artifact itself . And so , these good and reassuring experiences , the basis of object-relationship , are used aesthetically as the cover for all manner of experience ( i.e. they inspire conceptions of style even those predominantly hieratic or anti-corporeal and abstract ; govern the treatment of subject-matter ) . This is the practicalidealism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must somehow thrive ' . The artist is compelled to overcome depressivefantasies by making amend ( often , as in the Renaissance , by presenting with an air of ease the surprising and the difficult ) , the amend that articulates together an allembracingphysical entity with bodily separateness , reconstructionsof internalized good objects , threatened by the bad . Content , subject-matter , may be unredeemed ; formal magic must rule over the pressures of culture . Obviously , art is not planned on tactics of avoidance . The artist has recognized our common sense of loss in a deep layer of his mind . Michelangelo , it is manifest , forged beauty out of conflict ( not by denying conflict ) . The disguises of art reveal the artist ; they do not betray him . It can less often be said of the activities of others. from Michelangelo , 1955 , pp. 65 ? 7(ii)The balanced emotional estimation of the body is an ideal . One may doubt whether any human being has attained entire integrationof those hidden feelings . It remains the quest , anp119impetus of adult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of art is quickly apparent ; for instance in regard to the huge concern particularly of the infant and the child ? a concern , therefore , that will always considerably persist ? about the inside of the body , though the nearest even to an intuitive formulation at which most people arrive is in the context of hypochondria and psychosomatic illness when these conditions have been recognized for what they are . Whereas the art of the written word is with difficulty and indirectness centred on this matter , portraits and paintings of the figure are less hard to interpret . Rembrandt , it seems to me , painted the female nude as the sagging repository of jewels and dirt , of fabulous babies and magical faeces despoiled yet later repaired and restored , a body often flaccid and creased yet still the desirable source of a scarred bounty : not the bounty of the perfected , stable breast housed in the temple of the integrated psyche that we possess in the rounded forms of classical art , but riches and drabness joined by the infant 's interfering envy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by his thefts . There supervenes , none the less , a noble acceptance of ambivalence in which love shines . This is not necessarily to hint at Rembrandt 's emotional equipment nor to stigmatize a bias in seventeenth-century Northern European culture . On the contrary the contrasting classical conception is very rare : it is far more common to discoverin art the implication with the inside of the body : we accept it that the Athenian achievement is without parallel and that the emptiness and falsity to which the Greek ideal would often be reduced ( though the inspiration will never disappear ) could cause it to be less accessible even to some who , like Rembrandt , studied and borrowed from classical composition , learningespecially how to achieve the look of inevitability whereby to dominate the larger aspects of design . Rembrandt constructed a stable format out of contrary emotions , from a varied human condition to which he allowed by the granular additiveness of his technique , the progression to a munificence that crowns other impressions like a gratitude that has finally overcast an envy . He has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portraiture , ' the raw material of grace ' , strands of negative feeling , for instance , about the body limited to the original zones , a process that will have entailed some withdrawal of those parts of the self that have been sent into the object to plunder or to command ; for otherwise the affirmation that I am I and they are they , an objective of art , can not be clearly stated . We are intact only in so far as our objects are intact . Art of whatever kind bears witness to intact objects even when the subject-matter is disintegration . Whatever the form of transcriptthe original conservation or restoration is of the mother 's body . And whereas pictorial art employs and stimulates those infantine fantasies ? they are many ? that utilize the eyes for omnipotent projections , for omniscience , it enlarges upon the reassuring endurance of objects in the shadow of this attack : they are enthroned by the artist by means of a pictorial settlementwherein they may surrender themselves only to that multi-form composition which symbolizes the integrated elementsof the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet almost every product of the body as well as disease , malformation , malfunction , and the inside itself ( apart from ancientbone ) continues to revolt us since we are implicated ; not so much because we belong to a similar vulnerable organism but because attacking wishes have caused the imperfection of others to appear revengeful : that imperfection is likely to reflect also our own , split off in accordance with the necessities of narcissistic estimates . Every virtue resides or is symbolized in the flesh together with all humiliation , threat , and squalor . A moment of active grandeur may come with birth of the baby from inside ; birth is sometimes a supreme event for the parents ' reconciliation of fantasies about the body . Adult sexuality , adult love , can make every endowment commensurate . On the other hand an access of virtuosity for confusion and splitting may characterize this sphere . Success , full satisfaction , depends upon the disposition thereby involved of the early psychic structures regarding the body . As heretofore , not only do we project but we introject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or parts of others , are inside us ; parts ofp121our bodies sometimes merit a double nomenclature : nor are these strangers likely to be at peace . The medical view of the body is the most vivid and careworn of unemotional systems , a routine insistence that the body is a valuable machine . Concomitant with the growth and triumph of science there has occurred in culture a boastful surrender to the omnipresence of fantasy and finally in our own time a plain admission of compulsiveness . This , in my view , is the essence and origin of the Romantic Movement in the shadow of which we still live . The growth of science and the first rumbling of the Industrial Revolution killed the Enlightenment , the Age of Reason . As we have noted in the use to which actuality is put by the art of collage , actuality , and therefore the gaze of science , isolates and elicits fantasy as a stupendous force . A part of the aesthetic stress upon the actual is stress upon the corporeal contentin fantasy . We have learned that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the microscope does not help us to conceive the satin flesh as leather , to link conceptions of youth and age , to join our feelings about attractiveness and about repulsiveness in a form of truth or just accountancy . Yet even the handshake points to the expectation of a fundamental warmth , a requirement that never passes though it conflicts with a variety of contrary feelings about the person . Many have tried , therefore , when genital attraction is not notably involved , to value not the body but its animation , the life infusing the carcass that can not in fact be separated from it . The once useful conception , the ' soul ' , is entirely outmoded in an age whose range of actualities continues to increase . We can not dissociate people from their physical presence and we may sometimes fail to dissociate the presence that they present to us from the life of their persons under all circumstances . Narcissistic esteem , self-love , a fount of warm and generous estimates , does not confine its dealings to the soul . Love is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we are set by our compulsions there is much concerning which our feelings fluctuate . The intact objects , works of art , are a model for the direction of those feelings , not so much in reference to peoplep122specifically loved or hated but in the matter of the persons of our fellow-men more generally . A degree of education is possible and any profit from it may accrue to the intense relationships also . It is therefore important to discover in art the recounting of all aspects that the body has possessed , the inside ( as seen from without ) as well as the outside . ( Thus the glimmering or tufted finery that clothes many sombre Rembrandt figures can mirror the character of inner objects for whose state the individualis massively responsible . ) It is for such communication , however recondite , that we scan good portraits . At any rate we learn to see the spirit , the animation , in terms of art 's inoffensive material . That material stands for the body whether or not it has been used to represent the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and art , truly seen , does not so much educate us about animation , about the mind or spirit , about the intentions of others good or bad in which we find a source of persecutory feeling or of trust , as about the resulting body-person , about the embodiment that is much more than an embodiment because bodily attributes have always been identified with those intentions . A painting of the nude , therefore , is but one of the corporeal lessons set by art . There is a sense in which all art is of the body , particularly so in the eyes of those who accept that the painted surface and other media of art represent as a general form , which their employmentparticularizes , the actualities of the hidden psychic structuremade up of evaluations and fantasies with corporeal content. from Reflections on the Nude , 1967 , pp. 36 ? 40p123From The Image in Form ' Often in a talk about art we get at least a partial division of formal attributes from representation . We say the formal relationshipsorganize the representation , the images , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , in the theory of Significant Form , form is isolated from imagery , from the construction of likeness in visual terms . I am going to argue that formal relationships themselves entail a representation or imagery of their own though these likenesses are not as explicit as the images we obtain from what we call the subject-matter . When later I shall refer to Cezanne 's Bathers in the National Gallery , I shall suggest that there is far more imagery in this picture than the imagery of nudes in a landscape , a more generalized imagery , with references to all sorts of experiences , which proceeds from the formal treatment . Now I think one can say that that 's obvious and indeed that it is presumed in the work of all the best writers today on current art ; but it does n't seem to have given rise to a really wide investigation of what is involved . I am going to make some suggestions about this . The phrase the image in form ' cropped up when I was asked to decide between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of projecting square plaques against a background of black and white lines . I said I thought one communicated a stronger image than the other . It suggested an image for an amalgam of experiences , even though that impression had not been achieved by the creation of a correspondence with recognizedevents as is the case where you have a subject-matter . I found this abstract work to possess an image all the same , whose character would not be altogether dissimilar in the long run for those who are able to lend themselves to abstract art . Formal arrangements can sometimes transmit a durable image . That is not merely to say that they are expressive . There is a sense in which every object of the outside world is express/ive since we tend to endow natural things , any piece of the environment , with our associations to it , thereby constructing an identity additional to the one generally recognized . At heightened moments anything can gain the aura of a personage . But in art it should not be we who do all the imaginative work in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the content we impose , the more becomes communicated . In adopting an aesthetic viewpoint ? this , indeed , is a necessary contribution on our part ? which we have learned from studying many works of art , we discover that to a considerable extent our attentionis confined to the relationship of formal attributes and of their image-creating relevance to the subject-matter . The work of art should be to some extent a strait-jacket in regard to the eventual images that it is most likely to induce . Obviously any mode of feeling can be communicated by art , perhaps even by abstract art . Nevertheless the personification of this message in the terms of aesthetic form constructs a simulacrum , a presencethat qualifies the image of the paramount feeling expressed . The feeling takes to itself as a crowning attribute more general images of experience . Form , then , ultimately constructs an image or figure of which , in art , the expression of particular feeling avails itself . A simple instance lies with Bonnard , with the shape of hats in his time that approximated to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He seems to coordinate experiencelargely through an unenvious and loving attitude to this form . He is equally interested in a concave rounded shape . Again , when we know well an artist and his work we may sense that among the characteristic forms he makes some at least are tied to an image of his own physique or of a personal aspect in his physical responses . This also would be an instance of form as an agent which , through the means of the artist 's personality as an evident first step in substantiation , allows him to construct from psychical and emotional as well as physical concatenations a thing that we tend to read as we read a face . A face records more experience than its attention at the moment we look at it . Perhaps all we demand of a work of art is that it should be as a face in this sense . But form in the widest sense of all , as thep125attempted organization that rules every experience , must obviouslygive rise to a strong and compelling imagery so generalizedthat it can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present in nothing like the aesthetic strength , since were it otherwise , refreshment and encouragementthat we gain from art would not be necessary . Form must possess the character of a compelling apparition , and it is easy to realize that it is the icon of coordination . Integration or coordination of what ? it will be asked . Some aspect , I have argued elsewhere , of the integration of experience , of the self , with which is bound up the integrity of other people and of other things as separate , even though the artist has identified an aspect of himself with the object , has transfixed the object with his own compulsion , though not to the extent of utterly overpowering its otherness . These perceptionsof relationship that are the basis of a minimum sanity demand reinforcement . Outwardness , a physical or concrete adaptation of relationship , spells out enlargement , means certainty . It must appear a strange suggestion that art is in any way bent upon constructing an image for sanity , however minimal , in view of the wild unbalanced strains of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this image . But surely if art allows not only the extremity of expressiveness but the most conclusive mode , if it constructs of expressiveness an enduring thing , that mode must incorporate an element to transcendor ennoble a particular expressiveness of which otherwise we should soon tire . We are encouraged to experience a manysidedapprehension in art . Expressiveness ? it may be infantile ? becomes valuable in evolving the mature embrace by form . In the case of abstract art we are sometimes told by the artist ? and it is very understandable ? that we entirely mistake his work if we insist it expresses this or that . It is itself , the artist says , it does not stand for , it does not express , anything : it is not meant to suggest associations . I think he is right in the sense he means it . He is providing us , however , in his work with an experience of spatial relationships . Now it is obvious that no experienceis entirely isolated , or else it is traumatic . Thep126experience communicated by the abstract artist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to some extent certainly , will point to common ground with a particularaspect of visual experience in the first place or of the relationship between experiences . Abstract art would otherwise be virtually meaningless . Hence we have here an amalgam of meaning conveyed by material that transmits an image not only optical but for the mind or memory as well ; unique for the eye but generalized for the mind . Here too the form constrains us to an image , and it is not merely one of our choosing . Aesthetic experience can be defined as the opposite , indeed often as a palliative , of traumatic experience . But I am not going to try to probe the conditions of being of which this aspect of form is the symbol . I have attempted this elsewhere , as I have said . Some of the preliminaries are straightforward ? for instance , the connection with the body-image . I shall partly be confining myself to this aspect . I have often before referred to the rough-and-smooth values in building , in architecture , that are carried over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the textures , as we have to call them , of concerted sound . Why otherwise are we forced to speak of texture to describe appositions of instrumental sound ? In truth , we can not but speak of the surface of any work of art , and equally of shape and volume , of the articulated body , metaphorsby which we assert the dynamic effect of its impression and the self-completeness . Formal values vivify such images ; the inevitable metaphors derive from inevitable images that accompanyour apprehension of the formal qualities . In the fifteenth-century courtyard of the palace at Urbino designed by Luciano Laurana Plate 1 , in my opinion one of the greatest masterpieces of architecture , we surely see the same thing , a justice and fairness in the smoothness of the pilasters on the brick wall . The strength of this wall is measured by the eloquenceof its apertures and by the open arcade beneath . Each plain yet costly member of this building has the value of a limb : in the coordination of the contrasting materials there is equal care for each : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathes.  |p127One  must agree to a generalized and meaningful content in the relationships of the Soto construction and in the Laurana courtyard . But are they characteristic works of art , that is to say so characteristic that they can be used to illustrate a content available in all art ? What of the agony , violence , irregularity , flippancy even , that appear to be inevitable in some art today , or the restlessness , the explosive disruptiveness that is also common to much of the art of the past ? I have said that the generalized content of form , an element of coordination as well as of allusiveness , not only does not inhibit but makes an enduring thing or body of any kind of expressivenesshowever extreme . When , as has been common in this country , we use the term ' expressionist ' in a pejorative sense , we mean that unmistakable expressiveness figures in this or that work but is by no means richly integrated throughout the formal relationships on view , and that therefore the effect is transitory rather than enduring . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Nude , 1967 , pp. 47 ? 52p131Ghiberti and Finish ' The coldest temperaments are the most gracious . I imagine the common conception , finish ' , derives from an acknowledgementof an attribute of Florentine sculpture that dates from Ghiberti 's second doors , an attribute which some would wish irrelevantly perpetuated . For finish ' does not popularly refer to the perfect objectivization of any aesthetic idea , but rather to the final result of a particular painstaking realistic treatmentonly . This is as it should be ; for the conception finish ' is the prime quality , the final aesthetic triumph of that fluent grace ? in wider terms ? that fluent realism , which we found to demand **30;4647;TOOLONG the concept finish ' would never have occurred . It is always irrelevant when applied to other than a fluent , unemphasized , realistic treatment . One may find a fifteenth-century Persian painting had not been finished , but not that it lacks finish ' . And because more educated people insist on introducing the concept where it does not apply , they talk nonsenseabout art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there is plenty of excuse for the muddle in question . Few post-Ghiberti artists in Europe ? and neither Michelangelo nor Leonardo is among them ? have escaped the problem of finish ' , just because finish ' has been identified with the final state of all realistic treatment . So they envy Ghiberti and his like for the equally-distributed rhythm of their works , gained by finish ' , while they themselves want to express , in addition , a definite emphasis . Now Ghiberti invented ' finish ' in order to avoid any emphatic treatment . I would suggest that this problem which needed always to be solved afresh with each work , has been the spur to the greatest and to the worst art in the history of man . Today we tire of it ; it is an obstruction . So back We should go to Ghiberti to analyse it and to rid ourselves.  |p132I  find myself inferring that these Ghibertian attitudes were deliberate , whereas actually they were largely unconscious . Perhaps one can only write in coherent prose of deeper motives as if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is evident that whereas some Florentine artists arrived in Rome with enthusiasm for the big and monumental , others like Ghibertiwere drawn there not primarily from a general mounting of the pulse in that generation , but from increased interest , assiduity . Their keen intellects were real enough , and their eager civilization . That Ghiberti was working twenty-seven years on the bronzes for his second doors , throws some light on the quality finish ' . I shall remark later on Florentine affinities with the kaleidoscopicart of the North , which helped Ghiberti to formulate his finish ' . Somehow the beasts among the foliage on the bronze jambs recall the convention of Flemish miniatures . The flowers themselves are posed ' ( rather than positioned ) , as if for photographyor for a still-life class . They are unexceptional in their perfection of unassuming naturalism . This lack of assumption underlying finish ' needed years of careful cultivating . Some of the leaves , besides , were undoubtedly cast from nature . Yet , unlike the narrowly intimate art of the North , the whole pulsateswith rhythm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully articulated tuft of hair in the figures of the ten outside reliefs , every angle of the statuettes of prophets and sibyls , convey the rhythm and the freedom of the whole . Remember how engrained was the Florentine aesthetic of the statuesque , remember the same as threatened by the new Italian ferment of which , too , the Florentines partook ; remember Brunelleschi 's invention of speed of line in architecture . Ghiberti invented for sculpture a similar speed , so as to sublimate to the ends of Florentineaesthetic the deep Italian dramatic sense . Movement is everywhere in these reliefs . Only thus can repose be saved . Repose must have no beginning and no end because it must appear in the guise of movement , continuous movement , a flow without emphasis . Conservation by division of strength . There must be no central emphasis , but a general rhythm . Therefore every detail must have its perfect rhythm and yet , at the samep133time , be without emphasis . Such unemphasized perfection of detail is ' finish ' , which could be attained only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by generalizationis too direct , too arresting . For this purpose the ' primitive ' realism of the Giottesque would be inadequate , violent , clumsy . Perspective is the means of Ghiberti 's movement . A pictorial treatment of low relief embodying perspective guaranteesthe flow , while laborious naturalism both makes each detailsafe from emphasis ( which an economic , direct articulation would not do ) and keeps each detail distinct , a miniature of potential actuality . And so this general yet precise flux achieves the Florentine clarid measure . What a great artistic achievement is this , when the tricks of abstraction used in every art-period throughout the world are sacrificed ! No wonder Ghiberti 's success has been a stumblingblockto many a normal artist . ( If you contemplate art as a whole , you will see Ghiberti as eccentric . ) Donatello , on the other hand , endowed his reliefs with an inner organization , apparentin their first composing . He had no need of perfect finish ' . So far from avoiding emphasis , Donatello magnified it ; for his planes are never divorced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not want any such intense composition . Writing in commentary of his second doors , he says : I have tried in every way to imitate nature exactly in these reliefs . . . the nearer figures appear larger , the more remote smaller . ' ' Imitation ' , of course , is never an exact term . Cultural values determinewhat is considered to be imitation . But the words quoted bring to my mind these reliefs ( ' the nearer figures appear larger , the more remote smaller ' ) in which expressiveness is subordinate to an unastounding beauty , and every contour is left soft and rhythmic . In these doors , sculpture is certainly betrayed by pictorial treatment . Ghiberti describes himself as foremost a painter . But one can not conclude that when painting he conceived in terms of colour , of tone . That is not the way to make a picture look as if it is n't there at all , however effectual in relief . So , unastounding beauty ' , unemphasized rhythm ' , ' finish '  |p134and  ' good taste ' which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have things looking as if they were n't there at all ? are in some ways synonymous . Introduced to the North , ' finish ' was bound to lead to trouble . For bad artists have never realized that the whole point of ' finish ' is the equal rhythm it enables . And who can feel an equal rhythm in a northern climate ? Except it be bright in the sun , equal rhythm is monotonous . In our rains the porticoes of Greece and Rome loom long-suffering. from The Quattro Cento , 1932 , pp. 89 , 95 ? 8 17DonatelloNow Donatello 's works belong largely to the Quattro Cento . Donatello 's supreme coordination of the new sensuousness was a stone-blossom ; but not through the simpler fantasies of flower and foliage . He saw the passionate thronging of youthful bodies . The press upon the Pontevecchio , fire behind the eyes pulsating the blood , up out of the low quarters the quick children he imagines to stretch upon their wildest activities . The gross crowd , sole moisture of these barren streets , human luxuriance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singleness of energy and of movement . The slum children can not group about him too long . Their energy drives the air to ventilation . Every child is a newly victorious amorino . There is tempered steel in the strain , and no more than any Roman need Donatello be fastidious . Nakedness , however slight the form , achieves an irresistible tension , an irresistible repose , consummatein self-reliance . The fecund slime from which they grew , still clinging , is dried to brittle stone as the putti flash their limbs . Swollen with vigour they enhance rhythm beyond the powers of music . Such a stampede , a thunderous lilt , not heard ? as if the ear already deafened , the resourceful eye could store in its depth with one glance a succession of tune whichp135will astound the ear when inaudibility lifts , which will overwhelmthe shallow ear again and press down against the sides of the head ? such is the rhythm of the putti as they move in their compartments on the pulpit at Prato above the long wrought bronze capital , above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , too strong and too subtle for the plodding ear , dance sudden and final in the corridor behind the columns of the encrusted singing gallery at Florence Plate 2 . In the symbol of the putto , the new ambitions of the body found a wide expression . The animal functions of infants are in themselves symbols to adults of the most profound release . They should have been permitted us : they are symbols of the freedom we can not win . We relish it that children , when unquestioningin their acts , do not shock . The putto is a pagan emblem to those overburdened by sense of guilt , an emblem that corresponds to so universal a desire for freedom that indecencyof putti was indecency to no one . An Agostino di Duccio putto ( now hidden , it is true , by a canopy ) at Rimini urinates above an altar : even the Catholic Church , mounted as she is on sense of guilt , has turned a blind eye . Donatello took full advantage of this fact that blithe infants do not shock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even precise enough , in their sexual romps . The stone and clay bear sons by the sculptor , not daughters . Out of the hundreds of nude forms attributed to Donatello , two only are female , the bronze figure with cornucopia in the Berlin Museum , and the Eve at Padua . This fact is very significant . What is true of Donatello is true of the early Renaissance as a whole . For no other art , not even the Greek , shows so marked a preference for the male nude , a figure far less easily composed to beauty than the female nude . Such unique choice shows a predominance in sculptural fantasy of a feeling for spatial values alone , of a feeling for mass , for material as being the fruitful female block that will give birth to the most active shapes full of prolific sap . From the stone comes a new , fearless energy . And to push this fantasy further , since the architect 's building is female , set on the earth like Giorgione 's woman by the running stream , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratherp136than her daughters or a mere projection of herself . But only sculptors with a passion for the material , stone , will keep so close to this primary fantasy that on their low relief they create for the stone her children in the image of male human infants . And so the marble putti who play along the marble of Donatello 's singing gallery are the most intense manifestation of stone-blossom : also the most humanistic . A certain humanity , as an expression of human love for the near objective world in contrast to the distant , yet relentless , spiritual hierarchy , is attributed to material . Once more stone is not only the medium of humanistic fantasy , but is the near object , object pure and simple , the love for which originates the anti-sense-of-guilt , the humanistic , attitude . Humanism as an intellectual movement is but a pale offshoot of such emotion . Now Donatello 's putto is certainly derived from the pagan amorino , and the putto 's prankish turn was no doubt evolved from the slightly genre , or naturalistic , treatment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virgin and child group . Donatello 's putti are nearly always winged , partly because such crinkled surfaces appealed to his love of incrustation , still more because wings enormously help suggestion of movement , of dynamic passage and of air currents made to whistle . It is as if a dust arose with the dance along the singing gallery ; for the putti 's wings are set off by a background of black and white mosaic flecks . The putto makes the air move . Indeed he is associated with all the elements . He bursts stone like earth , at Rimini he rides the dolphin , his tempestuous energy kindles a flame that withers tasteful ornamental foliage poor in sap , and heats the luscious growth to a vibrant , tropical bulbosity . The putto is elemental force under the symbol of the infant 's animal nature . He is the emblem of Europe . For instead of the generative principle in terms of dark god and fetish or in terms of some cavernous concept of female seclusion , instead of the Indian yaksi beautiful though she be , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hairy glades , we of the West have symbolized fecundity by the infant , by the play of infants in whom the primary desires that make the adult world limitless , subterranean , dark , are seen bright and immediate andp137in their least unsettled state . We in the West believe not only that the child is father to the man , but that the child 's intent play in modes hateful and loving expresses a more real necessity than does the grown god 's esoteric power to lure and to destroy . And since the putto is unguarded , without reserve , he symbolizes , as well as the necessity , the ideal of emotional externalizationthat I have identified with the Quattro Cento spirit . He symbolizes the process of living , that lies between Life and Death , the translation outwards of the formless flux of passions , to definite , concentrated , objective form . Adult intelligence brings the artistry to living , but only in the child can you discover the material that is worked . The Quattro Cento men uncoveredthat material in art , always first on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sexual life of the child and learns from him . And since we know today that the child also is broken by his impotent passions , his cry and his gurgle are likely to remain for us symbols not only of Life , but also of living . Naturally the Renaissance putto is first of all symbol of joy and freedom . Donatello swells his contours . His putto is a powerful plaything both in muscle and in sex . Donatello is safeguardedby the innocence ' which has been so irrationally attributed to the child . The putto is such an infant as every actual infant would like to be , and so with his games . He is a creation of Donatello 's , so special , so imbued with unsuspected meaning , so emblematic of an age , that I must insist again that Rococo infants and such-like are not putti at all . In fact any work in which the putto appears is bound to be not only fifteenth-centurybut Quattro Cento . And here I must distinguish the putto from other and contemporary infants , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Florentine artists were shy of Donatello 's putto . Even Desiderio whose work is Quattro Cento for quite different reasons , generally changed putti into children and young boys . Rossellino and Majano followed him . They favoured especially the delicately featured young boy in bust or as guardian of a tomb . Representations of the more youthful saints , particularly the San Giovannino or young Baptistand St Sebastian , belong to this vogue . Pollaiuolo the trucu/lent avoided both putto and child , both Donatello 's avowal and its negation . Verrocchio returned to the putto , but not to the crowd of them . He represents them alone , a little timid , though still bulbous in form . Otherwise , it is outside Florence that Donatello 's putto lives , particularly in eastern Italy . Donatello himself worked for ten years in Padua and planted there the Quattro Cento emblems . Sculptors imitated the putti in San Antonio , but painters , principally Mantegna and , then , Giovanni Bellini , transformed them back into sweet children. from The Quattro Cento , 1932 , pp. 129 ? 34 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps , of broad calm heads , of an oaken calm , of head-dresses , and blamelesstrees ; of entablature , of foliage , linked as if by hands : of tufted ground and feet in profile on a marble floor , of open surfaces that bloom from open surfaces , spheres that respond to cylinders , fibrous hair to non-deciduous trees . No other painter , except Giorgione and Cezanne , transposed as completely his love of life into the terms of space . Other , and usually predominantvalues of visual art , such as rhythm , contrast , stress , movement , arabesque , are common to all the arts however differing their sensation in each . The great poet Botticelli , for instance , to our exploring tactile sense exposes visions , sometimesrestless . The transposition lacks the finality , or at any rate the immediacy , of space . Compared with Piero , Botticelli is as sea to land . One might say of all , or nearly all , the pictures in the National Gallery , compared with the Pieros they are as sea to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep contentment . The loggias and halls are not embellishments of princely life , but enlargements of an italianate street , innocent of genre . His architecturalbackgrounds possess great beauty ; but it is less likelyp139we shall recall Piero when looking at St Paul 's , or even San Lorenzo , than at the sight of a black-timbered farm building in the sun , a sublime demonstration of architectural meaning ( since he has caused us to see it thus in element ) , with open doors and windows revealing a greater and more simple darkness . Outside , the sun , inside a generous darkness beyond the edges of neutral-toned apertures . The thought occurs of the square muzzle of a cow . As well as his sheds , Piero 's magnificent buildings are stalls of the greatest contentment . Their shelter is dignified , complacent , like the gesture of the Virgin in the Monterchi fresco , pointing to her pregnant stomach . There is sufficiency and amplitude both within and without the womb . Hills lie with heads , foliage with thorny hair , massive mouths on calm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light and dark , betweenwhat is spread and bark-like folds , between the rounded and the pointed . Each interval constructs an expressive pattern . In the stillness , apprehended at one glance , there is fire . The men and women of bovine lips and bovine eyes are gripped to their outward showing like trees in broad leaf . Above them stand the self-confident trees , circular , pyramidal , of thick foliage , nut , acorn , chestnut-bearing . If clothes are sometimes bark , hair is breathing foliage . Man , measure of the universe , on ceremonial occasions manifests the world 's geometry . Hence the towering volumes at Arezzo of the hats . But consideration of pure form , in the case of such lyrical genius as possessed both Piero and Cezanne , men of roots and strong sensuous feeling , leads to no short cut , no summary artifact . Their geometry exhibited the condensation of their farreachinglove . As is so often the case , Piero 's theoretical writings mislead in the matter , for he wrote only of values responsive to rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in divine conjunction with his sense of the warmth between parent and offspring , between polychrome pavement and shod feet that create the spaces thereon , between grooved entablature and the creases in a band that rounds the head , between arm and peeled tree-trunk , horse and cloud , a small rich pendant and the widep140spreading of lake and low hills , between a circular dark-toned hat and a porphyry disk , between hat , hand and battlement . Connection is always architectural in the sense of a division of an order : the mailed apple of a closed visor and the rounded face of a trumpeter with his length of thin tube extending from his lips ; the ring of a skull-cap and the spring of an arch ; the darkness of an aperture circled with stone and the dark centres of eyes flanked with their whites ; the consummation expressed in an Emperor 's conical hat surrounded by heads of coiled , pleatedhair against a background of arches and circular disks ; the spiral grooves of ears and the straight grooves of a transparent covering that falls from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white belts or curving outer hems ; extended fingers and the feathered points of an heraldic eagle ; the horses ' hooves of opposing armies like wide-bottomed chessmen on the board ; the acanthi of a Corinthian capital and the features and fingers of the Virgin , the beads and structure of her vestments Plate 3 ; the dark head of a cross-bearer against the sharp walnut-shaped centre of the grain and the ribbed clouds beyond ; in a crowd , head growing from head , half a mouth against a neck or a white hem disappearing against the white of an eye ; the mounting risen Christ and a dark knoll in the dawn light ; the hill protuberancesbeyond Battista Sforza 's ivory face and the diaphanoushills beyond her husband 's warted cheek .... The catalogueis mechanical , since the connections are not single but profuse , ramifying in stillness . Piero 's colour exploits the affinity to which we have referred in terms of shape and tone . All art exhibits connection , a bringing together . In visual art alone , and then solely in visual art deeply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be explicit and immediate to the point of rebutting afterthought . It is the realiser of Cezanne . Such demonstration of intellect and feeling was the crown of the Quattro Cento compulsion to make manifest . Thereafter the same chromatic sense of form to some degree persisted in post-Renaissance art refurbished , if we considerpainting only , by Vermeer , for instance , by Chardin , reenactedby Cezanne . Yet there has not been , and still there is lacking , a generalized apprehension of this side of visual art ,  |p141eminent  not only in painting but also in drawing , in sculpture and , more particularly , in architecture whose steadfast forms and textures ( not colours ) have so often endowed that sensibility with archetypes . Piero reveals the family of things . His art does not suggest a leaning from the house of the mind . He shows , on the contrary , the mind becalmed , exemplified in the guise of the separateness of ordered outer things ; he shows man 's life as the outward state to which all activity aspires . The family of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affinities were identical with those objects and with their formulae ; as if death 's calm separation lent nobility to the pressure of each heart-beat . There can be no art without something , however minute , of this quality ; because Art , mirror of each aim , conspires to win for expression the finality of death. from Art and Science , 1949 , pp. 32-6 19Verrocchio and Piero della Francesca in the National GalleryWe start with a most beautiful plastic picture on the right wall , a Madonna and Child with Angels by Verrocchio Plate 5 . As we first look at this remarkable composition our eyes are drawn into the central red of the Virgin 's robe , a surface in a relationship of slight asperity with the plainer and more suffused red of the angel 's cloak on the right . This latter red and the more cherry-coloured sleeves of the angel on the left , still more , the red curtains on the way to meet at a peak beyond the top of the picture , pull our eyes from the centre , from the Virgin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discordanceand stiff rocky modelling of her light-blue cloak . The bumping to which our eyes are subjected by this picture , as by a dazzlement suffered in the apprehension of a multitude ofp142lights , is the means of magnifying and stressing the solidity of tactile shape . Colour , we see , plays an important part in this rough passage for the eye , the reward for which is the clearer apprehension ( as dazzlement disperses ) of a simple shape , an irresistible momentum since it bursts free from forces that partially counteract it : these forces also counteract each other . The subsidiary parts , then , of this design are truly subsidiaryin a sense unknown to carving design in which each unit ( ideally speaking ) is in some respect a microcosm of the whole process , if only because of an equal insistence obtaining throughout . The pyramid of strongly modelled , incontrovertible , blue mounts with such striking or rugged simplicity that we can not but help finish off this pyramid by including the neck and head of the Virgin over the yellowish colour of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are other movements in this picture but they are delayed by counterstressesand by colour discordance . One 's eye becomes a postmanwho must call at every house and who , upon return , enjoys the better an uninterrupted cycling down the middle of an exceedingly bumpy street . Thus this formal pyramid rises and descends in the midst of the picture like a congealed waterfall , a rocky precipice frozen with a film of ice . I shall try to analyse a little more closely how this is effected . First of all the discordance of the Virgin 's red and light-blue garments . Blue is naturally ' darker than red . But when the eye is dark-adapted blue tends to lighten , red to darken. * There are many methods in a picture by which the reversal of the ' natural ' order of these colours , and the implication that should go with it , can be compensated . None of them figures here , and one need only turn to the right and glance at the Madonna of Bertuccithe elder , to see to what extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harsh and discordant . For it is not as if This phenomenon , known as the Purkinje phenomenon , is an important qualification of the constancy of colour in varying illumination . If one watches flowers in a fading light the greens and blues become perceptibly lighter in relation to the yellows , oranges and reds.  |p143the  red robe suggested a more absorbent surface as do the curtainsbehind . This central red is not exchanging places with the blue as in the Purkinje phenomenon , though a sense of it , in caricatured form , remains . For one thing the blue is too light , for another , both red and blue are represented as reflecting white light with competing impermeability . Almost surrounded by this light blue , the Virgin 's calm red centre , an axis for the blue pyramid above and below , is insulated , cut short from close intimacy with the other reds . We are finding that also this careful plastic use of colour is serving well the picture 's subjectmatter . But we must not look at all for the kind of accumulative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This plastic beauty will elude us if we try , for instance , to conceive the brown hair of the angel on the right as an extractionfrom the landscape behind it . And now walk up to Piero 's Baptism Plate 6 at the end of the room . You will notice that the roundness and fork of Christ 's beard are echoed beneath by the round of the arms that come together in his hands which point with triangular apex into the triangular space between the forking of the beard . As we shall see in a moment , the forms in this painting proceed in the manner of a mosaic or of a closely-knit architecture . Again , the Virgin who prays in Piero 's Nativity , on the other side of the door , shows a similar reduplication in her form . The downwardsweep of her nearer arm appears at all angles in the folds of her cloak , and the triangle of her returning hands is isolated but echoed by the triangle of red vest above them , and by the triangular form beneath her chin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands and arms are posed in a similar attitude of prayer ; but each form is disconnected . There is little impression of arms descending and lifting at the elbow . The upper arms are needed as boundaries of the blue pyramid , while the forearms , and especially the hands , serve an entirely different purpose . For the hands as a disconnectedform are urgently needed to carry the eye up from the red to the neck , and therefore to enhance the pyramid of this whole organization of Which , it is true , they are the smaller image . The eye fixes on them for this reason and perhaps per/ceives that their suspension or poise conflicts with their harsh role as a bridge to the kindred colour of the neck , a harsh bridge from the red over the blue to the yellowed white . Nevertheless the hands , as well as the similar inclination of the head , are the means of bestowing a quiet grace , but hardly a graciousness , upon these uncompromising forms ; a concatenation typical of early Renaissance Florentine art that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grace was removed by Michelangelo to reveal the insatiable features of the Baroque . But I do not suggest that the grace of the Verrocchio is in any way repulsive . Such a stricture applies more to the sculpture of this kind . And now let us note another of the subsidiary movements in the picture , movements delayed by obstructive colour ; the postman'sround as I have called it . There is a movement from the right angel 's head , along the baby and up the other angel , one that encloses the pyramid the better but is itself full of delays . Thus , the neutralized purple blue , for instance , of the infant 's drawers pushes to the right with the infant 's weight : but the colour is arrested by a clash with the angel 's supporting hand and with his sleeves of a greener blue . This last is the strongest of these competing colours , and so movement is sustained in spite of the obstacle , and one is made to feel the baby 's weight and the pressure of the angel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upward movement just as the Virgin 's veil assists her hands in cementing the obdurate pyramid . A plastic painter makes these obstacles in order to overcome them . Thus is the stress and solidity proven that he communicates . All the same , there is another organization , this time more of the nature of a progression , constructed from the baby 's drawers as base of a triangle , and from the Virgin 's purplish sleeves that reach to her wrists ; and also from the upper and lower parts of the infant 's body divided by the drawers , taken with the Virgin 's hands as the apex of another triangle . Both these organizationsthat bound the red robe are microcosms of the major pyramid , and it is here , in this construction of a carving nature , that the picture 's poignancy of feeling principally lies ; especially when considered in conjunction with the rocky plastic pyramidp145of the whole . For the infant is thus attached to the Virgin 's hands that pray so peacefully : these organizations , moreover , are the boundaries of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : they thus enhance the nobility of this central shape : and it follows that each of these forms is similarly enhanced . The picture as a whole , however , is most tactile , an immensely bright and solid apparition that might confront an eye groping in the approach of night . A solid apparition ' is a contradiction in terms ; but perhaps no more so than the one inherent in this picture 's effect . And now if we glance again to the left of us at the Piero , on the end wall , we discern immediately a smoothness of colour and form , an identity as of the white notes of a pianola which are sounding the most diverse harmonies without being pressed from their line . Let us approach the Nativity . I do not offer an appreciation or analysis of this picture , desiringto point only to those characteristics that contrast more obviously with the Verrocchio . Thus we note at once the neutralizedblue of the Virgin 's cloak which engages in no sort of clash with the triangle of red at her breast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form synthesizes the triangles and rounded ovals figuring throughout the picture . The triangle of reds prays steadily as do her pointed hands ; and how calm the radiance of her neutralized blue robe that is informed with the warm colorationof the wood on which it is painted ! Owing to the orderlysuccession of blues from the angels , the Virgin 's robe maintains a closer centrality than that of the outside , but far stronger , blue of her cloak . In fact , this more saturated blue , instead of taking precedence in our attention , seems to exert itself to keep the Virgin nearer to the band of angels and to the picture 's centre . For , while more saturated , it is also a good deal darker . At the same time the cloak 's yellow lining that shows at the inside edge , takes upon itself this gap of tone , thereby enhancingthe lighter , rather than the darker , blue . The cloak of strong blue descends , in fact , from the Virgin , revealing her . It is more a train , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in front , it forms a continuous bond also , uniting the child with his former house . The warm-coloured lining that appears as well on thep146other side of the Virgin is also in contact with the child , and it passes to the Virgin 's golden-brown hair which , in turn , is in colour contact with the traditional background forms of this scene , the cow , the silvergreysof the landscape and the township , are built with those shapes and declivities that together with the angels achieve synthesisin the Virgin 's grey-blue robe ; in so doing they themselves discover incontrovertible positions and relationships . I have taken the Virgin as the focus of this picture in order to contrast it the better with the Verrocchio . But I might have started my analysis ( which must , unfortunately , be cast in terms of a focus ) with almost any other of the larger foreground shapes . For everything is distinct , yet nothing is cut short . In other words , we are encountering supreme identity-indifference . I avoid the attempt to describe the subtler modes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to devote a great deal of space to the function of the greens in this picture and to such a relationship as the one between the horizontal planes of the baby , the angel 's viols and the roof of the manger . Let us note one detail in the colour of the angels . The crimson triangle of under-robe visible at the neck of the back angel on the right , if taken with the light-blue robe of the contiguous front angel and its purplish shadows , would roughly equal in colour the purple-blue robe of the centre angel . Thus , as the centre of this miraculous group she augments it , though withoutherself taking any precedence . In the group we discover still more clearly the marriage of rounded ovals with triangular forms . The careful patches of the ground , the open-leaved plants as well , presage the angels ' straight and beautiful stature . Joseph is seated on a saddle . Beneath him there is a simple instance of the use of answering shapes that I remarked in the Christ of the Baptism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet by no means stiff , of shape with shape that I have shown to be closely connected with the profounder values of colour vision . Resting on the ground and against the arch of the saddle , there is a leather bag of similar shape . But whereas thep147saddle arch is hollow , the bag is solid . Such contrast through such identity makes us acutely aware of this hollow arch , of the bag 's darker leather surfaces , and of all the felt with which the arch is vaulted . The most obvious movement in the picture is down the angels , along the floor , through the baby , round the yellow of the Virgin 's cloak to the other upright tawny surface bounding it , to the saddle , in fact ; and up round its arch where the movementreceives an imprint of the viol shape in perpendicular form . There is then an extension up through Joseph and the peasant in a red cap ( this cap is a compression , as in the case of Joseph 's hat , of the viol shape ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sky where the deep-blue cloak beneath the infant is rarefied. from Colour and Form , 1950 edition , pp. 124 ? 31 20The Reliefs in the Tempio Malatestiano , RiminiThe Tempio reliefs which most concern me are arranged as follows : lying back an inch and a half or so from a frame of moulding , they constitute , together with this frame , the surfaceson three sides of piers . These piers support arches that form the entrances to chapels . The reliefs are for the most part low , yet their forms possess many values of sculpture in the round : while the quickened mass of a human shape between wind-strewn films of drapery , the delicious torture of hair and clothing by an unseen , evocative wind upon the outer and intermediarysurfaces of a relief , give to its body the effect of vitality , of that stone-blossom we prize so high . Even carved landscapes by Agostino are restless , even the countryside is drunk with this dithyrambic draught that impels to ecstatic dance as did the breezes in the sibylline cave , scattering the mad leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sanp148Sigismondo to the monastery of Augauno , a pillar surmounted by the statue of an angel appears among the surrounding mountainslike a lighthouse encompassed . Still more in the landscape representing the influxion of the moon Plate 9 , sea and land are mingled in supernal agitation upon which a youth rides in a boat . At the Tempio , the young Agostino evolved his style ; under the influence of his patron , Sigismondo , who aroused choriambic visions , he created his masterpieces . The sea is vibrantwith fish , boughs bend under the weight of birds , the active airs breed a flock of doves that descend to greet the newbornVenus from the sea to earth . The land undulates with vegetableand animal life just as the sea with fish . But his preoccupation with sea movement ? his garments , though ostensibly disturbed by wind , cling to and disclose naked forms like seaweed waving on submerged rocks , or they are like water falling clear as the bather rises to leave the pool ? was undoubtedlystimulated by Venice whither he came after leaving Florence . Sigismondo made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spell . A spell was upon the spirit of Agostino , the spell of Isotta communicated to him by his master upon whom it first lay , a spell which , when enlarged over the varying subjects of Agostino 's work , brings to mind the afflicting magnetism of the moon that confounds the height with the depths , transforming landscape into the basin of a forgottensea . Thus , though superficially the movement expressed by these reliefs evokes a sense of air currents , yet , as we shall see later more clearly , Agostino 's root preoccupation was with water forms and water movement . But before I try to put into words the crystallization presentedby this carving , of the deeper Mediterranean fantasies in connection with limestone , I mean to prospect the whole field of sculpture . Agostino achieved what he did just because he was essentially a carver of limestone , far more essentially so than were the majority of his famous contemporaries , and perhaps more so than any sculptor whose work we have . At the instance of Agostino , then , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguished from the modelling approach . Top149raise this issue is by no means to embark upon discursion . My sole aim still is to interpret the values of Agostino 's sculpture . And since these are bound up largely with the imperfectly recognizedvirtues of carving pure and simple , so wide an issue must now be discussed for his good . Otherwise he will be appreciatedand condemned in accordance with more or less irrelevant standards , that is , in accordance with considerations of plasticity or modelling by which all carving , in whatever material , is today largely judged . The predominant virtues , then , of Agostino 's sculpture demand that a basic distinction be made between what is carvingconception and what is plastic or modelling conception , even though some traces of both conceptions are to be found in all sculpture whether it be carved or modelled . In view of the Germans and their horrid noun Plastik , one can not emphasize too strongly that sculptural values are not synonymous with plastic values . The values in sculpture which find but little expression in modelling are those which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Neither the German nor the Italian critics are capable of seeing ' an Agostino relief , beyond its often indifferent modelling . This state of affairs is intensified by the currency of photographs . Photographs transmit plastic values exceedingly well , carving values hardly at all . As plastic conceptions , the majority of the reliefs are by no means firstrate . So we shall now attack the vital though confused aesthetic distinction between carving and modelling . There must be a profound aesthetic distinction between them . As everyone knows , carving is a cutting away , while modelling or moulding is a building up . Agostino 's virtue will shed new light upon the high imaginative constructions which common fantasy has placed around each of these antithetical processes : ( imagination itself is a plastic agency , fashioning its products with fragments ) . Agostino 's virtue will illumine afresh the field of visual art . For the distinction between carving and modelling proves to be most suggestive in relation to all visual art . The visual arts are rooted in handicrafts . Let us keep the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useless arts , a development of handicraft that is valued , although the products possess no utilitarian function . They are the superb developments of fine objects made for use . And , in turn , the handicrafts are a heightened manual skill grown from the exercise of manual labour as a whole . Every artist has more than a practical interest in labour . Just as plants , worms and insect life turn the soils and help to disintegrate the rock , just as animals crop the vegetation , so the cultivator carves the earth , hoeing and ploughing the ground , cutting the undergrowth , the trees and the planted corn . And just as the cultivator works the surfaces of the mother earth so the sculptor rubs his stone to elicit the shapes which his eye has sown in the matrix . The material , earth or stone , exists . Man makes it more significant . To wash , to polish , to sweep , are similar activities . But to weave or to make a shoe , indeed the processes of most trades , are pre-eminently manufacture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of things . Plastic shape in the abstract is shape in the abstract , while carving shape , however abstract , is seen as belonging essentially to a particular substance . It is obvious that all carving is partly to be judged by its plasticity , that is to say , by the values of its forms apart from consideration of their material . But that approachalone to carving is inadequate and in some cases ( Agostino'sreliefs for example ) is altogether beside the point . It is like judging sculpture by photographs . Briefly , the difference between carving approach and modellingapproach in sculptural art can be illustrated as follows . Whatever its plastic value , a figure carved in stone is fine carvingwhen one feels that not the figure , but the stone through the medium of the figure , has come to life . Plastic conception , on the other hand , is uppermost when the material with which , or from which , a figure has been made appears no more than as so much suitable stuff for this creation . In the two activities there lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labour , but even the respective roles of male and female . Man , in his male aspect , is the cultivator or carver of woman who , in her female aspect , moulds her products as does the earth . We see both the ultimatep151distinction and the necessary interaction between carving and moulding in their widest senses . The stone block is female , the plastic figures that emerge from it on Agostino 's reliefs are her children , the proof of the carver 's love for the stone . This communion with a material , this mode of eliciting the plastic shape , are the essence of carving . And the profundity of such communion , rather than of those plastic values that might be roughly realized by any material , provides the distinctive source of interest and pleasure in carved objects . It was not inappropriate that the tool carved as an instrument for carving or to cut now a branch , now the skull of an enemy , should have had so masculine a shape . Knapped flints , rubbed obsidians and jades , are most satisfying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connections made by the fantasy are here in simple accord . One might go further . It is from such coincidencethat a thus reinforced fantasy has proceeded to create visual art . This is the point at which to emphasize the pre-eminence of stone as the material to be carved . I am not thinking of its durability , nor even of the shape it will allow . I am thinking of the equal diffusion of light that , compared to most objects , even the hardest and darkest stones possess ; I am thinking of handpolishedmarble 's glow that can only be compared to the light on flesh-and-blood . The sculptor is led to woo the marble . Into the solidity of stone , a solidity yet capable of suffused light , the fantasies of bodily vigour , of energy in every form , can be projected , set out and made permanent . Most other statuary mat. erials , bronze and terracotta , are far higher mediums of manifestly reflected lights , as if their light were not their own light . The majority of stones , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their light seems to be more within them . Polishing , when it is hand-polish and not a chemical polish , in nearly every case gives life and light to the stone without causing it to be so brilliant as to lose a great part of its light again in reflecting it , or to be over-confused , and deadened by manifestly accepting lights reflected on to it . It is the difference between light and lights . The great virtue of stone is that unlike other hard materials it seems to have a luminousp152life , light or soul . Limestone in particular blends the virtues of hard and soft materials . Whatever virtues I now attribute to stone in general I have already attributed in particular to limestonesand marbles . Owing to the equal suffusion of light on stone , its most gradualshapes are unavoidable , especially since they are seen in association with stone 's solidity : for hardness of material gives an enormous sense of finality to shape . The obsidian that has been thinned yet rounded to a cylinder at the shaft provides one with a far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The roundness of a flint is so compact , so heavy , its roll so continuous . As for representation of the human form , it will readily be understood that in the carving of stone 's hard luminoussubstance , it suffers all the stroking and polishing , all the definition that our hands and mouths bestow on those we love . Polishing stone is also like slapping the new-born infant to make it breathe . For polishing gives the stone a major light and life . ' To carve ' is but a complication of to polish ' , the elicitation of still larger life . Carving is a whittling away . The first instinct in relation to a carvable material is to thin it , and the first use of such material as tool or weapon required it to be sharp , to be graduated in thinness . The primary ( from the imaginative point of view ) method of carving is to rub with an abrasive . It is possible that the forms in stone sculpture which possess preeminentlya carving , as opposed to a plastic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if only in the final process . However , it is not necessary for me to enter into a discussion of technique . I think one can hold that from the deep , imaginative angle , the point , chisel , drill and claw are not so much indispensable instruments of stone sculpture as auxiliaryweapons that prepare the stone for the use , however perfunctory , of abrasives . The chisel and the rest facilitate stone sculpture : and , historically speaking , it may be that these instrumentswere adopted from wood carving and gem carving for this purpose , rather than invented for use on sculptural stone . But the only point I wish to make is that rubbing belongs integrallyto the process of stone sculpture . Wood , on the otherp153hand , is never carved by rubbing. * Herein lies the fundamental difference between stone and wood sculpture : for it is reflected in the shapes proper to each , whatever be the actual instrumentswith which they are attained . Stone demands to be thinned , that is to say , rubbed . Wood demands to be cut and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but possesses less light seemingly its own . Typically wooden shapes are nearer to typicallymodelled shapes . Hence , wooden shapes need to be more emphatic . In contrast with the flattening or thinning proper to stone , more definitely circular shapes are proper to wood , conditioned as well , in the majority of cases , by the rounding treegrowthformation of its grain . But the light on stone reveals the slightest undulation of its surface ; and since no stone has a generalcircular structure , curves depend entirely on the care with which the block has been diminished . Such forms , though they may suggest the utmost roundness , will tend in reality to be more flattened or compressed than in the case of carved wood . Indeed , as we have said , from this lack of exaggeration , from this flattening or thinning of the sphere , the slightest roundness obtains the maximum life and appeal . The light on stone is comparativelyeven : no shape need be stressed : where complete roundness is avoided , the more it may be suggested . So the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is given only by the thinned nature of the block as a whole . Carving is an articulation of something that already exists in the block . The carved form should never , in any profound imaginativesense , be entirely freed from its matrix . In the case of reliefs , the matrix does actually remain : hence the heightened carving appeal of which this technique is capable . But the tendency to preserve some part of the matrix is evident in much figure carving , and in the case of some arts , has given rise to This statement is true only in the present context , that is to say , in helping to define a trend or principle . If read literally , it is untrue . Some very hard wood forms ? many instances of Negro wood sculpturespring to mind ? were undoubtedly attained by rubbing . But in these cases the hard wood was treated almost as stone : the basic forms are stone-like , though , to their detriment , they lack stone 's even light.  |p154definite  conventions : thus , the undivided knees of Egyptian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one : for even though no part of the matrix is palpable , the conception of it may yet be imputed to some part of the form . This is the inspirationbehind many of the great hard-stone Egyptian heads . In conception and execution they are pure carving ; of which the proof is that nothing , no , nothing , is more meaningless , more repulsive , than a plaster cast of one of these heads . I speak of all stones as if they possessed pre-eminently the light and the texture which , in a previous chapter , I attributed to certain limestones . The majority of stones have these virtues , but to a much smaller degree . It follows that Egyptian hard stones , such as granites , diorites and porphyries , are by no means the most vivid kinds of stone . They lack marble 's even and palpitating light . Their extreme hardness and harsh light entail comparatively rounded shapes . Softer stones , on the other hand , tend to be diminished to greater thinness . Their curves , no less gradual , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forms . Such definition of form by whittling and polishingmarble , so that in representational art the figures themselvestend to be flattened or compressed , as if they had long been furled amid the interior layers of the stone and now were unburdened on the air , were smoothing the air , such thinness of shape appears to me to be the essential manner of much stone carving . This manner , also , preserves for us the influence of the once enclosing matrix . Superb instances of such shape in its most direct form are provided by the little prehistoric marble figures that come from the Cyclades . Many of these figures are so thinned out that they will not stand up . The heads particularly are squashed back . Yet what roundness is suggested by the curve of the shoulders , what fullness by the slight indication of the breasts ! Curiously enough , such sensitiveness to the radiance of human form and to the kindred radiance of marble immediately proposes a Greek ancestry , although these figures antedate Achaian invasions by many hundreds of years . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luminous gradations of marble , Greek or not Greek , is through and through Mediterranean.  |p155I  will not stop to consider the direct evidence of such flatteningin Mexican sculpture , for instance , nor attempt to elucidateit in all the major sculpture of the world . I shall not otherwise refer to the almost paper-like thinness of the earliest Chinese jades , nor explain how that though granites tend for each section to make for heavily rounded shapes , yet the colossalheight of much Egyptian figure-sculpture is itself an elongation that brings them into line with pyramid and obelisk . I pass straight on to relief . This , I contend , is a dramatized form of carving . The shape is on the surface , the matrix behind it . It is obvious that in relief carving , especially low relief , flattenedor compressed shapes can be shown to the greatest advantage ; indeed , the utmost degree of compression can here serve as the direct and constant aim of the carver , an aim to which all stones inspire him . Just as an enhanced feeling of the spherical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by elongating spheres into ovoids and into other gradually rounded shapes , so threedimensionalform may become all the more significant from being represented by the compressed shapes of low relief . AdvisedlyI say can serve ' and may become ' . For , except Agostino , no sculptor known to me has flattened into low relief almost entire figures in the round . Agostino 's reliefs are the apotheosisof carving . His isolation , and the moderate approval that his work has won , but indicate how undeveloped , generally , is the emotion that the very idea of stone carving should inspire ; or , at any rate , how easily it gives ground to emotions aroused by considerations of plasticity . I realize that I owe in the first place to the contemplation of Agostino 's work all that I feel about stone . No other sculptor can teach so much about carving . His achievement inspires the search for its origins . As my comment , I have needed to range the Mediterranean geography and the character of limestone . For at the time of the Renaissance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete objects that became intense . Agostino 's qualities , of course , were in part shared by some of his contemporaries , certainly in those of their works that I have described as Quattro Cento.  |p156A  more definite search for the origin of these qualities than the one I pursue , a definite research in the technique of ancient or medieval reliefs , will explain but little . Assyrian low reliefs , for instance , show no large degree of flattening . Classical high relief often has the appearance of free-standing statuary that has been cut off three-quarter or half by the background plane . This matrix not only does not assist the carving value but muddles the plastic value . Classical low relief is , essentially , an engraving ; in actuality , a raised surface surrounded sometimes by a grooved outline . This contour is clearer from the distance than a general incising of the stone would be . I rarely find a deeper inspiration behind such relief . It is intended that the figure should look as flat as possible on the raised surface . Relief is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An Agostino relief is exactly opposite in conception and technique . It is intended that the figure should look as round as possible , while the lower the surfaces by which the effect is achieved , the better . So great is the **29;4709;TOOLONG of some of the Tempio reliefs , that one needs to touch their surfaces to realize fully the degree of their flatness . In many periods of art throughout the world , low relief has too often served merely as a raised incision , a drawing or engravingin stone whose sides have been cut away to afford sharpness and definition . No wonder that our more thoughtful contemporary sculptors have no interest in relief ! I shall return to the question of relief . It is time to say something about the nature of modelling . That with which you model in sculpture is as much a materialas the stone to be carved . But plastic material has no rights ' of its own . It is a formless mud used , very likely , to make a model for bronze or brass . Modelling is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shape is not uncoveredbut created . This gives rise to a freer treatment , free in the sense that it is a treatment unrestricted by so deep an imaginativecommunion with the significance of the material itself . The modeller realizes his design with clay . Unlike thep157carver , he does not envisage that conception as enclosed in his raw material . If the primary carved shape is an obsidian tool or weapon , the primary moulded shape is a clay receptacle . The unglazed bowl is written with the potter 's fingertips : thus he expresses the completenessof its manufacture : while enamelled pattern over glaze and slip , or on porcelain , are an elaboration of his touch , are the potter 's written characters . As we shall see , the calligraphicand supremely personal element in graphic art is always to be associated with modelling conception ( particularly in the case of oil painting ) , while painting , for instance , that essentially illuminates a certain space , the use of pigment that is more directed by some architectural conception of planes , is preferably to be classed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms ( as opposed to carvingforms ) in the widest sense , that they are without restraint : I mean that they can well be the perfect embodiment of conception : whereas , in the process of carving , conception is all the time adjusted to the life that the sculptor feels beneath his tool . The mind that is intent on plasticity often expresses in sculpturethe sense of rhythm , the mental pulse . Plastic objects , though they are objects , often betray a tempo . Carving conception , on the other hand , causes its object , the solid bit of space , to be more spatial still . Temporal significance instead of being incorporated in space is here turned into space and thus is shown in immediate form , deprived of rhythm . Modelling conception , untrammelled by the restraint that reverence for objects as solid space inspires , may run to many kinds of extreme . For instance , on the one hand there are the simple , pure ' , forms of many fine pieces of pottery , exhibiting a purity of completeness in manufacture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other hand there are potential or conglomerate forms that are consciously impressed with the associative and transitional qualities of the mind 's processes . The rapid content of Rodin 's sculpture and , indeed , of Impressionistart as a whole , serves as an example . Characteristic of modelling is an effect of the preconceived . In any Ting ware bowl , a most complicated thoughtful con/ception has been realized by a simple shape ; while the thrust of some all-absorbing rhythm , simple enough in its fundamental movement , has been realized in virtuoso or masterly style by Bernini , Manet and Rembrandt , in unequivocal or monumental style by Donatello and Michelangelo . One does not encounter so prominent a masterliness , so wilful ' a preconception in what is most essentially carving . For carving entails a dependence , imaginativeas well as actual , upon the material that is worked . The stone block attains vivid life under the hand that polishes . Similarly , the shape of the material on which Piero della Francescaand even Giorgione painted was of the deepest significance to them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instance , or of Greco . These latter , in their vastly different ways , were often engaged in such potent modelling that they negatived the picture plane by their compositions , as did all the Baroque painters . Theirs was the supremely personal , the supremely aesthetic ' touch ; theirs the calligraphic omnipotence so characteristic , as well , of Far Eastern pictorial art . The Baroque calligraphywas generous , bold , adult : while the Chinese calligraphy , though far more subtle , in painting at least has always been at root an art of precocious childhood , that is to say , cunning and exquisite splodges upon a white surface . Most developed visual art displays a calligraphic competence . Calligraphy becomes extreme only when a calligraphic draughtsmanship is that to which each of the visual arts approximates . Such was the position in Baroque times . A Baroque church , a Baroque painting , a Baroque sculpture , each of them possess the verve of experienced and rapid handwriting . All unabashedmodelling conception may be put into terms of such draughtsmanship , particularly since materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such draughtsmen . I do not mean merely that they should be able to draw , but further , that their modelling should be but a projection of this primary penmanship . The true carver 's power to draw , on the other hand , is a secondary power : for it is inspired by his attitude to stone .. He has sought to illuminate the stone with file or chisel : now he seeks to illuminatepaper with pencil or brush , so as to articulate its evenlyp159lighted surface . Illuminated manuscripts ' are a just description of the painting that springs from this attitude ; and to these illuminations , the painting that was inspired by the character of stone always bears some reference . There may be a strictly linear approach to contour ; but in the developed pictorial art of this kind , the painter will emulate the tonal values which the actual carver reveals on the surfaces , more or less equally lit , of his block . This painter 's employment of tone is distinct from all other employments of colouring : in comparison they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting , whether it be more linear or more tonal ' in technique , that is most deeply founded upon tonal conception . To my mind , such is the only true painting . There are , of course , all degrees of this profundity . Thus a Piero della Francesca picture causes all nearby pictures to cease as paintings . For , in comparison , they appear to be no more than coloured designs , calligraphic brushwork , tinted drawings . I shall not risk the further confusion of the reader at this juncture , by following up so difficult a distinction in the realm of painting . This subject , in its entirety , belongs to a subsequent volume . But , so far as it is now necessary to my interpretation of Agostino 's carving , I believe it will become clearer in due course . To turn again to sculpture proper . I have attempted to isolate the essential carving from the essential modelling . We may now form a better idea of their interdependence . For let me admit at once that in no part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modellingdid not influence , and so , extend , the carver 's aim ; nor have artists with the strongest plastic preconceptions disliked , for what were considered monumental works at any rate , the suggestions of carving that result from the execution of their designs in wood or stone . There is no doubt that in the majority of developed periods , sculptors have desired to combine the plasticity of poise and rhythm with those qualities of a spatial object which , it is felt , can only be translated and enhanced rather than created . Stone exhibits these qualities at their highest . And so , plastic conceptions have been realized pre/eminently in stone as well as in plastic materials : and that not only because of the greater durability of stone . So confused a conceptual admixture , of course , is foreign to the pure plastic art of Chinese earthenware and porcelain . But in limestone Europe , the influence of stone on modelling is evident from the earliest times , particularly in the South . After the initial rapprochement , so typical of European art , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick development of the more facile process , modelling , then constantly influences the carver . Indeed , one can make the generalization that the greater the power of carving to absorb modelling aim , the more incessantwill be the infiltration of plastic values into that carving . Thus , the proof of the importance of stone in European art is the prevalence of plastic aim in European carving . A period comes in Europe , however , when an excess of plastic aim in stone-work overpowers the nexus with carving values . As carved stone the resultant will be empty , though it may still be lovely as modelling : since a successful plastic idea is little bound up with any one material ; indeed , its entirety may be suggested by a drawing . But it is probable , since the one defines the other , that when the values proper to carving are finally lost , modelling is atrophied sooner or later . There then intervene those grotesque confusions in aesthetic values such as we attributeto the Hellenistic age and , still more , to our own immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start afresh with the primary values of carving and modelling . This is our position today . To turn once more to stone relief . Classical relief , I have said , rarely possesses superb carving value . The flattening of form , so congenial to the light and density of stone , is rarely marked . Flattening entails the use of some perspective where a scene is crowded with figures : and it was the character of classical architectureitself which ruled out any such treatment . A Greek temple , in particular , was so entire an expression of limestone , that a relief could add nothing structurally ; while , executed in perspective , it would have disturbed the limestone geometry of the planes . It was as if architecture almost completely absorbed ,  |p161and  then restricted , carving aim . In some other countries , a more developed relief has still been part of the architecture without so marked a subservience . The other extreme is attainedby some Indian temples in which structural conception might appear to be sacrificed to what is called ornamental carving : a misnomer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the structure . It is the structure . That will not appeal to modern taste which tends to deny , in any circumstances , a paramount sculptural value to relief . One is told that Renaissance relief is merely pictorial , merely bad painting . I trust the foregoing pages have put the boot upon the other leg ; though I do not wish to suggest that a painting is inferior because it can be referred to a carving or plastic conception . If it were so , there would be no good pictures at all . One is also told that a sculptural piece must be satisfactory from every angle ; it must be entire , significant from in front , behind , on top , beneath and so on ; whereas relief , of course , in worse case than a picture , can be seen only from the front . Now the reliefs I am about to champion are to be seen from the sides as well as from the front . This has escaped everybody 's notice , and it is the central point of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and part of them , are slabs fitted to columns . Yet is this not to have a back ? For myself , the entire piece of carving , even a primitive flint , is not the quintessential carving though it be the primary one . The carved stone that you take in your hand , that you turn over to examine every loveliness , has a created entirety which in the last resort I would rather associate with modelling . For the essence of stone is its power to symbolize objectivity . It should stand , be more or less immovable : and what better occasion for vital objectivity than when carving gives the expression to masonry itself , when relief shows the surface of the stone alive ? Not often does it take this role . Quattro Cento carving , though , is of this kind , of which Agostino was the greatest master . Let me , then , if I am to convinceyou , define his mastery in detail , first pausing to consider the low relief that he inherited . A few pages back I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glorified by the flattening and thinning of form inp162very low relief ; how stone may thus reveal rounded forms that are yet altogether one with the matrix and with the building . Flattened shapes in relief , shapes that give some suggestion of the figure in the round , and consequently afford some value to a side-view , are common enough in Byzantine , Romanesque and Gothic relief . Except , however , in some Byzantine and late Gothic pieces , the flattening is not far developed , nor could it be further developed without proper perspective . But it is a mistaketo regard perspective science as something altogether unequivocal , as clearly demarcating its users from their predecessors . Wherever on flat or flattened surfaces there is a suggestion of the round , there is use of perspective of some sort . Here again is the connection between the layer-like or flattened forms natural to stone , and pictorial art in general . For the widest possible definition of a picture must be the use of flat pigment entailing some suggestion of two or more surfaces . Should pigment be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may achieve pattern , but not painting . Painting realizeson a single plane the tones of marble surfaces . Indeed , the very same sense of round shapes that are yet flattened out , which I find proper to stone relief , is sometimes to be obtained from Byzantine pictorial art ; for instance , from the compressed attitude of the mosaic sitting Virgin of San Apollinare Nuovo at Ravenna . She is , in part , represented slightly sideways so that she shall the better appear to sit . As for one of the attendant Magi , his bending knees ( that enable a large part of the haunch to appear ) , his twisting trunk , immediately put one in mind of the attitudes Agostino used in so many of the Tempio reliefs , by which he could suggest figures in the round . Again , the Byzantineterracotta reliefs in the Baptistery of the Orthodox are to be connected with Agostino 's works . Thus , when perspective science was discovered at the beginning of the fifteenth century , it was the answer to an intensified acquaintance with stone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , in a novel form , in a Gothic form after a thousand years or so of Christianity . But as usual the carving situation was bound up with the plastic . Given a new attention to stone that dates from the proto-Renaissance , itp163was not irregular that the enormous strides in technique and perspective should have been immediately contingent upon a new aim in the more facile process , modelling . Limestone , as I have said , marble in particular , possesses a soft light . Yet it is solid and durable . Its beauty is this fusion of the virtues of hard materials and soft materials . Nay , further , the purer marble is hard and brittle , yet owing to its metamorphic , homogeneous structure , is carved by strong tools with some facility . And it is probably due also to this character of marble , that modelling , the more facile process of homogeneous soft materials , has made in Mediterranean countries an unparalleled , continuous , intrusion into the carving of stone . Some intrusion of modelling facility heightens the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of Agostino , whose art reveals a combination of some plastic skill with a searching respect and love for the stone . But the majority of Florentine Renaissance sculptors had no such continuous love . Already before the ' stone rush ' Florentine modelling was far developed , and it was the Florentines who upon the advent of the stone rush ' gave the new command and the new conception to the rest of Italy . In my first volume I have described this phase and its connection , so far as architecture and architectural decoration were concerned , with the dull Florentinesandstone , pietra morta. *They loved stone little in Florence . The more typical Florentinesanswered to the spirit of the times , but not specifically . Their interest in carving too closely corresponded with their interest in the degree of modelling that stone could absorb . They made use of the deepened interest in stone a trifle ungenerously . Theirs was the poise , the equipoise , the cold purity of modelling conception . When I come to Florence from the Adriatic coast , I notice this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pedestal . I have a sense of Plastik , I notice the prominent yet noble stomachs of the statuary , moulded , it is evident , not by eating but from outside by the sculptors . I admire the size of things , I admire greatly the poise of the open loggias and the great eaves that are like wings of wheeling aeroplanes along the More usually called pietra serena.  |p164streets  . How they sail and wheel like the swallows who nest in them ! Stately , naturally stately become the figures in the narrownessbelow , figures once fitted in voluminous robes and locks upon high heads . As I gaze at the planes of the eaves fixed in complicated rhythm along the Via dei Bardi , high over the straight , gloomy walls , I remember Verrocchio 's bronze St Thomas with a foot balanced without the niche on Or San Michele , Ifeel his calm locks and pointed face and the nobleness of his cloak . The noise of the Via dei Calzaioli , reverberating among the close grey stones , prevents this nobleness from gloominess and pride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; always the plastic assurance amid turmoil . Perspective was developed by the Florentines , but was never the basis of their art . The Florentine sculptors and the painters who derived from them used ' perspective . They cared little for gradationsin layers or in tone , except so far as they assisted naturalism . In carving as in modelling they realized the most realistic perspective without any intense gradation between adjacentsurfaces . The foreground figures of Ghiberti 's bronze reliefs are really free-standing , while the background figures are no more than outlined . Open the bronze gates or approach them from the side , and the reliefs will be meaningless , the foregroundfigures will be horrible and precarious bits of pointed metal . In this connection I feel in sympathy with the modern criticism of relief , especially relief on doors that presumably open and shut . But such is not the relief I hail as carving . Since they aped in stone the extreme naturalism of Ghiberti 's modelling , the Florentine cutters developed an unequalled facileness . Sometimes they anticipated the Baroque translation into stone of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flying angels on the walls . These distressing figures , which claim the poise of the hollow bronze although they are ostensibly marble relief , preserve their positions by being composed in reality of marble pieces that lie close on the wall surface and that are secured by a projection that passes within the wall . But there existed relief carving in Florence , exquisite relief carving , even though largely inspired by Ghi/berti 's plastic elegance . Desiderio would not have thus carved the swags on the Marsuppini tomb unless he had loved the marble . Yet , if we compare him with Agostino , Desiderio is a modeller , conceives as a modeller . And the same is true of Donatello . When Desiderio or Donatello carved a Madonna and child relief , they composed it boldly , in masses . And so , whatever the delicacy of the carving , there is little , or no , vital connection between one surface and the one immediately next to it . The child , although he is the front surface , will be extremelyflattened , so that in composition he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mother . There are cases when a significant relation between one surface and an adjoining surfaceis not so much unimportant from the point of view of the general composition , as definitely undesirable . Thus the flattened top of a Virgin 's head or nimbus is resolved into a rim cut away from the background . The centrality , the emphasis upon organized mass , require the rim to be divorced from the background , so that composition be the more definite , the more precise . Such a rim , however , is contradictory when seen from the side . For the cutting away now appears as something so blatant and emphasized as to become a main feature , a positive denial of a nexus with the background , with the matrix . In brief , there is little care of stone surfaces as valuable and related in themselves . Lombard cutters are even more at fault . Very often the whole heads of their crowded reliefs are cut away to an almost spearlikesharpness , apparent even from the front . It is only fair to say that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be blamed least in this connection . He is considerablynearer to Agostino than were the Rossellinos and Majanos , or than was Donatello himself . Desiderio worked marble with a sensitiveness unrivalled in Florence . But he too seems a modeller by the side of Agostino . Stone gradations are multiplied by an Agostino Madonna and child relief . Graduated surfaces are the logic of its form . Each surface sponsors a fresh disclosure . What is in front ( the child ) is less flattened than what is behind ( the Virgin ) . The effects of actual difference in the depth of surfaces are not diminished asp166by Desiderio or Donatello in favour of a plastic mass , but emphasizedwith perspective . Thus the forms carved on the inner layers are progressively flattened . The further into the stone the more pronounced becomes the flattening of shapes : yet the inner and background shapes suggest no less contour than the other shapes ; with the result that they are luminous even in the dimmest light , as if their contours were indeed the face of the stone-block itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flattened interrelated surfaces that , unlike the reliefs discussed above , an Agostino relief will bear examination from the side . This is the test of relief carving . If every surface is rounded into the next so that , seen from the side , the values of forms in the round are still composed there as a face to the stone , then it is the finest relief carving . The Florentine sculptors , one and all , had little use for perspective beyond a certain point . Agostino exalted perspective , so that every gradation of the marble 's slow luminous face was given life by his hands . His low relief and its background possess a vital and vibrating concomitance . Such general statements produce small conviction . Let us compare Agostino 's Virgin and child relief in the Victoria and Albert Museum Plate 8 with the famous Donatello Dead Christ with Angels Plate 7 that hangs on the next case , the one nearer the door . I have little doubt as to which of these two pieces the reader will prefer in photograph . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the values lost in photograph . The photograph of the Donatello relief gives you its point most happily . The design , the organization of masses , the elements of weight and stress and strain are clearly understood . The virtues of the Agostino relief , on the other hand , the gradual rounded cutting , the closely related equal tones and half tones , the luminosity , in part are lost . But the disparity is not merely a question of photograph . The same judgement is likely to be made in front of the reliefs themselves . For contemporary educated taste is a good deal more academic in temper than one might suppose from all the talk and would-be modernist ' profession . Now , academic taste only feels at home with plastic conception in the widest sense . Thatp167is one of the reasons why academic sponsorship of the classic is so woeful , so doomed . Like the pseudo-modernists , academic taste can only fully recognize design alone , albeit of a different sort , but equally the plastic sort . Be it modernist or academic or whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of masses is characteristic of modelling , be it oil paint that is slickly splashed about or Le Corbusier 's lightning concrete. * Naturally , the Florentines with their power of organization , with their complete preconception ( all the values of a Florentine relief can be suggested by a sketch ) , are continually acclaimed unrivalled masters among the fifteenth-century sculptors . At a moderate estimate only one out of a hundred trained admirers of visual art is as sensitive to the deeper philosophies of space and tone or carving , as he is to poise and rhythm or to the plastic side of composition . The majority will fully recognize the creative verve only when it has fashioned something out of formlessness . They see the shape and the other attributes of a primitive flint tool , but they do not see with the same absorbed attention that it is a flint . In a word , the majority are not highly sensitive to stone . They love texture and colour of course . They know this picture has good colour and that bad colour . But there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is when employed for plastic conception . To them the concentrated use of tone necessarily means an impressionist effect . When will they see that tone is put to more uses in a picture by Piero della Francesca than in a picture by Renoir ; when will a painter come forward who is incapable of conceiving this horrible idea , colour ? I , at any rate , put in a word for carving . And , indeed , there are signs that the original carving conception is today rediscovered . Already there are painters who disdain the moulding properties of oil paint , who , so to speak , prefer to polish and scratch their canvases like the carver his stone . An attitude of* I am not denying the relevance today of Le Corbusier 's building . I but make the point that his conceptions are purely plastic . At the end of this chapter I shall point out what difference this new ( and inevitable ) plasticity of building makes to the carving-modelling situation.  |p168such  kind ? rather than the often concomitant abstraction in design ? is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I do not desire to minimize the appeal of the Donatello relief , though I am not averse from anticipating its photographic advantage . Its beauty is monumental . Nothing that Agostino carved was monumental . Hence his comparative neglect by the critics . There is nothing monumental about the nature of marble . But I will not deny that the effect of the Donatello piece , in common with many other plastically conceived pieces , is enhanced by the fact that it is carved in marble . And , of course , in such carving , some of the Renaissance general love for stone obtains expression . But this relief in no way qualifies as one of Donatello 's Quattro Cento works ; unlike , in this respect , the reliefs on the base of the Judith , which , although bronze , display the tense animation and exuberance that was primarily imputed by that age to flowering stone surface . Or , if you prefer , such humanistic eruption was imputed to all materials . But I have argued sufficiently that stone has a pre-eminent objectivity for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sculptor 's ideal object . Here is , then , in the Donatello relief , the modeller 's organization of masses realized in marble . The Christ 's body is everything . Even in photograph you can follow the modelling of his stomach which is made anatomical ' in the mode that is common to Florentine sculpture of this period . On the other hand , the further wing of the foreground angel on the right is no more than sketched in . As surfaces , the figures traced in the background , the background heads and the nimbi , have no aesthetic relation whatsoever with the masses in front . These background shapes are relevant only to the composition as a whole , that is , as shapes ; which is not enough relationship for carving conception . But apart from the background shapes , in foreground , too , there is shown small feeling for changes in surface as significant in themselves . To Donatello , changes of surface meant little more than light and shade , chiaroscuro , the instruments of plastic organization . The bottom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide a contrast to the open planes of Christ 's nude torso . The layers of the stone are treated wholesale . Though some of the cutting is beautiful in itself , the relief betrays a wilful , preconceived , manner of approach . In brief , the composition is not so much founded upon the interrelationship of adjoining surfaces , as upon the broader principles of chiaroscuro . Stress and strain is the point : anatomy , the then unrivalled plastic subject , is the point . There exists a tendency for composition to be thus broadly organized whenever the sculptor has made a design and delegatedto assistants most , if not all , of the heavy slow work of cutting the stone . Here again we see a reason , this time an unattractiveone , for the interpolation in carving of plastic values . The prevalent monumental aim of European carving has , at times , entailed the gentleman sculptor of manifold commissions , who draws sometimes , and sometimes models in clay . Several recent academic sculptors are reputed not to have handled a chisel in their lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Three-feet models of war memorials ? a wet day 's work ? have been posted to Italy to be executed there in tractable marbles by subservient masons with the mechanical aid of pointing . No wonder , then , that with few exceptions , the handful of serious sculptors who exist today concentrate upon carvingand perform every stroke of their own work ; no wonder they feel that they rediscover the very art of sculpture . In the Renaissance , of course , there were hundreds of men who cut stone superbly . The most intense feeling for stone was abroad . Nevertheless , plastic conception lent itself to delegation of work , to its organization on a large scale . We see why Florentineaesthetic was so well developed , why the workshops were so big and efficient . In plastic art , at any rate , production breeds production . A plastic conception executed by able assistantsdoes not suffer to anything like the same extent as a carving conception . The plastic conception already exists in the master 's drawing . But the values of an Agostino relief , other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the actual carving process . Agostino 's assistants in the Tempio often let him down badly ; and it was inevitable that they should . Onep170might say that the attainment of a carving conception can not be delegated or hurried . But those peoples whose fantasies rely largely on stone , insist upon a multiplicity of statues . Thus , we realize once more that the very love for stone , for stone sculpture , entails the development of a plastic approach . For only with the aid of this approach can good sculpture become quicklyextensive.And we see that when the tendency has run its course , when the original demand for stone is exhausted , a meaninglessplastic sculpture , committed to academic design , remains . We need , however , make no excuses for the cutting of this Agostino Madonna and child low relief . It is obviously by his hand . The most marked difference between the Agostino and the Donatello is the former 's effect of steady disclosure , in direct contrast with the latter 's alternating light and shade . There is always the element of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donatello , Agostino 's intensely low relief at first sight may seem ribbed and fretted , fussy . You miss Donatello 's bold plasticity . But then you can not realize in photograph the subtletyof surfaces that preserve the marble as wholly marble . You feel a lack of rhythm . But why always seek for rhythm in visual art , why desire that rhythm or music and other temporal abstractions be conveyed by objects ; why desire from the concretean effect of alternation , since the very process of time can be expressed , without intermittence , as the vital steadiness of a world of space , as a rhythm whose parts are laid out as somethingsimultaneous , and which thus ceases to be rhythmical ? Rhythm , surely , is not so proper to visual art as immediacy ; there is , surely , a certain priority of carving over plastic conception . Plasticity or rhythm in architecture and sculpture of the South has always retained some pronounced immediacy of effect through the dramatic presentation of feeling . In the visual arts of North and East , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often those arts in essenceare a visual kind of music . And how few appreciators of visual art understand anything about art , except about music and literature ! Agostino 's tonalities elude you . You can not , for example , re/alize from the photograph the effect of the apparently straight , if ridged , surface of the Virgin 's undergarment that appears beneathher left hand . Carved , not modelled , are the carefully flattened heads , slow in roundness , yet so great in roundness that they will read ' from an angle . Should you go to the Victoria and Albert , contrast in this respect the two Florentine reliefs , one on each side of the Agostino . They are absurd when viewed from an angle , when you see them as you stand in front of the Agostino . The poignancy of his shapes is not so much in themselves , as in their relations with his other shapes . This relationship is a much tighter one than in modelling . There is a poignant beauty in the triangular shape beneath the Virgin 's wrist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself : for carving conception bestows an immense content and power on what , by itself , would be the most insignificant of forms . Notice the impassable little space between the Virgin 's cheek and the child 's head . It has the meaning , the shapeliness , of the intervals between forms in Piero 's paintings.Such irremediable positions between objects , shapes that are thus so far determined by their intervals , do not lend themselves , after a certain point , to the bold organization of masses that we admire in the Donatello . And why bold ' ? Because such plastic organization runs counter to the purely spatial conception of which stone is the symbol . Yet , I will not deny that Agostino himself is an offspring of Florentine modelling as I have defined it ; that unless he had learned his trade in the Florentine school , he could never have developed so facile and flowing a technique , nor attained such naturalism ; that some of the Florentine modelling cliches remained with him . But I have already admitted a constant interrelationbetween what I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admire the infusion of such modelling into such carving so long as it enhances the layer formation of the stone . Further , I am willing to champion any marble piece , however modelled ' its forms , where there still exists some wide reverence for stone , some evidence or remembrance of stone culture such as the Mediterranean limestone culture . I give the Florentine plastic stone statues and reliefs preference , as carving , over much Northern cutting that may have ap172minimum of direct plastic aim but which , none the less , pulsates with rhythm . Northerners have never loved stone deep down : and no other material directs the fantasy to pure nonrhythmicspace . This conception , non-rhythmic space , is difficult to define more closely : so let me again apply its sense to one detail of the reliefs before us . Whereas in the Donatello relief the angel 's face on the Christ 's shoulder is a most definite ( and plastic ) transition , on the left of the Agostino relief we see one face , as it were , causing other faces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , non-rhythmic approach in general , is the juxtapositionof similar tones , of related contours , of intrinsically related forms . Every part is on some equality with every other part , an organization that is foreign to the come-and-go of rhythm . Work of this intensely spatial kind recalls a panorama contemplated in an equal light by which objects of different dimensions and textures , of different beauty and of different emotional appeal , whatever their distance , are seen with more or less the same distinctness , so that one senses the uniform dominion of an uninterrupted space . The intervals between objects have assumed a markedly irreversible aspect : there it all is , so completely set out in space that one can not entertain a single afterthought . In visual art , the idea of forms however different , as answering to some cogent , common , continuous , dominion that enforces the bonds between those forms in spite of their manifold contrasts , gives rise to the distinctive nonplasticaim : and this idea was inspired , above all , by the equality of light on stone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Piero della Francesca 's painting , by the religious reverence for spatial intervals , by tonal and perspective organization , all feeling , all movement , all rhythm , all plasticity itself , was translatedequally into panorama terms . His pictures express the metaphysics of space or colour or tone . They are free of ' atmosphere ' , psychological or physical , as they are of anything emphatic . See once more how shape causes shape in the Agostino relief . The Virgin 's arm lies tight to her diaphragm . There is the impression of a surface growing inward . This helps out the slightp173indication of the breasts . In the Donatello , an angel 's hand is put flat on the Christ 's body . It directs attention to the torso : it is a general tactile reminder . One obtains from the Donatello none of the sense of surface making surface to flower . Agostino was the master of undulation in the stone . His stone becomes a hotbed of shape.See the angel 's head at the bottom of the relief , his hand clinging to the frame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had passed through the Virgin to the front , or as if the stone were a sea in which he rocked by his hand to and from a breakwater . Also , notice the poignancy of the child 's curving shoulder juxtaposed upon the face of an angel behind , from which the shoulder 's roundness graduates . Face and shoulder give each other shape . This is an excellent example of Agostino'suse of tone , or , perhaps in the case of actual untinted carving , one should just call it surface juxtaposition. * At any rate , compare this surface transition with the deep shadow around the shoulder and arm of the angel on the left of the Donatello relief . There are no such gross and plastic shadows in Agostino 's carving . His placing of a shoulder against a cheek behind , similar contours without a shadow between , remind one of Piero della Francesca 's yet greater juxtapositions of similartones , unaided by the actual changes of surface that facilitatethis feat in carving . Piero delighted to display his extreme virtuosity in the employment of tone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind , juxtaposedto something portrayed well in the foreground . So complete his skill and so essential is it to his conception of painting , so completely is that conception realized , that with a fair amount of intelligence one might look at his Flagellation at Urbino Plate 4 every day for a year , without noticing in the picture a very astounding instance of that feat . This is the painting that presumes light , a more or less equal light , another word for space as a homogeneous medium , in which all things are set out . Piero could turn transition and movement into the finality of such space . Lights , on the other The reader will be able to discover for himself in my photograph many other instances of such mutually enhancing juxtaposition . An obvious example is the hair of the two angels on the right.  |p174hand  , lighting effects , or an emphasis upon chiaroscuro , these are to be connected with rhythm or poise , not primarily with stone . Northern European and Northern Asiatic painters have generally conceived light as the agency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of all pictorial artists , the least connected with stone , the furthest committed to modellingconception . Such is the case of many sculptors , too , who have avoided the introduction of specific modelling shape and idea . This avoidance has availed them little , whatever strength and superficial purity , whatever profound absence of vulgarity , their more puritan temper has evolved . Piero 's and Agostino 's conception depends upon an almost hieratic use of perspective . In terms of perspective was the religionof equal light , of space , of stone , expressed in that time . Anyone may experience this finality who is familiar with the air of southern lands . It is not because of marked difference in tone or in distinctiveness that you perceive this wall to be behind this wall . The bricks of the farther house-wall are just as clear , just the same colour . Each object stands in order , reduced to a common relationship by a common medium . You are aware of space : every process seems exposed as objects , all of them all at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun has gone down after a hot day , things stand . A luminous whiteness , as yet untrammelled by the dizzy approach of night , is common to sea , to road , to house . Stone gleams , the dust is white : what is of dark hue is dark , what is darker is blacker without mitigation . The sun has disappeared suddenly leaving the world arranged . After the long dazzle of the day , your eyes see the world exposed by a neutral medium which is but the fresh , caressing air . The eveningstirs : the concrete world stands concrete . What was the passageof the sun has turned into space and all that is left of passage are the invisible airs . Otherwise every phase , all subjective conditions , appear to have been transformed into objects arranged in neutral unbroken perspective . It is when thus light or space imposes so uniform a dominion on objects that difference in tones seems uniquely real and poignant . There is nothing atmospheric about them . The relationshipbetween objects becomes the essential part of their shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perspective . Light marble pre-eminently , in most of its conditions and in most lights however dim or however violent , enjoys this tonal condition , since the equal light on stone tends but to mark its shape . Once more I am back to the subject of Agostino . I have previouslymentioned the tonal qualities of his cutting . I must now say more about his uses of perspective . Although much of Piero 's finality in spatial exposition may be traced in his art , Agostino was also concerned in showing movement as a fermenton the surface of the stone . For both purposes he used exaggerated perspective : since both the tonal relationships and the ferment proper to his stone could be dramatized only by gradual curves , that is to say , by the flattened or perspective treatment of form . To describe exhaustively the method of its employment by Agostino would need a volume to itself , entailingan intensive technical study for which I am not equipped . I can but indicate a few general principles , remark a few details , a few characteristics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed perspective in carving , it is necessary to carve relief . Having argued a connection between perspective and stone , I now bring it forward to recommend the low relief , or at any rate , Agostino 's relief in which the perspective cult is celebrated . Renaissance relief perspectiveis based on the same conical projection as painting perspective , with the difference that painting is projection on one plane , low relief on at least two planes : thus the latter 's perspectiveis complicated by the thickness of those planes . Also , since the joining of actual surfaces must not be obscured by the use of perspective ; on the contrary , should thereby be magnified , less simplification is desirable than in the case of pictureperspective . High relief does not suffer this complexity to the same degree , yet has the difficulty in crowded scenes of one figure obscuring another , especially as seen from an angle . But those sculptors who loved , rather than employed , perspective , as far as possible avoided crowd scenes of the type that can only be treated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low . Agostino 's best work is of low-relief single figures which mani/fest clearly the flattening he employs , and its integral connection with the block . As I have often remarked , for such degree of flattening , perspectivewas essential . It is almost as if his figures were conceived in the round and were then pressed into low relief , so great is the roundness that is intimated by his care of stone surfaces . His perspective tricks dramatize to the full the propensitiesof stone : and since form in the round is there squashed out , the whole of that form is to be grasped from any angle . In sculpture , such immediacy can be attained only by relief ; and I think no one except Agostino has managed it , and he by no means invariably . Not more than twenty pieces or so in the Tempio Malatestiano are first-rate , one or two reliefs by his hand at Perugia , and the Madonna and child reliefs , the one at Florence , the other at the Victoria and Albert . We do not know how much else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the perspective appearance of the sphere . The ovoid is the flattened sphere . Hence the ovoid , the thinned sphere , is the prevailing shape in Agostino 's work . As he needs must work with ovoids , he began to visualize everything in terms of that form . Throughout his work he has given us this key . Thus , for instance , when he represented clouds , they are cut to oval shapes . Fingers , of course , and fish were dear to him . So too , globular hair-locks and the elongated contour of breast or stomach , buttock or thigh , beneath tight strands of transparent drapery . Such transparency , again , affirmed the slight translucence of the marble . He also used drapery to enshroud the whole figure and reduce it to his dominant shape . History and Rhetoric in the Tempio are oval forms . Agostino had various ways of enforcing perspective . Most forms in his reliefs have a perspective of their own apart from their contribution to the general perspective . Occasionally this individual perspective is in opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the former thereby makes the latter poignant . Still , the particular , and sometimes even contradictory , perspective of details , while it yet must fit in and help to make the design , also puts emphasis upon gradation of surface and neutralizes a simple modelling assessment of general masses.  |p177This  perspective treatment is not peculiar to Agostino 's work . To some degree it appears in all Quattro Cento carved and modelledrelief . In all representation , of course , there is the tendency to show the lower half of an object or figure as seen from above , and the higher half as seen from below . Such a mixture of perspective is common everywhere . It is the most simple means of showing more of the object or figure than would a strictly eye-level representation . But notice to what extent and to what resultant shape Agostinoemployed this principle . Let us turn once more to the Madonna and child relief . The general principle obtains for the relief as a whole . At the top , the head of the Virgin is inclinedslightly downward and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Her face we see from below ; but since she tilts her head downward we see well above her forehead , we see her hair , veil , crown and nimbus on the back of her head . ( The edge of the nimbus is bevelled inwards so as to bring it forward . ) We see two thirds of her head , owing to perspective flattening . We would see even more of her head if it were not turned to the side as well as inclined downward . The right side of her face is shown as far as the further edge of the eye . This right side is so flattened that in actual dimension it is only half as long as the distance from the nose to the further edge of her left eye . The ear is shown in complete profile , the angle at which an ear is most significant . It is a complicated ear , in rapport with the shell forms of the niche behind . The child 's face is seen definitely from below , whereas the angels ' heads adjoining , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are on eye-level . Moreover , whereas we see the child 's face from below , we see the top of his head and even parts of the back of it from above . Otherwise , so much of the head could not be represented . This transition from one perspective to another passes muster because the head is tilted to the side and downwards , while the eyes look slightly up . Yet the perspective is even more complicated than this . Parts of the face we see on eye-level , and the ear , like the ear of the Virgin , is represented in complete profile . At the bottom of the relief , the child 's right foot , foreshortenedon the outward-tilted framework , is seen entirelyp178from above in accordance with the general perspective. * Yet we can see slightly underneath his left foot . Also contradicting the general perspective , though at the same time reflecting its plan on a small scale , the tilted angel 's face whose chin abuts on the bottom frame is seen on eye-level , if not from below ; while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child 's head , is seen from above . The perspective of the vase on the right is not independent of the relief 's general perspective . The vase 's base is seen from above , its middle on eye-level , its lips from below . Such was the usual way of treating vases and candelabra in Quattro Cento arabesques . These various perspectives cohere : in this manner several aspects of an object were represented , while individual perspective , so far as it was the microcosm of the general perspective , emphasized that general perspective , that sense of many aspects . To some degree you will find such treatment in all Quattro Cento work , whether it be stone , bronze or terracotta , and in all work that approximates to being Quattro Cento . And this helps out a classification of Quattro Cento sculpture in terms of technique . Wherever you find relief forms , be they ornament or figure , arabesque or swag , wherever you find these shapes , whatever their position , turning to show to you their maximum , like flowers that thrust and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the salient point about them , then that sculpture is Quattro Cento as I define it . Decoration sculpted with that feeling will never look stuck on ' . For hand in hand with vertical perspective goes horizontal perspective , the flattening which means gradual and rounded shapes that issue from the block . Of such flattening , Agostino was the supreme master . Consider the child of the Virgin and child piece , consider how much of his body is shown by this low relief . You say it is like painting . This , as criticism , means nothing to me . For I can here see and touch all the values I love in stone . Painting is an offshoot of such carving . The Egyptians sometimes carved the legs and head in profile , the rest of the body as frontal . Agos*That is to say , the general perspective of the bottom half of a composition as represented from above , the top half from below.  |p179tino  's figures are a softer stone development of the Egyptian aim . A characteristic attitude , of which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one or both knees , thus bringing in the curve of the buttock ; or an arm thrown across the body bringing in the shoulder and even the shoulder blade . The first attituderequires one leg in rounded profile , so that one sees almost the whole calf , while the other leg , represented frontally , is , when the cutting has been crude , so flattened as to appear without a shin bone . Furthermore , the bending knees cause the part of the legs between knees and thighs to be represented at a receding angle that is easily foreshortened ; which , in turn , enhancesthe circular and ovular swirls , represented on eye-level , around the stomach and the hips . The trunk is often bent slightly forward over the knees , while the shoulders and head turn slightly the other way . This attitude entails a nodal vortex about the stomach and around the hips , out from which the rest of the figure undulates . Such figures appear to float rather than stand . The effect is increased by swirling hair and swirling draperythat now conceal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be embedded in some buoyant white liquid such as mercury . The soft yellowish and luminous stone was cut by Agostino to show its original liquidity and condensation . The bodies of the floaters are thus enmeshed and carried , but their heads float higher and rest upon the buoyant surface . From the knees to the navel , there is a swirl , a vortex , in the typical Agostino figure . This tends to endow the males also with the female contours and the female suction . Looking at the relief of Diana and of the other planets , and particularly the one that represents the spring tides under the aegis of Diana Plate 9 , one feels the vast seductive influence of the moon . Not till the last words of this volume shall I have set out to my own satisfaction this lunar mythology and all that it means . I must show Isotta as the moon , and Sigismondo who built the Tempio as her counterpart . For directly , even more , indirectly , the Tempio celebrates Sigismondo Malatesta 's love for Isotta . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agostino 's figures inhabit every plane of the waters . If they float near the top , they also lie upon the bottom whence they seem to piercep180each ripple as it passes . The Tempio is at Rimini on the Adriatic coast . Ripples come low and in quick succession upon that beach in summer . On arriving last June , I walked to the end of a small jetty . A white-enamelled iron chair stood upon the seabed . From the jetty I clearly saw it standing in the depth , with its round back elongated to an oval or shuddered to an ellipse . What indeed was its shape ? But there it stood . I thought at once of Agostino 's sculpture in the Tempio , of those flattened forms in which an influence was at work . In general it was a water influence . The reliefs were marble and dry ; but they were luminous : and thereupon I felt the whole deep connection of limestone and water . Next day in the Tempio I saw the Mediterranean countries as water and water-life congealed into stone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a crested marble wave . Venus is represented as coming to land in a chariot drawn by two white swans . Around her legs and piled up behind her are the waters . The topmost wave is smooth , without a ripple . It is the shapely mountain side . On one summit there grows a myrtle tree , the aromatic evergreen shrub of limestone soil . The rose flowers in a valley of intermediate swell . The relief of the influxion of the moon shows land peaks and similar trees encompassed by the flood . The trees are tinted black in both reliefs . They are the dark evergreens of the Mediterraneanlight , trees that flourish from the limestone whence by temple or on promontory they show off the pure sculpture of marble . A youth rides the buoyant flood in a boat . But should Diana 's mingling influence relax , his boat would be left high and dry on the back of a whale or sea-dragon . For half the seas have attained the same degree of solidity as have the mountains of liquescence . The creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work keeps the flood encompassing the shores to which an elephant comes in alarm . Such pregnant waters , such trees , such pyramidal peaks beneath the ovular clouds , figure also in the relief of the Crab . Rimini , the Adriatic and the hinterland are again represented . The limestone layers are the waters . Notice the river Marecchia flowing between the hills and out into the Adriatic . It is thep181rainy , the torrential flow . In such waters Aquarius or Ganymedestands . They flow behind him from the ovular clouds that muffle his right arm . Clouds , like so many torpedoes , hide Mercury 's knees , and upon his head is the pyramid as a pontifical mitre . From his knees to his navel and again about his head there is a vortex . It is the whirring night from which Diana emerges clean . It wraps the loins of the Twins , sucks evil Saturn , hurls up the dripping Virgin , encircles the Dance and distributes her wiry coils of hair . But the predominant vortex is about the hips . These swirling eye-level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tend to put out of drawing ' the upper part of a figure 's trunk . But three lovely reliefs at Perugia show best how profound is the style based upon this mannerism . Agostino gave back to marble its primeval eddies . This vortex is sometimes recalled and set to work by the incisionof a few curving lines in the background . Where no vortex appears in the middle of a relief , the idea of it yet lingers . In the relief of the influxion of the moon , this centre , represented on a level with the eye , is the first big pyramidwith the tree in front of it . Hence a further poignancy . To the pyramid , to the new limestone accruing from the waters and their life , is attributed the concentrated powers of the whirlpool whose beauty , now that it is a smooth stone , may be shown by a thin and gradual shape in complete objectivity . Here is expressed in unconscious parable the whole appeal of limestone , the whole underlying mythology of Mediterranean art . Finally , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the shape of fish , to their extreme yet rounded flattening , to the predominance of the oval form . No wonder the representation of marine life has always delighted the Mediterranean limestone carvers . But it was only in Quattro Cento carving that marine decoratives , principally in the shape of dolphins , attained a paramount exuberance . There is nothing stylized and ornamentalabout Quattro Cento dolphins or sea-centaurs or scorpions . Yet fish are the fundamental carving shape . Fish slither and wriggle in Quattro Cento relief and arabesque . The stone is alive with them . Putti , with the marble dust in their eyes , ride the dolphins ; a fluke is sometimes cut clear from the back/ground . The block itself wells over larger deep-sea forms within . Shells encrust the architectural members . They are not stuck on : they cling ; but also they flower there , bloom there : they are also stone-blossom . For the water and the water-life from which the marble was formed , in their stone shapes symbolize also the cliff , the earth , its flower and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the history of the marble , serve to symbolize the later fruitfulness of the soil which covered it from the skies . Thus sea and land , upon whose intercourse **25;4740;TOOLONG has depended , were celebrated as one in the marble . Either as land or as sea-fruit are the shells and acorns . In the last analysis , stone-blossom and incrustation are different aspects of the same principle . Marble , then , was the prime instrument of humanism . For such fantasies as found their home in marble were humanistic fantasies . Therein was implicit the friendliness to man , the natural ' unstrained exuberancewhich treats of elemental nature with so little anxiety in proportion to its dynamic strength.The tension is all of life : from death is borrowed but its objectivity , its unmitigated petrifaction . This chapter is finished ; but a postscript seems inevitable . The fine arts are rooted in the handicrafts , the handicrafts in various manual labour whose vastly traditional character , to put it mildly , is changing . Of what kind , if any , is to be the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pursuing the subject . Instead , I call attention to one contemporary change which is simple enough , but which in itself upsets the whole balance between carving and modelling . I have defended the low relief by pointing to its direct connection with masonry , with stone architecture . Hitherto , stone or otherwise , all developed sculpture has been founded on an association , at least , with architecture ; if not specifically with buildings , then with monuments , shrines , tombs and so on . Except in the case of fetishes and other small personal objects , architecture and sculpture have in every stone-using civilization gone hand in hand : or , rather , sculpture has been dependent upon building . This connection mirrors the pre-eminence that stone has enjoyed as the desired building and carving material , has ensured the preservation of some possible carving valuesp183amid the usual growth and eventual dominance of modelling conceptions . But today stone is no longer the desirable building material . What is more , modern building materials are essentiallyplastic . These materials have little emblem of their own . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you a room of any shape you like . He can express speed with a building . Rooms will be fashioned . Their organization will be simple sheer design that has no use for trappings , least of all for sculpture . Everywhere the slower carving processes are superseded . Manufacture , modelling , has superseded its fellow . Such , we have seen , was always the European trend , though it was sustained , paradoxically enough , partly as a result of the great ambitionsof European peoples in carving processes . Synthetic materials take the place of age-old products in which fantasy is deposited . The majority of our pavements and of our new buildingsare made of synthetic stone ; not merely concrete , but syntheticstone that can be fashioned to almost any effect that is desired ! You need to know something about stone to distinguish it from this moulded product . Modern scientific power of synthesisfashions a fundamentally new and plastic environment . Stone architecture is prolonged but a moment by synthetic stone . Stone architecture dies , the mother of the European visual arts for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period , brick and mud and clay and wood constructionnever superseded stone . They had their individual life ; still they were largely substitutes for stone . At any rate European men have always built with stone when they could afford it and obtain it . But today stone architecture is dying . The creations of Le Corbusier and others show that building will no longer serve as the mother art of stone , no longer as the source at which carving or spatial conception renews its strength . Architecture in that sense of the word , indeed in the most fundamental sense of the word , will cease to exist . Buildingbecomes a plastic activity pure and simple : whereas , in the past , building with stone or its equivalents has not been ( at best ) a moulding of shape with stone , so much as an order imposed on blocks from which there results an exaltation of the spatial character of stone.  |p184Mountains  and pebbles still exist : but so far as stone loses its use as a constructive material , it loses also power over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensity of whose imaginative import will continue to diminish . What future is there for carving , or for the full spatial conception ? I have remarked that the strength of such modern painting as is truly contemporary is founded upon a reaction from modelling values in favour of carving values . But should the growth of plasticity , of manufacture , in labour and in art , overpower carving activities altogether , there is then no future for visual art as hitherto conceived by the European races. from Stones of Rimini , 1934 , pp. 105 ? 68 2IGiorgione and the TempestaMany bad pictures are equivocal in their subject . It is unlikely that their painters for the most part have seen or even heard of the Tempesta Plate 1o : yet they are among the mindless emulatorsof this unrivalled masterpiece . The feeling of suspense belonging to the Tempesta encourages aesthetic contemplation in him who sees it . Dramatic though it be , the background does not set a stage . Indeed , the figures do little . They are well to the front of the landscape , encased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scene . But this is not a landscape with figures : the figures are insistent . Nevertheless , we have n't any idea who they are or why they are there . They do not belong to the landscape in the sense of shepherds , owners or husbandmen . They belong in the sense of human beings belonging to the world . That is not a personal , but an almost universal , impression . It follows that the Tempesta is one of the most extraordinaryof man 's creations . The relationship between figures and landscape is revelatory ; though neither landscape nor figuresp185are simplified into a concept . Giorgione 's pictures , relaxed both in subject and in treatment , are the opposite to hieratic . Above the landscape to which the figures have their backs there is lightning , day and night near to each other , before heavy blue clouds taut sunlight that illumines the sides of buildingsas for some memorable occasion . The new Renaissance buildings of Venice stand with the old , with the signs of war and ancient feud . Immediately behind the figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the cylinder and the cube , the bare bones of the new Venice . The two figures commune only in the profoundest sense despite the new-won naturalism of their delineation . A stream divides them . They do not look at each other . The man Plate 11 looks past the woman who looks out to the spectator , glancing slightly down . She sits higher than the man who is standing , confident , romantic , at ease . Though their positions would be uncomfortable for any length of time ( the woman 's pose , indeed , is an almost impossible one ) , they suggest an enduring strength , a strength of youth and a bond between them that will endure . Just as they are more complete , they are more abiding than the fragmentary building of the middle distance . The woman suckles the infant . The landscape in which they appear unruffled , even the impending thunderstorm , are in one sense subservient to this firm-on-the-ground human vitality . Verticals of the trees incline slightly to the right , verticals of the buildingsslightly to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figuresare at home here : it belongs to their substance . There are many affinities and approximations expressed between them , an organization , a philosophy , a romanticism which have ensued primarily from an acute colour sense . And it is , in part , Giorgione'sjewel-like colour that determines the organization in a manner too complicated for exposition at this point . Chromatic conception of this kind may be broadly apprehended apart from its colour , from a photograph . One judges the true vertical by imagining a line down the centre of the man 's erect yet turned body . That in itself is very extraordinary . It is the architecture that inclines to receive the dazzling white light and it is the trees that incline before the airp186which goes as yet softly to meet the thundercloud . Without central position in the picture , without looking beyond any tree , here is the master of his fate . On the other hand , it is significant that the title of the picture is The Tempest . Succeedinggenerations have not found a better title . Yet , although there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures outweighs the value of the impending storm . They are present , future and past , whereas the storm is momentary . They are these things without pride of place in the picture , without the guise of gods or symbols , of primitive forces , or even of sempiternalpeasants . They are young and buoyant people , without strain , without straining , harmonious . They are the classical gods in even more human yet lyrical form . Giorgione had no axe to grind : but he was foremost of originators in art . He broke down all the systems of insulation . There has never been an art less mannered , at the same time less formalized . Accent was superfluous . The Tern pesta is dramatic in the want of tension , it is lyrical , supremely lyrical by this lack of tension , by what the Italians call ozio or ease . Tension of some sort has otherwise always existed in art : and art will need it again immediately . For all other times an art without some tightness in organization , or even some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . Since Giorgione 's time Western art is often skirtingan abyss . Once at least , then , a lack of tension was affirmative . The thunderstorm brews in the background , yet throughout the picturethere is an equal and total insistence . Action of the landscapebalances suspense of the figures , a balance to the effect of utter parity in their diversity , dependent as well , therefore , upon reversed links ; for instance , suspense from the flash of lightning ( we await the thunder and the storm ) and action by one of the figures in the very recent past . The woman has obviouslybathed in the stream and is not yet altogether dry . She suckles the infant , an action of primal importance , for the mother as for the onlooker , inducing a sense of calm and selfsufficiency . A painting with a dominant effect ' is jazz to this symphony . Both figures and landscape afford superabundant images of **25;4767;TOOLONG , and indeed identification , without any sacrifice of their contrasting normal ' character . It is time to ask : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this ease or ozio that art has rarely enjoyed before or since , never to the same degree ? The first consideration is of lyricism expressing interchange . Giorgione 's man belongs to the landscape , not in the sense of one of Hardy 's peasants , on the contrary , in the sense of being at home in the World . Confronted by the rigours of life , by the opiate of thousands of years of religion accumulated to make life bearable , how came it that in the Renaissance being at home in the world ' was not but a one-sided commotion , not an affirmation merely of youth or pleasure or defiance ? An answer must be deferred . First , we must consider what is meant above by interchange ' . No less than the soul of poetry and , indeed , of all art ; since the poetic is the essence of art . Often more succinctlythan a direct ' statement , encompassing a vast range of meaning which otherwise would be incommunicable , poetry expresses something largely in terms of something else , owing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poetic synthesis , characteristic of all art , is a multum in parvo , a trick invented under the intensity of the stimulus . Any metaphor is an interchange of meaning . We have seen a principle of interchange inspiring Quattro Cento architecture ; we have seen that Venice herself inspires a lively sense of poetry , metamorphosis , of interchange , of inner in terms of outer . Giorgione 's art , in turn , synthesizes the images learned at Venice . Nature , building , man , the Tempesta shows all three impartially . Nature is more especially expressed by the sky , at its largest in Venice . From the Venetian air itself rather than the foliage we discern the seasons . Leonello Venturi has remarked that Giorgione ascribed to the Tempesta landscape a drama of the sky that is common in Venice . At sunset the sky in the west is sometimes clear while banked-up cloud of a threatening blue holds the east . Houses looking west are perfectly lit , utterly revealed from the side by the sinking sun . Night strides on from the east @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  |p188He  has shown the utmost drama in human pertinence . But it is poetry , calm poetry , not melodrama . He dreamt of reflection revealed , without stiffness or contortion , in the slow and durableforms of space , of relations between forms as the long contactof familiar minds , changing with the ebb and flow of light yet constant in their local colour . The two figures are not in a trance : they are amiable and serene , yet like the other Giorgionefigures , instruments of evocation . Their thoughts meet , their minds meet , not their eyes . There is a pause in living : there is an interchange between past , future and the present , between the figures , between themselves and each aspect of the landscape , between a deep-set wordless dream and an outward world . Giorgione chooses a moment of utmost revelation , in visual terms sunrise or sunset when things stand as they really are ' and when the hush of this revelation induces a contemplativemood . At such time relationship and affinity betweenobjects become an essential part of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance , equal insistence whatever the size , owing to the interlocking palpabilityof local colour . Imbued with this poetry , Giorgione dispensed with the grave formula . Although the hour is evening , he creates a situation of thunderous light where there is also dramatic change of tone to dramatize in turn the equal gaze of the protagonists . Moreover , despite this broad tonal range , despite this very first solicitude in art for the evanescent exaggerations of appearances due to the direction of their light , local colour is still intense , so that the calm evening value of each thing , though it be an architectural fragment or a building that crumbles ? indeed , because of the cycles such qualities suggest ? possesses added poignancy beneath the natural instruments of evanescence . In purging the whole of dominating drama , intensity of local colour dissociates the picture from the stress of a moment of time although that moment is vividly represented there ; from a situation ' , and this without neglect of naturalistic appearance . Indeed , technicallyconsidered , Giorgione 's revolution was a huge stride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hitherto neglected features . Hence the divinity of the ease of hisp189spiritual disclosure , hence , by the lack of any stylization , the full employment of a sense of affinities that has not been equalled . Without resort of later painters to a uniform flourish from the brush , evenness coexists with the broad changes of tone which Giorgione , and Leonardo , were the first to use . Unlike Leonardo or any other painter except Chardin before the French nineteenth-century school , after choosing a kind of light for his subjects favourable to local colour , Giorgione harnessed true tonal differences or chiaroscuro to the service of chromatic organization . Changes of light , as a quantitive range , less subtle but infinitely vaster than the range of colour , those general and diffused changes in light unknown to his predecessors , Giorgionededicated to the service of local colour . None of his followerswas equal to this subtlety . Although the Venetian school as a whole , headed by Titian , may be said to have used his discoveries , it was neither to the end of a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masses . As for the definitely Giorgionesque periods of these and other painters , they emulated and sometimes caught the poetry with differing degrees of vulgarism : sometimes light and shade were exaggerated , sometimes ignored and the treatment was Bellinian . At the end of the sixteenth century , Caravaggio quite consciously broke up the Titianesque stylization of Giorgione 's tonal inventionswhich had finally become ax mannerism . Proclaiming a return to Giorgione , Caravaggio produced a dramatic realism . Yet Giorgione had employed chiaroscuro for exactly an oppositeeffect , for the contemplative , the poetic , pause . That is why his use of chiaroscuro is so enriched by colour . He is the father of modern painting . Unlike Leonardo , more than one aspect of tonal painting springs from him . Not only did he help to make possible the huge achievement of Rembrandt but he enlarged the scope of equal insistence . Venice , as we know , excels in black and white . Colour comes between , uniting them , uniting the vastest differences . It is a description also of Giorgione'sachievement , a child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the country , from Castel Franco , of humblest origin . Brought up in Venice , he was patronized by a handful of aristocratic collectors . Within this circle he was inp190great demand , primarily , one gathers from Vasari , because of his singing , his charm and his playing the lute . The ' taking up ' of an artist , likely enough , was something new in Venice where , more than in other Italian centres , painting had hitherto been regarded as a perquisite of church and state . There were in Venice before Giorgione with his power of fantasy , no potentatesdemanding expression of their fancies . His personality may have created this demand . There is a sense in which Giorgione'sart may truly have been an expression of his patron 's fancies , as we shall see : but only on the broadest lines . Otherwiseit was they who identified themselves with him as far as there was influence at all . Else there could not have been the unrivalledintensity of poetry in his pictures ; moreover , Vasari 's initial account of Giorgione @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in demand for parties and all gatherings , how he died young even , suggests a personality as well as an artist . At any rate no other artist so swiftly became a myth . Within thirty years very little was for certain known about him , within a hundred the noble family of Barbarelli was trying to force this name upon Giorgione 's parentage , and every other picture in the private collections of Venice was a Giorgione . His public works were few , five or six at the most . One of them , a small picture in the church of San Rocco , was acclaimed a miracleworkersome ten years after his death , and brought so much wealth to the fraternity that they were able to build the vast Scuola for which Tintoretto painted his series of huge masterpieces . Diirer , who visited Venice in 1506 ; four years before Giorgionedied , does not mention him among the Venetian painters . His circle was small . It is probable that he was painting for no more than ten years , fifteen years at the very most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lengthy front of the Fondaco dei Tedeschi as well as on a commission for the Doge 's palace ; his only state commissions as far as we know . In the first part of Venice : An Aspect of Art ( 1945 ) I expatiatedon the ambience of Venice , inculcator of a sense of identity in differing things . Giorgione flew from the city of manmadestone in his dreams and applied this poetry to the largerp191world . He brought his perception of Venice back to his native landscape where the stream loiters untroubled by tides . He who has learned to find man 's image in the wide wastes of the lagoon will be completely at home among the pleasant foothillsof the Alps . I do n't know how much is due to the intensity of Giorgione 's vision of this man-accustomed landscape , and how much on leaving Venice for the slopes after a long sojourn , one would in any case be of similar mind ? something of the vision is common to many who come from Venice to Asolo , to Bassano , to Castel Franco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blue distance , or a Palladian temple at the foot of a hill , to feel that delicate detachment , that pensive , lyrical detachment , allied to an embracing identification which characterizes Giorgione'sdream , touched with a little sadness . His was a young yet gestureless nobility attentive to all the long insistent harmoniesof Nature that mirror the young soul . The poetry is purely reflective : there is not a shadow of a judgement or of protestation . It is the ancient harmony , the harmony of classicaltimes re-created by a Venetian in the flush of the Renaissance . The Giorgionesque man is calm yet debonair , in an elegiac relation with his staff . A pensive yet untroubled beauty belongs to the woman with her baby . The young man , variouslycalled a gypsy ( from the earliest times ) , a soldier , a peasant , a hero of a Greek myth , is the best lord of creation the world ever had . With his direct untroubled gaze he is the best representative of Western man . If the word mystery ' , so commonlyused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is introduced , one must know at once the completedissemblance from oriental mystery and from mysticism . Giorgione 's poetry has an unforced ease , an uncontorted beauty . He put the soul into Nature and he did it with a better balance than any of the romantics ( in any of the arts ) that followedlater in their thousands . What Giorgione felt and attained is of perennial importance : today it is more specially important . Again the veils have slipped : we stand between the night and day . We too must redefine the inner and the outer .. . When Giorgione had painted a nude Venus* asleep in a land*At Dresden.  |p192sca|pe  , the canvas was thought unfinished . After his death , Titian added a township , and a Cupid now painted over . Venus , in utter repose , has her eyelids lightly shut . Any painter might have made the principal line of the landscape to echo the line of the body . But again it is evening . No one , yes , no one looking at this picture could fail to feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the figure and the time of day . Beneath her eyes are images . In terms of the day and in terms of the stretch of land and sky and of the accents of lone symmetrical trees , of a poking tuft of foliage growing from the rock above her head , the dream-life which is itself the concentrated reflection of her whole span obtains embodiment ; in the sense that a natural scene reflects our mood and our thoughts which perhaps sometimes may thus be recognized ; not in the sense that the landscape is a dream-landscape , a surrealist projection of the mind . For the moment barriers were down . It was an aesthetic opportunity . Chiaroscuro at the service of colour inspired the unity of experience on the level of the senses , the identity in the maximum difference . Visual art could , and can , create this poetry as can no other art , because a total insistence which exploits the complications of colour , most swiftly expresses it . There follows the unequalled fusion of content and form which Pater , in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with reference more especially to Giorgione or the Giorgionesque . And so , we come to see that this art is itself an expressionor celebration of the purest visual art rather than a mystic message expressed in visual form . In writing of Venetian fifteenth-century architecture and throughout these volumes I have attempted to show that the part of early Renaissance art I have called Quattro Cento possessesas a compulsion the character of all art to make the spirit manifest in outer form . Except for Piero I have called no other painter to witness . It is appropriate if an account of this aestheticspread over several volumes and a considerable time should conclude with Giorgione ; since the Tern pesta , some twenty years ago , was the original stimulation . The Tern pesta epitomizesthe so-called Quattro Cento process , this self-celebration ofp193visual art . Spirit had been brought down from the skies to inhabita plane which the medieval world considered brutish . Spirit was brought back into Nature of which man partook , the old frightening home revisited in maturity . Once it was spirit forces , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of expression , his perennial activity , the mind of man vies with the world in outwardness : deeper things come forward . An expressivetoken of all expressiveness , the face of the stone is made to show through the stone ; and in the evening light there is a moment when mind seems to become extension , stands revealed to the eyes . Nature is the mirror of man for the mature artist as well as for the child . But , rather than a symbol conceived from an object , on the most adult occasions of Western visual art , the observed appearance of an object successfully provided an aesthetic mode . The Tempesta contains none of the tension of conceptual art nor yet a minute chasing of detail uncharged with a general poetry . An immanence is there while the whole is relaxed. from Venice : An Aspect of Art , 1945 , pp. 52 ? 61 22Michelangelo ( i ) When Michelangelo was seventy-three , he wrote to his young nephew asking him to tell a priest not to address letters to Michelangelo , Sculptor , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Florentine citizen wanted someone to paint an altar-piece , he must find a painter ; as for himself , he was never painter nor sculptor in the manner of keeping a shop . I have always looked to my dignity and the honour of my father and brothers . I have served three Popes but that was under compulsion . ' I do not think it would be enlightening to say that Michelangelowas a snob . On the contrary , in view of the poor social status of the artist ? a mere artisan ? which he did much top194alter , the fact that Michelangelo was determined to strengthen through art the pride and wealth of his family , is a measure of his huge belief in the reparative nature of aesthetic activity . He cared nothing for appearances : though he became rich , he chose to live very simply in some degree of squalor : he preferred to be lonely . He continued to accumulate money for the family long after his father and two of his four brothers were dead . Though this saving ' of the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is obvious that the compulsiveness at work did not issue in the predominant need for social approbation . He paraded himself in letters and poems as the most miserable of men ; he was also not slow to think and say that each of the close relatives was worthless . He felt persecuted by them . ( The father on one occasion at least made use of Michelangelo'smoney without consulting him , but he was quick to share with Michelangelo the consequent anger , regret and alarm . ) In regard to his unreliable and impulsive family , Michelangeloshowed bitterness that is the measure , not so much of thwarted self-approbation , as of enslavement . It can not be said in the light of their letters that the family were not affectionate , though they were on the make ' , careless in the use of money furnished by Michelangelo , ready to ask a favour from him . All shared in the anxiety concerning each other 's safety and health . Both father and Buonarroto urged Michelangelo at different times to throw up his work and return to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important decision without his help . Even in offering advice , they are usually careful to stress that he , Michelangelo , is the wise one . Although narrow and idiosyncratic , the father is capable of showing humility , not in the face of his son 's genius but of his prudence and business sense , even at the age of seventy-seven , in connection with a matter ( the value of a farm ) about which he , the father , probably with time on his hands , may well have been better informed . We prefer the father , Ludovico , on the evidence of the letters to the favourite brother , Buonarroto , who died of the plague in 1528 , it is said , in Michelangelo'sarms . Also Buonarroto , in spite of his two marriages , depended upon Michelangelo 's judgement , eagerly fulfilled hisp195commissions , identifying himself as closely with the Buonarroti interests . The morose and tortured Michelangelo mothered and , indeed , fathered this motherless , sisterless , narrow family . Ludovico , the father , married again , but women seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first point I want to emphasize in the matter of his family is Michelangelo 's prudence , his grip upon reality in spite of a great excess of temperament . Unlike pure visionaries , artists need , whatever the size of their wings , a good stance for the ground . They seek to dissipate the depression that encloses them , to restore , to revive ; better than most , they have recognized the constancy of death . Michelangelo was , of course , enslaved by his art in which he has restored the whole world . It happens that he was likewise enslaved by the family circle , however short the time he could give to them , however much with another part of his mind he resented the weight they put on him . Testimony comes in a letter to Buonarroto , probably of 1513 . The letter 's complaint is first of Buonarroto 's extravagance . Michelangelo wants to know if he is keeping an account and he recalls an occasion when Buonarroto was in Rome and he had boasted of spending large sums of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was he surprised , because he knew his brother only too well . If you have enough mind to be able to contemplate the truth , you would not have said : ' I spent so and so of my own money ' , nor would you have come here to press me over your affairs after all that I have done in the past : you would have said instead : Michelangelo knows what he has written to us , and if he ca n't c/o something to help at once , there must be some difficulty for him about which we know nothing : and we must be patient because it is useless to spur a horse who is running with all his might and more . ' But you do n't know me and have never known me . Nor have his biographers known him in this respect . It is usual to stress his generosity to worthless relations as well as his many other gifts , particularly to the poor . They overlook the manifest compulsiveness ; they overlook the horse who is run/ning with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desire to restore , as well as by love . He had larger things with which constantly to occupy his mind ; no one will have known it more clearly than himself . But the wide sublimation through art could not disengage him from the narrower field of undue apprehensiveness . It is never easy , in fact , it is finally impossible , to separate altogether love and affection from anxiety ; yet we often recognize at once a strong degree of anxious superfluity . Probably over a third of the extant letters , published and unpublished , that Michelangelo wrote to his father and brothers , must be dated between 15o8 and 1512 when he was painting the Sistine Chapel . There appears to have been a lull in the work between September 151o , after a section had been finished ( Pope Julius was lately departed for Bologna ) and January 1511 . On September 5th and again on the 7th , Michelangelo was awaiting payment for what he had recently completed and an advance for the rest . He says he is moneyless since the Pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ludovico must provide for Buonarroto by drawing on Michelangelo 's savings in Florence . And should Buonarroto be in danger , he himself would come at once , even though he would have to risk losing the money which , he thinks , should already have been paid over . Men are worth more than money , ' he concludes . But the enslavement exceeded the demands of such love and undoubted generosity of mind . The relatives were not forbearing : they inflicted themselves upon the distracted artist . All three younger brothers , doubtless impelled by the appealing Italian compound of curiosity , family solidarity and selfinterest , turned up in Rome to further their prospects in the early anxious years of the Sistine undertaking . Michelangelo writes to Buonarroto in October 15o9 : It seems to me you do n't understand how I am situated here .... I shall do what I can . It seems that Gismondo is coming to expedite his business . Tell him not to take me into his calculations , not because I do n't love him as a brother but because I ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up with loving myself more than others and I ca n't provide myself with the necessaries of life . I am in need , wornp197out and without friends , nor do I want any : nor have I the time to eat as much as I should ; so do n't let me have more troubles because I ca n't stand another ounce . It is surely not strange that the prickly , unsociable Michelangelo , in whom there was overwhelming anger as well as his generosity or his fear , who was notorious for deep melancholy , should have become the cushion to mitigate the hard life of others . Nor is it strange that we find in the massive , omnipotent proportions of many of his figures , a full measure of passive and patient receptivity . There exists , of course , the other side , the resentment , the explosiveness , the contempt . More than a third of all the survivingletters are addressed to Michelangelo 's young nephew , Lionardo , the son of Buonarroto : they were written between 1540 and December 1563 , two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nephew , not perhaps for himself but as the inheritor of the family . Yet on the whole , the letters reflect a profound irritation . Lionardo becomes ' them ' , that is to say , Michelangelo 's father and brothers ( mostly dead ) who never asked him to spend money on himself . Thus , the old man writes to the nephew : About your rushing to Rome in such haste , I do n't . now whether you would have come so far if I were in the utmost poverty and lacking bread . It 's enough to throw money about that you have n't earned . What a fear you have of losing the inheritance . ... Yours is the love of a woodworm . If you really loved me , you would have written : ' Michelangelo , spend the three thousand scudi on yourself : you have given us much and it 's enough : we care more for your life than for your property . ' I'You all have lived off me now for forty years , ' he adds in writing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't had even a good word from any of you in return . ' Two years earlier he had written to the unfortunate Lionardo , who had come to Rome because of Michelangelo 's severe illness : ' Do n't my possessionsin Florence suffice ? You ca n't deny you are just like your father ( Buonarroto ) who drove me out of my house in Florence . ' Lionardo , in spite of Michelangelo 's innuendoes , doesp198not strike us as an unusually calculating young man . He appendedas was his custom the date on which he received this unaddressedletter . Doubtless he was in Rome but was not allowed to make the visit which had been the object of his journey , undertaken , it is likely , at the instance of Michelangelo 's friends . This letter , in Which the uncle tells the nephew not to appear before him , not to write to him any more , calls to mind a letter Michelangelo wrote to his father twenty-one years before . Insteadof Reverendissimo or Carissimo Padre , the missive opens with the one word , Ludovico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter concerning which he says he entirely fails to understand what else the ( muddle-headed and accusing ) father could want in the affair , Michelangelo goes on : If it is that you find my very existence tiresome , you have hit on a way to satisfy yourself and to return that key to a treasure which you say I command : and you will do well : after all , everyone in Florence knows what a rich man you are , how that I have always robbed you and deserve punishment : you will be applauded . So , tell everyone just what you please about me , but do n't write to me any more because you stop me working . But it must be considered doubtful , even here , whether the bitter tone has precedence over the desire to calm the father 's accusing fancies , to make amend even with ridicule . There is an extraordinary letter wherein a sardonic but desperate humility accompanies the expression of his own very strong feelings of persecution . Dearest father , I was astonished by the news of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home : and now that I gather you are upset with me and say I have turned you out , I wonder the more . For I am certain that from the day I was born until now I have always had the intention both in big things and small to please you , and always the labours I have undergone were out of love for you . .. . It amazes me that you so quickly forget all this , you with your sons who have had me on trial for more than thirty years . And , of course , you know well that I have always schemed and done the best for you whenever opportunity occurred . How then can you go about saying I drove you away ? Do n't you see what harm you are doing me ? Togetherp199with the other miseries I endure for other reasons , this completes my bitterness , and all this misery is the fruit of my love for you . You certainly repay me well ! But let it be as you say . I want to persuade myself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : and so , as if I had done it , I ask your forgiveness . Try to forgive your son who has always lived badly and done all the evils that are possible in this world . Once again , I ask you to forgive me , the wretch that I am , and spare me the harm of your spreading the story that I drove you out . It hurts me more than you think . I am , you see , your son . The fear of losing each other , we have said , is the dominant emotional theme in the family letters . ' Men are worth more than money . ' In the face of political dangers , Michelangelo writes , ' Be the first to flee . ' ' Think only of keeping alive ' ( and not about wealth ) , he urges his father . ' I would n't exchange your life for all the gold in the world . ' Anxiously he tries to counteract with religious exhortation and common sense the father 's patent persecutory fears whose opposite face sometimesseems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ill , though out of immediate danger , Michelangelo implores Buonarroto ( who has already shown the utmost concern in telling Michelangelo ) to make provision and to employ his wife in aid of Ludovico . He , Michelangelo , will make it up to all of them ; the fount of all his effort had always been for the help of his father before he should die . ( It would seem he could never entirely convince himself that he had been successful : perhaps Buonarroto 's wife could do better . ) He is very anxious ? as he showed himself again over the deaths of his brothers ? that if , by chance , there should be a relapse , his father would not lose the advantage of the last sacraments to promote his celestial living . ' I have always schemed to revive our family , ' he wrote much later to his nephew , ' but I did not have brothers whom it was possible to raise up . ' The bitterness , I think , was more sorrowfulthan the usual feeling of failure to satisfy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own satisfaction that his father and brothers had exploited him successfully . He hated to be exploited and he knew them to be worthless : in any case , his feeling of persecution was very strong : even so , he preferred to make every anxious sacrifice in order to simulate an eternityp200for his family 's motherless life , to secure their slipping existence . Nothing would be enough , nothing could convince him he had done enough , so profound was the melancholy guilt centred on them , particularly on the father . In the lines commemorating the death of his father as well as the death of Buonarroto some years before , he addresses his father saying that he will speak of his dead son first . To him the poet was drawn by love , to the father by duty . My brother is painted on my memory but you , father , are sculpted alive in the middle of my heart . ' I take this wording literally : the very father , primitive as the stone , dwelt within him , a person to be instructed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as a persecuted figure , evoking nevertheless a certain pleasurable passivity in a host who may often have desired to usurp the mother 's place . Ludovico is so immediately settled in heaven by the poet that some commentators have divined that Michelangelois voicing heresy , that is to say , the denial of purgatory . ' In heaven , ' he concludes , the holy love of father and son will grow . . . ' Thereafter he turned even more to religion , to a father embroiled not only with images of God but with those of the Saviour towards whom the last poems attest a deepening passive attitude . On the other hand , the death of his father seems to have released the full hatred of tyrants in his native land , to which he never returned . It is part of my view that I assume the pressure ( upon us all ) of some such once-corporeal object which Michelangelo carried about with him , a figure he wooed , pacified , imitated , nursed , even while the host performed similar conjuring tricks far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily on behalf of a maternal object through the sublimation , art . The broader restorative aim never ousted the narrower : the striking feature is their combination . A strong passive , as well as controllingand restorative , attitude towards the narrower and nearer image was incorporated into the tensions of his art , whence there flowers an all-inclusive tortured mastery characteristic of his figures and of his own ideal self , his own self-mastery . Yet even the wrapt furcate agent , God the Father of the Adam ' history ' , possesses a form and a position in regardp201to the lower half of his body which would not be inappropriate to a reclining Venus . The bisexual congregation of the Sistine vault proposes a tremendous and overpowering strength : hence the terribilita . It is likely , apart from Condivi 's assertion of beatings , that Ludovico had opposed Michelangelo 's desire to be an artist ; and that consent was forthcoming in the face not only of persistencebut of a unique skill which seemed to promise gold . At the age of twenty-two , he is signing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notable eleven years later when he is painting the Sistine vault . Near the beginning of the task , he said that painting was not his profession . Even after a large part of the ceiling had been finished with success , he pointed out in a burlesque poem that he was no painter . Yet the frescoes of the Sistine vault are generally recognizedto be the most colossal feat known to pictorial art . Michelangelo 's humility rings no less truly than his pride . Except in the case of the first plan for the Julian tomb , of plans for the facade of San Lorenzo and for the Church of the Florentinesin Rome ? he was anxious that they should be executed ? we do not know of any expression of real satisfaction in what he performed . Vasari stresses more than once Michelangelo 's modesty as an artist . Michelangelo having been wont to say that if he had to satisfy himself in what he did , he would have sent out few , nay , not even one ( sculpture ) . ' Though masterful , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems , an impetuous yet sometimes humble man ) . There was nothing forward-looking nor expansive in these attitudes . On the contrary , he was led to demand some hypothetical , changelesscondition of the once noble family , Buonarroti Simoni , in harmony with the conservative tendencies of his own deep melancholy : that melancholy served as a barrier to the correspondingelation , provided a certain detachment from unparalleled reparative feats in art , a certain pessimism that did not disallow the slow counterpart of omnipotent undertakings , the Julian tomb , the Sistine vault , the facade of San Lorenzo , the rebuilding of St Peter 's , not to mention the taming of marble mountains.  |p202As  long as it survives , the great work of art is the sole undiminishedcreation . Such an artist can not easily tolerate his god-like stature . Many have failed when most was lying in their grasp , drowned by an ocean of illimitable achievement . Hubris for Michelangelo , whose success is perhaps the most individual and obvious of all , was not in question . Little as he valued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most Wretched of men. from Michelangelo , 1955 , pp. 33 ? 43(ii)We turn to his last extant works of sculpture , the Pieta in the Duomo at Florence and the Rondanini Pieta Plate 12 now in the Castello Sforza at Milan . With death near , at the edge of the homogeneous realm of shadow , he was at last able to join elementsthat had once demanded a resistant strength to accompanytheir merging : or that had been represented as linked but disparate forces . ( There is an early drawing in the Ashmoleanat Oxford of St Anne , the Virgin and the Christ child which was probably executed in the context of Leonardo 's cartoonof the subject , then on exhibition at Florence . The contrast between the tugging masses in the drawing with the Leonardo conception has often been remarked . ) It would appear that between the shadow of the absolute merging into nothingness brought about by death , and the shadow of his long habit in religious as well as aesthetic expiation , Michelangelo could envisagemore directly the participation of one being in another . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nicodemus , the standing figure at the back of the Duomo Pieta . He supports the right arm of the dead Christ and seems to be turning the corpse even more to the side of the Virgin who has Christ 's head upon her cheek . We see Michelangelo , then , that most unaccustomed figure , in the exotic paternal role ( more active than is St Joseph as a rule ) of consigningthe son to his mother . But nothing jars this deeply moving work ; deeply moving because , in a reversed form , we are able to partake , as was the artist in carving it , of an ideal reconciliation.  |p203So  far from usurping the position of Nicodemus or of St Joseph ? though perhaps that too is recounted here ? it is he , Michelangelo , who is the son once more , the child who sought to come between the parents , who longed to restore the father to the injured mother , to join them in harmony . But they are dead or overcome with melancholy : nevertheless , surrendering more direct uses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apex of the triangle , the puppeteer , the artist , for ever the grieving , resourcefulchild crying out for resurrection , forcing on the hard beauty that finally coagulates from the endless ceremonials of sadness ... Michelangelo 's mother died when he was six . One of the mainsprings of his adult life , we have seen , was to keep his father going , and his brothers came within the orbit of the same compulsion , which contributed largely to his extreme family pride . He fended for them all . Yet we will suppose that at the decisive stage of his emotional development it was also the father he wanted for himself , the mother 's place . ( A notably passive streak in so rebellious a character would make his attitudesunusually many-sided to his patrons , to Julius and to the Medici . ) In the extraordinary Rondanini Pieta where an uprightdead Christ is supposedly supported from lghind by the Madonna standing on a higher level , there is the effect , none the less , that the second figure rides on the back of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a sense he was not allowed to die : corpse or no corpse , emaciated by death , growing dimmer every day , he was still the family 's active principle to his son who had in fact supported him . At the last , in the Rondanini Pieta , heroic conquest was abandoned . One of the two basic images that inspire Form is paralleled here by the underlying content of the subject-matter . Ancient grief and depression calmly occupy the field in virtue of their paraphrase of death : but Michelangelo 's Saviour will redeem and carry him : at the very last there is the first love , head by head , mouth at breast , an utterly forlorn contentment that merges gradually with the undivided nature of the final sleep . I have thought it appropriate to refer to the final happy ' phasep204at this point because it helps us to visualize one of the many alternatives of his temperament from which Michelangelo 's art proceeded . A passive inclination to which he finally almost surrendered , albeit with a masculine austerity , contributed throughout his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virile force was in control ; for long stretches of his art , passive signifies encumberment and active , disencumberment . There is little sign , one might have said , before Michelangelo left for Rome in 1505 to work for Pope Julius , before the Laocoon came to light in January i5o6 , of that encumberment of his forms so evident in the Julian Slaves whose conception doubtless influenced the Sistine ceiling . Yet his journeying between encumbermentand disencumberment was incessant : it will surely be agreed that no figure in the whole range of art affords so vivid an image of disencumberment as the marble David , disencumberedof clothes , of weapons other than the sling , disencumberedof the years . This nakedness , of course , belongs to the subject-matter and therefore to a thousand Davids , but Michelangeloadopted the poetic Renaissance conception with an **26;4794;TOOLONG : his still David of the turning head embodies disencumberment as never before or since , not as a negative but as a positive state of earthy presence : disencumberedof cheers , of fame , even of the conquest which he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palpable , nerve-filled body , we encounter the classic synthesis between ancient experiences of what is undifferentiated or absolute and ancient experiences of what is particularized , a conjunction that is part and parcel of the formal elements in every art . No wonder that in Florentine eyes so attuned a David became the image of political , everyday Freedom . Athenian statuary with a similar self-possessiveness had once provided the same thought . We are bound , then , to attribute to the weight of Michelangelo'sfigures of early date ? to the Cascina drawings , for instance ? and to the huge energy that liberates them , the character of encumberment disenthroned : inheriting themes of naked energy , of brute strength from Pollaiuolo and Signorelli , Michelangelo transformed oppressive weight into the breadth and pumping power of the thorax especially , into muscles thatp205renew themselves by partaking of bulk . The machine for crushingbecomes the instrument for lifting , for release . Guilt , bad internal objects , are identified with the oppression of marble weight , redemption with an easing , but in a sense ever so stupendouslymuscular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ romantic enthusiasm for striving per se . Faces are not contorted with suffering or effort ; indeed , faces are of much less significance than torsos to the artist : many drawings , apart from the studies of movement , show this to be so , none more clearly than the careful design for the first carving of the MinervaChrist . Thus , in the drawings especially , the human frame , rather than the features , represents the person ; and often , it seems to us , the state of predicament in which Michelangelo passed his life , transubstantiated by this genius of great fortitudeinto an ideal condition of slow , perhaps cumbersome , disembarrassment . I have particularly in mind the four unfinished Giants ( Slaves ) who wrestle with their stones , with time , with eternity , in the Accademia at Florence Plate i3 . I am suggesting that in support of Michelangelo 's sense of predicament and guilt there existed a state of uneasy passivity , known to us in terms of an oppressive weight which , however frightening , had at one time been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Louvre , perhaps the most typical of Michelangelo's'surviving major works , is bound , tied . ( According to the first plan of 15o5 for the Julian tomb ; it seems that there were to have been sixteen of these prisoners , as they are named by Condivi and Vasari . ) They are figures of passivity or suffering , and also of unusual strength . We are not made to feel that strength evaporates ; though death will overcome it , the strength still shows , or , rather , the vision remains , as if coming from profound sleep . Indeed , while phantoms possess the Captives , a nightmare of pound-by-pound oppressiveness , their raised , bull-strong bodies translate some of this dependenceinto the slow particles of health . The so-called Dying Captive of the Louvre is a relaxed image . He submits tenseless to his dream , yet sustains with the huge , refulgent orbit of his form the vigilance of light . His beauty is the one of a sea-cave 's aperture that allows and withstands reverberating waves with/in .... These beautiful forms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of deprivation , surrender , revolt , enlisted by an idealizing yet naturalistic art . In considering the St Sebastian of the Last Judgement fresco , we first need to conjure up many Sebastians created in the previous century . As long as myth retains power , as long as the style of symbolic treatment remains approximate , art will grow swiftly from the soil of art . We can not conceive Michelangelo 's achievement except as a summit rising from the Renaissance , rising from all the creations of his period whether in a particular or in a general sense . We have conjured up , then , a hundred fifteenth-century Sebastians , graceful , suffering , youthful , long-haired , tied to the tree . But here , on the Sistine wall , the arrows no longer impale his body : awaiting commendation he holds them in his hand . No longer tied and upright , he kneels in calm , relaxed expectancy . A tanned champion , he appears to be resting between the field events of a pitiless Olympiad . The episode of the arrows has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have stimulated the giant body which has massively closed upon the wounds , which has closed , as it were , on a great deal of stimulus , shutting it in . The arrows have fertilized Sebastian : gigantic , muscular , of prodigious weight , he is yet full of spring , and somehow protected , clothed , muffled even , by his own sleek nudity , as an elephant by the wrinkled hide . The heroic proportionsare so generous that we become aware that his body might suggest the agile cushion sometimes associated with superlativestrength , with the loose-knit silence , for instance , of the cat-tribe . Not that it is strong , this reference to the animal kingdom , in any figure by Michelangelo . On the contrary , his men and women of giant frame have a power of heroic intellect in place of the mobility of animals . If some suggestion of the leonine plays about the head of Eve in the Sistine Fall , and about the head of the Madonna Pitti ( Bargello ) , it is a suggestion wholly subservient to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the recumbent Adam of the famous Creation , fertilizedby the finger of the Almighty whose gesture is authorityp207itself ( especially when compared with the more usual presentationof divine afflatus ) , possesses an enduring lassitude . The fact is that virile creatures such as he and Sebastian are superhuman : without a trace of effeminacy they incorporate the female powers . Hence the terribilitd . And so , on the Sistine ceiling the anomaly of the issue of Eve from Adam 's side , beckoned forth by the Almighty midwife , dissolves ; and we realize with awe that the keen , the sublime , God the Father of the Creation of Adam controls about him an uterine mantle filled with attendants who clamber close , souls yet to be born , attributes as yet of his own essence . In the Historyof God separating sky ( or earth ) from water , we see the attendants more deeply ensconced in the inflated cloak from which only the upper part of his body emerges with taut , cylindricalsimplicity . The features are those of Adam : hair , beard and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identify with the imaginative urgencies that have governed the artist . But what is the final evolution of the superhuman nudes ? If we turn to the late Crucifixion drawings , to one at Oxford Plate 14 or at Windsor , we see in each a mourning attendant whose nudity is , so to say , of a quilted substance and dimension , more proper for an Eskimo matched for encounter with a polar bear . Among our thoughts associated with the appreciation of these superb and moving works of art , there may well be those which suggest that at the back of the long cycle of Michelangelo 's heroic figures , behind the successful omnipotence ( successful in art ) to which no homage paid will ever seem sufficient , there lurks in corresponding strength a frightening image of the utmost brutality , an oppressive image of sheer weight that had overcome the child . So it seems , at any rate to the present writer who has been reminded of his subject by R. Money-Kyrle 's account of observations by Roheim concerning the overmasculinityand underlying femininity of the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that undying , infantile conception , the phallic woman. from Michelangelo , 1955 , pp. 83 ? 90p208The refusals of intimacy to which , among other causes , an excessivesympathy impelled him , were not invariable . Thorny though he was , Michelangelo inspired not only respect but an affection he much valued in a faithful servant such as Urbino or in a tactful and unselfish man as Luigi del Riccio . The latter used to advise Michelangelo 's nephew , Lionardo , in the making and timing of little gifts , delicacies , food and wine , which pleased the old man . Since he lived in a considerable squalor that matched his depression and his hardness to himself ( he might otherwise have had to entertain his friends ) , gifts from his relativesand others were nevertheless a morsel of the honouring also due to him , a morsel which he could almost readily accept . He used even to visit del Riccio in the Strozzi Campagna villa and was twice prevailed upon to live out serious illness in the Strozzi house in Rome . Always emotional , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but there was a severe limit to that intimacy , easily ruptured , at any rate for a time . Donato Giannotti , the respected associate both of del Riccio and of Michelangelo , described in his two dialogues about Dante how that at the end of their discussions these close friends were unable to persuade Michelangelo to , eat with them . He excuses himself on the grounds that he is more susceptible than any one else of any time : on every occasion that he is among those who are skilful , who know how to do or say something out of the ordinary he is possessed by them , indeed robbed by them ( et me gli do in maniere in preda ) : he is no more himself : not only the present company but any one else at the table would separate him from a part of himself ; and he wants to find and enjoy himself : it is not his trade to have much delight and entertainment : what he needs to do is to think about death : that is the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may keep ourselves united in ourselves and save us from being dispersed and despoiled by relations , friends , geniuses , ambition , avarice , etc. , etc . He was about seventy at the time . It is unlikely that longer , more undeniable court from the powerful has ever been paid to an artist in the flesh ; yet he felt distracted from his own essence ,  |p209even  by those who were his worshippers . As , notably , in the cases of the actors , Shakespeare and Dickens , there can be no doubt that the unusual lending of himself ( which is also a control of the object ) underlay his phenomenal technical command , versatility , and , indeed , originality . For the purposes of art he would initially feel less distrust of the object as he bent it to his will : yet , none the less , in spite of the extraordinary , never-dying warmth of his passionate feelings ? extraordinary amid the persecuting fears ? love , fascination , interest , entailed oppressive weight , spoliation , a shock to the organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for death , for the undifferentiated , for a merging with what is entire . On the other hand , the separate person in his own right ' , objects good and bad , animate or inanimate , had won from him an overpowering response . ( No art , he sometimes says , is sufficient return for the beauty of the object . ) And so , he would ever be as the infant with the homogeneous world of the satisfying breast , and he would also be as the rather older infant who could restore , not only this good breast but the self-subsistent mother , the other person , the whole separate object whom he had in fantasy overpowered ; and he would reconcile or fuse the two ambitions , making the one to serve the other .. . Such was the constant aim of a supreme artist , and such is the aim of all lesser artists too . Not many , however , will have employedin comparable degree under the aegis of the restorative aesthetic ideal , psychical trends which when arrayed in strength , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , preconditions of the creative refashioning that ends in art . The superb simplicity or homogeneity of the greatest art which we enjoy as might a starving man a close-grained crust that links every working and sleeping moment , comes to us as an attribute of singularity . Wolfflin has remarked how extraordinaryit is that Dawn for all her movement can be read as a single plane ' , that the Medici Madonna and child combining many tempestuous directions of attitude , give the impression of repose because the whole content is reduced to one compact ,  |p210general  form : the original block of stone seems to have been but slightly modified ' . Though all these indications of movement are transverse , the Medici Madonna tapers like a tower with many ledges . In the combination of the homogeneous with the individual or specific , we have the crux of Form in art , the creed of the artist 's endeavour ( for which I have indicated some compulsions ) . There are , of course , an infinity of methods other than Michelangelo 's firm resolving of contrasted directions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides a clear-cut text . All the same , the homogeneous quality is so well fused with the elaboration of an individual content that We can not separate them . ( For instance , both repose and movement speak of the distinctive object per se : everything will serve a dual function . ) But in spite of the difficulties of analysis , we are well aware in general that , on the one hand , a work of art is an epitome of self-subsistent or whole objects which can neither be superseded nor repeated , an epitomeof particular and individual entirety ; while on the other hand , striding in upon the presentation of the concrete , upon the rendering of experience in terms of touchability and the synthesis effected by the eye that perpetuates ( in visual art ) the image of a separated and outward thing , . there comes the tendency to gain for such poignant particularity , connections with everything else , connections that blur , a kinship with the universe , a singleness that vibrates at its junction with the singular ; there comes , maybe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sleep , the prototype of death and disciple to the unmatched bliss of the infant at the breast : these contents too are communicated in terms of the senses . Welded together , they underlie what we call Form in art ; that is , they underlie the systems of completeness and harmony which interpenetrate with the many cultural aspects of specific subject-matter on which Form works ; in the case of the AccademiaGiants , for instance , not only their aspect as Cinquecentonudes but at the heart of the writhing , the theme of conflict in Michelangelo 's life . His figures became more massive and simplified after thep211early period , without the loss of complicated movement . This deeply-felt simplification rests on the naturalism of the Bacchus and David and Cascina cartoon , upon a rapacious yet self-lendingobservation , upon a grasp of attitude which is without parallel . He sought the utmost scale and intractibility to match the synthesis demanded of his emotion , the utmost carnality to feed his universal maxims , the utmost movement to represent repose , the utmost extensions to serve the centre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his inherent conflict unified by the character of the marble block ; he petrified the body 's dynamics of which he was the master ; he was of the body as magnificently as he was of death and of God ; we soon come upon the genius forcing all the world of sense to serve this angry altar of the nude. from Michelangelo , 1955 , pp. 127 ? 31 23TurnerThere is a long history of indistinctness in Turner 's art , connectedthroughout with what I have called an embracing or enveloping quality , not least of the spectator with the picture . The power grew in Turner of isolating the visionary effectiveness that belongs to a passing event of light : it entailed some loss of definition in the interest of emphasis upon an overallquality . To one who complained , Turner is said to have replied : Indistinctness is my forte . ' I shall attempt interpretation of a narrow compulsion that I attribute to a predominant aspect of his embracing effects : my aim will be to suggest how minor this theme would probably have proved had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had it not been long attendant upon contrasting achievements in picturemaking . His supremacy lies not in his compulsions but in the links established for them , subsidiary yet vastly enriching . It is a matter of degree , for otherwise it is the same with every artist.  |p212Our  interest today in aesthetic directness , though in many senses estimable , in another can be not a little vulgar . Aesthetic directness , so far from always enjoying a lack of limitation , may itself be inhibited by an expressiveness that casts away the many links for a compulsion , that avoids contrast , the means of sublimation as well as material for integration . But we can not summon at a wish what I have called subsidiary and enriching aims : should they be potential , however , understanding will encouragetheir presence . Turner 's visions founded on Rome and Venice developed graduallyover many years . When he first went to Italy he had concentrated on topographical drawings and sketches , no less than 1 , soo or so in probably little over two months , of Rome , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have asserted itself every day , and often all day . One reason why in the sketch-books there are so many drawings of Dover Castle and the coast will have been due to his waits there for the continental packet . Do we have comparable disciplines ? Moreoverhis memory for natural effect was no less fully rehearsed than his power to observe it . We shall find that the accustomed objects of his art , buildings among foliage , trees , mountains , ships , eventually shared their qualities with their media , buildings with the sky , ships with the sea and vice versa : finally , sky and water were equated with the paint itself even for large works : the equation had long been brought about for some drawings and sketches , including oil sketches . In a word , the homogeneous effect we admire so much supervened upon a thousand studies amassed from many kinds of objects under the aegis of contemporary styles for picturemakingand of a naturalistic bent that was never lost : the artist with the mood of nature were first established by the paint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a contemporary effect that seems far less comfortable as a first endeavour . The chief of all painting problems is here : the journeyman starts at the point where a supreme master laid down the brush , not one master but many ; many more today than at any time before . A first reference should be to the social determinant of Turner 's art , the studies to provide whatever patrons wouldp213admire and , as the result of unceasing industry , to earn a good living . The early topographical watercolours and others from which engravings were made ? the first was published when he was just nineteen ? depended for their value , of course , upon the sentiment infusing their fact , upon the element of communicated'truth ' , the theme ever-present in art that Dr Meltzer brought into relation with care and love for the object conceived in the depressive or post-depressive position . Viewed as a sermon to siblings ' , visual art seeks to reflect and embody some of the needs or tensions of a society , and of the artist 's inner world , vis-a-vis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painter is he whose inner world , everywhere intertwined with the outer , will be projected in such a way as to communicate to his fellows a freshness of feeling about objects ; ultimately , though often most superficially , the feeling of being more at home in a grown-up world . We have seen that the scale of aesthetic integration will vary with conditions of culture and of preceding art . If we believe in the truth for him of what Turner wrote in a margin of Opie 's lectures , from the viewpoint of today we shall consider that he was extremely fortunate regardingthe historical context ... ' every look at Nature is a refinement upon art ' , he wrote : and he continues by saying he conceives the painter as admiring Nature by the power and practicability of his Art , and judging of his Art by the perceptionsdrawn from Nature ' . ( As to Art , it has been said that the last ten years of the eighteenth century , the time of Turner 's youth , was the best there had yet been in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to big sales following the French Revolution . ) The study of Turner , then , is a robust yet romantic subject : part of the attraction is his silence , the devotion to his work from the early morning ; each year for many years the tours that uncovered the rewarding aspects of the English scene at a period when many English towns and villages were astonishinglybeautiful , at a moment of poignant beauty inasmuch as the threat of great changes was sometimes implicit : at a period when the smaller country-seat domains were multiplying in number and optimism ; when the achievements of Trafalgar andp214Copenhagen fortified ordinary pride . It is the countryside as we still want it to be ; consequently , in spite of what I have said about the uniqueness of the moment of any art , we do not often think of Turner as an eighteenth-century or a Regency or an early Victorian figure . His vein of romantic mastery was embodiedalso in the prescient , was somewhat committed , Kenneth Clark has pointed out , even to the baby triumphs of a growing mechanical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he embraced the huge variety of scene as we would have it , not altogether nostalgically , because we can not altogether believe that it no longer exists : a gleam from what remains reconstitutesan unaltered conviction about the countryside , reinforcedespecially by Turner 's panoramas of the coast from out at sea or from near the beach where , often , there has been no change . On the other hand the early sea-pieces , and views of shipping that he discerned with a naval eye , are among the more dated ' of his works . Turner 's encircling contemplation was for long closely tied , except in sketches , to the adjunct of several old pictorial traditions , particularly the Dutch . An astonishing factor in his developmentwas the direct rivalry with Claude to which he felt himself constrained ; it is only emphasized by his preference for Punic rather than for the Roman and Grecian heroes . For a long time , perhaps to the end , Turner chose to regard Dido Building Carthage ( exhibited 1815 ) as his chef d'oeuvre . Involved today with pictorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir George Beaumont objected to them as that it was apt enough , in spite of their incipient romantic unity , for him to judge Turner 's earlier oil paintings in terms of Cuyp , Ruysdael , Claude , artists who had been dead for more than a hundred years . Due to a variety and development that spans such distance , Turner contrived connections that we find reassuring . Moreover , as I have said , he made out of many-sidedness more powerful ammunition for very personal bents or compulsions : incorporated thus with perennial psychical requirements , they furnish most important lessons to us his siblings . Of course the message of truth in Turner 's work was not at all the one of a sociological survey . His nightmares are by no means specific top215that terrible age . He gives us what he , as an artist , felt , but rarely what others , figuring in his paintings , might be feeling . Of this , we shall realize , he was almost incapable . Not that he did not often admit its propriety on a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance The Shipwreck ( exhibited 18o5 ) . But before considering the more extreme aspects of the Turner subject , we must take some cognizance of tension in the aesthetic situation . What we can view as a spanning ? by Girtin as by Turner ? became a struggle , a tension seen in the rival advocacies of light and darker paintings , largely as a result of the influence upon oil painting of the effects and technical inventionsin watercolour . Turner was accused most variously of being hesitant , of sacrificing the precept of art to the vulgaritiesof nature , of vagueness as of brittleness and , even as early as 1798 when he was twenty-three , of a mannered approach . Crabb Robinson entered in his diary for 7 May 1825 : Went to the Exhibition , with the advantage of having my attentiondrawn to the best pictures which , for the most part , equalled my expectations . Turner , R.A. , has a magnificent view of Dieppe . If he will invent an atmosphere , and a play of colours all his own , why will he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? No one could find fault with a garden of Armida , or even of Eden , so painted . But we know Dieppe , in the north of France , and ca n't easily clothe it in such faery hues . I can understand why such artists as Constable and Collins are preferred . It seems that Turner 's effects of light and atmosphere did not appear to correspond With their natural phenomena because the eye of the cultured spectator was still viewing Nature , in front of pictures at least , through the glass of an older art . On the other hand , Crabb Robinson perceives that Turner 's overall paintings of light and atmosphere could pass as his version of acceptable pictorial manipulations that belonged especially to the eighteenth century . Even in many of his earlier historical paintings that aped the past , or were meant to rival it , mythologicalincident took but a small place , not only in area as in@@1383.txtp50once remarked , " the thing has been with me to work the language in order to find what new may be done with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult matter to try to second-guess a writer such as Williams , since even his apparent errors have a certain inherent logic of their own . In the manuscript of his essay on the American primitive painters , for example , Williams remarked at one point , in reference to a specific painting : " both my wife and eye were amazed . " Thirlwall ( if he was the editor in question ) changed " eye " to " l " ? a perfectly logical and reasonable emendation , but one which does not take into consideration Williams 's lifelong pleasure in using the word " eye " as an equivalent for the creative capacity of the artist . Therefore , even if Williams , as is very possible , meant to use " I " in this context , his unconscious misspellingremains a variation with its own inherent justification . It has therefore been my policy not to with the integrity of Williams 's language and style , except in a very few cases where an obvious mistyping on Williams 's part would otherwise have led to unnecessary confusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been even the slightest doubt about the accuracy of a textual interpretation I might have been tempted to make , or wherever it was not entirely clear that a textual peculiarity was a spelling error or a case of " poetic license , " I have chosen to let Williams 's own versions stand . I have silently corrected only those obvious errors in orthography or spelling which seemed immediately obtrusive . In writing his articles , Williams had an intriguing habit of first jotting down quick notes , then typing and retyping the article on which he was working , dropping or adding sentences and paragraphshere and there as he went along . Usually an article would start as a relatively short compilation of more-or-less self-contained paragraphs forming a number of fairly loosely interrelated observations . Later versions would expand these initial observations , while the final version ? if there was one ? was likely to be similar to the expanded versions in content , except for the ruthless excision of1 " Why he Selected Some Flower Studies , " in America 's 93 Greatest Living Authors Present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burton C. Hoffman ( New York , World Publishing Co. , 1942 ) , 641.  |p51numerous  paragraphs , to bring the article " down to size . " Often Williams 's reasons for cutting out one paragraph and retaining another seem altogether capricious . What was cut was usually as interesting , if not more so , than what was retained . One reasonable explanation is that Williams , being an impulsive man , tended to follow his moods of the moment . For example , the only reason why Williams deleted the important formulation of the procedure by which the artist could attain significant form , from the later drafts of his article on " Credit Monopoly , " would seem to have been that when he decided to " depersonalize " his remarks , he simply removed this passage with the rest of the section , without giving the matter a second thought . Williams was also very susceptible to criticisms of his work by friends and acquaintances . Often he followed the path of least resistance by simply cutting out entire sections if there was anything in them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is what happened to the " Midas " article after Williams received Nicolas Calas 's criticisms of an early draft he had sent him . Calas objected to Williams 's use of the terms " anti-political , antiterrorist , " which he considered redundant , good art being , in his opinion , always anti-political . Williams responded by promptly deleting the offending passage , thereby making his agreement with Calas 's position considerably less clear to his readers , who , after all , could not be expected to be privy to the nature of the correspondenceon the matter between the two men . Similarly , when Calas indicated that he objected to Williams 's intriguing statement that he came " of a criminal generation , " Williams simply removed that statement , as well as nearly a page of related autobiographical material . Calas 's observation that Williams was putting too much emphasis on the painter Delvaux in his article led to the disappearance of several telling references to the Belgian Surrealist . Sometimes , however , Williams 's deletions , as he moved from version to version , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as that by Walter Sutton are an especially fruitful source of information about Williams 's beliefs and theories is that , as a result of his impulsive nature , his first utterances tended to be unguarded , spontaneous reflections . The early versions of hisp52essays were often of a similar spontaneity , which not infrequently disappeared as the articles moved toward their final state . It is , for example , characteristic of Williams 's continuing uncertainty about the public 's willingness to recognize his originality as an artist and the importance of his own contribution to the world of ideas , that there is a consistent pattern in his writing , in which time and again , in early drafts , he would generously announce the artistic or intellectual sources for certain of his opinions , only to delete all such references in the final versions . Therefore , whatever the reasons may have been which caused Williams to delete various passages from his articles at one point or another , there can be no doubt that the sections which he deleted were in almost all cases at least as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided to retain . Williams was himself clearly quite aware of this aspect of his writing procedure and took care to preserve all , or most , of the various fragments and versions of the essays he wrote . Taking my cue from the fact that he allowed these various versions to be deposited in the manuscript collections of two of our major universities , thereby showing himself unwilling to disown their contents , I decided to reconstruct the most complete version possible of each essay for which a number of early drafts have been preserved . I did so by reinserting those passages from earlier drafts which Williams had deleted at one point or another . This was no minor undertaking . In the case of some of the essays a dozen or more early drafts have been preserved . In writing the introduction to the Museum of Modern Art 's Sheeler exhibition of 1939 , Williams in fact accumulated a dossier of no less than twenty-nine different versions and fragments ! However , while constructing a " master version " on the basis of all available drafts was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its complexity by the fact that Williams 's writing tends to be aphoristic . Because of his predilection for categoric statements , his paragraphs are as a rule remarkably self-contained . This made it easy for him to take , as indeed he frequently did , a specific paragraph , or group of paragraphs , and simply transpose it or them from one part of the article he was writing , to another ? or even , as also happened , from one essay to another . Thus my reinsertion ofp53excised material rarely threatened to interfere with the readability of the essays in question . As a consequence this collection of Williams 's writings on art and artists can claim to contain all the poet 's observations and considerations to be found in any of the available manuscript versions of the articles included . The reader interested in Williams 's opinions about the visual arts therefore can rest assured that he is getting a complete record of the relevant contents of the works included in this collection . In order to keep this compilation as enjoyable to read and as uncluttered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recording the insertion of passages from other versions into the main text : In the section called " Sources , " at the end of this book , I have given a complete record of the provenance of each of the articles , including a designation of all available manuscript versions which have come under my scrutiny . In each case indicate which of the available versions I have used as my basic text . Insertions into this basic text of material from other manuscript versions are indicated as follows : 1 . A passage in parentheses followed by an asterisk represents a passage deleted by Williams in the main text. 2 . A passage in parentheses followed by a lower case letter designates a passage taken from another version of the manuscript , classified with that letter in the " Sources . " 3 . A passage in parentheses followed by a lower case letter and an asterisk designates a passage taken from another version of the manuscript , and classified with that letter in the " Sources , " but having been deleted by Williams in that other version. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parentheses represent material found in earlier versions of the main insertion not to be found in the primary passage inserted into the main text. 5 . Square brackets represent editorial additions on my part , necessary to supply coherent transitions not supplied by Williams himself . This system has the merit of remaining relatively unobtrusive while keeping the reader informed at all times about the insertion ofp54material belonging to versions other than the basic text used . In a few cases where a secondary draft of a specific article , usually a later , but less complete , version , included a felicitous change of a single word within a phrase otherwise also included in the basic text used for publication in this collection , I have substituted in the text the more appropriate wording of the secondary version without further indicating such a substitution , in order to avoid burdening the text with too cumbersome an editorial apparatus . I would like to thank James Laughlin for providing me with the impetus to undertake the compilation of this collection ? even though the task proved to be a good deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be at the outset . Had I not been able to make extensive use of Emily Mitchell Wallace 's excellent bibliography of Williams 's writings , my task would have been all but impossible . Williams scholars must always owe a special debt of gratitude to her for her work . The bibliography of the Williams manuscripts at the Lockwood Memorial Library of SUNY Buffalo , compiled by Neil Baldwin and Steven Meyers , has also been of substantial help to me . I am furthermore grateful to Karl Gay and Beverly Ruth van der Kooy , of the Lockwood Library , and to Donald Gallup and his staff at the Beinecke Library at Yale , for their cooperation in providing me with the necessary copies of Williams 's unpublished manuscripts . B. D.p55PrologueStill LifesAll poems can be represented by still lifes not to saywater-colors , the violence ofthe Iliad lends itself to an arrangement of narcissi in a jar . The slaughter of Hector by Achilles can well be shown by themcasually assembled yellow upon white radiantly making a circlesword strokes violently givenin more or less haphazard disarray.  |p57Not  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces to be in juxtapositionto my own either in agreement or disagreement . ' Thus ( in undertaking the composition of phrases to express my content ) b I have no compunction in borrowing phrases from Brzeska 's " Vortex , " on the contrary I accept his show of force as an affirmation of my own , ( and insofar as I take his phrases our forces are in agreement ) b . Furthermore ( by this acceptance ) b I deny ? ( affirm my independencefrom ) b ? the accident of time and place ' that brought the particular phrases to me , in that , now as always , I express my freedom from necessity and from accident by using whatever I find in my view without effort ( to avoid or ) b to find . Thus I am free to take whatever appearance fits my purpose . I meet in agreement the force that will express its emotional content by an arrangement of appearances ( , of planes ) , for by appearances I know my emotion . ( I amplify " planes " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes in the geometric sense , i.e. , without limits except as intersected by other planes . ) ; ( Substance is not considered , for'Above a variation of this first statement , on typescript draft ( b ) , there is the following handwritten note by Williams : " By the quality of the contacts I affirm its i.e. , presumably " my existence 's " ) quality . " If these ? and other ? handwritten additions by Williams were made contemporaneously to the composition of this manifesto , this would probably represent the first appearance of the term " contact " in Williams 's work . There are , however , certain modulations in the handwriting which suggest that Williams may have added this note to the typescript at a later date , possibly in the early 1920's. 21n draft ( b ) Williams wrote " space " instead of " place . " ; This passage is crossed out in the typescript , but here again the deletion ? as in the matter of the handwritten additions noted earlier ? seems to be the result of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reorganize his manifesto.  |p58a|part  from transparency which shows nothing , it does not exist aside from surface or plane . By means of plane surface exists in apposition to substance . Plane is the appearance . I affirm my existence and perceive its quality by apposition of planes. ) d ( I am in agreement with Brzeska that the'line has no existence being merely the meeting place of planes . ) I will not stop at planes but go on to content . Thus also by accepting the opportunity that has best satisfied my desire to express my emotions in the environment in which I have happened to be , I have defied my environment and denied its power to control me or the power of any accident that has made me write instead of cut stone . By taking whatever character my environment has presented and turning it to my purpose , I have expressed my independence of it . Thus in using words instead of stone I accept " plane " to be the affirmation of existence , the meeting of substances , whether it be stone meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain quality against one of another or against silence . The affirmation of existence and freedom in the quality of the sound or the perfume or the stone . The story , literal drawing is the line that has no existence . I will express my emotions in the appearances : surfaces , sounds , smells , touch of the place in which I happen to be . I will not make an effort to leave that place for I deny that I am dependent on any place . I will not write differently now or at a hundred except as I am different and I will not value one part of my life more than another ; therefore I shall not judge myself by a single standard that is not varied by time . I seek my emotions for the reasons given above : to put them beside others by which I affirm and recognize both my existence and that of others which again react confirming mine . And thus in the same way by expressing whatever emotion may occur , taking it without choice and putting it surface against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my denial inp59time and place of the accident of their appearance . I do not seek to change from writing to sculpture or painting or music ? nor would 1 hesitate to change if I saw an advantage ? for by refusing to attempt a new technique which l am too old to master or unsuited to master for some other reason ? I affirm my independencefrom any one technique and so from all technique , and at the same time I deny that accident that gave me to write ? or to carve or to paint.  |p60I  . More SwillThe Little Review , 1919WHEN A LADY says a certain aria of Puccini 's is " lovely " and that a certain other composition by Claudel is " ugly " she means something definite . She is using words accurately and for this reason her statement is not a mere matter of opinion but assumes the quality of being a definite point of illumination ? for better or worse . She puts two separate things in apposition and distinctly chooses one : Puccini 's aria will continue to remain " lovely " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? one feels that sharply ? no matter how she may subsequently alter her opinion . Her statement signalizes a fixed point of separation : one theme has escaped her understanding and one satisfies it . The failure of loveliness is that it is possessed at large before it is composed and so can never be created . And the hell of creative work is that it is never possessed until after it has been set down and after the artist has lost his taste for it and then of course possessed only by one or two . Americans are cursed with a desire to be understood . Everything must be " beautiful " or it must show this or that well-understood perfection , but it never occurs to an American , to an American critic in this case , to discover first whether he is dealing with a live thing or with the symmetries of a corpse . It never occurs to an American critic to question whether or not a work shows evidences of creative thought , or at least this is not the first thing that occurs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " beautiful " means something that tickles him , something that he can understand , and that thing must inevitably be to an artist the ugly . But all thought is ugly to the American critic ? especially if it come from the left . And since in a work of art the form of the compositionp61bespeaks the thought , then all new forms are inevitably anathema and this is not alone true of America . So let us take off our undershirts , my friends , and scratch our backs in good company . At least we will not be praised because of our loveliness . But of course that last paragraph is no more than a familiar halloo , a hoi-yo-to-hoi ! The thing is that the difficulty between the critic and the artist has never been rightly understood . I do not make the same mistake as my predecessors ; I have merely up to this point designated two objects of different nature , one of which , full of thought , concerns the artist and one of which , full of loveliness , concerns the critic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate , one forever to concern the artist and one forever to concern the critic . But I differ from some of my companions in that I do not disdain to attack the critic . I do not disdain to soil my hands with death . I find a certain exhilaration in taking the heavy corpse in my arms and fox-trotting with it as far as I am able . It is not easy to dance with a dead thing in the arms . And this is the eternal and until now slighted nature of the engagement between artist and critic . It is a dance ! No man can be forced to dance . But I see no particular gain in mixing only with those of my own inherited cast of thought and feeliig . I can of course appreciate the Chinese philosopher who lived alone by a waterfall , but aside from that perfection I see no reason for avoiding the arms of a critic . It teaches me to dance . That there is no transition between critic and artist I will maintain as well as I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , but never one within the other . It is a common impossibility . Witness alone the silence of the returned soldier among whom are men well able to express themselves : Phillip Gibbs has it , " Non-combatants do not understand and never will , not from now until the ending of the world . Cut it out about the brave boys in the trenches ! ' So it is difficult to describe them , or to give any idea of what goes on in their minds , for they belong to another world than the world of peace that we knew , and there is no code which can decipher theirp62secret , nor any means of self-expression on their lips . " To a soldier war , to an artist his art , to a critic his criticism , to them all the dance ! ll . What Every Artist KnowsA Letter to the Editors of The Freeman , 1920 SIRS : The article by Mr. Harold Stearns , " Illusions of the Sophisticated , " in The Freeman , 15 December , 1920 , discloses two things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adapted to make artistic divisions ; 2. the habitual error which occurs when art is discussed from the intellectual platform . Since the artist , in poverty-stricken America , should find his best friends among just such men as Mr. Stearns , an immediate effort should be made to combat the point of view he expresses in his article . Mr. Stearns well points out that art is " a happy marriage between instinct and instinct 's object , " that it has no relation except to reality , no relation whatever to " impassioned recollection " or " rosy hopefulness in the future . " Then , turning about , he speaks of art as existing in certain periods , spasmodically , between which , as at present , men must live without it . He directly implies that art is a spontaneous creation , a by-product of happy conjugations between emotions , instincts and their environment which only great periods afford . This is the illusion which intellectuals like Mr. Stearns habitually accept ; it is art from the outside , an effect " important as a fact only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of something else . Whereas the thing may have been working within itself for many generations . Mr. Stearns sees art only as a social phenomenon . There appear to him only isolated patches on the screen , related to nothing but the politico-social events to which they happen to be adherent . Art lives when men of a certain sort are in contact with their environment and then only . This may occur at any time . Art becomes a social phenomenon in great periods only accidentally when external circumstances approach its constant requirements.  |p63But  the intellectual gives himself entirely away when , for instance , he tells us that to talk about art is , in effect , a social crime . Art , so he says , is a fact of importance only as such ; to talk about it is futile . But Mr. Stearns neglects to make the important distinction that he refers only to philosophico-social discussion . He neglects to note that art can be talked about profitably at any time ? but by artists . It is his social , extraneous viewpoint , the constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes , and attempts to make art dependent upon something else , to deny it its true , self-related , if disturbing , existence . The thing which every artist sees without the necessity of demonstration because it is part of his own body , the thing which the philosopher writing about art never can see , is that art is the product of a certain sort of living contact that can be made to live , even for discussion , in no other way ; that the so-called fallow periods are no less possessed in this passionate satisfaction than any other . In fact , that in regard to it all periods are the same . The one thing that an intellectual writing about art can properly emphasize is that he , the intellectual , is not among those who are enjoying life in a certain way . So that in spite of himself , as far as art goes , being lean , he is forced to indulge in the very things he despises , on the one hand , recollections , and on the other , hopefulnessabout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says is usually worth reading , when there is nothing better , because in his confusions he is seen to be struggling to get into contact with reality . After all , this is perhaps the true province of intellectualism ? to bridge over the secret periods . But the thing that is needed is not less discussion about art but more and more ? but always by artists . America is especially in need of just such talk today , talk that tends more than anything to quicken the artists themselves into those public demonstrations of their instincts which we are starving for . In a poverty-stricken country such as ours is today , attempts to brand as unimportant even the smallest phenomenon of spiritual contact with life , which art is , are nothing more than vicious.  |p64Contact  1 , 1920Contact is issued in the conviction that art which attains is indigenous of experience and relations , and that the artist works to express perceptions rather than to attain standards of achievement : however much information and past art may have served to clarify his perceptions and sophisticate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his work shall be adjudged . For if there are standards in reality and in existence , if there are values and relations which are absolute , they will apply to art . Otherwise any standard of criticism is a mere mental exercise , and past art signifies nothing . We are here because of our faith in the existence of native artists who are capable of having , comprehending and recording extraordinaryexperience ; who possess intellect sufficient to carry over the force of their emotional vigor ; who do not weaken their work with humanitarianism ; who deal with our situations , realizing that it is the degree of understanding about , and not situations themselves , which is of prime importance , and who receive meagre recognition . Attainment is meaningless unless there be some basis of measurement . Wishing to be open-minded toward all experiment ? ourselves feeling that many literary forms , the novel , the short story , and metrical verse , are mannered , copied and pretentious technique ? we still do not intend becoming spokesman for any movement , group or theory , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceiving the arts . That artists are sophisticated beings who utilize their own contacts in art creation , and erudition incidentally as it has been assimilated , ' is an assumptionof ours . They will be scientific insofar as medium is concerned , but their substance is no more scientific than is that of existence . ' The mimeographed typescript of the first issue of Contact reads " assimulated , " an amusing , and perhaps appropriate misspelling , but probably not an intentional one.  |p65We  will be American , because we are of America ; racial or international as the contactual realizations of those whose work we publish have been these . Particularly we will adopt no aggressive or inferior attitude toward " imported thought " or art . Our only insistences are upon standards which reality as the artist senses it creates , in contradistinction to standards of social , moral or scholastic value ? hangovers from past generations no better equipped to ascertain value than are we . Assuming sufficient insight and intellect to convey feelings valuably , we are interested in the writings of such individuals as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of definite personal realization into their work . II . Further AnnouncementIN THE course of the next few months we will set down fully in these pages what we are proposing as a magazine . It wuld be idle to attempt to do so now when we have nothing to show but a beginning . For native work in verse , fiction , criticism or whatever is written we mean to maintain a place , insisting on that which we have not found insisted upon before , the essential contact between words and the locality that breeds them , in this case America . It is our object to discover , if possible , the terns in which good taste can be stated here . We find that whatever " good taste " is exhibited now in the one or two decent magazines we have is as a matter of fact extremely poor taste being provincial in the worst sense because wholly derivative and dependent upon nothing that could possibly give it authenticity . We call attention , at the same time , and acknowledge our debt to all importation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to give it force but to give it universality , that which can not be bought by smearing a lick of borrowed culture over so many pages . There is no money with which to pay for mss . We want no work that can be sold to other magazines unless the artist sees an advantage in appearing upon these pages that would outweigh all other considerations . I suppose I had better add that no one needp66expect us to publish his things simply because they happen to have been written in the United States . What more ? We intend no course in literature . Nor do we aim to make ourselves the objects of posthumous praise . We wish above all things to speak for the present . Why not in that case have devoted ourselves to Dadaism , that latest development of the French soul , which we are about to see extensively exploited in New York this winter without there being ? we venture to say ? any sense whatever of its significance , and fulfil Rodker 's prediction ? Here one might go into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than knowledge of the earth which in certain ages decomposes and leaves the intellect to itself , barren . And we might go on to the effect that the conventional , Tolstoian , mystical concept of faith has never been more than a superficial decoration permissible in ages of great knowledge of the earth and its uses . Well America is a bastard country where decomposition is the prevalent spectacle but the contour is not particularly dadaesque and that 's the gist of it . We should be able to profit by this French orchid but only on condition that we have the local terms . As it is we should know what is before us , what it is and why . Or at least we should know our own part in the matter : which amounts to the same thing . Not that Dadaism is particularly important but ? there it is . And where are we ? We do not seek to " transfer the center of the universe " here . We seek only contact with the local conditions which confront us . We believe that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the concept of art among us but the key to the technique also . Ill . Sample Critical StatementContact IV , 1921Contact has never in the least intimated that the American artist in preparing his position " should forget all about Europe . " On thep67contrary the assertion has been that he should acquaint himself with everything pertaining to his wish that he can gather from European sources . He will in fact go about where he pleases and take or leave whatever necessity guides him to decide upon . In exploiting his position in America the artist , aware of the universal physical laws of his craft , will however take off only from the sensual accidents of his immediate contacts . This achievement of a locus , Contact has maintained , is the one thing which will put his work on a comparable basis with the best work created abroad . Before the approach to anything of a serious character there must be this separate implantation of the sperm in each case . Nothing will be forwarded , as it is persistently coughed at us for our children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have arrived at their perfection by force of the stimuli of special circumstance foreign to us , the same which gave them birth and dynamize them today . Paris for painting , if you will , but it is the genius of the locality ; the painting which centers in Paris is French painting , no matter by whom produced , Spaniard or Greek , French painting , long implanted and constantly held to the living circumstance by men of genius . Though no painting today can compare with it and though all must study it who will paint , it must be understood as French , the product of a locality , before it can be fully comprehended , a thing which , by every conceivable impulse of life converging immediately upon it from the French environment , has been brought into flower . It is living evidence of the essential nature of the local contact in art . To attempt to live and to paint in New York by force of the same impulses which animate Paris is the occupation of adulatory provincials , to speak of " art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The profit from French work begins when the student realizes that it is a special , a foreign , a peculiar growth , in its best examples every part discoverably related to some local turn of color or contour and so alone addressed to reality , able to be what it is , a living thing . It is not art but French art that one goes to Paris to study , and one returns to Tokyo or New York to practice , not art , nor French artp68but ? to adore the gods of the locality as the French have taught one to adore them . It is this alone that could produce work of any use to Paris . African wood carving . All that I have to say is after all just that the artist might profit largely by an American experience ? if he exists . If Americans are to be blessed with important work it will be through intelligent , informed contact with the locality which alone can infuse it with reality . American periodic literature , magazines which represent no position taken but which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when one piece is like the other both are good , this is the worst in the local environment carried to the logical conclusion . The worst of the anthology method in magazine making is that , in taking no definite regard to position , innocent of local effects upon itself , it can not possibly present foreign work in anything but a blurred light , on a constantly wavering screen . Work like Benda 's , once forcibly removed from its very special and sensitive local field of action and pushed into unlocated pages , becomes nearly completely unintelligible , like a severed hand . To bring to America the work of Picasso or de Gourmont , the first thing to do is to establish our own position by thorough knowledge of our own locality , thus giving the foreign work a place to which to arrive . This is the opportunity of the creative artist.  | ( Its Importance , a Definition , and the Influence Upon Modern Writing Traceable to It ) The Embodiment of Knowledge , 1928 THERE IS a progressive excellence moving through the periods marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French painting . It is technical and its influence is traceable there as well as in the other arts . It is a longer phase than the generational modalities of it which attract periodic attention . It is , in paint , an effect of this plain problem : How shall the multiplicity of a natural object , impossible to detail or completely encircle , be presented by pigment on canvas . Plainly it is not to trace it as it stands for that intelligence is impossible , repetitious and uncalled for . ( It is , in effect , an analysis , first , of the scene , followed by technical virtuosity . ) It is to represent some phase of this object that the schools point . Each pose caught being a success . Realizing this , the exhilarating resourcefulness and fertility of the French is shown , but being part of a general problem , there is ( beyond that ) a liberalizing implication to it which releases from the particular train ? train of the French thing of the moment , which seduces artisans in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is faced when a tree is to be put on canvas . ( Shall it be one etched leaf in the foreground ? a contour of massed branches , color ? or what ? ) Facing it , realizing that it is pigment on a surface , French painting went as far as Braque , it became a surface of paint and that is what it represented . It went to this extreme to free itself of misconceptions as to its function , after that and before that , what ? for that was its simplest and most extreme , most sanitary phase . ( It remains the pivot for an appraisal of its continued activity . ) For this is the flat of it : all painting is representation and can not be anything else . This must be stated in order to clear the looseness of some thought concerning it and to understand it properly . It wasp70a mistake to say , as it was said twenty years ago , that the object of modern painting was to escape representation . Not so . ( It was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to trace a scene and thus to confuse paint values with natural objects . ) It is to represent nature . The only problem being : what shall we represent and how ? In that choice lies the whole of the artist 's realm . It is evidence of the exercise of this choice that is to be judged , finally , as excellent . It is a technique along with a stress of experience ( the understanding , intelligence ) that shall not at least be false thought , stale emotion and lying pretense ( of delineation ) . Invention ( creation ) being basically the mark of intelligence , selecting and rejecting its material ? as it would be in an engineer that turns to the time for his opportunity . French painting from this viewpoint escaping the cliche of the predominant ism of the moment can be highly instructive to the writer ? and has been to me ? being as I believe it to have been for a hundred years one of the cleanest , most alert and fecund avenues of human endeavor , a positive point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction . The writer is to describe , to represent just as the painter must do ? but what ? and how ? It is the same question of words and technique in their arrangement ? Steinhas stressed , as Braque did paint , words . So the significance of her personal motto : A rose is a rose ? which printed in a circle means two things : A rose is , to be sure , a rose . But on the other hand the words : A rose is ? are words which stand for all words and are very definitely not roses ? but are nevertheless subject to arrangement for effect ? as are roses ? and shall be , for themselves , as meaningless-or as the arrangement which is jointed upon them shall please . In this case the words are put there to represent words , the rose spoken of being left to be a rose . Let it be noted that these two phases , writing and painting , occurred synchronously . The basis is , presumably , a common one . As thought underlies. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit , not to constrict , but not to fly off into " universals , " into vapors , either . That is what it is to be an artist with his material before him . It is to be a kind of laborer ? ap71workman ? a maker in a very plain sense ? nothing vague or transcendental about it : that is the artist ? at base. 2 . The basis being ? that one can come up through to excellence in the arts ? as to an intelligent use of his life ? anywhere ? at any time ? tho ' with variations ? and this is a liberal understanding of the world and an American one. 3. ( last bit ) It is because we confuse the narrow sense of parochialism in its limiting implication , that we fail to see the complement of the same : that the local in a full sense is the freeing agency to all thought , in that it is everywhere accessible to all : not in the temple , of a class , but for every place where men have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with others of that same variant in other places which unites us all ? if we are able. 4 . And how do the French do this : Strictly by following a local tradition . Their painting is a consecutive series of modulations on a craft . It has two collateral phases ( 1 ) taking from Japanese , Italian , Spanish ? any craft , and being able to do so because the local permits it and ( 2 ) attracting other craftsmen in a great manner whose genius to use for themselves : Picasso , Gris ? Cosmopolis be damned . Cosmopolis is where I happen to be . The virtue of Paris is not that it is a world capital of art . Facile nonsense . It is that Paris is a French city , dominated by French ideas ? attracting the good to that , to that positive . None more local than the French : its vigor . It is the local that is the focus of work ? everywhere available . It is ( the local ? with myself present in it ) cosmopolis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the universality of the very fact of art itself. 1 . The painters have paid too much attention to the ism and not enough to the painting . I 'm for the painting where it is , in America or elsewhere , but I 'm not for morons ? vigor , worth , fervor ? wherever it is and do n't be seduced by it save for the pleasure and the impregnating point of it ? which is n't an ism ? or of the moment. 2 . Someone by the name of Stearns has kicked against the pricks of French painting , saying that it has seduced American painters as it has , save for a few . All right . If the rest are not witty enough to circumvent , even use , that influence ? to hell with them . French painting has been , is a living , vigorous thing . There arep72not enough such in thought and act in the world on that plane . As a writer I enjoyed and profited . Here 's the solution. 3 . As to the laying on of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save from common observation : that there are many ways ? in work that is excellent from Van Dyke through Rembrandtto Cezanne. 4 . What shall be seen then in America ? Nothing French surely . What is there to see ? A tree ? it 's been painted a myriad times from the Renaissance background down to Derain . Well , what does one see ? to paint ? Why the tree , of course , is the facile answer . Not at all . The tree as a tree does not exist literally , figuratively or any way you please ? for the appraising eye of the artist ? or any man ? the tree does not exist . What does exist , and in heightened intensity for the artist is the impression created by the shape and color of an object before him in his sensual being ? his whole body ( not his eyes ) his body , his mind , his memory , his place : himself ? that is what he sees ? And in America ? escape it he can not ? it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserts his own existence and that of men about him ? he becomes prophet and seer ? in so far as he is wholly worthy to be so . That is the significance , the penetration , the wit and power of a picture . If he can record that with ( and it is always a technical problem of ) mastery and material , he will be presenting a tree . To do less , to ape a French manner is to put out his eye ? then surely he has not seen the tree at all . She is the appendage of someone else who has subjugated him.  |p73Not  previously published , 1928ART BEING a mode by which anything may be said , is amoral in its conceptions . It is wrong to say , though , that art is amoral since , as it penetrates morality , among other things , it is penetrated too by moral conceptions . So it must have a moral aspect . But this is not its concern . Being without concern for morality art can not usurp to itself moral prerogatives without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of art . By shocking , a work of art acknowledges its own inadequacy of form . It must find its own mode which morality can not attack without weakening itself , in its turn . But a vague sense of morality outraged is at the back of all popular objection to new art forms . The list is interminable : The form has made a statement beyond present conceptions , but strictly in the realm of art , that is pure form . This statement is unrelated to morality . But a moral conception of like nature is correlated . The vague perception of this subtle fact inspires fear in everyone , fear or the exhilaration of new life discovered , as one is not , or is , awake to the values of art . In art , though , distinct from morality , the humane and so perfect principle is this , that not only is a full statement permissible , whereas in morality it is always partial and imperfect , but in art a complete statement is compulsory . I thrive in a matrix of confusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is the Ph.D . of stupidity to do so , , puritanical and cross-eyed . If you wish to , you may speak of the influence of Berlin or Paris or the Riviera , on the maimed Newp74Englander ; an amputated thing , when it hits sunlight is grotesquely exaggerated ? but true . It is Paris , it is Berlin , it is the Riviera that has made it show true . Paris is a way to an understanding of the truth , i.e. Hartley . But it is not amiss but important to observe the points of Parisian achievement , especially in the art of painting ? since it is the cap of the world ? to understand as parcel of your own statement . What you see is not a pose but an elucidation , as the woman on the corner with an umbrella , an elucidation of mood at least , sometimes of structure , that should be grasped . Good God but to compare the principles of composition as related in Picasso and El Greco , THAT is waste of time . Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of an identity of composition . Here especially , in painting , lies the truth of Duchamp , Picasso . In England , in Europe , they have a sense of being part of a historical movement of no great permanence ? it has happened more or less the same before ? like the great white-collar army of the present day . But we Americans are too near our beginnings to know our real detachment from permanence , we still believe we are solid , unfolding ? and not folding up also.  |p75Not  previously published , 1933 I ACCEPT the editorship of BLAST on these conditions : 1 . that I have no work to do in connection with it , 2. that it be understood to be and remain a magazine devoted to writing ( first and last ) though in the service of the proletariat , and3. that it adhere reasonably closely to the following program ? ( I will write exclusively , consciously and with a purpose to be understood by ? and to instruct in the objectives of my craft ? those avowed Communists who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service insofar as the best in writing which such a determination does not negate can be of service , and will devote myself exclusively to helping your purpose by every means known to me as a writer ? known to the art of writing. ) aThis is a statement of what appears to be the way writers ( and other artists ) must face their responsibilities toward the world revolution : to clarify it by examples ? more effective writing . A dilemma has been broached when the artist has been conscripted and forced to subordinate his training and skill to party necessity for a purpose . What is he to do ? Has he no choice ? Must he practice sabotage on his art ? No . This magazine holds that in order to serve the cause of the proletariat he must not under any circumstances debase his art to any purpose , but , if he will subordinate himself to the party , he would rather allow himself to be eliminated entirely , humbly , than commit the offence against his party of doing less than he is capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never helped anybody . Much proletarian writing is ineffective since it is bad . It is the business of the artist to make this more effective in the cause by applying the perfected principles of his art to it . And by doing so , we believe , he must benefit his art also . The worst fault in writing and the one of which proletarianp76writing by accomplished artists of another regime has been most guilty has been to try to write down to an audience . This , however , is characteristic of bad writing at all times and not only of bad proletarian writing . ( Red Front : Such work being second-rate art will always have an air of being good enough for the proletariat ? which is an impossible condition . There is no alternative : it must be , first , good art . And this is possible ? rather , it is inevitable . ) . On what principle shall a writer , who has perfected a complicatedmethod or methods , bring himself to men willing to listen to what they can understand but who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? We do not ask how it is to be done , we ask how , within himself , shall the writer get to the task without first compromising his intelligence ? The answer lies in the known resurgence , wilting and decline of art itself in the past ? as in the present day . With these principles in view I will limit myself to an attempt to bring the excellences of writing to the understanding and service of men whose illumination by the principles of Communism makes them capable of rewarding the effort the artist would make by secrets he could not arrive at otherwise . Writing along with all other living things tends to die out at the top at a point of approximate excellence . This is true either of the wood duck or Greek poetry . We may react to it as we please . We may look around from our ruined tower at a waste land or join the decadents and the art for art sakers ? and not without justice on our side . In fact distinction often lies that way . But there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The clue to this lies in the approximate nature of all excellence . There is no absolute in art and no absolute end toward which art is directed . In the end the objective escapes and a purgation occurs . Art itself has been purged away . There remains a nostalgic shell whose image fills us with regrets and infinite longings , with bitterness and despair . This is the ancient balefulness in all beauty . About this fact religion has embroidered a hundred creeds andp77tenets , a thousand precepts ? the gist of them all being the spirit of good which is beyond art . But all this lies in a speculative field which does not concern the artist . He is a practical man , an artisan working with materials ( which he knows from the first ) ' and can have no time for gossip . ( It is not his concern to what end he is working : his concern is to work and to work well . . . ) . ' His problem is extremely simple . When he no longer knows why he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word next to another , one color next to another , he 'd better stop work until he finds out . And it is n't just a matter of stresses so that the structure wo n't fall down or apart . But why is he , why is he , the man , engaged on the job , doing it ? It 's at about that time that the art , so-called , has disappeared . Why is he modeling a cat , Adam and Eve , the legs of a woman ; why rhyming up a sonnet ? Why ? Thus we come to the end of physics , chemistry , the sonata form , sex morality , philosophical dicta , the religious dogmas ? and it ends ? as art does from time to time , and as birds and animals ? in why ? The thing has escaped ? the means have become fragile , brittle ? Why ? Communism poses such a question to art . All very well for Romain Rolland to say that all writing which does not lead to action is so much garbage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach to such a fiat which must be answered first . The place most of us have stuck is this : Shall we give up the essential individualism of artists to serve a proletarian state ? no matter how temporarily or for what urgent reasons ? or shall we cling to the drastic compulsions of the artists even at the cost of having the new state excommunicate us ? To me there is only one answer possible : We are first , last and always artists and can never be compelled by the state . Otherwise we are just liars . Everything begins from the spark of one man , in the Communist state as in any other , whether it be a unification under a holy apostolic see or The phrases in parentheses here are from a paragraph preceding this one on the same page , of which the content is nearly identical to the one reprinted here , but which Williams abandoned in mid-sentence.  |p78otherwise  . It is too readily forgotten that the thirteenth century , like every other , and in spite of an approximate excellence , decayed like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holiness " than in any sensual life we can know . But the artist makes a mistake if he believes that there is no way to serve the new mode implied in a present-day Communism ? which is intellectually inescapable ? save by jettisoning his personal integrity as an artist . It may be demanded of him ? he must deny the demand . His only answer must be , No . However , there is no point in taking the opposite stand : that Communism as such is opposed to him and that he must dash himself to death against it . And he must watch carefully the heresy that it , Communism , gives him his opportunity . Wait a minute . His opportunity lies in art , not Communism . That he is left working in a vacuum and that now he will be reinvigorated : yes , that is true ? but again , not by anything but rediscoveries in art , not Communism . The category is inflexible ? that it may be of service . The thing he , as an artist , faces is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in fact this he must accept , it is essential to him to do so and this is the opportunity Communism presents to him , an opportunity to regain an understanding ? Why ? He remains an artist , this must be said over and over again . He is useless unless he remains an artist . But since his art has reached an impasse , since it can go no further for the very reason that it has reached an excellence , he goes back , he must go back , with full and reasonable compulsion to a sounder basis . As where all impasses are discovered it is a signal seldom to go forward ? and if so never far ? but nearly always to go back . If the intellectual tends to die out and to become mixed , so that less differentiated types take his place , it is because the means have been faulty ? a bad use of materials ? and the elimination of the result therefore represents a salutary sloughing . ' It is sad to see the'Williams abandoned the second part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it later . In the ms. this part reads as follows : " ... it is because the means has been faulty and the ? a bad use of materials and the elimination of the result a salutary sloughing. "  |p79highly  differentiated types vanish . But one can not say therefore that to look back is to retrograde . Order itself is subversive when all the claws , spurs , and other irregular protuberances have been clipped off to achieve it . There is no communistic writing . There is only writing ? which goes forward or back at will , in order to remain in reasonable contact with the organization of its materials , or to respond to a continually revalued estimate of the nature of its materials . ' Now it must go back according to the new stress which Communism places on words and their uses . Communism has cut away whole bales of misconceptions in form ? art then quite naturally retreats to organize its position . It must retreat . It is n't flattered to do so . It does n't set out to serve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Takes up its place not where it will but where it can . Absorbs some of the warmth , perhaps , in doing so . Retains its integrity . And for this must be valued . By its integrity . For as to the artist his art is his measuring rod . To all others ( who do n't give a damn about art for itself ) the artist is valuable because of the common virtues he presents ? his integrity , in short . It does n't matter to the others that this is not to them but to his materials . To them it is integrity . Why look further ? Proust is tremendously read by Communists ? perhaps because he depicts the decay of a bourgeoisie ? but more than that because he does depict them , decadent though many phases of his consciousness , of his whole activity , may be . There in his art , he is a whole man ? the only place where he is whole . Aragon 's poem is not read . It is " old stuff ' in the dress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think the Communists themselvesare such fools that they do not know integrity ? That they do not smell out good art ? Invention ? It is propaganda . It has some good lines . But it is not good writing and for that reason it is of little use to Communism itself . So today a question is posed which has to be answered : What is'ln the ms : this sentence reads : " There is only writing ? which goes forward or back at will in order to remain in reasonable contact with ? organization of its materials. ? according to a continually revalued estimate of the nature of itsp80the place of writing in a communistic state ? My answer is : The same it has always been , only ? since there is no remaining objective left to the writer in the forms which have decayed away under his fingers ? he must go back for his clue , realistically look for new forms in a more simple organization of social materials . Once he has found it , he becomes as always an enemy to society attacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can he chime with the others . A magazine which accepts ( 1 ) the idea that most Communist writing is bad and that it should be better ? as writing . That ( 2 ) there is no reason why it should not be written to be understood . That ( 3 ) because it is plain does not necessarily involve writing down to a willing , if uncultured , man ; ( 4 ) that it is possible for writing to gain in integrity with its materials by observation of a similar process in society ; ( 5 ) that the decay at the top is due to materials ( forms ) which have lost meaning and become insensitive by careless use ; and that ( 6 ) there is a gain to writing by a retreat to essentials , an opportunity which can be intelligently taken . Having been burned as editor , half-editor , quarter-editor , I am willing to have those interested use my name , for whatever it may stand for , as editor , provided I will not have to do any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for everything that is said in it . My name to remain so long as the magazine deals with writing which is attempting to discover in the communistic onslaught materials which are essential to it ? to which its life is jointly dedicated along with theirs ? as the history and suffering for the art of writing amply testifies . No Communist should care for the color of the skins of his comrades . The artist is a man with a skin the color of the rainbow ? with black added. materials . " In this case , too , Williams probably intended originally to go back over the text at some future date and select the formulation he preferred , or construct the type of conjunction I present here . ' Again , in the ms. the last part of this sentence has a fragmented , tentative form : ... he must realistically look for new forms in the ? he must go back ? in a more simple organization of social materials ? for his clue . "  |p81Good  writing is a matter of integrity to the materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build with them . Then call me the editor ? call me anything you please  | Not previously published , 1936 ( BEING A physician , one of those who get the brunt of human misfortune day in day out all their lives , and being a man of fifty and more , I came recently under the observation of a curious individual . We met at the house of a friend one night at a party . He saw something in me which interested him and wanted to do a portrait study . He was an artist . I invited him to come to my office some afternoon the following week . When he arrived a few days later and had set up his easel and board , he began to talk. ) f Not , he said , because I want to speak of myself or to air my opinions but because I find it easier to talk than to listen when I am concentrating on the work before me . I answered him from time to time in moments of relaxation such as he allowed . But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two hours I posed for him . ( I found what he had to say very interesting ; ( ( it opened up a world unfamiliar to me . I studied the man ) ) b as he scowled , pinched up his lips , smiled and beamed triumphantly working to seize the something he wanted in what he called the " map of my face . " It was a hunt as well , apparently , as a construction that was going on . The man himself was a dark , undersized fellow with bushy hair , keen black eyes , and a somewhat Slavic cast of face ? though he might have denied having Slavic blood in him . A typical " foreigner , " I should have said , to most Americans ; just what you might expect the American conception of an artist to be . His voice was gentle and pitched rather high . But he expressed himself with the greatest firmness and clarity when he was able to reach the difficult points he was making. )  | It is my purpose to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a man is a fool , he began . He is a fool because he thinks he is doing one thing and is really doing something else . That is a fool . And it is a pity , too , because he is full of genius . But he has forgotten what a painter is for . That is , to paint . He has let himself be led astray into politics and that has ruined him . In the time of Michelangelo they used to bend two trees together and tie a man 's limbs to them . Then they would let go so that the trees tore him apart . But the artist did not turn aside for such cruelty . He had only to paint , to approach the world indirectly through his art . The whole Renaissance was a rule of so many tyrants . It was they who hired the masters to work for them . The great artists of the time did not stop to attack such men . They were their friends . Instead they made masterpieces . And in their work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all tyrants and cruelty , all violence of which art is the antithesis . Look at Beethoven . He did not directly attack the political absurdities of his day , except in the strict concepts of his art , which were in themselves a world to him . And those liberations which he then set in motion have lasted until today and will last perhaps forever still breathing their power . Please notice , he added , that when I use the word " forever " I say something definite , something human , something with a meaning that can be understood . It is not an abstraction , so used . I am a painter , so I speak of painting , but what I say applies to all the arts . It is a world very little understood today , even by the artists . One must approach a painting always from that world , always from the outside . Yes , I know , an artist deals only in the materials of his art . He is a mechanic . He must objectify everything . But he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sees and what he wants to do with it . He must not turn it round the other way . ( He must be trained too . What do you think of Van Gogh ? He knew nothing about painting . He is only good when he is unconscious ; when his enthusiasm makes him see , like a child . But  | when he tries to do according to what he thinks he should do he is very bad . His Potato Eaters for instance is very bad . Peasants are happy people . They are not that way . That is perverse , empty. ) b When I paint it is because I see something , something beyond the mere materials to be used . ( That is what I am painting . Then I look to discover in the materials what it is that reveals that thing to me ) * And as I look I am at work . I do not know what my hand is doing ? though it is well trained to follow me . I see and my hand automatically follows my perception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking to discover what it is that I saw and to describe it . There is no other approach to good art . ( They say that Cezanne is as great a painter as Leonardo . That is ridiculous . What did he see ? ) f* That is the trouble with most moderns . Picasso too . They have approached painting from the wrong direction , from the material side of it , ( and that is the wrong way. ) ' * Of course , it is paint . It is a two dimensional convention in which certain symbols are used to produce an effect of three dimensions , of light , of objects surrounded by space . That is true . But there is sometimes also a fourth dimension . And that is genius . ( The genius which they lack. ) f* It is this that makes a work immortal , that is , extending indefinitely through time . That is the fourth dimension . And that too , in painting is a convention . But how ? Art is all of human beings , they forget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is only nature , the ( unconscious ) birds ( and animals ) , and the stones . But man is conscious , he is conscious of the passage of time . And it is this consciousness of a man in a work of art that makes it live . Most of us ' have not been able to rise from consideration of the materials to that state of the soul which must inspire us if we are to succeed . The soul ? I said . Do you believe in the immortality or even the existence ) h of the soul ? The immortality is of no importance . But the existence , yes , of lln draft ( c ) and several other early drafts , the text reads : " Picasso has not been able to rise from a consideration of his materials , " etc.  | course . We are speaking of art , we are speaking of practical things . It is the soul alone that makes life possible to thought . It is the integrity of the artist 's soul in us that gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I say , that we know . ( That is not just another philosophical conception , it is so because we have experienced it , we have found it within ourselves. ) * Do not mistake me , he went on , your moderns have done a useful piece of work . And they have done it well . They have destroyed Ruskin , they have destroyed the pseudo-artists ( , the fakers , those who served to block a comprehensive knowledge of the world in their day. ) b At the same time they have been ( too material , ) btoo bound to science , too limited to the mechanics of their craft , too self-conscious . ( They have forgotten from which world they must approach what they have to do . Even Rousseau , le Douanier , was self-conscious , do n't you think ? He was not a true primitive . Just a little self-conscious. ) f* ( In cubism and all the really important technical work of the schools that came after there is too much that is self-conscious . They have been dealing too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the meaning . Has art a meaning ? It is a world . Shall we ask of it more meaning than we ask of the other worlds of our thought which we take seriously ? ) c I once asked John Dewey at a banquet , Do you believe there is anything selfconscious in art ? Please do not answer me offhand , I cautioned him , but give me your considered opinion . And he said , In great art , no , there is nothing self-conscious . But , I interposed , has it not been the virtue of the French School that they are not self-conscious ? They go on wherever their inclination leads them , without restraint , to the end . It is , in my own opinion , a great virtue . ( We can not go back to the primitive as Rivera has tried to do . We must go on to further discovery and comprehension. ) c Yes . But without a necessary control that can be mere abandon . There must be a check Ah ha !  | And that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do recognize humanity . They are extremely human in their belief that complete abandon will bring them to the truth . ) No , he insisted . It is with them only another theory . ( You can see it in their work . No really human beings as subjects from which to discover their art , only human beings as objects wholly external ? not from the inside. ) * And the proof is that humanity has turned against them , does not recognize what they do . It even finds them antagonistic ( and such an instinct is correct . The fourth dimension is missing . ) The fault is , perhaps , not their own but lies embedded in the age . Of what are we most proud in the world today ? Our science . Is it not true ? I recognize , he continued , that we do not find today in art that solidity which science represents . But that was precisely the strength of Leonardo , to which , as an artist , he added a fourth dimension , the concept of man . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reads he makes it his own . It is his to do with and to use . This is the free world of the intelligence and of the artist . From this world he paints everything . In art the freedom of the soul of man is established . We need in this the solidity which today we find only in the sciences . In great art this is enlarged to include with the three-dimensional world the concept of man . ) Has not science , which we thought so solid , itself reached a crisis today ? An end to its resources ? We hear of the division of the atom into smaller and smaller parts . To what effect ? The release of greater and greater energy , conceivable at last in terms only of infinity . The process runs off inevitably into metaphysics . Impossible to tell which is energy , which matter . ( But this is a real world , not a relative one . The concept of a Euclidian geometry represents a real condition . There are not a number of geometries of which that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is only the one geometry , which Euclid was able to discover in the conditions of three-dimensional space with which he found himself actually surrounded . ) In the practical world of the artist this impasse was known long since and the knowledge put to superb use ? by Michelangelo . In what do they think his power lies ? Not surely in ( the tortured bulk of his work ) f  | in the colossal size of his masterpieces . Many have been deceived by that . No . The secret of his power lies in the subtlety of his modeling , by the fineness of the divisions of it rendering up the power . All this time my artist had been looking , measuring , drawing .. Then his face lighted up . Now we are getting something , he said . Something important . He turned the board around . There lightly sketched I saw my head , the " map of my face " as he had called it , from which , sharply , in full detail , appeared one eye , my right , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I were pleased . Man is the theme , his solitary existence in time , the point where , in a three-dimensional world , time and its creature , man , give a fourth dimension . In art it can be worked out . In that sphere , today when no other way is offered , the great tradition lives . Man 's dignity and importance in the world and his responsibility : the great tradition . Yes , I thought , in a sad state today . America , he began again . America . Yes , I said . What about America ? ( It is here the opportunity for the artist is greatest. ) f " There never was a people so starved for what the world of art has to give as this country . ' ( Through the arts only lies our way toward an adult conception of the world ? without vulgarity . It is possible . But there is no way but through the discipline of art. ) c Americans , with their history of divorce from the hereditary cultures of Europe , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgments relating to their deeper needs . They suffer without knowing why ( , the prey to foolish isms and empty cults . This is still the proselytizing ground for all the follies of Christendom and some In early drafts , of which ( c ) is the most complete , only a single paragraph separates Williams 's question : " What about America , " from the departure of the artist . In those drafts most of the material subsequent to Williams 's question included in the version printed here , up to the paragraph beginning " As the light failed , " actually belonged to Williams 's record of his own reflections after the artist 's departure ? a fact which clearly presents the reader with an excellent reason to take Williams 's assertion : " I think he was right in his estimate of the American view of the world of the artist " very seriously . The original paragraph ? separating Williams 's question and the artist 's departure ? in draft ( c ) reads as follows : " There never was a people so starved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the unscrupulous . ) It may seem straining the point but ' there is nothing new in the idea , really , that America has the crime , the violence which superficially characterize it , because it wants rapine , arson , violence of all sorts . We seek it as relief from the intolerable state of our minds that in a general way know no other satisfaction . And when the culprit is taken , in answer to our righteous demands , we immediately shower him with sympathy . Why , do you suppose ? Because he is ourselves . We are sorry for him . ( It is terrfying but true . In the world of the artists lies the answer to this paradox also . ) We are starved , we are thirsty for that which we can not attain . We know money is not the thing , we have been told so until we want to puke at mention of it again . But what else have we to strive for ? So we still defraud and murder , to say nothing of slaving our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? for money ! ? thinking it may yet buy us what we want . ( But we do very little to supply by other means the things money can not buy . In the world of the artist lies the answer . ) ' Do you blame the artist , then , if he is arrogant ? in the manner of Rembrandt ? It is because he knows . He is the feeder , the supplier . The rich like the rest of us need what he has to offer . We must have it or we shall die . Do you believe that ? He should have special inducements to his art . He must have special care , special remunerations . He should be given a lavish tolerance . ( Not wealth , of necessity , as this country . But at the same time they drive the artist away ? to despair , to the supernatural ? there is a strong cult of the supernatural in American literature . They drive the artist to despair . Yet you can not blame them . They are right . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are wary . As a group they have had all the abortions of the fakers and pseudo-artists forced on them , in their want , more than any other peoples ? and for generations . They should very properly beware . Because it is a matter of the greatest importance to them . It is a healthy sign that they despise art . ' They are perfectly right in this . But the lack remains . " 4n draft ( c ) , where , as indicated above , this passage still belonged to the author 's reflections subsequent to the artist 's departure , Williams remarked at this point : " hut to a physician there is nothing strange in the idea that America ... " etc . It is clear that Williams 's attempts at disguising his own voice in these passages were not always successful ? or , for that matter , undertaken with much care ? for where in draft ( c ) Williams 's artist was careful to designate " the Americans " as " they , " thereby revealing his own " foreign origins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these paragraphs borrowed from his own later observations .  | but opportunity to be heard , to be seen , to be read , without let , in proper American style . ) No use fighting with the artist , he has beaten us before we start . He can live on soda biscuit and water and still make fools of us . But that is not the way . I do not think Americans really wish to drive the artist from them . In fact they have not done so , entirely . But there is a fear , a niggardliness in their dealings with him that is quite unlovely . So that , as a matter of fact , they do drive him away , to despair , to unfruitful isolation ? to the supernatural . There is a strong cult of the supernatural , you know , in American literature . Where else shall a man turn when he is cast off from his fellows ? You can not blame Americans , really . The people are right . They act from experience . They have been too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group they have had the abortions of all the fakers and pseudo-artists forced on them , in their want , more than any other peoples on earth ? and for generations . They must very properly beware , for it is of vital importance to them . It is a healthy sign that they despise " art . " They are perfectly right in this . But the terrible lack remains . As the light failed my friend put away his drawing , folded his easel , packed all his things together and , after a few further words , left , to return and continue his work another time . I remained behind , thinking . What sort of individual was this ? ( A strange creature . Should one say a Sir Thomas More or a potential bedlamite ? ) c A little cracked perhaps , with his Quattrocento obsession ( , his fourth dimension . Henry Adams or just another of the brutalized and the defeated , seeking ? what ? Escape in fantasy ? ) c Another of the envious millions who make up a democracy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to foist on a world already overburdened . Yet I found myself impressed with what he had been saying . ( Apart from his opinions , with which here and there one might differ , his remarks struck me as serious evidence of a world full of potentialities for America today . And I think he was right in his estimate of the American view ofit. ) d ( What he had had to say set me thinking of the neglect an artist suffers in America and the consequences of it . And it made me think also that there were a good many flesh and blood inhabitants  | of that region of existence of whom we think very little , generally , but who might have a valuable quota to contribute to our moves toward betterment of our existence : the world of the artist. ) * As a matter of course most of us think of the world of the artist as something strange ? exotic is the word commonly used to describe it . But if we should stop to think , that world remains still , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of the great tradition . ( What is the great tradition which we have today so largely forgotten , what if not the dignity and importance of man in the universe and his actual responsibility here ? It is this , he thinks , the arts alone continue . ) Properly put is it not we who are the exotic , living in a fanciful creation of the unreal if not the misshapen and the grotesque ? It is frightening to think what shadows we may well be . ( And we do live in fear , every day , for lack of that which he , the artist , if we would , might transmit to us ) * ( : that assurance which , we believe , one day filled the world . The great masterworks of art are its record. ) e What do we believe ? The distortion of our minds does really need no more than its daily reflection in the newspapers for verification . ( We , and that means the people we know about us , hate , we satisfy ourselves in licentiousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive from us , out of a semiconscious sense of inferiority , the very world we most need for our enlightenment , the same of which I have been speaking . We do not really desire to drive the artist from us . How does it come about ? By our niggardliness toward him we in some measure make a bastard amends for the neglect we dole him . By it we do really assert his importance . We dare not quite ignore him but must keep him from our sight ? because we desire so very much to know what he is doing and thinking and are so afraid of being cheated . Yet we must know . Or we shall come to disaster . There can be no other pattern for existence in the world but his . But the limit of this article is to point out that in our distraught world today , there is a kernel , a world where trial may go on without disaster and that as Americans we should recognize and guard it zealously ? much more than we have done heretofore . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose  | excellence appeared from century to century in the work of the masters . That is the real world where the great concepts of living meet and cast themselves into time , today a world of almost total neglect . Such were my thoughts . All we know is that from this world come from time to time , pictures , books , plays , sculpture ? with considerable difficulty very often . They seem to strike against the world of daily affairs and are hard put to it to gain entrance . They startle or they are neglected . But almost never do we think of them as evidence , evidence of a world which they represent , a world of final importance to us , it may well be a world which this man , regardless of his minor opinions , represents . It was in this spirit that I found myself eager to accept , at least tentatively , what this man had been saying . I would accept him as evidence of a world unknown or at least unfrequented by minds , like my own , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusion of nearly all else , those perhaps who have put us where we are and can no longer tell the way out . Might it not be wise to look further ? ( The fourth dimension , Time , that is to say Man . The world of the artist. ) c No doubt about it , politics is at a crossroads , science is at the end of its rope as an interpretation of life , religion is in heavy need of rehabilitation ; practical affairs , public morality , finances are torn apart . May it not be that the world of art does offer an asylum , a working place for the reestablishment of order ? There must be order , there must be discipline ? without destruction of the variables which often hold the new direction among them . We should begin by seeing the arts in the large as a world which may be a haven for us ? not just a picture or two , a concert or two , but a great , continuous tradition , a contemporary world from which we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We do not see it large enough . It is a world . It is a world which may be entered freely . We must broaden the concept of its usefulness to the man of intelligence and emotion in the other constricted spheres of cosmopolitan life . Give it greater leeway as a reservoir of intelligent interest . Turn to it more alertly to discover  | its potentialities as exercise to the mind . We are too narrow in our view of it . We think it is a piece of sculpture , a picture , a book . But those are only so many ambassadors from its world . It is the world itself that should be entered ? and supported ? not from a sense of charity ! It is a battleground , not a bland Elysium , but at the same time we will realize that the battle is taking place within a world that can and does contain it . It is a battleground where differences of emotional and intellectual opinion may be engaged to the enhancement of the soul . It is a battleground where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engage their minds and emotions . From which , or by virtue of whose works , the man of affairs , if he give them the play they merit , may draw refreshment and power . But if the arts run off at the beck and call of every other fancy , no matter how temporarily useful it may seem , they have missed their cue completely . We need the world of the artists to remain intact , that to it we may go , as the monks and Popes of the Quattrocento went for confirmation and the verification of their faiths which only great art affords . And America , having the wealth , should find better ways of giving the arts sustenance . It must cultivate the habit of looking toward the world of art for direction . In the arts only will the mode for our conduct toward life be discovered .... 1 That is why we can starve the artist and chortle over it and still come out the losers . We 've got to get over the irritation we feel at his peccadilloes and find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it. ) c It may be said that America has already done enough for the arts . " We are doing our share " is the usual way of putting it . I decided to lln draft ( c ) there follow at this point most of the remarks Williams later decided to have his artist make in response to his question " What about America ? " ( See footnote I , p. 87 . ) Furthermore , Williams transposed the passage beginning with " But if the arts run off at the beck and call . . . " and ending with " the verification of their faiths which only great art affords , " to an earlier section , to be spoken by the artist : in draft ( g ) this passage was therefore inserted near the beginning of the article as a separate paragraph , between the paragraphs beginning " The whole Renaissance ... " and " Look at Beethoven . "  | draw up a random list in this respect covering a part of the subject to see where it would take me : Begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the stands . But if these books are put there solely to sell at a profit or because they have been accepted in the past , we have already stultified or killed all major interest in writing from the start . It would n't go with a surgeon or a chemist . Then why with a writer ? Mass publication wo n't help us . A means must be found to publish books of better quality , if less general appeal than the ordinary , on some other than a purely commercial basis . New thought , not at once acceptable , and new work must be encouraged and rewarded , not munificently perhaps but with understanding . The literary fellowships to be offered by the Book-of-the-Month Club this year for " good volumes of poor sale " are a step in the right direction . There should be more , many more , smaller editions of cheaper books , much more widely broadcast than is the case today . " Put them where they can lay their hands on them cheap and they will pick them up . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached . But we have no organized network of small , alert stores where poetry , essays , and the better books generally can be obtained . Can there be anything more ridiculous than to know what book is wanted , to have the money ready for it and not to be able to find it ? while it is lying on the shelf of some publisher , unsold ? This occurs every day with the smaller editions . Naturally such books will not all be good but they will be read if distributed and a taste for better reading stimulated . But when reputable publishing houses say they are not interested in anything that has n't a sales possibility for the movies ? the result to writing can not be anything but disastrous . We especially need a more alive and better informed criticism , by critics who have at least made an effort to read what is written in their day . ( Something which does not exist at the present time . ) The Sunday Supplements do a small business among the various categories but they little more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's nothing there but a guarded reference to work issued , together with the exposure of certain unlovely habits of  | mind among certain elderly gentlemen who should be living in the country on pensions. ) d There is no critical journal of writing in America worthy of the name , none with any scope to carry it past stodgy boundaries . And none with sufficient space , space is what we want ! to permit it to be inclusive . None especially with a critic behind it whose knowledge and range , to say nothing of genius , can be respected . ( The unfortunate names in criticism are more the limitations of the imagination than the free wind back of talent or genius which they should be . ) , In Portland , Oregon , there is n't a theater for the legitimate stage , only the auditorium with seats along both sides . In Los Angeles the Art Museum has little else in it than Gainsboroughs . In music it is the same . A few big orchestras , presided over by reputations whose chief attainments are beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founded on that . But it is inadequate . It becomes finally an arrest of the mind . Such great institutions as those few orchestras and opera companies constitute occupy the same relation to music that the New York Public Library and a professor of English here and there at one or another of the universities bear to letters . Where , anywhere , does a feeling for a world of music growing about one , in which new ideas are perhaps maturing , find an adequate backing in America ? I mean a backing commensurate with our means . The struggle to be heard is altogether too killing for anything but the toughest , most hard pruned skeleton of a music to survive it and then only within the strictest limits of conventionality . It is not wise or useful for the conditions to be so forbidding . ( It 's rather stupid , in fact , where the need for liberality and encouragement is so great. ) d A fragile , perhaps , but living if incomplete world of music is simply crushed out of existence in so bruising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the music of the American composer Ives has been calling to be heard ? through a gale of mediocrity ? for two generations past with scarcely enough success to make him known as yet outside of New York City . There are endowments of value , both public and private , but they are mostly for the young and the needlessly submissive . But  | take a man with a full orchestral work to be produced , a man whose talent , naturally , since it is new is divergent from the usual teaching in the schools . His opportunity to get a hearing takes often the best years of his life . As Americans we know too well our deficiencies , ) we are too humble , we lack confidence and the daring to go ahead . Such humility throws us back on the staid and the accepted . But it is folly to remain that way . It is against our talents and opportunities . We should change , try our own valuations on new work ( ? as Hollywood did on the dress designs for its women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , train ourselves to be the judge . To do this we must first gain access to the work . We must get to the books , hear the music , see the pictures and sculpture , attend the new plays , to ten times the degree now common to us . We can well afford it . ( And win ! A world of pertinences is languishing , in music alone , because we can not get to it . We have n't the heart . Sculpture , the same . Even in architecture we have not had sufficient confidence to dare , following the skyscraper epoch , now past . We are too cramped , too restricted in our understanding of the arts in America . There must be more interest , more tolerance for them all and greater opportunities . ) How is this to be done ? I do n't know . Nor is it my business here to say . If cost be the answer then we should at least realize what the cost is and balance cost with cost . If the answer is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of leisure costs us . My purpose is no more than to call attention to the lack . Whether the responsibility for our awakening ( with profit ) is to be taken by the state , by private endowment or business foresight and enterprise is not entered into here . What I have tried to do is to emphasize the importance of the issue , the disastrous consequences of its neglect and that it is up to this country to go ahead with the work . ( It will have to be done one way or the other if we are not to remain mentally and morally stalled in the present confusion. ) e ( It 's not that we want , each of us , ourselves to become artists . Nor do we want tea talks on the arts . It 's far more than that and far less ) * We want to be able to turn easily toward excellence in the  | arts when we are in need of it , to look through such excellence to the world which it represents , a ground , perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may rebuild a decent living in the world ( , so that a code of freedom and broad tolerance ? such as the arts only afford will spread and take root elsewhere in our harassed and sometimes needlessly brutalized.  | The Attack on Credit Monopoly from a Cultural Viewpoint A Speech given at the Institute of Public Affairs , Charlottesville , Virginia , on July 11 , 1936 , not previously published . ( WE HAVE BEEN invited here to discuss a general topic , the Economics of the Power Age . We have been invited in groups from various camps , each man speaking for himself with perfect freedom , that as wide a range of viewpoints as possible may be represented . This complexion of the conference as a whole I wish to adopt in particular as the takeoff for my own relatively minor part in it. ) c ( Speaking as a writer interested in the principles of the Social Credit movement advocated by Major Douglas , and not as a technical expert , let me approach the subject from that camp , as an ordinary thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few books carefully and who was born and lives in the United States . It makes a difference . A humane viewpoint . At its best the cultural viewpoint. ) he This is the Power Age as contrasted with an age just preceding it when Labor was predominant . This is an age in which the productive capacity of one man has been increased , by machines , forty times over former standards , but during which , purchasing power , as represented by wages or their equivalent , though it should have been expanded forty times to meet this contingency , has remained relatively stationary . Credit of one sort or another must bridge this gap . Credit , which has displaced a defunct capitalism , has not been socialized to keep pace with present-day requirements . It remains in the hands of a few individuals and institutions . This constitutes a monopoly , to end which and to socialize credit the modern attack must be directed .  | ( It may be objected , from certain quarters , that there has been too much talk and too little action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Age and its economics . Bust everything up , start again . Right or wrong , my viewpoint disagrees with that . ) ' ( Our final objective can be nothing but action , but action not from passion so much as an intelligent application of the truth to the situation as we find it ) * ( So that if the truth find it possible to insinuate itself through any part of the discussion it is expected that it will be effective . ) ( Action there must be or a lingering disaster , not for the nation but for many in the nation , will ensue ? therefore in fact the nation . For there are social distresses which need righting and they are most certainly associated , as effect and cause , with a very badly managed , because poorly understood economics . The attack must begin with the best thought , the clearest ideas of which we are capable. ) * Briefly , what 's to become of us ? Economically ? Today ? And why ? And what are we to do about it ? Inevitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is through government that all economics is brought to focus on the individual citizen through regulation or lack of regulation of its forces ? drowning him in taxes , tariffs , costs , losses and loans ? or supporting him in a life that will be at least tolerably secure . As an American I live in a democracy , an old-fashioned democracy , based upon ideas of liberalism and representative government . This government is being rocked to its foundation by the conflicting economic forces of the moment . Back of all of this lies credit and its control , the gist of the economics of the Power Age . To me , an American , living in the United States , there is but one serious question involved : shall we under economic pressure retain the long fought for principles of representative democratic government which we inherit from the past or relinquish them today ? In other words , shall we extend our present form of government to include the credit situation , making it more and more democratic , or renounce it in favor of some other scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the left ?  | I 'm narrowing my attack , you see , to a matter of government , with a mysterious hand of credit seeking to gain management over the controls . ( My plan being to offer evidence and draw one or two conclusions at the end ? a sort of detective story , you might say , a touch of truth and the whole plot falls apart . I shall base my argument on a single point : the desirability of preserving individual freedom under the law intact , threatened as it is today from both the right and the left , as an important agency of government. ) * ( Forget everything else . That is why I spoke of my part here as a minor one . I rest entirely on the validity or invalidity of that one point . I shall hammer on it throughout what I have to say , convinced that if it prove to have been well taken , then the force of its truth will topple the whole argument . Not that this is to be a closely argued thesis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it may seem , will be toward the objective , the necessity for individual freedom under the law . Meanwhile , though the purpose of the conference is of a certain sort , a secondary purpose is not to bore the hardpressed listener . In a sense we 've got to entertain you also in order to hold you . We ca n't just say here it is , rather lumpy and bitter stuff , but swallow it , it will do you good . Swallow it ! Let 's ramble awhile , bearing in mind that it 's a trap of a genial sort in which I hope to catch you later . ) Here 's the simple setup of the thing : the United States is a political democracy in form but one thoroughly subverted by a rival economic structure which in fact negates much of the democratic intention ? as secured by the Constitution . The situation is historic ; Presidents Jackson and Van Buren fought the first great battles in the campaign . As the New Standard Encyclopedia of Funk &; Wagnalls phrases it : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gloom of financial panic ; but what one man could he did to lighten it , by wringing from Congress its assent to a measure for a treasury independent of private banks . " This is the sort of history we lack and must have . Everything possible was done , as pointed out in recent years by Ezra Pound , to  | keep Van Buren 's telltale autobiography from the eyes of the people . For the situation today two cures are proposed : one , to drive out the whole concept of liberalism , the open hand , and set up a Dictatorship of Labor , the clenched fist , in its stead ; and the other , to strengthen the grip of the existent dictatorship by the banks , driving out what original liberalism yet remains to us and , by thus officially recognizing Credit Monopoly with its familiar trends , place Fascism definitely in control . To escape these two and retain our present form of government , defective though it has proven in practice , and make it fully effective , I shall show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Social Credit proposes is inescapable . ( Do n't be fooled by the fiasco in Alberta , Canada . That had nothing to do with the ideas of Social Credit ) * Let us avoid every thought for the moment of social this and social that , of land versus industry , of capital versus labor , of factory tyranny , mine brutalization , inadequate wages , the open shop , strikes , starvation , foul sweatshops , long hours , farm failures , squalor , despair , mental retardation , tuberculosis , syphilis , insanity ? all the misery bred largely of our present condition . Put it aside if you can . " There are thousands hacking at the branches of Evil to one who is striking at the root , " today as in the time of Confucius . The argument has been reduced to the simplest terms possible , to what in revolutionary times was called " freedom versus tyranny . " I shall try to keep it there as I proceed . ( My own part is taken from the experience of the artist ) a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the original conception of a revolutionary America , in the minds of such agitators as Samuel Adams , Freneau and some others , was not very different from the objective of those advocating a classless society today ! This was furthermore a direct inheritance from the America conceived as a commonwealth on board the Mayflower in Provincetown harbor when articles were drawn up and signed before the arrival at Plymouth . No attempt should be made to avoid such facts . These things were large in the minds of the founders . At the same time , and this is equally important with the first part ,  | there were some things which those men , the founders , would not do , a determination not recognized in the present-day advocacy of a classless society . They vowed to live in equality but to live and let live in such a way as to respect the freedom of others . And this was just as strong a principle with them as the first . The thrust toward America itself , like the lesser thrust of Roger Williams away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect for personal liberty which is basic . So from the history we have side by side : equality and liberty . That was America in the conceit of the founders ; it has been America and is still America in the imagination of Americans . It relies on the individual . And this reliance on the individual was inevitable and extremely useful in a pioneer society resting as it must have done on direct effort against primitive conditions . It produced much ? both for itself and the world at large . But in the belief of some , it went too far . This is without question true . By what shall we measure ? There is but the one test . At first and for a long time unrestricted individualism was a social asset of the first order , it was pro-social . If it has gone too far it is because now it has become anti-social . There is no other test and that is final ? whether it be applied to the avowed criminal or the monopolist who deprives society of a necessity except at exorbitant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proven really defective in our practice and not just alone today . Our history proves it . We started crooked , as a nation ? under heavy stress , the weakness of the Confederation , the disorder of the currency after the Revolution , the danger of new foreign wars giving Hamilton his chance . The democratic prinicple in economic affairs fought hard to preserve itself useful and intact but succumbed in the end to Hamilton 's successful drive for an industrial autocracy and consequent economic centralization under narrow control . From that time on economic freedom of the individual was a lost cause . Freedom of the individual , however , at least in theory , remained the essential basis of traditional Americanism . ( The danger of the present is that general liberty shall be taken away in the attempt to curb the unrestricted play of individualism ? as if there were no  | other cure . ) Kill the goose ? for the good of the barnyard . Very well . But it will be unfortunate if in sacrificing the individual unduly to society as a whole , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power upon which society may be wholly dependent . Might it not be wiser or even absolutely essential to our social effectiveness to preserve him and turn him again toward correct procedure ? the basis for judgment being always the same , his social serviceability . ' ( May not these failures of individuals , perhaps , be enumerated , studied , and provided against ? Nail the faults , one by one , in order , if possible , to separate those characteristics of the individual which are reprehensible and to be discarded from others without which society can not continue to exist . ) , We must find precisely where this creature went out of control , at the same time preserving , if possible , our traditional basis for social regenerative power in a free creative opportunity for him . This would be a tremendous service in history but our history ( has been bastardized , ) ' suppressed and badly taught . ( Out of it is coming today that our means of distribution as a nation have been segregated from the start . The problem must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme must be found that aims directly at these defects . No other scheme will do . History is the basis and should rightly be so . It stands to be built upon , not ignored ? to be suffered again . A scheme must be found that will not subvert it , but answer its questions . ) ( The process of historical restudy will be a slow one and difficult but the results should not prove illusory . It may delay the millennium ? but that will never be attained by sacrificing the foundations to expediency and taking the matter up later ) * ( Organization will whip disorganization ? every time . The closed fist will beat the open hand ? but the truth is the truth for all that , as Marianne Moore says . The wave may wash over it if it will ? it is still there . ' Williams added the following , handwritten footnote to this statement in draft ( f ) : " This is correct when we are thinking of the individual in the capacity of administrator . In the realm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the essential basis . "  | It is still there in the arts . It is a basis of the arts . You ca n't use great art as propaganda ? or any art . It will resist it . You ca n't plow with a closed fist , or even feed yourself . You ca n't play anything but the drum with it . It is good for one thing only ? to attack . ) . ( It is not within the scope of this paper to initiate a study of history . The present purpose is rather a direct attack upon a certain class of individual , the artist , in his relation to society , to gather from this whatever I can of the individual in general and his social relationships. ) * ( No one seems to have examined the qualities of this individual sufficiently whom it is planned to sacrifice for the benefit of the state ? yet for whose benefit all the drastic measures of the state as a power are ultimately designed . ) , The very type of the rugged individual is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Do we realize or distinguish properly what the discussion is about ? Rugged individualism is not damnable because it is rugged or because of qualities inherent in the individual as an individual ? but solely because , under certain circumstances , such qualities become anti-social in their effect . The very mergers of small businesses into great ones that constituted the formation of the first American trusts , the objective evidence of individual effort , and for which old-fashioned Capitalism was pilloried , had up to a point a well acknowledged and highly valued social function . There is no conflict between the individual and society ? unless the individual offend . ' None but a fool contends that the function of society is to generate surpassing individuals , as it has been sneeringly said . That is antiquated reasoning . The truth is nearer and harder , merely that society , to be served , must generate individuals to serve it , and can not do otherwise than to give such individuals full play ? until or unless their activities prove antisocial . IWilliams used this paragraph , and selected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Faith in Art , " where he appropriately placed them in quotation marks , remarking that he was citing from material he had written " for another purpose . " See Selected Essays , pp. 193-195.  | And if the demand is for bread . He too needs bread . Society must and will and has always helped its servants to retire at the proper moment ? whether it be the defeated general , the discredited statesman , the woman who has lost her beauty or the diseased mind . Heartlessly society discards them , and rightly so ? but heaven help the society that fails to discard the heel , the sycophant liar who serves it only to flatter command ? and yet does away with the useful dissenter . But that function of society , to discard the anti-social individual , must be strengthened and enlarged to include also the more recent forms of anti-social power . That 's where the overwhelmingly destructive arm of society should deal its blow , not against the individual because he is an individual and insists on remaining so . ( Society and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the face of society , trying to defend his essential freedom as a social asset of the highest sort without which society itself will perish ? and trying to put the problem of what is to be done with this individual on a sound basis . This individual might be a poet ? or an artist of some sort . Why not ? They burn books and turn poets into propagandists if they can . So I have chosen to examine one of these for the wanted evidence ? an individual of the genus Individual : one man . I chose him , an artist , a writer , because he is strong , the type of subject wanted . He only can do what he does . But also because his life and doings come within my personal experience . Let me begin by asserting that individual genius is the basis of all social excellence whether as inventor , organizer , or governor . ) And in defense of the artist as my specimen I say at once that the conception of him as a foam thrown off at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly orthodox . That a wealthy and corrupt society indulges , conceivably , in the purchase of costly art works at the expense of the starving poor has no relation , I think we must agree , to the aspirations , accomplishments or the importance of the artist himself . No matter what happens to his works , the artist is the truthfullest scribe of society that is found when he is left free . And if his works  | are purchased by corrupt or tyrannical fools or institutions , nevertheless , in those very works of art are likely to lie the disruptive seeds which will destory the very hosts who have taken them in ? and preserved them for society even against their will . ( The artist is thus misled when he abandons his work as a freely thinking and acting individual , to fight a battle in which he is a tyro while neglecting a fight in which he is an expert . It is poor economy and poor social philosophy for him to do so . ) , The artist 's success as an individual is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his work but inexorably by society ? by society as a whole , the great being great only as society accepts and enthrones them . For what are men to do with themselves once they have been fed ? The artist must be their preceptor . ( Thus I offer the poet 's life as evidence against conscription by society and governmental dictation . ) It is essential to good government that the poet , as an individual , remain at liberty to possess his talent , answerable to no one before the act but to his own truth . On the other hand he is answerable to society for his survival and he knows it , has no other returns for what he does and is goverend thus not indirectly by a political agency before the act but directly by society itself after the act . In this men differ from bees and ants since with man society must wait upon the individual and not the other way around . Therefore , Man . ( Society seldom recognizes this essential relationship between itself and the individual typified in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been strong social forces , one way or the other . ) To the point is the case of the young Russian physicist , a brilliant man , who , working at Cambridge , England , among the equipment he needed and which was to be found there only , had pushed forward an important salient of scientific work with which he was concerned . Returning to Russia for a visit he found himself , much to his sorrow , detained there by the government for its own purposes . Naturally the advanced work he was doing in England came to an end forthwith . But the state needed him and took him . Of course no one can say that it is not the privilege of society to attack such a man and to conscript his ability if it can . But it is  | unquestionably that man 's duty , at the same time , to resist to the limit such a seizure ? on the grounds that his work at Cambridge was more socially valuable , over a long reach , to Russia as to England , than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is fitted to determine this so well as he . Poe is not to be made to write pro- or anti-slavery doggerel . Society would lose largely were this so . His significance lies in his power to fix , recordize , reassert in cryptographic form ( only vaguely sensed at the moment as greatness ? but full of accurate meaning for all that ) to make a cryptogram of his time , in form and content ? with the passionate regenerative force of the artist underlying it . Not seeking to compete with the great formulators of ideas , ( the Cushing journals , the voluminous Veblen 's and others ) of his day he , the poet , at his best will see and enclose in the hard nut of the fruit , in the invention of his forms , the whole contemporary history . Who shall tell him how or what he must write ? His very function as a servant of society presupposes his ability to see clearly beyond the formulations of his day and to crystalize his findings in a durable form for social confirmation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the critic of government whether the party in power like it or not . ( Shall I not eat because the government or the times do not like me ? Or be compelled to write what I am told to do ? after a rigid scheme of musts and don'ts like the contributors to the Saturday Evening Post  --  instead of what I do at my best ? I mention the particular agent since such agencies , of which that is an example , are reflections , very definitely , of the type of government at any moment. ) , * What can society , as an organism , know of the compunctions , exigencies or incentives involved in composition ? All it can know is what it can use or wishes to use at the moment . If it does not care for what is produced , it can do nothing but destroy it . It does not even know what it is destroying . That which it destroys may well be the seed of its own possible regeneration . Only the individual can know  | these things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it must find a way to let the unappraisable creation of the individual survive its own destructive powers until reasonably brought to trial . It must preserve the liberty of the individual even if it involve the destruction of the very form of society extant at the time in order to do so . ( This only the philosophy of Social Credit envisions and provides for . ) . ( Dictatorship has learned recently by hard lessons to respect the imperatives of the machine , rigid to the last decimal . So with the individual provided only that his activities be not anti-social in their effect . ) The government , if it be a government , should , socially conscious , serve me , protect me by guaranteeing me liberty to exist because , as a writer , I do not write books like those in the Drug Store Circulating Library at the corner ? or the equivalent under some other governmental setup than ours . A rebel in a Jeffersonian sense , the individual must always be ? like Galileo , even like Henry Ford , if society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the greatest number . And the process is ancient and dynamic ? that is to say , constantly operative under all conditions . All the best has been maintained in spite of government as a limiting power . Not against government , not against government but against usurpation of government by a class , a group , a set of any sort , king , bureaucracy or sansculotte ? which would subvert the freedom of the individual for some temporary need . ( It is necessary now in the development of my thesis to speak of myself ' : as an artist writing under the regime under which I have grown up . For the past thirty years I have never been able to get one firstrate poem published in a commercial magazine . I have never been ' Williams refers directly to himself only in draft ( a ) ; later he went over this section and changed all references to himself to " he " and " an artist . " In draft ( c ) he presents the account as a " specific case history . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drafts this section is omitted entirely . Since Williams is in fact very clearly referring to his own case I have considered it appropriate to follow the practice of the uncorrected first draft .  | able to get a single book of poems , no matter how small , published except by paying or partly paying for it myself or having it published by a friend or a group of friends . I say nothing as to the excellence or lack of it in the poems themselves other than this , that they are different in character from the volumes upon volumes of verse commercially published in that time and that the intention has been to make them accurate to the day , in form as well as content , to the full of my ability regardless of their commercial availability . They did not sell , they were not bought , because the market for them did not exist . It showed the business acumen of the publishers . But it also revealed a situation offensive to my good sense as a man and repulsive to my hard won craftsmanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the compulsion of a government based upon false values . ( ( To this , then , I am opposed , therefore I am opposed to that which has enforced this intellectual and moral code on my day and locality , the defective government , which permits , unopposed , such a state of affairs to exist . I maintain that the quality of individual effort as well as taste is to a large extent the reflection of the government that exists at the ) c The sole criterion today as to a book 's value is this , " Will it sell and pay a dividend ? " No , mine would not . That makes them neither good nor bad . It merely indicates that even to get printed they must meet a false standard ? one for which they were never intended . Very well , it may he said that I have succeeded in spite of such a publishing setup . I have . But my success damns ( ( the conditions I have had to face . Shall I run from them to Oxford ? But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want to show is that an artist , as the type of a person who is creative , who has something to give to society , suffers necessarily under a present system of government , seen or unseen , ( ( enforcing an exaggerated , and almost exclusive , emphasis on the getting of money ? perhaps a stimulus to the shrewd and the hardy ? but as a method brutal and wasteful to real social benefit ) ) : as he must stiffer under a dictatorship by any power or government which takes an a priori rule over him , forcing him to add or create by code to social betterment through a rigid limiting of his incentives ? either by not publishing him or by driving him out , even burning his books .  | When the technical flaws in the present economic system were demonstrated ? and in the face of the petty tyranny already forced on me by those advocating a dictatorship by a mass group of the labor forces ? the conceptions of the Social Credit outlook seemed to offer me an opportunity to live : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my life as an artist ? fastening upon the tradition of all art upon which I have trained myself to continue to build . The artist has first to speak the truth . Second to share the truth in such a form that the form itself will be an image of what is said . So that not the least stroke will be amiss or redundant . Third , that the truth , as Ibsen said , becomes a lie every twenty years , and must be reborn in a new form every generation : significant form . It is an image of the times then , in relation to other times , that the artist is attempting . And a continual , agelong criticism of past times to suit the necessities , the discoveries , the total knowledge , the greater release of the human spirit that each age seeks to add to the last . He begins in rebellion against a material through which shines the genius of the past ? today not to be captured . He works with his own faulty materials and tries to recreate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase them . But it is , in fact , a poem , so many words inscribed on a piece of paper . Language , our own everyday speech . The speech analysed for its variance from a classic norm , all the colors , the " defects " which give it its character of today . Its variations from the pace , the meter , as American varies from English . Our way of speaking . This is part of its social imperative . ) . The artist , then , must admit all classes of subject to his attention , even though he hang for it . This is his work . Nothing poetic in the feudal , aristocratic sense but a breaking down , rather , of those imposed tyrannies over his verse forms . Technical matters , certainly , but most important to an understanding of the poet as a social regenerator . The facts are enclosed in his verses like a fly in amber . ( I want to show that this is an important consideration for government . I want to show that this will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is of the very essence of government itself ? as art is the test , the beam of the scales , relative to any  | government under which it exists . ) , It is nothing that can be compelled . It is difficult . Its realization requires all a man 's energies . It requires his life ? and it will not be popular . You ca n't eat it or sell it . There is nothing a man can do but make it ? slowly , piecemeal ; go on perfecting it to the glory of society at large as long as he lives . If he can keep living . ( This attitude toward the arts , the most humane attitude possible , no philosophy of government at present operative in the world respects . It is not respected , in effect , by the monopolistic set-up of present-day America ? whose symbol in writing has been mentioned . And it is not respected by the dictatorships of the various types operative elsewhere in the world . This is a single , perhaps somewhat special example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is valid for all that . All governments , nowadays , assert that they are ultimately for the benefit of society . I say that in this instance their effect is quite the opposite from the claim . And I do not believe their final objective will be obtained by subverting that same objective at the beginning in order to attain it . A retreat is sometimes necessary but it should be acknowledged to be a retreat . It is a Jesuitical fallacy to believe that an end can be obtained by first denying it ? as Spain is proving to us today , and Mexico also . Be careful , suspicious , of temporary measures which subvert the published intent , which advocate the suppression of liberty in order to obtain it . It is impossible to gain a liberty by a tyranny . The ultimate purpose being peace , violence is believed to let it in . A war to end war is newspaper stuff . Rather one should follow the attitude of Rembrandt , who went to live in the ghetto of Amsterdam rather than submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to paint the Fusiliers painted a picture , not an agglomerate portrait of the members of the company themselves , recognizable by their wives and cousins . A picture . And for it had his masterpiece nearly rejected , hung in a dark hallway ? for posterity . ) ( The artist is the type , his philosophy that which accepts only those who write well , paint well ? who accepts Japanese , Singhalese , Jew , Russian on the only possible footing ? that he is an  | artist : that is the only possible intelligent philosophy . And it can only live under a rule that recognizes the same philosophy . Now that I am older , will the new gangs publish me ? No ? unless I specifically mention a piece of propaganda which , in the structure of the work , in essence ( a poet 's business ) has been refined , purified ? made into a poem . Blocked coming and going . But not by the philosophy in back of Social Credit , which recognizes the pertinence of contemporary excellence . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly intelligent solution to our difficulties , the only modern , scientific solution using all the agencies of the best thought and effort of today , the only solution that does not depend upon brute force , medieval division of class against class ? the best that can be done . As it is the only solution consistent with the history of the artist 's world , since it only respects individual liberty as the basis of the state . Society as a mass initiates nothing , it merely consumes . ) . And by that seems to produce wealth , opportunity . But all initiative remains still with the individual . Society can have only one function relative to him , that it terminate his efforts when they become antagonistic to the group , anti-social ; nothing more . ( Therefore it behooves society to preserve , as its very life , the individual which it must milk as it milks a cow to eat and to drink . All its best collective efforts must be given to serve that man , ) ( to liberating that individual from other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are not bees born only to lay eggs or fertilize them or collect honey . It is the one outstanding human trait that we are unpredictable , variable . It is ridiculous for me to pronounce such ex cathedra statements except as results of observation from experience , whether as a poet or a physician ? as ridiculous as it is for an individual to propound a theory and to drive it through or have someone else drive it through , regardless of the past . The past is older and not to be dislodged . I can only say that to me this has been true . Therefore I offer it as evidence ? for the judgment of society . As I offer in passing , that when society shall prejudge how a physician shall  | behave relative to his patient and prescribes a code , it will succeed only in making an official of him and not a better doctor . It must judge after the act ? it can do no more than remove him , as it did kings , when he is useless or offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual , society is a body without a head . But it is the head that is of chiefest value . To regulate by decree what the individual must do reduces that initiative , upon which society relies for its continual readaptation to circumstances , to its least effective potency . Society as an organism is on a far lower biologic plane than one man . In fact , unless appended to the individual , it has a mere vegetative function . It takes no responsibility relative to either the individual or itself ? and can take none . ( Responsibility is a purely individual attribute . But , if , as we might say , society takes the full responsibility before the act ? though it is never society as such that does so ? it reduces the man to some extent to the mentality of the servant if not the slave , which , look at it how you please , is not his highest condition . It reduces a man 's responsibility to his own acts . It makes him a soldier . But society , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? it merely places responsibility in him under certain conditions. ) c ( Someone is always responsible . Curious how in etymology certain truths will lie embedded . Some one bears the responsibility ? not society at large ? a dictator , a general . It should be rather a great number of individuals in a free community ) * Always the individual , society always under his hand . But responsibility vested in one man , or a few men , reverses the pyramid and attempts to balance it on its point . Whereas responsibility vested in many free men puts society on its proper solid basis for survival . That 's the answer . It can not be predicted how society itself will or shall go in the future , any more than it can be told , before the act , how any useful activity in the world is likely to turn . But in any case the individual must be conserved at his fullest potency ? a free man . All the great additions to knowledge , all great acts , have originated in the head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time  | society has made up its mind in advance as to what is good and what is bad , according to some accepted code , it will persecute and seek to destroy that man as an imposter . As it would have destroyed Galileo or Lenin , whose dynamic determination , at all costs , to achieve that personal liberty of belief upon which society must always fall back for its regeneration , triumphed nevertheless . ( What is the heresy that shall save , not destroy the good in any setup ? Certainly we may be sure it lies there in Marxism as in the present Credit Monopoly of the world that dominates other governments . That heresy rests with one man , it is his sense of responsibility that brings it out and makes him fight and die for it . It is a wise society that does not make him die for it . It is a better society that provides for such heresies in the freedom of the individual , who constitutes its head , not his domination by code as a controlled society would by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) a ( It is characteristic of today that there must be a blanket reform of everything . You must not think . You must do , with a sweep ? knocking everything down for the one thing . Our forms are antiquated ? this poetry also teaches ? but to smash everything is to learn nothing . Life is and must be continuous ? for if it disappears we have no way of recreating it . So that we must always build upon the past , replacing the obsolete with the new . If we lose that basis which lies embedded in history we must remake it-or degenerate ? a task which might prove impossible once the continuity had been lost . A great virtue of the Social Credit philosophy is that it provokes thought , not limits it , buttresses the individual by insuring his economic competence so long as the state lasts ? relieves him of being subject to the whims of either right or left : so long as he serve the state by bringing his powers to the full . ) Responsibility is the key word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrated ? perhaps under stress ? to narrower bounds , you endanger more and more the social structure upon which the state rests most secure . ) , You can not take responsibility away from the individual without vitiating him in some way . It is to kindle that , as  | his highest attribute , to make it socially effective that the individual must be free , above all else , to go his unpredictable way . Even savagely against the setup of society as it exists in his time if must be . It is one of the most admirable characteristics of the French that they permit differences to exist side by side among them , not peaceably , to be sure , but with the greatest native tolerance . And it may well be the French who will show us , as Jules Romains said on his recent arrival here , that with the dominance of the Left in the Chamber of Deputies it may be possible to bring over and adopt for France many of the socially advantageous achievements of Communism in Russia ? without the misfortune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one group or another . Should they do so , however it come about , the socialization of credit must be their first move ( , the currency reform so intelligently invented and advocated by Major Douglas , to which Communism and Marxism ? as at present set up ? have not the ability otherwise to attain ) .. To sum up ? having spoken of the individual in his relation to society at large and the necessity for preserving his freedom , I have shown him beset , as at present in the United States , from the right by a virtual dictatorship through economic forces centered in Credit Monopoly , which blocks every move to socialize the means of exchange , subsidizes bad writing , and places the cultural stress on false values . And on the left by a threat from a diminishingly numerous group of labor threatening a dictatorship from that side . In either case , the freedom of the individual would at once disappear under the success of either at winning overt power . Between ? very much threatened and harassed ? stands the traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all today . By that , government must be seized again , taken back into responsible hands ? which means in this case the control of our credit ? in the sense of Jackson who said ? when he was defending the national treasury against the First Bank of the U.S. ? that the safest place for a man 's money was in his pants pocket . To regain democratic control over our credit ? unlawfully seized and held by the banks today ? a definite means has been found in the proposals designated Social Credit .  | ( There 's nothing miraculous or demagogic or easy about it ? any more than there is in the recipe for the making of good beer or keeping a business solvent . It takes work , attention to detail , clean vats , and accurate books carefully attended to gain those ends . That is its difficulty and its soundness . ) : And though the most apparent feature of the Social Credit philosophy may make it appear little more than a currency measure , that is merely the pricking point in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( It is the effect , the visible effect and advance point of a social attack ? the bayonet into the bowels of the problem , a matter of control of the means of exchange , the equable distribution of the collective products of society . As a philosophy it stands on the firm , if endangered , ground between ( ( fascism ? in this country only definable as Credit Monopoly , in the hands of a select group , seeking control of government ? ) ) a on one side and dictatorship by labor ? ( ( a Proletarian Revolution seeking to win government by force of arms if necessary for a classless society limiting freedom ? ) ) a on the other , from both of which the abolition of personal liberty must be immediately expected once they succeed in their purposes . ) No use to wink the danger . ( There are powerful forces involved . ) . A labor revolution by a society seeking to be in fact classless is both great and traditionally American in its appeal . Its strength lies today in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of millions of the inhabitants of this wealthy nation as well as the emotional appeal of brute action to all degrees of intelligence which might be involved . To violently effect , by a brave stroke , the ejection of an inhuman and anti-social domination by those who have an effective control over the means of our common livelihood for their private gain ? would appeal to the American character if once put into motion . But this narrowing of the attack to a fanatical and static fixation on a class war ? that permits no thought but one ( : Are you for or against the Revolution ) ? has a palpable and glaring defect : the immediate intention to suppress all liberty of thought so characteristically American , once power should be assumed . It would ignore also , this projected Revolution , the nature of the  | battle which when one speaks of " the Revolution " is left undefined and has perhaps , in recent years , gone somewhat stale in a changing world . ( I have been blamed for calling the whole modern revolutionary project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems to have stopped long since . Under the fixation toward direct action the character of whatever revolution is possible has altered greatly since the Manifesto of 1 848 ' ? though not in the minds of those who seem most to advocate it . It has altered with the change of labor conditions in the world from a simple intent to seize capital to a far more complex fight for control of power ? very shifty and hard to trace to its lair . ) After all , a revolution , like any other mechanism or exercise of power , has a gist , a basis , a rationale ? must have an accuracy and finely aimed direction to win . And this has changed with time , as knowledge has increased and power has taken the place of labor and credit the place of capital . This gist is the control of power by credit ? in all states alike , whether affected or unaffected by revolution , past , present or future . The force of the Social Credit philosophy is a clear-sighted envisioning of this gist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighters for it seem to have lost sight of . Is a man for or against the Revolution ? The answer is , first , What revolution ? And after that has been defined , then , certainly not for violence , bloodshed and a resultant tyranny if by the exercise of courage and acute intelligence the end can be obtained otherwise . ( And who is so unmodern as to say that with the proper knowledge this is impossible ? ) c Or if it be true that only by bloody combat can great changes in the governments of the world take place ? that does n't mean that by carnage they will take place . But even so , if the philosophy of Social Credit , at its worst , lacks the appeal , the basic emotional instinctive ' In draft ( a ) Williams refers to " the Manifesto of 1880 , " and in draft ( c ) , the text used here , to " the Manifesto of 1884 . " Since there can be no doubt that Williams means Marx 's and Engels 's Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | and summative power of a clenched fist , it yet remains the heart of any real advance which by bloody fights or less drastic realization must come about . Certainly no American by his history but would try first to come to some sort of agreement with the subversive social forces affecting him ? as he tried first to do with England before the Revolution of 1775 . But failing that , he will , reluctantly , turn to force rather than submit to subservience and domination by subtle mortgagors . And certainly , as between a stroke for freedom by labor and fascism through Credit Monopoly , what American would not throw in his lot with labor , taking a chance on the result ? But his reason for doing so , you may bet on it , would be solely his estimate of the chances for preserving his personal freedom thereby . It is not easy to see the way through to national social regeneration . Nothing worthwhile is ever attained against odds except after violent struggle . But there were battles fought about the figure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Monmouth . The memorable engagement centering about the new Cosntitution , when Hamilton and Jefferson split the Cabinet of the first President , lost us the real fruits of the win from the resort to arms . It may be the same again . But if the basis could have been grasped then ? if the social demands Jackson later realized and fought for ? the avenues that had been left open permitting the Biddle group to get hold of the public moneys under the guise of the First Bank of the United States ? if such ways toward subtle tyranny by Credit Monopoly could have been foreseen and forestalled at the beginning by some such philosophy as Social Credit now proposes ? the dearest fruits of the first Revolution could have been unending to this day . Revolutions are not won by violence alone but by the accuracy of the thought back of them . More has often been lost in a fight than gained . But the most is won when the grounds for it have been clarified to the utmost and only then fought for . Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The philosophy of Social Credit is in many ways essentially a  | clarification of the whole situation affecting every phase of the modern social impasse ? depending as it does on a liberation of the means of exchange . Its enemies are on two sides ? each for his own reasons willing to gloss over the essential and inescapable facts . It is the plain duty of the intelligence to insist on those facts .  | Life and Letters Today , 1937 A HOT JUNE afternoon , 1937 . East 57th St. , N.Y. , studio apartment , 5th floor , rear . 5 P.M. The model about to leave , waiting , before going home to her husband , to pour tea for us . Any who would know and profit by his knowledge of the great must lead a life of violent opposites . The deeper at moments of penetration is his mastery of their work , the more vigorously at other moments must he fling himself off from them to remain a man himself . But if he himself would do great works also only by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to use that of which their greatness has consisted . ' The failure to understand this condemns the perennial student who has , in short , by a sort of sluggishness shown himself to have succumbed to the effects of former greatness and not profited by it to establish his own mastery . This is the banality of the academic , maliciously called the cultivation of " tradition , " maliciously because under it is implied an attack upon the " radical " who does not submit himself to such respectable negation . A man must know but he will not be told how he must know nor submit to the terms of those who make knowledge no more very often than self-denial in subservience to the academy , a series of honorific symbols by which they seek to maintain dominance over others who seek the substance at cost of the letter . But it is the man who must be saved . These convictions had come to life in the presence of Tchelitchew 's canvasses . Not a very " good " painter . He was saying so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Spanish and French moderns among his friends . He only wished he might be able to handle his materials with their ease , their amazing facility . He referred to the new sensations , to Dali especially .  | They are my good friends , he said . Dali is a jeweler in paint . And he sees everything . He has eyes that stick out , like the eyes of a crab . And he eats the world of the eyes , like a crab . Numb , numb , numb , numb ! And T. brought the fingers of both hands up before his mouth rapidly wiggling them toward his moving lips as if it was a crab or a lobster jiggling his mandibles and feeding . It is very beautiful , he said . But what are they doing ? Sucking it in and passing it out again , their charming compositions . What do we care ? They have eaten . We are very glad . There is nothing they do not eat , there is nothing they do not see . Such eyes ! They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yesterday , he said , there was a woman here in the studio . A very rich old woman . Ooo ! I did not dare offend her . She had on a hat with feathers and ribbons like ? I ca n't describe it . Many many different colors . Like a parrot . And a dress ! with a piece of lace , a piece of silk , a piece of blue , green ? anything you can imagine . And she talked , cha , cha , cha , cha , cha , cha ! all the time . Like a parrot . She was a parrot . Perfect . It was amazing . It was bewildering . You would not believe there could be such a person . And she was interested . She wanted to see . So I showed her the big canvas I am working on . This here . She looked and in her voice , like a parrot , she said , Oh Mr. Tchelitchew ! you paint nothing but monsters ! The painting was before us . I looked at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one sort or another . It was a canvas of perhaps eight by twelve feet . It was n't finished , though most of it had been drawn in . Figures of all sorts filled it , of all sizes , spreading out upon a background of mountain , classical ruin , and Mexican adobe house , with sea and sky going off toward the top and back . Small in the center was the face of an old woman , a tormented , wrinkled face ? as if under a lens ; above that a sort of tennis court with naked figures on it under a glacier prospect made of ice-heads , infants packed in as though they were rounded ice cubes in a modern refrigerator To the left , the signature , a man with one enormous foot , the back of Diego Rivera it may be , painting the wall of a house . Siamese twins , women with six breasts , acephalic monsters , three-  | legged children , double-headed monsters , sexual freaks , dwarfs , giants , achondroplastic midgets , mongolian idiots and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? of all the walks of life . In the foreground was a surf with a girl in a pink bathing suit . They ask me if it is surrealist ! What do you think ? he looked at me . As a physician , no , I answered . And why not ? Because these things are drawn from life , I said . You see that , you see that ! he was delighted . Of course , you are a doctor . That is beautiful . He was delighted . What is surrealism ? Anybody can do that . What a lot of fooling nonsense . As a fact every monster in the picture was authentic . It was actually what is found in life . He has taken things which do occur every day for his mirror . It is a mirror , he added , for them to see themselves . Our life is horrible , he said . We are monsters . We hate each other and we try to destroy everything that is lovely . And we hide it . No . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our language is distorted , we say we are like " beasts " who are lovely . But we are disgusting . And when I show them how disgusting they are they say , He only wants to paint monsters ! I do n't want to paint monsters . Pretty soon I will be tired of monsters . I want to communicate with people . That is painting . The ancients knew what painting was . It is to say something . It is to communicate . It is to use beautiful colors because we love them . We enjoy what is lovely and we paint to speak of it . Because we want to tell somebody that we like this and they must see it because we like it . That is why I want to paint everything soft . Because I love feathers and pearls and fluffy things that hold the light and split it into rainbows . I am a very poor painter . I can not paint like those Spaniards . I work very hard but I go very slow . When I have filled these spaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I will work to get the texture I desire . I want to make it beautiful , everything the most delicate shading of the colors , light as a feather . That is why I have painted it as a double rainbow . Because the  | rainbow is phenomenal . It is charming to me . I like it . I will paint it that way . Indeed all the figures in the picture , the monsters waiting to be beautified of the softness and the colors were , as they occurred in various parts of the picture , either green or red or purple or blue ? but the colors quite realistically modulated . As if they had been seen toward evening here , at noon there , and at sunrise there , before a storm , as it might be . What do they mean by composition ? There are half a dozen compositions . Everybody knows them . What is that ? They balance here , there . What does it mean ? Cezanne ! Pooh . Yes , he could paint a good composition . He knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another tree . Another orange . Another table with flowers . What does it mean ? Always the same . I am tired of that . That is enough of that . He turned the big picture to the wall . Let me show you some portraits . Do you like this one ? I paint my portraits all after I have made the sketch , a year afterward perhaps . When I feel what I wish to see and I know how to do it . This morning I painted this face of Edith Sitwell all over . I could finish it today . What do you think ? It was a white-looking woman in a nun 's habit . She was sitting as if in a straightback medieval chair completely self-absorbed , ascetic , rather severe . It was a shock to me after what I thought I had known of the woman 's verse . She is like that , he said . A very beautiful woman . She is alone . She is very positive and very emotional . She takes herself very seriously and seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I wanted to paint her as I know her . What do you think ? I am glad to know her . I did n't know her . Never thought much of her verse . Oh , you do n't know her then , he said . This will be your introduction . You will see if I am not right . An amazing woman . And these ? this is Ford and his sister . He showed me the portraits of the two young Americans . Their faces were made to radiate the opalescent colors he loves . I looked back at the Sitwell again . Her face I saw now was not white but all the colors of the  | rainbow minutely blended , not pointilliste , but soft as feathers , as down . You have seen enough painting , he said , for one afternoon . Next year you shall see the big one ? when I have been able to finish it . You will see the difference . Every part of it must be done as I have done the face of Edith Sitwell ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colors of the rainbow . You will like it then .  | View , 1942 I IMAGINE the angels will have forgotten , by that time , whether they had been niggers , archbishops ? or even the sex of their parents . Memory will not be their occupation , they will have escaped it or escaped all its less significant details . When they look at the new pictures of those who remain artists among them they will seek qualities more mineral than protoplasmic , to be graded as they repel , absorb , or transmit light . But we ? are full of memories and the best we can do is to seek in them for the luminous . As Tchelitchew says : Every picture has a heart of light , a mind and ? remains a composition on a flat surface revealing too much . Cache cache ! It is made of all that the painter should hide ? of himself , of his times . It gives him away . It is shocking , disgraceful . It reveals him in his secret , perhaps , as very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something else quite as necessary . Nothing is shocking that you can see . It is what you can not see that may be shocking . Or superb . The pure chemistry of insight , geometric , borrowed from a rotting memory , shall we say ? revealed , crystalline , to the imagination . In words , a triviality . In a picture , an arresting possibility . Raphael can not be imitated unless we know and identify ourselves with the core of his secret . The secrets of Greek perfection , the concepts that made them as they were , are essential to the knowledge of one who would borrow from them . Raphael was a crystal sphere . His realizations are of the sphere , crystalline , transmitters of light . How can they be followed , even with every addition of contemporary paraphernalia , without that realization . Impossible ! Each creator has as his base some such secret core . Unless we hit to the base of the underlying purity from which ALL a man 's work emerges we produce ? in trying to realize Raphael @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sphere ? the opacity and confusion of Ingres ' scene in the harem . A man , in America , surrounds himself with a forest , to be able to continue to desire to discover a means to exist . I gathered from looking about the penthouse studio ? the seaweed , the stump , the muddy statue , the debris of all sorts from breaking and moss , that here was an indestructible something masquerading , for survival ! under brokenness . Obscene as an eel . The Indians have cursed this country , he said . Sand and feathers . I am sure they have put a curse on it . Painting , deciphering , reassembling , clarifying , packing , packing , packing the sphere within the cube , the cube within the sphere . Tchelitchew does not treat lightly the tenets of magic and necromancy . There is nothing recondite in this , nothing ? What is the word used by the hemiplegics ? ? nothing esoteric ! It is plain sense , like a tree . A seed is planted . Well , there it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's life partaking of life as a whole . Tchelitchew saw a tree and made a sketch of it in England ten years ago . There it lies . Very childish , very naive . He says so himself . But it is a seed . Maybe it will grow , maybe it will die . In this case it grows . Five years later there is another sketch that has developed from the first . The seed did not rot . The tree is growing into a new area of the imagination . It was an old , gnarled tree to begin with . Now it is indulging in vagaries , it is getting new attributes that no other tree ever experienced . Children 's faces , nine of them , are beginning to appear as outlines in the crotches between the trunk and the main branches . They have open mouths . The leaves , from the first red hands opening , through the extended full of the green maturity , to the mottled reds of winter approaching , assume their parts . Tchelitchew would not let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large square canvas of a tree with a dandelion seed-head , a luminous sphere , growing under it . The picture is to be shown to no one until after he , Tchelitchew , has left the country . It speaks and he does not want to be present when it says what it has to say . By that time he will be in the tropics . He showed us only the sketches he had made over several years , sketches slowly evolving into the thing , the organization , the composition on a flat surface , the seed that has  | developed , the shocking discovery it holds , the fulfillment it signalizes , the confession , the sweeping out , the purification of memory it represents , the nostalgia , the skills , the contempt , the humor , the despair , the translucence ? summarizing poetry , flattening out superficial differences and resemblances ? overfelt details , details that catch the eye as the thorns on a blackberry bush catch the hand and the sleeve as we reach for the fruit . The tree has become monstrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sun , and the stars ! plant roots and the heart of a man . The imagination has horns and a tail , therefore we have created ourselves in that image . Tchelitchew has lifted the dry sphere of the dandelion seed-head also into the text of his picture . Monsters frequent the earth everywhere . Science is the accident and the accidental the true . Our very lives prove how we are bedevilled by the supernatural , we see it in everything especially in architecture . But if we run from these things we return to our childhood . Nobody can predetermine the secret of this tree , the tree of the artist 's life or growing out of the upturned end of his left great toe , what difference ? The world is monstrous , only the monstrous can be true of it . Or the world is not monstrous , only the monstrous can truly reveal that fatal error . The foot is for the shoe as the shoe is for the foot . Paint ! Either the picture portrays the core of a man or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have the ability to place it . I speak out of my recollection of what Tchelitchew said . He has strong and substantial opinions concerning the relative merits of French and Italian painting . He laughs ! If they knew why Giotto painted as he did ! He saw first , then he painted what he saw . He saw nothing the way they wanted him to see it . He saw as little boys see who paint their thrilling anatomical concepts on the insides of water closet doors . Why did Giorgione . . . Why , why , why ? You have to know those things . Seurat was completely unknown . He died at thirty-two and everything he attempted turned out to be a masterpiece . Why ? He knew what he was doing . It remains a secret , a realization of the miraculous ? on a flat surface , an effect of the light .  | Some hands are silver , some of gold and a very few ? very , very few ! are like diamonds . But these are not of artists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whom you can talk without the necessity of explanations . Walk barefoot in the sand to your heart 's content . If you go broke , paper your walls with newspapers , upside down ! V for victory . You are leaving us ? this cold and damp New York that gives us stiff necks or dries the blood in summer with its baked concrete flame ? forever ! you say . You say you left Russia the same way , with nothing but a pocketful of pigments as your possessions . What you left there I do n't know but you are leaving us , bespeaking your affection , this picture , a hidden treasure ; so you mean it and so I accept it for the others . It is a great treasure to you and that is how you leave it . If no one wants to look at it , that 's just too bad . It is your seed . You have signally honored our soil by wishing to plant it here . This man is a monster , a very terrible monster . Cats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faces of tigers are never funny . As soon as I have the opportunity I intend to look long and hard at the face of this , Tchelitchew 's latest work . It is the labor of the last two years of his residence with us in New York . I know the monster revealed there will not be smiling . Cache cache . The gods are chasing the children along the edge of the sea below Positano , where the old priest in a gingham dress stands watching them from the cliff 's edge .  | Not previously published , c. 1937 WHO THE DICKENS iS Effie Dean ? said Floss to me when I came in for lunch . Got me , why ? The funniest thing happened this morning . I 'll tell you about it . But who is Effie Dean ? Why n't you look it up ? As far as I know she must be ? I do n't know . I think it 's some revolutionary heroine from the South , Georgia , something like that . What happened ? Oh it seems that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called up and wants to give it to you . Effie Dean . Let me look it up . I 've got to be more careful , I said . I 'm always getting into trouble like that . I love pictures . Nine times out of ten when I go into a house and have to wait a moment or two for whoever it is to appear , I begin looking around for pictures . And it 's surprising how often I find interesting ones to look at , in the plainest households sometimes . This was I supposed another case of the sort . I had n't any recollection of it whatever . Do n't you remember ? No . Never shall I forget my embarrassment a month or two ago when I dropped in to see one of my best friends one evening with Floss and sat opposite a watercolor well-known to me and which I began at once to praise as I had often praised it formerly . It was a still life , red and green , straight up and down lines , two long bunches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always pleased me , that 's all . I always admire that picture , I said to my friend Stuart  | Donaldson , whose grandfather had invented baking powder and once had an office on Maiden Lane . Yes , said his wife . I know . That 's yours . Stuart even has your name on it , across the back . We have no one to leave things to , so when we go we want you to have that picture . We always call it yours . I could feel my face flush crimson , and swore on the spot never to audibly admire anything in a friend 's house again . As a matter of fact a physician often comes upon delightful objets d'art inauspiciously lighting the days and years of some obscure household in almost any suburban town ? anywhere , everywhere on his rounds . All sorts of things which , if he is fortunate , he will share with his friends and acquaintances in praising . My own small town Rutherford is like any other in that . So much is this so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rare and beautiful objects about the town , in my mind of course , that it is a pity so few can see to enjoy . All are not prize pieces but what I see always has interest , sometimes charm and associational qualities of note and occasionally great beauty . I mean not pictures alone but all sorts of things , furniture , fabrics , books , letters even , occasional pieces of jewelry such as my own mother 's filigree earrings , all of greatest interest . I know a woman who has ten of the most pleasing bed quilts her grandmother left her years ago . You just want to lift them and hold them in your hand they are so fine . Why not , I have thought , why not , when some charitable object or project is to be financed , have a show ! Have a show and gather together whatever we could dig up in a town such as ours . I 'll bet you 'd be surprised at the people that would come to see it . I began to enumerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away , but I remember a portrait of some member of the family Mrs. Morse had , painted by the great inventor . We could start there , a lovely thing , full-length . Floss and I have our own Demuths , the Sheeler still life , the New Mexico pastel of Hartley 's , the Hiler The trouble would be the selection . What a battle ! You 'd have to  | have one person for that whose word would be law ? to keep the junk out and make the necessary enemies . We could hold the show in the Woman 's Club . Just the place , that big former millionaire 's barn of brown stone . Partitions could be put up at small expense . Of course you 'd have to insure everything , you 'd have to engage a detective agency for protection . . . oh well . But I think the interest would be keen . You could charge a quarter for admission . And it would be fun and funny as hell too . Run it for two or three weeks . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by that little English woman , what was her name ? wife of the dyer . Marvelous . When I first saw those wildly efflorescent garden scenes I could not help but think of Rousseau Douanier . Mina Loy happened to be in Rutherford at the time and I took her to see them . You never saw such flowers ! The canvas was made of nothing else . There was an arbor but it could n't have been needed , the flowers were thick enough to stand by their own pressures . A wild imagination that made you want to laugh and cry in spite of yourself . We looked at it for a moment , then Mina broke the spell . She shook herself as if breaking a dream and said , What fools we are to stand here like this comparing them with Rousseau Certainly mother 's portrait painted by Ludovic when she was in Paris in 1876 , the Spanish headdress with a black mantilla , would have to be there . But any number of girlish daubs , such as the waterfall dear old Mrs. Clanny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the rocks , have an interest . I always looked at it and always felt the same , an alarm , a feeling of uneasiness , waiting for the awful catastrophe from that unsupported river I think we could get a whole arsenal of Revolutionary firearms , muskets and pistols , swords and powder horns . Mrs. Kittredge alone could fill a whole room , her husband representing the first break in the family tradition of Dr. Kittredges , a line seven in a row from the first who was with the American forces at Bunker Hill . What a collection they have . Marvelous ! There 's the low mahogany table , an unusual specimen because of  | its height . The low sofa with the high back and the two cherubic young ladies with eyes that follow you about the room above it in their gold frame , pink cheeks and hair in clustering ringlets ? deftly limned . Mrs. Kittredge showed me a child 's doll they would like to have at the Metropolitan Museum . And all sorts of small things , the candied glass paperweight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and names carved in the stone , which she keeps above the head of her bed . And who has that other glass ball with something ? some small metal object , an old British coin I think , pressed into the center of it when it was cooling . Who has that ? And Frances Fetterly 's harmonium . Somebody else 's old clock with its terrible ticking ? Oh yes , Doris Hussey ! of the Nantucket Husseys , and a bell on it that when it rings it 's like a tenor in the opera ! And dear Mr. Ferry , the reformed gambler , and his things . What in the world has happened to his treasures ? If only he had lived he would have given us the other pieces of that set of grey plush chairs and narrow sofa with the carved ornaments capping the backs , that come off in your hand when you try to lift the piece . What things he had ! The cracklewear , the sandwich glass ? if I could remember half of them . Where are they now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in at the Buchanans ' only yesterday . All pegged together and worn ? I do n't know what makes it look so satisfying and so different from today . The very pearwood cane that the old lady uses to knock on the floor with when she wants assistance , split all around where the grain has opened up with age , the brass ferule , the hart 's horn handle , old as the nation . We ought to get Elizabeth Heckman 's two granduncles back again . I never passed them up ? or their story , when I went there for a call . One was sour faced , in black , his mouth drawn down bitterly at the corners . He was the one who made the money . The other , his younger brother , in a blue coat , his cheeks suspiciously bright red , his head cocked back haughtily , his mouth curled upward with a  | smile . He it was who ate a ten dollar bill between two slices of his mother 's bread to show his amusement and indifference . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Lady and the Tiger " in Rutherford ? Could n't we have pictures of the Kipp house , the old stone house of the Kingslands , really delightful houses of the early Dutch and English settlers ? Oh and I remember the day I was crossing on the ferry . That was before they put the Hudson Tunnels through . I was parked toward the back of the boat . A middle-aged man came up to me , rather diffidently , and asked if I was going anywhere near Hackensack ? where George Washington rested after the retreat from Fort Lee . I said , Yes . Do you want a ride ? Yes , he said and scrambled eagerly into the seat beside me . I 'm tired , he said . And broke . I 've been walking the streets of New York all day . I 'm a gilder by trade . What ? A gilder . And he reached inside his overcoat and drew out a small object wrapped in cloth . Work like this , he said . It was a beautifully finished thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I used to do a good business , he said . I refinished the whole ? some collection of paintings ? at the Manhattan Storage House that had been there for years . A big job . I 'm from Czechoslovakia . I make violins too . Refinish paintings . Could I do anything for you ? Well , I engaged him then and there to clean , varnish and regild the frame of a portrait my mother did of her little niece in Mayaguez in - the old days . He did a wonder job of it . Nothing better , and reasonable too , just ten dollars . So Floss introduced him to an old friend of hers , Helen Van Buren , who has a number of old portraits black with age and in dull frames that need refurbishing . Among other things he discovered in Helen 's house a pair of blackened bellows . Let me fix these up for you , he begged . No . Let me just finish a corner of it , I 'll charge you nothing . No . But they let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result . Had no idea it was so lovely .  | He pleaded for the bellows , a large broken pair , that had been lying there for years . I think not . I ca n't spend that much on such old things . Let me try . So they let him have the bellows to clean up finally . They almost fell over in a faint when he brought them back again . They were a pair given by the French Ambassador to President Van Buren during his administration . A most beautifully painted and gilded work of art . We 'd have to have that in our show . Indian arrowheads and stone war clubs galore . The Sullivans have a bronze tomahawk , beautifully engraved , made I think in England but a very early piece of work . I 've never seen anything to equal it . And we had a small piece of Aztec work in stone in the house somewhere for years . It seems to me it was of granite , very low , for pounding pigments on . I remember that as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And the marvelous double clay flute that Mr. Hooper showed me and the clay medallions , and figurines each wrapped in tissue paper , Maya work . Of course , they 'd have to be skilfully exhibited . I 'll bet you I could get Edith Halpert to do it for us , just for the interest of it . She 's that kind . That 's right , the Early Americana ? my Lord ! Stuff they threw away . Glazed paper decorations in black frames . Pictures of fruit , the things the Yearances had here on the farm long even before Van Buren was a boy . They used to call them ugly and put them up in the attic when the golden oak craze came in . Priceless , or at any rate fascinating now . Crudely drawn bananas , grapes , peaches . Stuart has a lifelike peach , I saw just two weeks ago , lying beside a small pool of water and reflected there . Amazingly real . All these things would get new life if they were cleaned ? by such a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like Drew Spence 's portrait of his great-grandfather ? who owned from 47th to 57th St. and 10th Ave . to the river ? if he were n't so damned Scotch about it . And fabrics ! that sixteen-foot bedspread Mable Leeds gave us , bless her heart , all woven of white linen in flowers and fronds . They wanted to make two of it but she said she 'd rather give it away than see it cut . That would make a display . And Drew Spence 's Paisley shawls . His great-grandfather on  | the other side designed and printed them . He has all the careful pencil patterns too , still there . Marvelous detail work ? with a letter of thanks from Catherine the Great for the one he sent her . The late Dr. Minor 's collection of minerals , superbly brilliant . That alone would fill a room . But the works of art would have to come first . Manuscripts , shells , butterflies . Our own very delightful Audubon which Ed Brown gave me once out of the kindness of his heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who Effie Deans was ? it 's Effie Deans , not Dean . Listen ! She was the sister of Jeanie Deans , the heroine of Sir Walter Scott 's tale , The Heart of Midlothian . She murdered her own child and was condemned to death but Jeanie went on foot to London and obtained a pardon for her from the queen . She later married her lover and became a lady of the court . But what about it ? Well , said Flossie , it seems that once some years ago you admired the picture . Yes . You did n't know it but it was this Mrs. Rumbold 's prize possession . She adored it and nobody else in her family ever cared for it at all . In fact they did n't want it around . So when you admired it , she was delighted . It must have been lost sight of after that , for yesterday she went down in the cellar for something and without knowing it she stepped on Effie , lying frameless on the cellar floor . It nearly broke her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called you up . She was almost crying . She did n't want to blame anyone , she said , but she knew who had done it . Someone had taken Effie from her frame , she thought , to steal the frame and glass and Effie had been tossed on the floor without a thought . Will Dr. Williams take her ? she said . I want Effie to have a good home . I do n't want to die and think that Effie is neglected . If he will take her and keep her I want him to have her . I 'll never forget how he spoke of her years ago . It meant so much to me . Ca n't you remember it ? said Floss.  | Ca n't for the life of me , I said . But there must be something good or unusual about it . Tell her I 'll take care of Effie . Call her up and promise her that we 'll do whatever she wishes . Dear old gal . What a show we could make of it ! Of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | The New Republic , 1938 Txns is an 8 X 9 book of 95 photographs on glazed paper taken in the eastern part of the U.S. during the past seven years by a man named Walker Evans , a record of what was in that place for Mr. Evans to see and what Mr. Evans saw there in that time . ( This is a good work , a pleasure to the eye and a satisfaction to the intelligence . I 'm glad for us that the pictures are of America instead of being just good pictures , because being so particularly of that place makes them universal . Gives them currency . ) Y ( Permits us to some extent to deal with all places . Enhances the value of other places for us . ) Y* In a work of art ( and I should say that these pictures are works of art ) Y* place is everything . Evans 's photographs represent , as Lincoln Kirstein says in his notes to the book , a straight puritanical stare ? though not entirely without humor . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the photographic art . The composition is of secondary importance in these clear statements . Their beauty permits little of that . The book is in two parts about evenly divided between portraits and architecture , the products and remains of a life that is constantly in process of passing . The range is from Parked Car , Small Town Main Street , 1932 , to Tin Relic , 1931 and from Alabama Cotton Tenant Farmer 's Wife , 1936 , to Main Pump , 1933 . They particularize as Atget did for the Paris of his day . By this the eye and consequently the mind is induced to partake of the list that has been prepared ? that we may know it . The total effect is of a social upheaval , not a photographic picnic . There is pointed reference in Mr. Kirstein 's notes to the work of Brady during the War between the States . In Evans 's pictures also  | we are seeing fields of battle after the withdrawal of the forces engaged . The jumbled wreckage , human and material , is not always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detachment of the approach the effect is often no less poignant . But that 's not all . These are without question works of art having their own identity , their own flavor , their own breath by which they live for us ? and without which we should n't look at them past Sunday afternoon . They 're good and reward repeated examination . I 'm glad that Evans has promenaded his eyes about America in this case rather than France . ( Not that , in the long run , it makes a damned bit of difference ? Yes it does . It emphasizes the excellence of the French . Why , at best , brought into relief by our own perceptions they gain brilliancy for us . It was absolutely essential for someone to begin what Evans has done so well . And we shall see our own country and its implications the better for Evans 's work and come to realize that the realm of art is here quite as well as elsewhere . ) Y We go about blind and deaf . We fight off convictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should welcome for water in the desert ( , convictions that are the very calcium and vitamins without which our bones melt under us ) Y. The artist must save us . He 's the only one who can . First we have to see . Or first we have to be taught to see . We have to be taught to see here , because here is everywhere , related to everywhere else , and if we do n't see , hear , taste , smell and feel in this place ? not only will we never know anything but the world of sense will be by that much diminished everywhere . ( Jealousies relative to the arts are unthinkable . In such pictures as those of Evans the insects of the arts have laid their eggs against a present winter to go on breeding and puncturing the hides of the dull witted forever . ) Y Evans saw what he saw here , in this place ? this was his universal . In this place he saw what is universal . By his photographs he proves it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aversions is the belief that you have to go to special places to find excellence in the arts on the principle that you do n't find whales in a mill pond . You do n't . Neither do you find  | brains by drinking cheap wine in a bistro , or knowledge merely by eating tripe from a dish stamped with the coat of arms of Christ College . ) Y Of only one thing , relative to a work of art , can we be sure : it was bred of a place . It comes from an application of the senses to that place , a music , and that place can be the middle of the African jungle , the Mexican plateau , a Parisian whorehouse , a room where Oxford chippies sip tea together or a downhill street in a Pennsylvania small town . ( Let the abstract artist go hang his coat back of the door where he sits down , the abstractions he thinks he is freeing are as definitely bound to a place as the work of the most representational artist that ever lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than the other . And relates it so much more acutely to his purpose . Not that training is n't necessary . But the real thing the runnersaway are after , if they know it , is convenience . It 's hard to get the best out of an undeveloped milieu . The word " milieu " shows what I mean . We do n't use the American equivalent , place , readily enough , so we run to a French one . But it 's nothing but convenience and a certain inability that makes the runner-away'at his worst . At his best he is the bringer-in of the means of intercommunication in the arts ? though he often forgets that and believes himself exalted in direct proportion to his removal from his basis . ) Y It is the particularization of the universal that is important . It is the unique field of the artist . Evans is an artist . It is ourselves we see , ourselves lifted from a parochial setting . We see what we have not theretofore realized , ourselves made worthy in our anonymity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day , everywhere to quicken and elucidate , to fortify and enlarge the life about him and make it eloquent ? to make it scream , as Evans does at times , gurgle , laugh and speak masterfully when the occasion offers . ( By this , by the multiplicity of the approach , the aggregate of many artists in all possible locations , lWilliams here originally wrote " expatriate " but crossed it out and substituted " runner-away. "  | each , with his own materials making the same excellence ? men are drawn closer and made to feel their separate greatness . Evans is that . He belongs . ) Y So here 's a book of photographs about America . It 's not the first , perhaps not even the best book of pictures of us , but it 's an eloquent one , one of the most fluent I have come across and enjoyed . The pictures are for the most part mild , but in spite of this , though always exquisitely clear in reasoning and in visual quality , they pack a wicked punch . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is n't a long nose poking into dirty corners for propaganda and for scandal , there are no trick shots , the composition is n't a particular feature ? but the pictures talk to us . And they say plenty .  | // HERE FOR the first time , I think , the paintings of Charles Sheeler have been assembled for a complete retrospective view giving him and others an opportunity to witness them as a whole . This is an important moment for contemporary painting . Apart from the enjoyment received , it provides a means for the study and evaluation of the work in all its phases as well as a cross-check on painting generally today . The catalogue details elsewhere a chronological list of the exhibits . No comment on the individual pieces will be made nor does it seem appropriate to more than mention the biography so ably covered in previous publications . All that is intended is a bird's-eye view of the exhibit and a quick pencil sketch of some of its features and implications ? as they appeal to one who is not a painter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gassy . I think Sheeler is particularly valuable ( for us in America ) ? because of the bewildering directness of his vision , without blur , through the fantastic overlay ( of crazy impositions ) w with which our lives so vastly are concerned , " the real , " as we say , contrasted with the artist 's " fabrications , " ( and because of his sanity , seeing as he does directly , without hallucination , through the impost which occupies almost all of our attention , walls which close us in and which we do not surpass , ( ( to a barn or a leaf in a glass of water. ) ) w So he paints. ) v This is the traditional thin soup and cold room of the artist , to inhabit some chance " reality " whose every dish and spoon he knows as he knows the language that was taught him as a child . Meanwhile , a citizen of the arts , he must keep his eye without fault upon those things he values , to which officials constantly refuse to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from each other by many shades of difference . It is too easy , for conviviality , to try to weld the two worlds. ) s ( That is where the artist often slips . He paints what he sees before him , with his eyes , and is tempted to give it some trivial name or resemblance , incidental and unworthy , purely transient , so that those he lives with may recognize , as children may be led to recognize by association , what they should see . ) , ( And the disappointing thing is that in trying thus to present it , a completely simple thing , before it can be told , it gets the appearance of the complex by our trying to carry it over from the one world to the other. ) s The difficulty is to know the valuable from the impost and to paint that only . The rest of us live in confusion between these things , isolated from each other by the effects of it , a primitive and complex world without air conditioning . It is the measurable disproportion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist his opportunity . He is the watcher and surveyor of that world where the past is always occurring contemporaneously and the present always dead , needing a miracle of resuscitation to revive it . ( That there should be artists , especially the most vivid of them , painters , in an age characterized by its unreality , and that there should be such a one as Charles Sheeler among them , may be all that saves some of us from comparative madness , a complete night . I say " comparative " because in this age no one would be so indiscreet as to allow himself to go completely mad , just as he would not dare to believe himself completely sane : no one that is but the artist , touching either the heights or the depths. ) v More and more alone as time goes on , shut off from each other in spite of facile means of communication we shrink within ourselves the more the others strike against our privacy . We can not be forced to love and talk , the gangsters are right ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are the mirrors . Nor can it be told by looking into a man 's face what he is thinking or in what hovel-sized confinement he exists . But the monasteries of our thoughts have walls like any others for paintings to carry us beyond them to reality . Lucky the man who can dispel them with a Sheeler . And let it be strictly noted , the arresting thing is that this world  | of the artist ( often maligned , is not of gauze but honest wood and steel and plaster . You ca n't write on emptiness . ( ( You do n't paint on the idea of walls but upon walls . ) ) P It is the world in which men meet and work with pick and shovel , talk and write long-winded books . It is the same world we go to war in . God knows no one can say the bombs on Guernica were not real , even to the place of manufacture stamped on them . ) " Pictures are made with paint and a brush on canvas . ( So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he 's painting unless we know what structure he 's seeking to enliven we can not understand his painting . ) Any picture worth hanging , is of this world ? under our noses often ? which amazes us , into which we can walk upon real grass . It 's no " fabrication , " we realize that at once , but what we have always sought against that shrunken pulp ( from which everyone is running faster nowadays than ever ) called , monstrously , " the real . " Charles Sheeler gives us such a world , of elements we can believe in , things for our associations long familiar or which we have always thought familiar . ( Without embarrassment , rather with complete unconstraint , intensity and variety of resource , he uses what he sees and what we see for what he has to say . By that we speak of him as an American painter and know what we 're talking about. ) k ( He sees the universal in our midst , with his eyes , and makes it up for us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a piece of stretched cloth. ) f ( To cipher his widest reaches of understanding he has used characters of intensely local bearing . And the wider his understanding , the more intense have become his perceptions of the local. ) h Driving down for illumination into the local , Sheeler has had his Welsh blood to set him on . There is a Sheelerville , Pa. , up in the old mining district ( ? a blood hard upon locality for its good as a barnacle upon a rock . There are dangers there but there are virtues also ) ! The Shakers express the same feeling in maple , pine and birch , pieces which Sheeler out of admiration for what they could do with those materials keeps about him . But the world is always seeking meanings ! breaking down everything to its " component parts , " not always without loss . The arts have not escaped this tendency , nor did Sheeler whose early  | work leaned toward abstraction , in the drawing and composition , the familiar ironing out of planes . Something of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where his growth was to lie , to a subtler particularization , the abstract if you will but left by the artist integral with its native detail . ( The artist 's world can never be anything but a world of the senses . Essences , the abstract and its abstraction , have major facets in philosophy and science : ) , The tree grows and makes leaves which fall and lie in the swamp-water . The ages change , as the imagination changes , and of the resultant coal we draw off an electric fluid . But for the artist , for Sheeler as an artist , it is in the shape of the thing that the essence lies . To be an artist , as to be a good artisan , a man must know his materials . But in addition he must possess that really glandular perception of their uniqueness which realizes in them an end in itself , each piece irreplaceable by a substitute , not to be broken down to other meaning . Not to pull out , transubstantiate , boil , unglue , hammer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to distill but to see and keep what the understanding touches intact ? as grapes are round and come in bunches . ( Add again a balance of mind sufficient to prevent bemusement before traditional habits of choice out of which the vigor has gone . And a sense for the color of events , the color itself and what can not be seen behind what can be seen. ) k It is this eye for the thing that most distinguishes Charles Sheeler ? and along with it to know that every hair on every body , now or then , in its minute distinctiveness is the same hair , on every body anywhere , at any time , changed as it may be to feather , quill , or scale . ( It is the real world , the world of things with which the artist has to do , this can not ever be too strongly emphasized . In this emphasis Sheeler 's work has a special place . The artist must be a veritable animal the way he has to smell his way most of the time through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( , or there could be no painting . ) , It was a banana to Cezanne . ( The purpose of art is to make the world big again , to lift what is  | about our feet to the level of the imagination where alone it gains a quality fitting it for the uses of exchange : a fluidity ? keeping its character ? that is the release of the local into the universal , but not , for the arts , at the expense of detail , by staring past which to grow purblind. ) k Look ! that 's where painting begins . A bird , up above , flying , may be the essence of it ? but a dead canary , with glazed eye , has no less an eye for that , well seen becomes sight and song itself . ( The common is dignified into the uncommon .... The place where the eye impinges is everywhere ? unless we are hypnotized by it . I have to laugh at the abstractionists. ) g ( The facile deception ? not without a use ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing is the mark : fatal . The essence lies in the thing , and shapes it , variously , but the sensual particularization is the proof , the connection which proves that the senses see a reality . It is the artist 's incentive . In the particularization the artist gains his authority. ) g It is in things that for the artist the power lies , not beyond them . Only where the eye hits does sight occur . ( The moment sight ceases art ceases . The moment sight dims , the essence , in the arts , is fissured . The senses atrophy from lack of use . Look cross-eyed for a few years and see what happens to one of your eyes . You ca n't see two things at the same time so one eye ceases to function . Stop looking intensely at a chair , or a cat , or a flower in a pot , or a factory and ? sooner or later you wo n't be able to see either those things or anything. ) g Take a cross-eyed child at birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes must go blind , he can not focus it . But let him look past the object to " abstraction " long enough and soon the other eye will follow . ( Sheeler has devoted himself mainly to still lifer , landscapes with little direct reference to humanity . This does not in the least make him inhuman , since when man becomes insignificant in his attributes and swollen to fill the horizon the representation of the human face is not enlightening . ) ? ( Inhuman is a word commonly used to describe the efficiency of the modern industrial setup , as in some minds coldness is often associated with Sheeler 's work ? incorrectly . Sheeler chose as he did from temperament doubtless but also from thought and a clear vision of the contemporary dilemma. )  | The exhibits date back approximately a quarter of a century , but their quality is singularly uniform , lucid , and geometric from the first . It was an early perception of general changes taking place , a passage over from heated surfaces and vaguely differentiated detail to the cool and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Sheeler has come more and more to celebrate . Sheeler had especially not to be afraid to use the photographic camera in making up a picture . It could perform a function unduplicatable by other means . Sheeler took it that by its powers his subject should be intensified , carved out , illuminated ? for anyone ( I do n't know that he said this to himself ) whose eyes might be blurred by the general fog that he might , if he cared to , see again . ( The best pictures take us most wholly into another world . ) ? ( When we were children we were told that if we dug down deep enough we 'd come to China . I once did find an old piece of broken crockery. ) d It is ourselves we seek to see upon the canvas , as no one ever saw us , before we lost our courage and our love . So that , to a Chinaman , Sheeler at his best should be a heartfelt recognition , as Sheeler , looking at some ancient Chinese painted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A picture at its best is pure exchange , men flow in and out of it , it does n't matter how . I think Sheeler at his best is that , a way of painting powerfully articulate . But after all , so is all good painting .  | Art in America , 1954 WHEN A painter faces his canvas he has , with every new work , problems to solve which are as old as the art of painting itself . If he has a style for which he is known , even famous , the problem is only intensified . Is he going to make a change in his style or go on developing it as before ? As a man grows older we ask of him not so much the new but how he has served the gift he originally possessed . Does he see to it that he paints always better pictures ? How is one painting better than another ? By sticking to his style a man establishes himself . He strives to prove the innerness of his primary vision , to make it more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extraneous matter , that his meaning may always be clearer . The better his picture the more that meaning stands out . Charles Sheeler has lived in a mechanical age . To deny that was to lose your life . That , the artist early recognized . In the world which immediately surrounded him it was more apparent than anywhere else on earth . What was he to do about it ? He accepted it as the source of materials for his compositions . Sheeler made a clean sweep of it . The man found himself impressed by the contours of the machine ; he was not impressed by the romantic aspects of what the machine represents but the machine itself . The machine as just another " flower " or " fish , " just another " arrangement " to fill the spaces on his paintings has not interested him . Sheeler was too hardheaded for that . Therefore his interest in photography . By faking the psychologic appearance of the machine , making perhaps a " woman " of it , so that it appears to be what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ignoring of the machine 's contours until it entirely disappears from our consciousness . To take the  | machine and make its contours acceptable to our eye by using it in our compositions is admirable in a modern artist . His industrial plants and barns , the elementary shapes he has chosen to work with , force a recognition on us very often which makes them sing . I do n't know what more we can ask of a man . Sheeler 's paintings are often spoken of as cold , but when a man is mastered , as he is , by an overwhelming reticence , his paintings are possessed by an emotional power hard to put your fingers on . It is always so with masterwork and the best of the paintings of Charles Sheeler are just that . It is interesting to witness how Sheeler has progressed to his present stand . We can see how in his early years he was influenced by the French school but the adored Cezanne had already passed into history . An element from the outside seems to be disturbing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at their surface value only , are certainly not Renoir . Sheeler is not a colorist , at least he does not count on color for his major effects . Design is his distinction . After the normal amount of experimental still lifes had been accomplished , studies of the nude followed in due course though , significantly , he was only interested in the human figure as parts of it were revealed , an arm , a breast in an offhand pose . He turned to a yacht 's sails bellying in the wind or the contours of farm buildings which more held his eye . One of his first earlier successes was an abstract drawing of a barn , a barn revealed in its essentials without background of any sort . From there on he has chosen , led by an inscrutable logic , to reveal such studies of barns , with necessary variations , in all their aspects . It all came from an intense interest in the mechanical world pressing about him . He wanted to recognize and assert its every detail in which he saw , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ancient buildings . That he has used the camera obscura to aid him in making his record was inevitable but when he used the camera it was only to emphasize his work as a painter . Sheeler is a painter first and last with a painter 's mind alert to the  | significance of the age which surrounds him . The emotional power of his work comes also from that . It is hard to believe that a picture such as Classic Landscape , which is a representation of the Ford plant at River Rouge , owes its effectiveness to an arrangement of cylinders and planes in the distance , maybe it is n't entirely that but that contributes to it largely . It is , however it comes about , a realization on the part of the artist of man 's pitiful weakness and at the same time his fate in the world . These themes are for the major artist . These are the themes which under cover of his art Sheeler has celebrated .  | Not previously published WHILE THE disc is revolving and the amplifier in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon this Easter morning brilliant and cold ? sounding the old hymns for us to hear , willynilly , without graciousness but a very considerable insistence ? there 's the Amen . And , there 's a show of paintings in New York this week at the Walker Gallery by an international artist of considerable fame who has come home to America , to Maine , to complete his life . Marsden Hartley is painting better today than he ever could have hoped to do formerly and the reason becomes more and more apparent . It is a painter 's reason , a basic reason , it has to do with the mind , the body , and the spirit drawn gradually together into one life and finally flowering , once . That 's what pictures , or anything of value , must be : once . It has happened . It has happened here . Here the deed has become vocal , in this small place , in this small space , on this cloth , between those wooden frames . And by this commonness , this thing that might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? at last ? AT LAST , becomes universal . Hartley , approaching old age ( that is to say , youth ? if he wins ! ) is just beginning to understand and to show what it means to be a painter ? that is to say , a man : the drama of it , the slippery edge along which any man must advance , always dangerously , to a performance which can not but be dramatic when it succeeds , tragic when it fails . The gnarledest of paintings can emit purest light ? when they finally come through , when they make good , when they close up the broken life such an American as Hartley must have led , to bring into place his native completion .  | These are all Maine scenes , Flowers from Claire Spencer 's Garden ? Bargaduco Farm , The Lost Felice ? For a Seaman 's Bethel in the Far North , Mt . Katandin ? Autumn # 1 , Driftwood on the Bargaduce , etc. , etc . What does it matter ? Real they have to be because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place ? and in that place you will reveal all places in the world . How else will you paint nothing ? And walk out of it whole ? Technically I am not competent to speak as a painter but I can tell vigor , struggle , paint that is put down to be paint and to say whatever paint can say without lying but with knowledge and a man 's purpose ? which a man must share , all but in the one way , with every other man . It is important to me to see a man like Marsden Hartley doing what he is doing with a life that grew up where I grew up ? without prejudice . Hartley was a sensation in Berlin before the last World War with the prescience of his wild canvases . He is a new sensation today for those with eyes who will see here another , broader and deeper prescience , full of late courage and passion , of a sort of love that 's not easy to kill or to understand either for that matter ? lying at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Partially published , Black Mountain Review , 1957 IN ONE WAY I am not at all the man to write of Marsden Hartley . I know nothing of his seagoing ancestors , his down-east background . For that very reason , perhaps , since he spent his life , while I knew him , in an escape from that , seeking as a painter of pictures , to follow a life not as far removed from his hereditary one as might on the surface be indicated , I knew this phase and sympathized with him in it . He was in addition a poet , a writer with a delightful prose style which fascinated me . Besides I had had a father of the same remotely English blood who looked like Hartley , at least to the length of his nose , a nose , Dad used to say like the Duke of Wellington , a Roman nose . What gets into these men of wholly English Blood that sends them flying out to all corners of the world as soon as they come of age ? All of them are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I suppose , as men . It was a characteristic which extends even to the clothes they wear . They are men 's men even to the clothes they wear . Marsden was no exception . It showed in the very colors he chose to paint with , nuances did not please him , but boldness dominated the palette he used . Such men are driven by curiosities which drive them into awkward positions out of which they have to fight free as best they can . That makes men of them , not without a certain crudeness , and they show it whether on the bridge of a ship or engaging the colors confronting them on a canvas they are painting . ( Hartley was a man 's man from the very bridge of his nose to the loosely set bones of the rest of his skeleton . ) " You had to love him to understand him which no woman had it in her heart ( or her eyes ) b to do during his long life , he lived into his middle seventies . He never married @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( He remained a lonely man his entire life . ) , I remember him first as occupying a room , a back room , in an old house on West 15th Street , New York , the old Greenwich Village section , houses on which you 'd see occasionally a plaque affixed to the wall saying , for instance , that this is the house where Alexander Hamilton was brought to die following his duel with Aaron Burr at Weehawken . Hartley loved these houses with their associations with colonial times and high ceilings . The rent besides was low though in winter they were cold being heated by an open grate though that was no deterrent to a man from Augusta , Maine , used as anyone was in the last century to primitive heating arrangements . In the apartment immediately back of his own , the old parlor of the place , a young couple , recently married , or perhaps not , were separated from the lonesome man by the bare thickness of the flimsy partition against which his bed as well as that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the January nights of a long winter he could hear the very rustle of the bed clothes as they shifted their positions , the straining of the bedsprings and even their subdued conversation close to his ear on the other side of the wall . It was a great torment to him lying there alone . His whole life had been a similar torment which painting alone assuaged . I always wanted to buy a picture or two from him fresh from his palette ( but he had to keep his prices high in order to live ) b , too high for my pocketbook . I admired for years his still lifer ( of flowers , particularly his lily pieces , of which he painted many . Finally at an auction at the Anderson gallery , when even his good friend Stieglitz had no longer a place for him in his gallery , I was able to buy a canvas or two ? one of them unfinished ? but NOT one of the flower pieces I wanted . Hartley once or twice brought out several carryable canvases for me to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were all secondary work and I would have none of them . Meanwhile he was rapidly going broke and would be speaking again of some mythical sister or sisters back home and which I understood to mean or to be the source of a meager patrimony which kept him alive .  | The colors and the shapes he painted were for the most part seen close to the eye and positively , even crudely painted , boldly and with aggressive simplicity . Their outlines ? perhaps two birches broken off leaning together in the woods ? were distinct , dramatically conceived so that it was obvious that it was intended that they should mean an inescapable tragedy to which the canvas pointed ? and nothing marginal . A mountain torrent splashing itself to pieces on the rocks was no less dramatically centered ? or it might be a boulder standing alone , a split boulder , the halves eternally separated . Hartley knew Paris , and , more important , the Berlin of just before the First World War and painted there . The torment of those times and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tormented his soul , the soul of a great artist , so that he painted during this phase abstract furies , close to the eye , pressing as it were on the eye , of great significance and beauty ? nothing has superseded or even approached them . I have seen many attempts to equal them with their bold strokes of primary colors , exploding bombs , the arching trajectories of rockets which predicted what the world was destined to see in real life ? but nothing as startling or as beautiful as his vision . It was a phenomenon unequaled in the history of art . If for nothing else these paintings of this period mark Marsden Hartley as one of the most powerful figures in American painting . He made many friendships in those years but seems to have been satisfied to leave the group centered around the French of those years ? and one of the most productive and delightful groups that ever came to the fore in France ? more or less alone . It is to me at least as if he had said to himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily interested in . That was French and he , you could almost hear him say , was American . That is what drew us together . Because it was at that time that I began to know him . It was as if he deliberately turned his back on Europe , it was the time when I had published my In the American Grain and Stieglitz and Djuna Barnes , both close friends of Hartley , had praised it . Hartley was a thinker as well as the other things of which I have been thinking . He was as well a poet and an essayist ? when he was  | strongly moved ; that is my authority for saying that his decision to quit Europe for America was a fully conscious one , bred of a powerful conviction that here , more than anywhere else , that reward which he sought was to be found . It is to be emphasized that he was not an uninformed man but had lived in the very vortex of the art life of the period and had looked and seen what that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not to the New Mexico and the Florida which he took in his stride , writing and painting many important records of his experience , but to Maine ! ? to his beginnings , the coast of Maine , its woods and its people , the fisher folk of Newfoundland in which he refound or rediscovered his roots . He wrote his poems , and he was at times a very perceiving and detailed observer and had a poetic gift ? not as significant as his wonderful gift with the brush , but a vision which , when taken with his paintings as part of the man , we can not ignore . Some of his poems are unequaled . I am thinking of one of his paintings , one of the most tender and sensitively painted of all his canvases , the portrait , a still life , of a pair of woman 's gloves lying on a table where she has just thrown them . Nothing could be farther from the Berlin or the Paris of his younger days . The artist has come home and is interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go to Cathay , as his ancestors in their China clippers had gone before him . He had looked to see what is to be seen in the world and after he had seen , returned to sum up for his heart what he had found there . The last phase was , I think , for Hartley not an unhappy one in spite of failing health ? at least there were no regrets . He did n't get from the world all that he wanted to get , but who in this world gets that ? He could laugh his head off at us or at his own perceptions when he would see completely through the motives of the men around him. ) "  | Not previously published HE WAS a New Englander , more than a mere New Englander , he was from Maine , the inhabitants of which have something wild in their blood . Something exotic bred of their Abenaki ancestry . Even if they have no Indian blood in their veins they were never like the rest of us but welcomed the thought of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their thoughts as they were to Hartley 's vocabulary . And yet there are no Yankees that retained the English tradition in their veins as he or they . After all , as we know nowadays , Maine is nearer to England than any other of the states and has a light if not a climate nearest of all the states to theirs . In its isolation far to the north it is truly an island much as is England . I remember an English family that grew up in the New Jersey suburb of the 1890s next door to us : the Norsworthys . They were United Brethren , the older people , Naomi , Leonard and Howard , the youngest . Once Howard said to me , You little son of a gun ! And I responded with , You little son of a bitch ! ? a term , not of endearment , that I had just learned . He was horrified . And that is or represents the atmosphere in which Marsden Hartley was raised . He was not so much an American as a child of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sailors , from the coastal isles , unyielding to ordinary confinements ? a child of families who knew the woods and fishing on the Grand Banks . This boy was a born aristocrat , and like many others of the same breed was born to lead a lonely life . He was a tall , raw-boned man with a hawk-like nose , a Roman nose , they call it in England , a man definitely not destined to work in a sweatshop . He had a hawk 's eyes too that were a clear blue and saw everything . He was as  | gentle as a kitten , and loved cats ? as does many a sea-faring man ? and loved to have them near him . He loved women too but the incongruity between his fierce looks and gentle ways were on the whole too much for them . He had to look elsewhere for his comfort ? yet one of his early paintings , Two Trees , shows a story not to be forgotten . It is in the open woods , two white birches occupy the middle ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been snapped off by a storm , doubtless an ice storm , one on the left , one on the right , toward each other ! Their tips , touching the earth between them , almost met . Can that speak of some early tragedy of the heart ? There are some beautiful and aloof Maine women , come of the old branches , which can still be heard of about Augusta , where Hartley grew up . Maybe it was one of those . Nowadays the arts , a career in the arts , is the only release for a man such as Marsden Hartley to escape to . He was safely in an art school or had just come from art school and was painting and writing ? they have always gone hand in hand with him ? when the First World War was about to begin . That was his first opportunity . He grasped it with enthusiasm . The Expressionist movement had hit Berlin like a thunder clap . Marsden Hartley was in the thick of it .  | Now , 1941 A CERTAIN number of refugees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , have met others here who welcome them to this country . Together they propose to continue an advance into the present and to publish a bulletin from time to time of their interests . In the present emergency , the revolutionary element in thought and in life will continue their concern ; to preserve and to elevate everything ( anti-political , anti-terrorist , ) e constructive , aggressive , of radical power in art as in the physical sciences today to its proper place before the mind . ( No need to fear it , that it will disturb whatever excellences exist in present plans , rather it fits there perfectly , because , in fact , wherever such excellences exist , it has produced them. ) e If the concern be painting , to celebrate what new thrusts will stand upon the shoulders of surrealism and to discern a new horizon beyond that ; to raise woman from her proposed servitude to the state ; to announce the new cure for cancer when it comes ; the poem that shall be actually new . One of the purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to use a destructive ideology to push our , culture so far back that it will take a full generation , another crop of flesh and mind , before it can begin to regenerate . Then to thrust another war upon us that will again drive the mind from its advances , this shuttle to go on in perpetuity . We are never to be allowed to catch up , to regain our equilibrium for a permanent arrest of the Destroyer . But we on our part will stay on the heels of the Death , baying and snapping , never giving it a moment 's rest , to keep it there at bay . So that at the moment of respite , the instant war has finished its last ravages , its strength spent , the very next instant , we may spring forward to carry on the culture ? to enhearten and supply the elements of a  | peace ? not where it left off but still further advanced above what it had been formerly . We propose without pretence to publish a bulletin of our activities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agents in other fields . ( For my part in it here am I , a fool , finding myself suddenly amazingly to the point ' ) d War elevates the artist , the builder , the thinker to the peaks of the stars , trebles his significance . In times of peace he is , at best , a humdrum worker not because he must be so but because he is perpetually laboring under weights to inflame and to magnify . But in times of war ? helplessly split off in the cyclotron of the times ? he becomes inevitably king of men ( by contrast ) d . By his very existence , beyond himself , the elements win new significance , woman blossoms from her imposed shell , man , older than the stones , rears himself and reaches out into the unknown . ( Opposed to the Death the poet 's advances can not but be the passionate news of the moment . The artist especially holds the world of desire upon his shoulders but only when fluent with genius ? to warm and engender. ) e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sociologist separately ? rather to the fertile subject itself which we intend to transform and to magnify : not to man so much as man as he is the product of time . Who am I that exist now and existed then ? Not merely a man , surely , but far more complex than that , the summation of all men that preceded me and their very genius to push themselves forward ? in me ! That is where I exist , in that inheritance . Purely of the imagination . Everything which advances the understanding of this subject , this " thing " which makes new sallies into time ? comparable in its movements precisely to geography in the era of Vasco da Gama , the arts in the twelfth century , psychiatry in the later years of the nineteenth century , astrophysics , organic chemistry , French painting since 1850 ' ? anything which pushes an advance , a tenable new IAn interesting sidelight to Williams ' ongoing preoccupation with French painting can be found in the transformations of this last phrase : version ( b @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In version ( e ) this has become , as above " French painting since 1850 . " In the published version , finally , we read : " French painting since 1820. "  | position into that substance which is not merely " man " but includes also his image in time ; in sum , everything which constitutes the province of the poet ( who encloses the whole materium and continuum in his concept ) in its revolutionary grasp , we coneive as our business . The poet 's designation of what he sees is always and must be always , new ! Without willing it he has been forced up by the Death into a high light today , the major significance of his time . For to him as an interpreter ( of whatever substance making up the moment ) there is no equal . He is the drastic clarifier of events . Not biology , chemistry , philosophy , politics , dogma ? not one of these is large enough to comprise or contain the whole matrix of creation as it is caught in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally for its completion ? as Einstein has already done and admitted that he has done so . The poem alone focuses the world . It is practical and comprehensive . For us its characteristics are these , to begin with : It says ? or we exist that it may gain a hearing to this effect : We 've got to go on because nobody else is going on and America is for the moment an asylum for what we do not intend to let die . An outstanding character of poetry ( along with the arts generally , particularly emphasized today , ) e is that it can not be the accompaniment of other than an unfettered imagination . It can not exist other than as revolutionary attribute of a free people ? wherever they may be by twos and threes . To limit it is to kill it . You can not prune it like a peach tree for better effect , or hoard it away as food . It is fruit and flower of the mind . You may , if you please , prune the mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroy it for it is the effect of what has passed and is thus unalterable . It comes when the climate permits or it does not materialize . But if it do not appear , then the plant has never blossomed . That climate which gives it lief to expand is love , as gold , its symbol , is most gold when it is given freely to the beloved . Love and the arts are inextricably mixed and the one character of love which can be most respected by the poet is precisely that , the lavishing on the beloved of every gift in a man 's power to lay at her feet . For poetry does just that : revolutionary in the most pointed  | sense , it goes to the heart of human desire and lavishes there its gifts . It is the striking gesture of the arm of a man wherever employed . Chop off the arm , the gesture is taken up by other arms intact . Deny a people its arms in time of persecution , as the people of Spain were , actively or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth , the tragic poetry of it is still unaffected . You ca n't prune that . You ca n't destroy gold . Gold may destroy you , for you ca n't eat it , any more than you can eat the arts . ( But to give of the very perfection of life itself is the essence of the poem . ) ' These are the prizes of free men ? murderous in intention if thwarted ? the prizes of love . The people of the minds of the poets , the creators , the people of books who conduct our lives ? are those most attacked today by the Terror . It is for us to keep their world , the imagination on which they thrive , for them and enhance its advantages in order to preserve ourselves ? who are even more imaginary and dependent on them for our " reality " than upon the air we breathe ! What sort of creatures are being created now , today muffled in cloths ? Is there one thing created by the arts that is distinguished ? Point it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can not afford otherwise . We eat from them , drink from them . They feed us . The poet creates to believe , to enjoy ? destroys to survive . We live only by the arts of our poets . Modern poetry is a definition , in the radical speech patterns of the day , asserting our development and elevation of thought above that of the ancients . Not that there are not defects . America as an asylum is in many ways not a good one . Man has been mother to woman so long in America that he has forgotten her function ( and his own ) in large measure . But the producer is haggard at the termination of his labors . Man somewhat as a consequence has lost his revolutionary character , touching woman and going on from there . ( This is an effect not only physical , but , ) c in America productive also of a matrix of undifferentiated thought , inimical to complete contacts as a general thing ? with a throw-back of female elements in the arts and in affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basic problem goes on underneath the  | shows of the surface one . It is always basically , in all the variations , one with its apex on the moment , in the sciences as well as the arts : one . Thus and only thus may highly divergent appearances coincide , be conceived to unite in a common effort , permitting our friends to come to us . ( Thus concepts originating in one milieu may , when the base is the same , unite with those of another. ) b That is , only when the basic problem is conceived as the same can divergences unite and be understood as related to effects of varying orders . And thus only will such a concept as surrealism find a common ground , no matter how antagonistic it may seem to be , to the advance of thought and effort in America where it has no such original basis as existed in France yesterday . That is , only when a profound enough basis is discovered for it here in our own lives on which we can meet others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mind which can not be seduced by political urgencies ? but makes all into gold ( as David Lyle of Paterson , New Jersey , says ) ' : the corn radical ; com-biped ; com-plex ; com-plexion ; com-prehensive ; reaches out , takes hold . We are united in our hatred of the Terror , the negative , the Death . ( But that alone is n't enough ? or even a legitimate basis of understanding. ) b But surrealism is to us evidence of a culture which did not succeed , ( we are inclined to say , ) e which heralded disaster . ( Nothing of the sort ! ) e This is the primary confusion , ( this is what the Death speaks of desperately as ) e " degenerate art . " Nothing of the sort ! As a perception of disintegration it was ( and is ) e the " truth . " The basis of it as a poem , as creative construction was not even touched by the political accident . ( The mind is not a political animal even though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign to us , the conception of surrealism must rest upon the same ground which as poets we conceive . Gold is the standard . However , to create a picture and to appreciate it are two separate things . One is all effort , the other is all paint . One gives , the other takes . To conceive the basis for a movement in art does not create masterwork . We are aware of that too . It is to advance the researches of the mind , weak as the attack  | may seem to be ? and to unite the divergent good , all of it that can be ( united in the cause to combat evil and advance the good ) b ? to blast war 's pretence to constructive energy ? herald the revolutionary concepts of the day ( , that we speak ) b . We seek as far as we are American to take in the difficult " foreign , " identical with us in the gold of it no matter how the ornament is shaped or what may be the purpose to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , i.e. , War , fake . To reveal the rare and the curious relationships which are the mind 's true business . We deal with the truth which we KNOW . We are NOT in doubt . We interpret all GOOD in any form and show its revolutionary value even in revolution itself ? where it is churned up in the general pell-mell and the virtue of it disguised by accident . As an example , we should propose looking at history to remove from the discovery of America its character as a search for gold , the stealing of it from the natives and raise up the gold itself , triumphant ! We should try to unite such elementary projects as are represented by the magazine Minotaur and London Letter with our own Direction ! Could anything be more mad ? They are as divergent as ? the seas . Or as identical ! ? in the character we imagine of their good . We hunt the gold in all of them ? the revolutionary element ! and have no interest in the spurious values trivially allocated there . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do : to dig under where , hidden in the soil of the mind , divergent excellences may be found stemming from the same pure stem of gold . For if money is the symbol of collective effort , gold , by its indestructibility by air or acid , its malleability , its color and its sheen , is the symbol toward which money looks in its turn . And there is nothing that can take its place as an uncounterfeitable , readily available , though rare enough , object of value to pass thus symbolically from hand to hand . The old originators did n't select gold arbitrarily to be their standard of exchange . But gold , that is to say " gold , " by confusion has come to be taken as identical with money in some languages . We do not fall into that error . We accept it for granted , then , that the complexion of our minds , Americans and those who come to us with their gold is the  | same , we who have not yet been attacked directly and those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold and its identity with the living but have no desire to eat it ? only the mad do that . What are we to do in this complex of difficult understanding ? Certainly , if we retreat it is only to lay the ground for a final revolutionary advance : the ideogram of George Washington 's retreat across Jersey to win in the end is neither quaint nor untimely in this context . Attack ! that much at least we have learned from modern war . And there is more we can learn from the enemy ? tactics universally translatable though we are never deceived by his silly strategy , infantile in conception , the magnificent thought ! that if we could pull the wings off all the flies they would not bite us . But action releases energy . We can learn that . War releases energy . Energy can be used to transmute and create . Thus war by releasing energy indirectly serves in the creation of values . Or may be made to serve if we are prepared to seize the advantage from it ! War is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creates only to mutilate and swallow its own offspring . It fertilizes the body of its continental flesh , the female carcass that it cynically urges to new bursts of labor , with glee , offering a prize ( literally ! ) to its woman that she may exceed herself ; then pig-like it crunches her shoats in its jaws while pushing her into the trough , finally eating her also ? thus becoming sterile ! War feeds on lies of deception , on the confusion of the woman , on pushing indignities upon her and then robbing her piecemeal . She is suppressed , her aphrodisiacs taken away from her and her reproductive wiles crushed to the features of a sausage machine ? the sacks of flesh shooting into his gullet as fast as produced . He swallows and belches ? while she serves him in his disgusting trade . Meanwhile and metaphorically , to change the metaphor , the byproducts of reproduction and destruction are thrown upon the slagheap replete with mysteries beyond the imagination of any but a poet to resolve . The arts of war ! There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no art of shoat swallowing . There are arts but they are  | only bastardized after their theft by war . The arts create , war destroys . The sciences are ! but they have not a single character which war can claim as its own but their undoing . Make no mistake , war releases energy , so far it is good ? but it has no art of its own , no authentic character but mud , exhaustion and heroism which is never more heroic than when it throws its life away for nothing at all ? that might not have been had casually from love for the mere asking . The tradition is that the art of war is to have the most men on the field first . But that 's the art of painting , before the onrushing impetus of the idea , when it is ravishing the mind . What 's peculiar to war in that ? Not a single thing . War has no art to create anything , only to degrade and destroy . But the artist pauses , disciplines the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing but stinking corpses and the perversion that makes leaders . Leaders ! sucked out of men , eating others because of their own poverty . There are no arts of war . Everything is stolen there ? except the energy released which is not its own and badly used by it . This must be returned to creative forces by revolution , there is no other way , no other incentive sufficiently violent to overtake it , claim it , and carry it away . It must be returned to the correct complexion of the imagination , which will use it generatively ? with a fury war only imitates , secondhand , and at once before it is dissipated completely . But ( and here I speak only for myself ) I am myself for fighting physically ? perhaps because I have never properly done so . That if there is war with its horrible boredom and sense of futility I am still not for lying down before the Terror . I am not a pacifist . But when I fight and give up my carcass I want it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why I am doing it and what I expect to perish for . I know that I can win nothing that way . I want it understood that when I fight I do not have to lie and pervert modern knowledge of the physical sciences , biology , philosophy and art to deceive myself into thinking I am " right . " On the contrary , I disclose why I am engaged and shall expect to go out thus armed to murder the bastards ? knowing that I am more able ,  | more persistent , better armed and prepared in a better cause than they who are my brothers . Feeling , too , can be progressive , logically developed from a point of departure as well as thought . But I am old for physical enlistment and should have to see others younger , whom I love , be subject to the injuries . They should hate me and that whole criminal generation which saw the skulls crack from the malignancy of their thought and the disease spread from that over Europe , unless . . . ! A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the Terror armed itself slowly and carefully and did nothing to counter it . The young should hate us all today , unless that virtue , perceivable in spite of the difficulty in such a manifestation as surrealism , should hatch , by some one or two , its revolutionary purpose . For of such a criminal agglomerate as that generation of which I am a part ? only the poet , the creator may survive . ( I myself was chairman in Bergen County , N.J. , of a committee for medical aid to Spanish democracy while the Storch Squadron went out with their planes on Easter while the women and children were in the streets ? people with whom they had not the slightest quarrel ? and blasted them to butchers ' meat in the holy Basque city of Guernica " to see how effective the planes and bombs would be . " And I stood up in the 8th St. school in Hackensack and warned and begged for a few dollars to send ? not guns or ammunition ? but bandages , old clothes , surgical instruments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the whole county , Friedian of Edgewater who had already gone to Spain excepted , so much as turned a hair , though I sent a personal card to every one of them . I say , I come of a criminal generation . I come of a profession that is not used to lying down by disease and watching the patient make counterpoint by her screams to pious mutterings . I come of a profession that goes out to fight ? occasionally at considerable risk . So I can not urge war with a clear conscience . But what am I to do ? ) d* We must recognize war as a releaser of energy ! So far it is good . Incredible but inescapable . ( Anode and cathode. ) d Though in itself  | it is weak , futile ? the result of sloth , foul indolence , the energy it releases should put all peace lovers to shame . For if poetry had been regnant in the time when war was cooking , as an agent war must have appeared in its true colors ? cheap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that sluggards dared not encounter or follow . The revolution must capture from the Terror this power it makes available . Only peace as it might he conceived in all its controlled violence can capture this initiative from destruction and build it directly into mechanisms for our use . Now woman is honored and fertilized as creature of the imagination , not merely her carcass doubled or trebled by a kind of fission . War 's lies , leeches that they are , sprinkled with salt , let go our flesh and fall off . We must ferret out those lies no matter where the trail leads . We shall be surprised or not , no matter , the objective is to capture the initiative for the creator everywhere , the artist , the scientist ? the running animal ; undeceive the puppet-makers concerning the true nature of the revolutionary St. Francis ? whom they recaptured and subjected to their rule . Nothing but war has made America the battleground of intelligences . These things do not come from nowhere . But war released badly what might have been released well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gained , perhaps something for them there . We needed that daring and desperation , that infusion of information and experiment which we lacked , they needed more room for the cultivation of variants , a more expansive layout , a different locus , a new set of materials on which to use and prove choked projects . If what they would attempt is true under this ( any one ) circumstance , it need not necessarily be true under all circumstances ; but if it is true under two dissimilar circumstances then it is likely to be universally true . War has brought together , by release , divergent intelligences for new trial and opportunity , let us acknowledge it . But these intelligences and initiatives , it must be clear , have nothing to do with the Death , the Death has been only the dispersing agent . It has released energy , creating nothing . The same thing might have happened to better advantage in times of  | peace , when life was predominant . But it did n't happen . It was stalled by stupidity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from our use . In desperation now before the Death , life begins to move violently ( and we see Calas , Breton , Matta , Onslow-Gordon , Tanguy ? agents merely , released for new activity in a fertile basin ) ' . The doing away with the slum districts of London is an excellent thing . War has begun the demolition of the slum districts of London . But this is not an act to be credited to war as an agent but to the release of energies consequent upon war . The necessary destruction could have been better done , more economically , with less collateral waste through the agency of peace but only a violent peace dominated by revolution . The means were locked up in stupidity , war released them . And here that which has been hog-tied , condescended to , shoved about , and set to watch honors being given to plaster casts , gets a backing that will set it up to new sallies of its own . ( No one need be timid about saluting the anarchist . We 're not ninnies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else up. ) b We must know . We must say what we know . We will not be defeated or bemused . But the artist not only knows and reveals , he proves the reliability of his contentions by his works . As with geometry this is the basis of art ; the diagram is not didactic . It is fact , proof of the existence of creative man ? signed by the creator . What shall follow surrealism ? Picayune question ? though there is a way by which the issue can be predicted . But that something equally pregnant must follow it , consequently , we are set to prove , as that nothing could have escaped it , at its major moment , no matter how vitiated that thrust developed to be in some hands . For nothing but surrealism , as it has turned out , preceded , foretold , and so sapped the war of all intellectual strength before it started . And the best of art-is always so . Surrealism took all the war 's identity , predicted and emasculated it by the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read in ? if it had n't frightened so many . Thus , plainly , none but the poet holds it in his secret power to  | tell , in terrific , frightening concentration what the consequences of those forces which make this war its plaything will be . This will be the successor to surrealism . The idiotic belief that the arts must be put aside for arms ? until a time of peace ( as if they needed coddling and were perishable ) must give way to a triple fury of activity , to steal the released energy for constructions . We proclaim the occasion of our intent to drive the program ( of fertility and construction ) home . A living and secret activity , as of fetation , has been undertaken . We do not overlook the fact that nothing but a gnat is born the week following its conception . A time of considerable length must often pass before parturition . But , under cover , the activity is there madly , as at no subsequent period during life , overwhelming changes compressed to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in comparative unproductivity . Unless the arts attack by revolution and at once , the offspring of this energy released by war will all be bastards . In short it is to legitimatize the products of that power released by the Death and induct it into the services of life that the arts are addressed and we are its servants . There I might end but there is a codicil of specific direction : We are offered the " normal and healthy " as a corrective to our perverse habits , inviting us to " purify " our minds of " degenerate " art , to wean ourselves from its corrupt interests , the degradation inherent in woman and to fall in love instead with " nature " ? after all somewhat too palpable and childish a deception . We are to gape heroically at mountains , peer down into mines , whence they would get the materials we are thus induced to dig for our own destruction , and love it ! the great " outdoors " ! ? all such lies carefully ornamented to our tastes , for deadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " joy for health " and all such crap ( because a covered lie ) we are determined shall give way before the far greater mountains , the far greater depths of the imagination ( ? to woman ? as imagined by such a painter as Paul Delvaux ) d* . We have no interest in that " normal " art which is a subterfuge , using " nature " and its flesh to hide the deceptive sterility of a  | cringing imagination ? asking us to be passionately attached to a cylinder ( of hollow steel , mind you ! ) because of its classic proportions . ( Healthy ! ) d Lies ! ( It is sterile , it is dead . I will not fall in love with a block of marble or a theorem in " composition " that is out of a book . I am not impressed with measurements and weights . They mean , precisely , Quisling. ) d* They mean trickery with a purpose to undermine and destroy . ( Nothing more ridiculous than to see a figure in military uniform looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of " normal " art. ) d It is the Death in whatever form they present it . ( There is relief in such works as those of Paul Delvaux : his gigantic unmeasured women with their heads touching the ceiling , their beribboned bulk in windows dominating in the back of the mind the particular man as he picks apart the secrets of a daisy under a lens . They ride up , powerfully peopling his mind ? not with classic measurements and " proofs " but with the dynamic of fertility and I salute the paintings of Paul Delvaux. ) d* ( We need a broad gesture , an example , a flagrant disclosure ? a magnificent exaggeration to overwhelm the Death , a foundation shaking imbecility to put us right , some Rabelaisian monumentation : an ingot of gold such as might be made of the metal in the vaults of Kentucky ? a golden bar fifty feet long , twenty-five feet wide and twenty high to be molten in a gigantic pot and poured into the sea ) , ( or molded upon a gigantic death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be completed ? with art ? as a bust , a shrine in the middle of Death Valley , solid Gold . . . ! It would be visited and gaped at by millions. ) d  | Columbia Review , 1941 THE REASON men resort to war is that they fear the implications of peace . But this weakness must be hidden if they are to appear as conquerors . So they try to create confusion in the minds of others , by this to weaken them also and so reduce them : The majority are always ready to surrender their liberties for the promise of security and must be kept confused lest they discover how illusory such promises are likely to be . To defeat an aggressor our first move must be to defeat the confusion he creates , by which he confesses his inability to proceed without it , and thus see through him . All must help in this , the artist among others , for which , even , the artist is peculiarly well fitted as we may surmise from the common action , preliminary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can that first excellence of the arts , their marvelously complex and superlatively efficient eyes . He can see them hovering over him beyond the possibility of his largest planes to reach , and knows that he will go mad finally before his own face reflected there . The confusion an aggressor would create to hide behind is like a movie screen on which appear his unfleshed desires , what he would like to have us believe and accept of him . But there is a littered and otherwise empty space back of it , which is himself , where he would not have us go . It is our effort to reach that place of reality which characterizes what we must do , a beam of light into it , to destroy him . Of what other thing is an artist 's life composed than the desire and the ability to look past this screen at any cost ? That is what an artist does , that is what he is trained to do . Therefore his great use in deflating all liars . Therefore they burn his books and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! That is the reason they so brutally murdered Lorca at Granada , no more than for being , as he was , a poet . But the artist is not a very strong persuader of the generality of men . On the contrary , he is attacked right and left because the difficulties he proposes , which would make of peace a violent sphere of action , often by revolution , are too much for them . Let him take that to heart then , that he is not a very strong persuader of men and , relieved , seek instead clarity , to be the more unsparing , the more lucid . To begin with , the artist must acknowledge that he does not get his energy from nothing , a vaccum , but from action , crude action . Whatever war is , because of it energies are enormously released over the world . But if war is permitted to remain dominant these determine us inevitably toward destruction . Energies are however released , we must begin by accepting that . War is a focus of action , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I should say to the artist , that you grasp in among these aimless forces and seize what you desire . It is to take and use them in your own way that you have been conditioned . Only released energy can knock us out of our lethargy , set us in motion . But use these energies according to the training not of the warmongers with their lying imagery but with sleepless vigor , as the artist is trained to do for accuracy and spiritual release . Thus I would say to the poet . Write to correct lies . Flow ? Perpetually as an artist by the passion which is most sensible in you ? but with an artist 's pitiful conception of the personal moment , to find the precise word and to place it in the line with full awareness of the broad day of your total perceptions . Nothing that prevents this can be good . Anything which predicates what you must say , as a poet , without complete freedom to determine , from the sensible facts , your own conclusions or that attempts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which you must say it , is a lie . Destroy it . There is only one good art in any age ; it is that which uses the sensible terms of that age fully with widest application to its needs for liberation of the whole man .  | You ca n't lie and be a first-rate artist . Therefore , look for inconsistencies in all attempts to destroy the artist and his works and ? spot the real liar . Question everything you see on the gaudy screen ; look behind it . Perhaps this man is a great poet , or is he a regressive comment on the art of his day ? Perhaps this man is a noteworthy philosopher , or should we say an able perverter of the significances of his terms ? That Jew is a great moralist , or rather a bigoted apologist for the tenets of a belated sect . Look at their words , pick them up and try to fit them to a form and line which is consonant with your day . Trust your reactions . They are a sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible sequences and connotations . To the artist that is truth which permits all questions to be answered freely in the unrestricted terms of his art . Let us say that France presented a philosophical-historical correctness of reasoning in the aggregate of her national reaction to the invader ? taking all the factors we know into consideration , the national political corruption , the self-seeking of the wealthy families . Take it as a movement in one direction ? without trying either to praise or condemn the movement . Take it as a nation moved by one determinant . Try to discover that determinant . Relate it to more recent actions . That nation is now out of the major action . Has the action been perhaps irrelevant ? Ask anything . Are women in public life the source of degeneration and homosexuality the source of genius ? Is this the spur ? Shall the land of the countries be divided among the peasants or held for their benefits by others ? These questions will be answered many times over by economists and governmental agents ; do you answer them as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the possibility of reproduction by edict of the Board of Health ? Or is each succeeding apex of civilization no more than the crest of a wave that inevitably breaks and falls to be renewed again from below from sources we can not determine ? Are we to rescue the ailing in body and reinject their depleted blood into the race ? Why do I say " depleted blood , " perhaps it contains the indispensable seed of the future ? And what will be the result ? Or are the Mendelian laws inexorable ? Do we even know them ? What shall we do ?  | Will Germany be the better for driving Jewish blood from the veins of the race , ( if this indeed be possible ) , or will such action end in ultimate racial disintegration ? Give the mind freedom to weigh . Will Germany , following the present action , go into a decline through such a policy of racial discrimination as historical precedent seems to indicate that it will ? Has not the Jewish race , which they would remove , been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ productivity ? What of the British Empire ? Will not those who seek to reshuffle it , ignoring its example , be thereby the greatest sufferers in the end ? These are questions to be laid on the field of battle , but whose answers will not be determined by the victory there . The victory or defeat can be determined only in terms of the questions themselves and the questions answered only in their own terms independent of who is a mere military winner or loser . If we must fight , we shall have to fight , bitter war will go on , but at least not to our confusion . It is the " cure " to the spirit that the arts offer . And the arts do give an answer , for what the artist does that few give him credit of doing is precisely to act . In the face of complex difficulties he elucidates a position and takes it . He does . He makes ; difficult as the interpretations may be . He is a doer , finds the place for the word in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be the consequences what they may , and himself in that place also , bodily , if need be . The work of art is valuable and keeps its universality , through variations of time and locality , by the inability of anyone to put a lie in that form which is accurate to the day and make it live . The subject matter may vary or be dictated but the underlying form can not be dictated . There it stands defiant of dictation and in that form lies the truth . The conclusion reached and the fight envisioned , under the inevitable attack , irrational in its nature , the resistance will be no less irrational but it is compulsory . We must fight . We must destroy the screen of lies set to confuse and so undo us . For the conclusion is inevitable that by our eyes we shall prove ourselves better men than those who would block perception . Ours is a faith firmer than theirs by the same token , an invincible purpose to  | reveal truth casually , day by day , that makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that under stress it is cooling to the mind to turn aside a moment and attempt to draw conclusions in a field removed from the general , the field generalled , let us say , by what is known , somewhat unfortunately , under the name of art . It should be and is , at its best , a field uninfluenced by political imperatives , the taboos and passions of what is known , somewhat unfortunately , as the practical . Art is just as practical and far more to the point , many times , than the maneuvers men of affairs hold up to us as models they would have us live by . Be his reward what it may , the artist holds a weapon against lies in his hands which he must use without faltering .  | Not previously published , 1943 EVERY twenty years or so the boys have to be brought up short because of what they 've forgot . If you do n't think that place is important go ahead and shove it into the mouth of the moon . The controversy between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a confusion of terms ; it is no controversy at all , see Dora Marsden et al . on what constitutes a legitimate question . Whereas naturalism represents the full scientific front , the Catholic Church can by no stretch of the imagination be identified with Christianity , much less religion as a whole . Place is the only universal . When Eliot in a religious poem , " Ash Wednesday , " indicates that place is a limitation he denies the basis of religion . Speaking of pictures and their showing , An American Place ' is a much more acute designation under which to exhibit them here than The Modern Museum , a name which entirely misses the point as to what is presented ( and why certain pictures are painted ) b . Writing is not a means as Auden mistakenly believes , man is the means , writing is the word . As to the use of the term American when attached to a work of ' The name of the gallery Stieglitz ran from 1929 to his death in 1946.       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     