@@773727

txt 16o BRITISH HISTORY 1815-1939 Austria as the basis of stability to the north and did not hesitate to inform Prince Schwarzenberg that he should shape his policy in this way . He showed little sympathy for the Magyar Revolt of 1848 ? 49 and refused to receive Kossuth 's envoy . If Austria did not exist , ' he told the Hungarians , it would have to be invented . ' This did not prevent his feeling sympathy for the Hungarian victims of the Austrian and Russian reconquest . To the electors of Tiverton , Palmerston joked about the suggestion that he was the great instigator of revolution ' . He insisted that Britain could state her opinions on any subject of European importance , though to do so might be a continual remonstration against the propagators of injustice and wrong ' . These ideas were agree-able to the Liberals , while Tory support was forthcoming for their realism . The Austrian excesses during their reconquest of Italy and of Hungary were very unpopular in England , and Palmerston felt he was quite justified in making a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Sultan refused to surrender Polish and Hungarian refugees . This action produced in the British public the first signs of enthusiasm for Turkey , and Palmerston sent the British fleet to Besika Bay , comparing it to holding a bottle of salts to the nose of a lady who had been frightened ' . With care he made a graceful Russian withdrawal possible ; Austria followed reluctantly in 1851 . The affair showed that Palmerston had secured French co-operation and that British foreign policy could be most effective where its sea power could be brought to play . In the Schleswig-Holstein affair , where he defended Denmark 's traditional rights against the German desire to incorporate their chiefly German population into that of Germany , he failed to mediate effectively or to secure the support of Russia and Sweden . The compromise reached between Prussia and Denmark was fatal to the cause of German liberalism at Frankfurt without permanently settling one of the most complex problems of European diplomacy . ' On their return from judicious bottle-holding ' in Besika Bay in 185o , the British fleet visited Athens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a courtesy call on King Otho , of whose methods of government Palmerston had previously // expressed his disapproval , and then seized merchant ships and cargoes as security against British claims which Greece had failed to honour . These included land owned by the historian Finlay which had been seized , and the property and goods of a Portuguese Jew born in Gibraltar named Don Pacifico . He was somewhat disreputable and his claims were exorbitant . Russia and France , co-guarantors with Britain of Greek independence , at once lodged protests . The Cabinet were committed , the Queen was furious and Cobden and his other opponents mounted a powerful attack in Parliament . To many Palmerston at last seemed doomed ; but he was fortunate in his time . The British middle class had reached that point when , with economic leadership and naval supremacy apparently assured and nothing to complain of at home , a little foray into foreign politics with the spice of danger but not the risk of war , was just what they wanted . They liked his honesty ' , wrote Trollope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the less because he expressed himself with a hectoring tongue ' . His triumph in the Don Pacifico debate was greater outside Parliament than within . The debate was essentially about the rights of British intervention overseas rather than the correct way of interfering ; here Palmerston succeeded in convincing both parties that he had always had the interests of England at heart . He recounted his successes in the past , he proclaimed his position as the reconciler of freedom and law in a Europe shadowed by tyranny and revolution . To make his speech memorable he relied on a striking phrase ; just as the Roman of old could say Civis Romanus sum ' and have the might of the Empire in his support , so might the Briton feel confident that the watchful eye and strong arm of England will protect him against injustice and wrong ' . The Greeks gave way ; Palmerston 's colleagues stood by him , disapproving but aware that he was stronger than they were ; one of his frequent and rarely kept promises of good behaviour went to the Palace ; while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever governed England ' . In an impressive speech Gladstone answered him the following day , maintaining the principle of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of other countries . But Palmerston 's position was secure . // The Queen and Prince Albert had long viewed his behaviour with disapproval . Their sympathies tended to the conservative side in European politics and they were fre-quently embarrassed by letters from brother monarchs and their numerous relatives who failed to appreciate the precise constitutional relationships of England , and irritated by what they felt , unfairly , to be Palmerston 's lack of sympathy with monarchies . The Queen complained , with justice , that action was taken in her name without her previous knowledge ? and indeed in some cases without the knowledge of the Cabinet . Walter Bagehot was shortly to enunciate the thesis that the Sovereign had the right to be consulted , to encourage and to warn , and it was essentially these rights that the Queen claimed . The boundaries of influence and control , however , are not always clear , and faced with the Queen 's formidable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often practised in a way that made him most unpopular , ' it is not surprising that Palmerston was suspicious that the power of England might be used for Coburg aggrandisement . Thoughts of the cottage coterie ' of George IV came to mind . Even Clarendon , a later Foreign Secretary , remarked , The Queen and the Prince laboured under the curious mistake that the foreign office is their particular department and they have a right to control , if not to direct , the foreign policy of England . ' Undoubtedly there were extenuating circumstances : pressure of business on the small Foreign Office staff and the Queen 's frequent absences at Balmoral and Osborne which might mean dangerous delays . But Palmerston was no respecter of persons , however highly placed , especially when they had been born ten years after his first appointment to office . Russell found himself in a difficult position . He resented Palmerston 's independence and popularity but was aware that his support was necessary to his ministry and , as a true Whig , was suspicious of any monarchical encroachments on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Queen 's support for any Cabinet decisions she might dis-approve , he persuaded Palmerston to accept a memorandum from the Queen requiring that she should be kept fully informed and that , once stated , policy should not be arbiTHE // trarily altered or modified . To their wishes and remon-strances he expresses the greatest deference , ' wrote the diarist Greville , and then goes on his own course without paying the least attention to what they had been saying to him . ' Two further incidents earned royal displeasure . When General Haynau who had behaved savagely in Hungary , visited London , he toured Barclay 's Brewery and was mobbed by the workmen . ' Palmerston convinced the Cabinet that a prosecution would make the government unpopular and refused to apologise to the Austrian government , maintaining that Haynau 's visit was in itself a provocation . At the Queen 's insistance he was more conciliatory . The following year the exiled Magyar leader Kossuth visited England and was feted by Radical politicians and the Radical Press . Palmerston , who had planned a private reception , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Kossuth to a Radical deputation , which was almost as bad . Shortly after this , in December 1851 , Louis Napoleon 's coup d'etat made him master of France and Palmerston expressed his approval to the French ambassador . The official British policy , as approved by the Queen , was one of strict neutrality towards France . Palmerston , however , had been convinced that the stability of Europe required a strongly governed France and that it would be an act of statesmanship to conciliate the new ruler . No reference was made to Russell or to the British ambassador in Paris , Lord Normanby . Normanby 's brother-in-law , Colonel Phipps , was Prince Albert 's Treasurer , and the Queen , who had agreed with Russell on a strictly neutral attitude to a coup d'etat which had caused unnecessary bloodshed , pressed for Palmerston 's dismissal . Russell concurred and to public surprise and bewilderment , the people 's darling ' fell from power . Prince Schwarzenberg , the Austrian Chancellor , gave a celebration ball , while in doggerel the Chartist Reynolds News prophesied Haynau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afar And on their feelings it will jar To find old Palmy stronger . The result was that the French government was not well disposed towards England and a revival of French militarism // was anxiously foretold . To alleviate public concern Russell introduced a local militia bill in February 1852 . Palmerston carried against the government by eleven votes an amendment reviving the old national militia eligible for service overseas . Sensing that he no longer had a reliable majority , Russell resigned and a militia bill on Palmerston 's lines was carried into law by the new government . The fall of the Whigs brought in the Tories , but they were in no position to rule . Not only were they in a minority but they lacked the leaders to overcome this disadvantage . The career of Stanley , now Lord Derby , had been full of early promise and until he disagreed over policy he had seemed Grey 's natural successor as Premier . Then he had drifted to the Tories , becoming a Protectionist in 1846 . His reputation made him the natural leader of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Commons was Disraeli , as alien in temperament to Derby as any man could be yet dependent on Derby 's prestige to hold the party together and to secure for himself social acceptance . That the two men worked together without serious clash spoke much for their discretion . Initially it was hoped that Palmerston might join , despite Albert 's warning that if he did he would make himself Prime Minister , a thought that was the Consort 's recurrent nightmare . Palmerston would not accept protection , however , and contented himself with advising the new Foreign Secretary , Lord Malmesbury , who continued a policy of conciliation towards France . Dependent on the capriciousness of majorities collected God knows how and voting God knows why ' , as Disraeli put it , the policy of the government was bound to be chiefly one of expediency . The Edinburgh Review described it as the first administration which reduced inconsistency to a system and want of principles to a principle ' . Disraeli at times advocated unlikely alliances as with ultra-Whigs such as Lord Grey or with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the long run an asset . Immediately , their attitude to protection had to be determined . Disraeli , whom the Queen had accepted with misgivings as Chancellor of the Exchequer , introduced a non-committal budget soon after taking office and at the General Election in the summer of 1852 , Tory candidates ignored the question if they could . // It was held that a Tory was Protectionist in a county , neutral in a small town , a free trader in a larger one ' . In fact , in view of the evident prosperity of the country under free trade Derby and Disraeli had lost their faith in protection yet naturally found it difficult to commit their party to a doctrine they had so bitterly opposed . The new Parliament found Whigs and Tories evenly matched , with the Peelites holding the balance , but drawing towards the Whigs . In November Villiers ' resolution in favour of free trade , which intended to commit the government or force its resignation , was badly handled by Disraeli and the administration was only saved by a conciliatory amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second budget formally abandoned protection , hoping to conciliate agricultural interests by a halving of the malt duty and the increase of urban taxation . Despite his undoubted qualities as leader of the House , where he had impressed all parties by his endurance , tact and readiness of repartee , and amused and reassured the Queen by his unusual accounts of its business , Disraeli was no economist . He sat down after a fivehour speech replete with rhetoric to be confronted by Gladstone , a master of the craft , who tore his economic arguments to shreds and poured scorn on his oratorical devices . It was a battle such as the Commons had hardly experienced since the days of Pitt and Fox , the first of many between the two great parliamentary masters of the age . At a 4 a.m. division , in a tense atmosphere , the Budget proposal to extend the tax on houses to those of ? Io rateable value was defeated by eleven votes and the government resigned . ( b ) ABERDEEN AND THE CRIMEAN WAR , 1852 ? 55 England does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech as Chancellor , yet a coalition was the only possible outcome . Russell aspired to be Prime Minister once more but since the Durham Letter the Whigs distrusted him and Palmerston declined to serve under him . Many politicians on the other hand , were unwilling to serve under Palmerston while Derby had neither the political strength nor the will to return to power . In such circumstances the Monarch , constitutionally , plays a prominent role , and the outcome , though seen by some to be the Cabinet Sir Robert Peel would // have formed had he been alive , was more obviously the fruit of Prince Albert 's political ideals . The new Premier , Lord Aberdeen , formerly Foreign Secretary under Peel , was highly regarded by many as a counsellor of the highest distinction . He had been in politics for nearly fifty years , yet remained somewhat of a recluse , uneasy in his human relationships and highly sensitive . Given a fair passage he might hold together a difficult Cabinet ; given the pitfalls that awaited him he lacked leadership and control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Talents ' and it had general support in the Commons . The various elements of this support , however , were unequally represented . The Radicals had only one representative , the Whigs six , including Palmerston at the Home Office , where the Queen considered he would be safe , and Russell at the Foreign Office with an option to resign it to Lord Clarendon . The Peelites , very much fewer in number , also had six Cabinet ministers . Sir James Graham took the Admiralty , the Duke of Newcastle War and the Colonies , while Gladstone became Chancellor of the Exchequer , perhaps inevitably in the circumstances . It was a strong team , but it was not agreed on essentials , and a man who invariably replied to any suggestion of action that it would break up the Cabinet , was not the man for its captain . At the Home Office Palmerston showed a capacity for administration and a modest interest in safe social reforms , encouraged by his son-in-law , Lord Shaftesbury . At the Treasury Gladstone , by his expert management and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its chief claim to distinction . Gladstone had always regarded himself as a Conservative , faithful to the name , policy and ideals of Peel , and it was an important step in his career when he sat in the same Cabinet as Whigs and Radicals . It was also an important stage in the development of the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer , for Gladstone 's tenure , following immediately upon that of Disraeli who had also been leader of the House , was to make it the second place in the Cabinet . He worked longer hours than any other Minister and astounded his subordinates by his capacity . The permanent officials of the Treasury were delighted by a chief who penetrated so quickly to the root of every difficulty . His spirit of care , caution and economy // permeated the department and lasted well into the 2oth Cen-tury . No Chancellor prepared his Budgets more carefully or made more thorough use of every conceivable source of information . Money was a trust from God , he felt , and it was wrong for the State to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unashamedly he rejoiced in a policy of cheese-parings and candle-ends ' . Public opinion was anxious to get rid of the income tax which had been reintroduced by Peel in 1842 . Gladstone was convinced of the immorality of the tax except in an emergency . It tempted the individual to fraud and states-men to extravagance ; its demands pressed too hard on intelligence and skill ' . He wished to leave money to fructify in the pockets of the people ' . He kept the tax , intending to scale it down and out over a period of seven years , a hope which was frustrated by the Crimean War and which has proved illusory ever since . He removed 123 articles from the customs tariff . The Cabinet was dubious about the Budget and surprised at its popularity . He tried to pay for the Crimean War by increases in taxation , the income tax rising to Is. 2d. , but his successor , Sir G. Cornewall Lewis , could not manage without a loan . Russell 's position in the Cabinet was an awkward one . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to the last degree . During his short period at the Foreign Office , he made two decisions that were to have important consequences . The first was when he decided to send Lord Stratford de Redcliffe back to Constantinople . Stratford personally disliked the Tsar and dominated the Sultan . His authority at the Porte was immense and no one could equal his opportunities to reform the Turks . But the Turks had an endless capacity for going back on their promises and Stratford 's presence in Constantinople helped to convince them that , right or wrong , reformed or not , in the last resort Britain would save them from destruction . Russell 's second decision was to reject the Tsar 's offer of a secret understanding between Britain and Russia for the settlement of the Eastern Question . This was particularly unfortunate in that both Powers had been basically agreed since 1841 on the desirability of maintaining a weak Turkey , l and it was primarily French // action that aggravated the situation . Both these decisions can be justified and it is possible that undue Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were crucial is not in doubt . Russell resigned twelve days after Parliament met and continued to lead the House without a portfolio . His successor was Clarendon whose suave and nebulous despatches hardly clarified the situation . In 1852 , with an eye to French clerical support , Napoleon III took up the claims of Latin monks to a share in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre , a right originally granted in 1740 but restricted by the Turks to Greek monks only in 18o8 . Malmesbury had warned the French that this would provoke the Russians and when the Turks , impressed by a naval demonstration , made the concession and also , under Austrian pressure , called off a projected invasion of Montenegro , the Tsar decided on a diplomatic offensive . He believed this would obtain the support of Aberdeen , with whom he was personally acquainted , and he was confident of Austrian support after the help he had given her in Hungary . In February 1853 Prince Menshikov arrived in Constantinople , began with insult and then , having impressed the Turks with his importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a confirmation of the Russian claim to a protectorate over the Orthodox Christians in Turkey , which was based on the Treaty of Kuchuk Kainardji of 1774 . To ensure English support , Nicholas hinted at a mutually advantageous partition of the Ottoman Empire . Stratford arrived at Constantinople at this point . He had little difficulty in outwitting Menshikov and persuaded the Turks to expel the Latin monks but to turn down the Russian demands for a protectorate , which could in the long run undermine Turkish sovereignty . Menshikov departed in a rage and to forestall a Russian occupation of the Danubian Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia , the French fleet , followed by the British , went for judicious bottle-holding ' duty outside the Dardanelles . Napoleon had no wish for war but he was on the hunt for prestige and was determined on an Anglo-French alliance , without which revision of the Treaties of 1815 would be impossible . Nevertheless the Russian armies crossed the Pruth , ostensibly to counteract Anglo-French influence , and // on 6th July entered Bucharest . Palmerston urged that the British fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet who decided to support negotiations at Vienna . Diplomacy could indeed , it was felt , easily adjust a matter that Menshikov 's behaviour and the Tsar 's precipitate action had only complicated . The Powers at Vienna drew up a Note which was thought to remedy Russian grievances without endangering Turkish sovereignty . Turkey would not change the conditions of the Christians without previous agreement with the governments of France and Russia . The Russians accepted the Note , of whose contents they were already aware . The Turks , however , had not been consulted and rejected it on the grounds that it would establish a joint Franco-Russian Protectorate , a view perhaps justified when the Russians announced a similar interpretation . This caused a flurry of withdrawals ; war-fever mounted both in Russia and in Turkey , where the Sultan was threatened with revolution . Mediation was renewed when , in September , Nicholas met Francis Joseph and Frederick William at Olmutz . Count Buol , the Austrian Minister , attempted , with French approval , to reinstate the Vienna Note with explanations that should have satisfied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showing a resolution that should have come earlier and in different ways , ordered the British fleet to Constantinople . Thus encouraged , the Turks could no longer be controlled ; they sent an army into the Principalities , and into the Black Sea a light flotilla which was destroyed by the Russian fleet at Sinope on 3oth November . Although a perfectly legitimate naval action it aroused a storm of protest in Great Britain . The country was drifting towards war under Aberdeen 's irresolute leadership . If Aberdeen had been master of his Cabinet , he would have made concessions to avoid war ; given better support at home Stratford might have restrained the Turks . Palmerston , on the other hand , might have obtained a Russian withdrawal while with almost any Prime Minister but Aberdeen the Russians would not have assumed so readily English neutrality . Napoleon III 's bluff that he would act alone was believed and led to the fatal ordering of the Allied fleets to enter the Black Sea . Misunderstandings and // misconceptions were rife and permitted the drift to war , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other way . Public opinion , particularly in England , was not blameless . Encouraged by Palmerston to make moral judgments about Europe , enchanted by Kossutl- , whom the Turks had saved from his oppressors , rapidly substituting Nicholas for Napoleon as the ogre of Europe , English public opinion saw the Turks as a plucky little nation oppressed by the enemy of freedom . Of the fact that the Turks were even more tyrannical and corrupt it was blissfully unaware and , indeed , the densest ignorance prevailed about Turkey as Kingsley Martin has amusingly described in The Triumph of Lord Palmerston . Through articles in The Morning Post Palmerston urged a strong policy to bring the Tsar to heel and in its turn public opinion urged the government to take decisive action . The prospect of war was welcomed ; it seemed attractive to a generation that had never known its realities . At this point Russell pledged himself to introduce a Reform Bill ; Palmerston made difficulties and resigned from the Cabinet on 19th December , ostensibly on this issue but at a crucial point in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to detach himself from an unpopular Cabinet but to prevent Russell from doing so . Public opinion at once assumed that the Queen was responsible . When , in response to popular clamour , linked with the public reaction to Sinope , Palmerston was prevailed upon to return , it was widely rumoured that Prince Albert had been sent to the Tower for treachery . In January the joint fleets entered the Black Sea and popular enthusiasm dreamed of resolute action against the Tsar in Finland , marches deep into the Ukraine and declarations of freedom for Poland . Aberdeen had always maintained that war was impossible unless Austria was an ally , but this proviso drifted away . It was impossible to withdraw without disgrace and in March 1854 war was declared on Russia on the grounds that the balance of power necessitated the defence of Turkey . The will to war was present , but the means were lacking . The Army had stagnated since Waterloo ; its administration was inefficient and badly organised ; Parliament had kept it permanently short of money . The low pay and harsh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the scum of the earth enlisted for drink ' . Clothing was too tight at all times , too hot in summer , not warm enough in winter . Living conditions were if anything worse than those provided for convicts and the mortality rate in a barracks in Britain was far higher than that among the civilians of the locality . In certain foreign stations such as Jamaica and Sierra Leone it reached appalling proportions . Discipline was brutally harsh ; in 185o punishment was restricted to fifty lashes at any one time . Rations were monotonous and inadequate . Commissions and promotions were by purchase , and wellconnected officers frequently transferred if their regiment was to be sent abroad . The only true professionals were men with service in India who were rarely promoted to high rank . Military training , apart from the parade ground , was largely neglected . The true triumph of the Crimean War was the courage , devotion to duty and cheerfulness under appalling conditions that marked the British soldier . Lord Raglan was the British commander . A courageous and sincere man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge to make the best use of his troops and of his commissariat . He had the engaging habit of referring to the enemy as The French ' . The cavalry commander Lord Lucan and his subordinate and brother-in-law Lord Cardigan were on terms of enmity ; the latter had his yacht sent out to the Crimea and commanded his brigade from there . Few of the senior officers had any real military ability . The Navy was little better . Sailors were under no engagement of continuous service until 1853 , while many officers had spent years on half-pay . Parliament had kept the fleet short of money and the Navy was slow to adopt steam-power and iron . Most of the admirals were over seventy and out of touch with recent developments : Sir Charles Napier , ordered to take an expedition to the Baltic , encouraged his men with the words , Sharpen your cutlasses , and the day is ours . ' The Admiralty had little knowledge of Baltic coastal fortifications : most of the ships were too heavy in draught for inshore work and the fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first base of land operations was Varna on the Black Sea coast , from which an attack was to be made on the // Principalities . Within a week the sanitation had broken down and disease was rife . Meanwhile the Tsar was under pressure from Austria and Prussia to withdraw and finally did so in August . With no enemy to fight it seemed imperative to find the Army some occupation and the Cabinet ordered Raglan to attack Sebastopol , the fortified base of the Russian Black Sea fleet in the Crimea . After a chaotic embarkation at Varna where many valuable supplies and horses had to be abandoned owing to lack of transports , the Allied armies landed at Calamita Bay , north of Sebastopol , for an autumn campaign . Basically this was sound strategy and Sebastopol should have fallen rapidly . The British troops were transferred too slowly , however , and the Russians had a chance to reinforce . No effort was made to cut off the Crimea from the rest of Russia ; and after the victory of the River Alma on loth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the town . Evidence suggests it would have fallen easily . However , the Allies now began a circular investment of the town and thus committed soldiers sent out to a summer campaign in the Balkans to a winter campaign in very different circumstances . Militarily they held their ground despite Russian attempts to dislodge them at Balaclava on 25th October , a battle made memorable by the disastrous and unnecessary charge of the Light Brigade , and at Inkerman on 5th November , where the British artillery did much damage . The coming of winter meant that the campaign ground to a halt ; the appalling conditions were sufficient enemy . Raglan failed to build a road from Balaclava harbour to the lines until the following spring , when a light railway was also constructed . In November a severe gale and blizzard had wrecked ships and ruined supplies . Fuel was short , sanitation inadequate . The men paid with their lives for their commanders ' lack of foresight and for parliamentary niggardliness in failing to supply the money for adequate transport and supply services . Cholera , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were over-crowded and nearly onetenth of the sick and wounded died on their way to the base hospitals at Scutari . There the complacency of the chief medical officer , Dr John Hall , filth , neglect and bad nursing contributed their toll . The arrival of Florence Nightingale // and other intelligent women in November led to a slight improvement . Her mission had been prompted by the graphic accounts that were reaching England from the numerous uncensored war correspondents , notably W. H. Russell of The Times . Primitive photographs of the trenches and sketches in such publications as The Illustrated London News made the public , with its growing conception of moral accountancy , less ready to condone the mistakes . Newcastle , the War Minister , was amiable but inept and Russell had urged his replacement by Palmerston in June . But Aberdeen distrusted both men and stubbornly refused to make the change . Public concern , however , was mounting . Delane , editor of The Times , ceaselessly castigated the administration . Aberdeen entirely lacked the qualities of a war Premier , at the Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at Cabinet level or below , was not met with dismissal . The Radicals in particular were furious ; some like Bright had incurred unpopularity by denouncing the war from the start . Roebuck , the member for Sheffield , whose independence was his greatest asset and whose favourite word was sham ' , called for a select committee of inquiry into the conduct of the war in January 1855 . Any chance the government might have had of resisting Roebuck 's motion was removed when Russell promptly resigned . To escape punishment , he ran away from duty , ' as Gladstone put it . He had consistently been a bad colleague throughout the war and this action was fatal to his reputation . Both Russell and Gladstone were aware that the trouble had arisen because the spirit of reform that had permeated elsewhere had not yet reached the War Office , but Gladstone opposed the committee on the grounds that it would increase the confusion . The latest reports from the Crimea told of 18,000 effective troops against 14,000 dead , only one-sixth of which were caused by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no defence and the Ministers were beaten by 305 to 148 . Silence was followed by derisive laughter . The government resigned . The only man with a party was Derby and both historians and contemporaries have thought that he should have been able to form a government and would certainly have had the // country behind him . Disraeli was bitterly disappointed and was forced to realise that Derby 's lack of confidence in him was partly responsible . Derby , while believing that the inclusion of Palmerston and Gladstone was essential , considered that Palmerston 's price , the leadership of the Commons , would have made him effectively Premier and was too high . Lansdowne explored in vain . Russell found no one of consequence would serve under him except for Palmerston , who stipulated the leadership of the Commons for himself and a peerage for Russell . The Queen refused to consider Clarendon , whom she felt to be wanting in courage , an odd objection after Aberdeen . It was evident that Palmerston held the key and Prince Albert 's nightmare became a reality when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am 1'inevitable ' , he wrote to his brother . ( C ) PALMERSTON , 1855 ? 65 Palmerston had no difficulty in forming a Cabinet , though Gladstone and the other Peelites resigned out of loyalty to Aberdeen when Palmerston decided to proceed with the committee of inquiry . Gladstone 's action was regarded as irresponsible and unpatriotic . Russell came in for a while , Cornewall Lewis went to the Exchequer and Lord Panmure proved to be little improvement on Newcastle at the War Office . Palmerston did not think highly of his new colleagues but he was loyal , as always , to the aristocratic principle which Roebuck and his associates hoped particularly to discredit . The committee 's report blamed not individuals but the system and the government had to agree to an amendment stressing the need to overhaul the administration and to allow for promotion on merit . The Radicals doubted whether the whiskered wonder of seventy years ' was likely to save the Army from the difficulties into which it had been led by the aristocratic system , a system of total incapacity ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London , and working-class journals asked why it was that the great railway administrators and contractors were not employed to organise the supply . A few concessions were made : the Civil Service Commissioners were set up to examine the fitness of candidates and Civil Service pay was increased to attract the career man . The ordnance was incorporated as part of the War Office , an // improved naval supply service was organised , with a regular shuttle service of ships between the Crimea and Scutari . A Sanitary Commission sent out to the East was invaluable and with its help Florence Nightingale and Alex Soyer , the chef of the Reform Club , were able to make substantial improvements at Scutari . In the Crimea , however , the old obstructionism remained and had Sebastopol not fallen before the next winter , there is no evidence that conditions would have been much better . Despite his immense vitality and the touching confidence the British public had in him , Palmerston was too old and insufficiently ruthless to be an effective war Premier and to overcome forty years of neglect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on him by Granville and to promote comparatively junior officers of talent to high command , as Chatham had done in similar circumstances . His appoint-ment of General Simpson , a man constantly embarrassed by his lack of aristocratic connections , to succeed Raglan when he died in June 1855 , was disastrous . Sir Colin Campbell would have been a better appointment . Panmure was an inept War Minister , who was increasingly dominated by his permanent officials . It has been suggested ) that the Tory Ellenborough would have been a better choice or perhaps Palmerston himself . The Russians were having some success to the east of the Black Sea but despite this no attempt was made to clear them out of the Crimea or to carry the campaign into the Ukraine . Radical demands for peace had been insistent , reaching their highest point when , in February , Bright made his famous Angel of Death ' speech . But by allying ourselves with France we had tied ourselves to a government dependent on recurrent military success and until Sebastopol was taken Napoleon would not open negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall , the town was taken in September , by which time there were ominous signs that British discipline was cracking . The Tsar had died in March , and his successor Alexander II was more disposed to be reasonable . Austrian mediation had already secured Russian agreement to a European guarantee of the Principalities , nominally under Turkish suzerainty , from // which the independent state of Roumania was to develop , and the navigation of the Danube was to be free to all nations . Both these had been virtually settled by the Russian with-drawal and the Russians also agreed to drop their claim to a protectorate . The Congress of Paris confirmed these . It was the high-water mark of Napoleon III 's European diplomacy and throughout it there was always the risk that a secret agreement between Russia and France would be made . In consequence Anglo-French relations were strained . Britain returned the Aland Islands in the Baltic which had been captured , on condition that they were not fortified . The Russians also agreed that their warships should be exlcuded from the Black Sea and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lacking any sanction other than Russian good faith this undertaking was repudiated in 187o during the Franco-Prussian war . In the meantime its removal became the priority of Russian diplomatists : the fact that it could be imposed at all marked the loss of prestige that Russia had suffered from what had been in essence a successful though very limited invasion . Russia had intervened in the 1848 Revolutions ; the war ensured that she was not to do so to prevent Italian and German unification . Alexander II embarked on a series of social reforms , including the emancipa-tion of the serfs in 1861 . Austria was left isolated diplomatic-ally : the Russians felt she had ill-requited their assistance of 1849 . Turkish promises to reform continued to mean little despite Palmerston 's hopes ; she was saved from outside dictation but it was at the expense of the continued mis-government of her subject peoples . Neither Polish nor Finnish independence featured in the peace talks and there was no serious discussion of Italian problems , although Cavour of Sardinia , which had sent troops to the Crimea towards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To public opinion , which had had high hopes of the war , even seeing it as a Christian crusade against tyrranical government , the terms of the peace were a disappointment and the heralds who announced it were hissed at Temple Bar . No thorough administrative reform had been secured , nor had the Army won victories to restore its shattered prestige , but so great was Palmerston 's reputation that it was concluded that peace // must be necessary and not discreditable , or he never would have agreed to it . The lessons of the Crimea were not fully heeded . British inefficiency convinced the Great Powers right up to 1914 that Britain was militarily ineffective , although the wars against Napoleon had not shown this . At home , although there were some improvements , the war produced no outstanding soldier to eradicate the weaknesses . Nevertheless there was greater concern for the private soldier : the V.C. was instituted and opened to all ranks , model hospitals were built at Netley and Woolwich and permanent camps were established . By exposing aristocratic inefficiency , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the troops had to be transferred almost immediately to India where a mutiny of the native troops of the East India Company had broken out in May 1857 . Having come to trade and stayed to rule , the British in India in the early 19th Century had become gradually aware that their obligations to the country exceeded the maintenance of law and order . It was recognised on the one hand that the framework of existing Indian law and society should be preserved , and the Act of 1833 which had renewed the East India Company 's Charter and virtually restricted it to administration had inferred that native Indians should be employed in administrative positions . On the other hand , to western eyes Indian society was seen to be backward , unjust and inefficient , and it was felt it should give way where it conflicted with the benefits of superior education , technology and law that the British brought . Many of his contemporaries would have agreed with J. S. Mill when he defended the Company 's rule as one of the purest in intention and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' . Nevertheless the Indians would not have agreed . Although from the utilitarian point of view many of the reforms were excellent , they showed little regard for Indian feelings and , in such cases as interference with the laws of inheritance and permitting the remarriage of widows ( the custom of suttee whereby the widow sacrificed herself on the funeral pyre of her husband had earlier been banned ) struck at the roots of Indian custom and society . Both these were decisions of Lord Dalhousie , whose Governor-Generalship from 1848 ? 56 must // be regarded as a principal underlying cause of the Mutiny . Dalhousie was benevolent and progressive . Railways , canals , cheap postage , the electric telegraph , engineering colleges were all introduced . In order to extend the benefits of British rule , he followed the policy of lapse whereby native states without a direct heir fell under British jurisdiction , thus ignoring the long-established Indian custom of adoption . In 1856 he annexed the Kingdom of Oudh , where much of the Bengal army was raised , on grounds of misrule . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by proclamations issued by the sepoys during the Mutiny which spoke of the zemindar or tax-farmer broken by many assessments and the delays of British courts , the merchants restricted to the trade in trifles ' , the upper classes denied their rightful status , the learned who saw Moslem schools and colleges being destroyed . The Indians , they claimed , were promised no better employment than making roads and digging canals ' . The victories of Clive and his contemporaries , often against overwhelming odds , had given the British Army a long-lived prestige . But defeats in Afghanistan in 1842 and in the Crimean War had greatly reduced it , and the number of troops in India had been cut to below the level of safety . Native troops greatly outnumbered British , the artillery was almost entirely native and many of the officers were unenterprising and elderly . In the 18th Century many Englishmen had lived semiIndianised lives , frequently marrying Indian women . They had taken considerable interest in Indian architecture and culture and had shown an easy tolerance towards the more distasteful aspects of Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater tendency to criticise while the greater speed of steam-ships meant that tours of duty were shorter and there was less readiness to regard India as home . British wives also appeared and were instrumental in holding the British aloof , with lasting damage to inter-racial relations . The Army had some specific grievances . The question of caste had been badly handled , high caste soldiers being placed under low caste officers . It was intended to send troops to Burma and a sea passage could entail loss of caste . The land system of Oudh , where many of the soldiers were recruited , // was not understood by English officials and some injustice was done . New cartridges , whose ends had to be bitten , were issued , smeared with grease of uncertain origin . The story spread that it was intended to defile the Hindu or Moslem or both and was believed partly because Canning , the new Governor-General , had been preceded by the rumour that he came to persecute the religions of India and force conversion to Christianity . Indian troops who refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disbanded or shot . Although Indian historians have called it " The Great Revolt " it was never a national rising . Many Indian troops remained loyal and fought on the British side ; Indian cooks and grooms continued to serve . Hardly more than onequarter of the sepoys in the Bengal army took part . There had been mutinies before and this one would hardly have attracted so much attention had it not been for its ferocity and the failure of the senior officers to suppress it rapidly . It spread from Meerut among troops in the Ganges , Jumna and Gogra valleys but by June it was virtually limited to a triangle containing the towns of Delhi , Cawnpore and Lucknow . The Ridge above Delhi was recaptured by a small British force and in September the town itself fell to Nicholson after bitter fighting . Cawnpore was captured by a dispossessed prince , Nana Sahib , who replied to the punishments already meted out to mutineers by killing most of the garrison , including women and children . W. H. Russell , who had arrived in India , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British officers saw the Mutiny as filial ingratitude and wished for vengeance . Cawnpore was recaptured in July . Nana Sahib then besieged Lucknow with 6o,000 sepoys . Lawrence held out in the Residency and its surroundings with a garrison of 2,000 until September , when Havelock reinforced him . In November Sir Colin Campbell finally relieved the town . Its defence and the holding of the Ridge by Nicholson did much to restore British prestige . British superiority , reinforced by the telegraph and the Enfield rifle , ensured a restoration of full British control in 1858 although Canning 's order , depriving of their land those of the landowners in Oudh who had helped the rebels , prolonged the trouble . On the whole , however , Clemency ' Canning handled the Mutiny calmly ; he avoided panic measures and protested 18o BRITISH HISTORY 1815 ? 1939 against vindictive punishments . Palmerston supported him well , once the Queen had forced him to recognise the gravity of the situation , and he despatched troops efficiently and chose good commanders , particularly Sir Hugh Rose who conducted a brilliant campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town of Jhansi , whose ruler supported the rebels . The effect of the Mutiny , nevertheless , was to exacerbate Anglo-Indian relations . The British tended to become more aloof and more determined to do good , whether their efforts were appreciated by the Indians or not . The Indians turned to religious obscurantism . Materially there were great improvements but a gulf grew between rulers and ruled . Perhaps unreasonably the East India Company was held to be culpable . Derby 's government introduced in 1858 the Government of India Act , which with a carefully worded proclamation guaranteeing religious freedom , abolished the Company and annexed India to the Crown . This in fact meant less parliamentary control , not more , especially as all finance for Indian government was raised in India . When the Charter had come up for renewal there had been at least a reappraisal of British aims and methods . Now that there was government by a Secretary of State there was scant parlia-mentary interest.l At home Palmerston 's ascendancy seemed complete . Party feeling was neither strong nor purposeful . His competitors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public opinion ; Derby was inactive , Disraeli distrusted , Russell discredited , while Gladstone , though recognised as a man of talent , had no personal following and apparently no purpose . The government was often defeated but it continued to be supported because there seemed no prospect of an alternative government with a stable majority . Conserva-tive ministers working with Radical tools and keeping up a show of liberation in their foreign policy ' made effective opposition difficult . In the political field as a whole there was considerable equilibrium , over which Palmerston was well fitted to preside . The middle class on the whole were satisfied with the gains they had made , the sting of Chartism had been drawn while the working classes were growing in prosperity and were not yet ready for political influence . Though // Palmerston was determined to maintain the political influence of the aristocracy , his moderation , good humour , obvious pride in the British system of government and concern for British prosperity made him , with the help of his careful use of the Press , a truly representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He even cultivated a courtly touch ; the Queen and Albert saw him as the only man who could preserve them from the administrative reform that would have restricted their prerogative . The struggle for India between European powers in the 18th Century had made the Chinese particularly suspicious of foreigners . The East India Company had secured entry and had held a monopoly of the China trade , especially in silk and tea , until 1833 . Opium was extensively smuggled in with other goods and it was the attempt of the Chinese authorities to suppress this and the consequent ill-treatment of British subjects that led to the first serious clash , the Opium War of 1839 ? 42 . The Treaty of Nanking that ended it made substantial concessions . The barren island of Hong Kong was ceded to Britain as a base and five treaty ports were opened to trade with special privileges for British subjects . Similar concessions were granted to other powers but with infinite patience the Chinese authorities began to whittle them down . Consequently England and France took advantage of disorder in China in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidents provided the occasion . A French missionary was executed and a Hong Kong ship , the Arrow , was boarded by the Chinese at Canton and twelve of the Chinese crew were arrested . The captain was a pirate , engaged in smuggling , the ship was only technically British but when the local Chinese governor , Commissioner Yeh , surrendered the prisoners but declined to make an apology , Sir John Bowring , Chief Superintendent of Trade at Hong Kong , impulsively ordered the bombardment of Canton . More incidents followed ; the Chinese refused to give way , so did Palmerston . Cobden prepared a vote of censure . Disraeli was unwilling to support it , but Derby forced him to do so ; Russell , Roebuck and Gladstone , whose speech was particularly decisive , helped to produce a majority of sixteen , although there were many abstentions . To the annoyance of the Opposition , who , as Palmerston pointed out , so far from looking upon // renewed intercourse with their constituents as a punishment , they ought to regard it as a triumph ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade won him the votes of the trading interests , but basically he made a straightforward patriotic appeal . He contrasted the innocent English with an insolent barbarian . . . who had violated the British flag , broken the engagements of treaties , offered rewards for the heads of British subjects and planned their destruction by murder , assassination and poisons . ' By implication he inferred that Derby , Gladstone and Russell aimed to make the humiliation and degradation of their country a stepping stone to power ' . In a very real sense it was a personal triumph . For the first time since the Reform Bill of 1832 a government had appealed to the country from the Commons and won . Cobden and Bright were both defeated , the Peelites were extinguished as a party . The prosperity of the country brought votes for the government , particularly among the country gentry , who , disillusioned by Derby 's failure to restore protection , acknowledged Palmerston 's loyalty to the landed interest . It was twenty-two years since the Whigs had controlled so many county seats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was soon to find . Matters in China were brought to a speedy conclusion . As soon as troops could be spared from India , in December 1857 , an Anglo-French force took Canton and the following spring an expedition to Pekin burnt the Summer Palace . In June came the Treaty of Tientsin which confirmed the earlier concessions and opened five more cities to trade . By then Derby was Prime Minister , Palmerston having quite unexpectedly fallen from power in February . The previous month Orsini , formerly an exile in England , had failed to assassinate Napoleon III with three bombs made in Birmingham . The French Foreign Minister , Count Walewski , protested , while intemperate French colonels were very outspoken about England . Palmerston felt that , in the interests of good relations with France , it was perfectly reasonable to introduce the Conspiracy to Murder Bill to limit the abuse of asylum in England by foreign anarchists . He was narrowly defeated and many explanations have been offered . Principally he was given a taste of his own medicine ; N // he had acted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Press and his opponents dubbed his action as unpatriotic and his majority melted away . Russell , in particular , smelt the chance of power . There were other factors ; the recent appointment of the disreputable Lord Clanricarde as Lord Privy Seal had been much criticised , while Clanricarde 's brother-in-law , Canning , whom Palmerston firmly supported , was unpopular . The Prime Minister 's speech was hectoring and may have alienated some members . The Queen urged him to continue , but although he could probably have secured a small majority on a straight vote of confidence he decided to resign . Once again Derby formed a government , Disraeli returned to the Exchequer and the leadership of the Commons , and Lord Malmesbury to the Foreign Office . Gladstone declined office , though he continued to sit on the government side of the House . The Tories regarded him as a liability ; he was unconventional and unpredictable . He favoured Derby largely because he preferred almost any alternative to Palmerston whom he regarded as irresponsible and extravagant . Nevertheless such was the reputation he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destination was a matter of interest and concern . Bright strongly advised him not to join Derby : If you remain on our side of the House you are with the majority and no government can be formed without you . You have many friends here .. . and I know nothing that can prevent you being Prime Minister before you approach the age of every other member of the House who has or can have any claim to that high office . ' However , Gladstone did accept a mission from the Colonial Secretary , Buiwer Lytton , to report on the desire of the Ionian Islands , British territory since 1815 , for union with Greece . Gladstone 's renown as a Homeric scholar was seen as a fitting qualification . From the start there was a touch of comic opera about the whole affair . He upset the British garrison and the native inhabitants , he was distressed at the few copies of Homer on Corfu , he practised rigid economies , he lectured the assembly on the constitutional virtues . He returned home with little achieved and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government meanwhile was in difficulties over the India Bill but Disraeli skilfully adopted many of the proposed amendments . Ellenborough , President of the Board of Control , quarrelled with Canning over the latter 's proclamation on the Oudh Settlement and was forced to resign , but Palmerston was ineffectual as Leader of the Opposition and these difficulties were not exploited . Palmerston had had to promise the Radicals that he would introduce a reform bill in 1858 but when he fell Disraeli decided to take up the matter in the belief that the Tories had everything to gain from a carefully managed reform . Derby was reluctant and there were two Cabinet resignations . Russell tried unsuccessfully to forestall him . The Bill was very moderate ; the country occupation franchise was lowered to ? IO and balanced by fancy franchise ' , such as votes for professional people and those with a certain level of savings . Palmerston felt it would be unreasonable to his party and determined to oppose it ; Russell and Bright thought it much too moderate . A carefully worded amendment on the borough qualification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was defeated by thirtynine votes in the largest House since 1835 . The General Election that followed increased Conservative strength by only thirty votes and in June 1859 the government was defeated on a vote of no confidence . The opposition had unexpectedly found unity on the question of Italy , where the Conservatives tended to favour the Austrian position . In July 1858 Napoleon III and Count Cavour , Prime Minister of Sardinia , had met secretly at Plombieres and promised to co-operate in terminating Austrian rule in Italy and the Austrian influence which a bevy of archduchesses had connubially extended among the other Italian rulers . Their motives were different : Cavour wanted Sardinian dominance of northern Italy ; Napoleon while sympathetic to the ideals of the Risorgimento wished primarily to replace Austrian influence by French and stipulated Nice and Savoy as the price of his support . Cavour had the task of provoking Austria to declare war , which he succeeded in doing in April 1859 . Thus started the train of events which unforeseen and undesired by either party to the pact was to result in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Austrian ultimatum made English public opinion , hitherto uncertain , anti-Austrian . As Palmerston pointed out , Sardinia was a great contrast to the rest of Italy ; it was progressive , liberal , free trade and anti-clerical . The events of 1848 ? 49 , especially Garibaldi 's gallant defence of Rome , had aroused British interest in Italian problems , while the writings of Mazzini , an exile in England and the prophet of the Risorgimento , were influential . Another exile , Lacaita , a professor at London University , had valuable connections with both Gladstone and Russell . Gladstone was entirely convinced of the injustice and tyranny ; he had visited Italian leaders of the 1848 Revolution in the prisons of the King of the Two Sicilies and had described the Neapolitan system of government as the negation of God ' , as a result of which he had entered into a correspondence with Lord Palmerston , whom in every other respect he distrusted . In 1854 Gladstone had had long conversations with Manin , who had led the Venetian revolt in 1849 . Manin had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective reforms in Italy . Palmerston was not ready for the complete expulsion of Austria , which he feared , rightly , would have detrimental effects on her position elsewhere in Europe , but both he and Russell were convinced of the need for constitutional reforms in Italy to prevent revolution . Italy drew the two dreadful old men ' , as the Queen called them , together . The Chief Whip advised a party meeting which was held in Willis 's Rooms on 6th June and which may fairly be regarded as the foundation of the Liberal party . A motion of no confidence was passed on 11th June . When the result was known in the lobby where the foreign diplomats were waiting , the Sardinian minister threw his hat in the air and embraced the French charge d'affaires , to the amazement of all around . Napoleon III expected much of the change of government but in the event Britain preserved a strongly benevolent neutrality tinged with distrust of French ambitions . British diplomacy ensured the survival of the new Central Italian States that had arisen when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . British warships were conveniently in the way when the Neapolitan fleet caught up with Garibaldi 's two steamers just as he was about // to land his men in Sicily , while a personal plea by Lacaita to Lord John Russell prevented the French from intercepting Garibaldi as he crossed from Sicily to southern Italy . Russell had wished to be Prime Minister , but Palmerston had insisted on his right and his was the directing mind in British policy towards Italy . At Willis 's Rooms he had promised Bright a policy of peace and neutrality but he carefully managed Russell who was Foreign Secretary , used him to fly kites and encouraged him to do things which , as official head of the government , he could hardly do himself . Although he strongly disapproved of French designs on Savoy and Nice , he tried to keep on good relations with France and supported Gladstone 's and Cobden 's negotiations for a trade treaty with France in 186o . He concurred with Russell 's despatch of 27th October 186o , which followed Garibaldi 's surrender of his conquests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported openly the Italian demand for unity and self-government : ... the gratifying prospect of a people building up the edifice of their liberties and consolidating the work of their independence amid the sympathies and good wishes of Europe . ' Without British sympathy Italian unification would have been impossible at this time . The Italian question was of great importance in the history of British politics in that it led , as nothing else would have done , to Gladstone 's acceptance of office under Palmerston . The suddenness of his acceptance was much criticised ; he was not at Willis 's Rooms , he voted with the Conservatives only a week before he became Chancellor of the Exchequer . Like Palmerston in 1852 he joined a government of whose chief he had a low opinion , in the hopes of doing important work , influencing Cabinet policy and himself becoming Premier in due course . In retrospect it was an extremely logical step ; his ex-Peelite colleagues , Herbert , Newcastle and Graham , had joined the Liberals while Disraeli evidently barred his way to the leadership of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in the course of the ministry he emerged as the principal spokesman of Liberalism and democratic views against Palmerston 's resistance to reform , particularly after Russell 's retirement to the Lords in 1861 , where his opportunities for rocking the Establishment boat were more limited . Gladstone , indeed , alone possessed // certain qualities that were important at the time . His Oxford background and Whig connections were combined with liberal views on institutional reform , a strong sense of justice and morality that appealed to the middle classes and , as was evident after 1862 , a way of speaking that could appeal to and influence the working classes . Palmerston 's last administration 1859 ? 65 brought more stability to politics than had been known since 1846 but it would be wrong to imagine that Palmerston was its absolute master . His Cabinet and consequently its policy was a product of the compromise of Willis 's Rooms which had been made for the sake of Italy ; when Italy was united the variety of attitudes to home and foreign policy were all too evident . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponents , particularly where the preservation of the power of the old governing classes was concerned , than with members of his Cabinet such as Gladstone or the Radicals Charles Villiers and Milner Gibson . This basic agreement led to quiet , compromise politics . Palmerston 's continued popularity was a crucial factor but his tremendous vitality tended to obscure an increasing infirmity . In his Italian despatch of 186o Russell had justified rebellion on the grounds of natural right . The government was faced with a similar problem of attitude in 1861 when the American Civil War broke out . Ever since the Treaty of Ghent ( 1814 ) Anglo-American relations , despite boundary difficulties and a number of minor problems , had been markedly successful . Although slavery was disliked , the British governing class sympathised with the wish of the Southern States to secede , which had in it an element of poetic justice when the American War of Independence was remembered . There was an excuse for intervention : the Northern States , who had command of the sea , prevented the Southern trade with England in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ III also favoured Southern separation ; he had designs on Mexico where , in the event , his schemes were successful so long as the United States was divided . The North had no comparable allies in Europe . While the South could well prove to be economically dependent on Great Britain , the loss of the North 's goodwill would be an important factor , particularly as far as relations with Canada were concerned , // apart from her value as a market for British manufactured goods . In May 1861 the British government recognised the South as belligerents , while proclaiming its own neutrality , and it was believed that recognition of independence would shortly follow . In a speech at Newcastle in October 1862 Gladstone stated that Jefferson Davis , the Confederate leader , had made a nation ' , which caused Adams , the American Minister , to feel he was shortly to be given his passports . In fact Gladstone had made the statement on his own authority , moved by the distress of the cotton operatives , to many of whom he had given work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had made him feel it would soon be possible to resume cotton supplies , but he later described his remarks as a mistake . . . of incredible grossness ' . The government quickly issued a denial that recognition was contemplated and Lincoln 's Proclamation of the Emancipation of the Slaves in 1862 hardened British determination to remain neutral . This was strengthened by the attitude of the Radicals and of the cotton operatives themselves . Bright had markedly more success in rallying working-class support than he had had during the Crimean War . He saw the issue in simple terms of aristocracy versus democracy , and his audiences , many of whose relatives had emigrated to the Northern States , agreed with him . This established his position as the leading popular politician and enabled him to agitate after the war for an extension of the suffrage . Nevertheless there were many practical difficulties in Lancashire . Although the cotton crop of 186o had been one of the heaviest on record , supplies were very short by 1862 and it was not until 1863 that alternative supplies , which Palmerston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arrive from Egypt and the East . By the end of 1862 around half a million people were receiving poor relief , and a fund of ? 2 m. was raised by a committee headed by Lord Derby . Certain difficulties , however , arose between England and the Northern States . In November 1861 the British steamer Trent was intercepted by a Northern warship , San Jacinto , and two Southern agents , Mason and Slidell , who were on their way to get support in Europe , were arrested . This was a breach of international law and British public feeling was strong . // Palmerston sent troops to Canada and the Cabinet drafted a strong protest demanding an apology and threatening the severance of diplomatic relations . The Prince Consort , who was seriously ill and who died a fortnight later , saw the draft and rewrote it in such a way as to give the Americans the hint to reply that the captain had acted without instructions . A letter from Russell suggested that Britain would waive the apology if the envoys were restored and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sumner , a member of the American Cabinet , President Lincoln took this line of action and thus war was averted . In an attempt to break through the Northern blockade the Southern government secretly ordered six ships to be built in Britain , making arrangements for armaments to be installed elsewhere . Technically it was no breach of neutrality to do this , although the government had power to arrest a ship if there was a prima facie case that it was being prepared for war against a friendly power . Three ships were seized , one was allowed to sail , but did little damage ; the other two were Florida and Alabama , both of which successfully harried Northern shipping . The Alabama narrowly escaped seizure ; Adams informed Russell of her purpose but there were legal delays and then , incomplete and without a regular crew , she slipped away on sea trials ' to be fitted out as a warship in the Azores and then to wreak destruction on Northern merchant-men . The Federal government made heavy claims for compensation on the British , naming the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cession of Canada . Palmerston refused compensation or reference to a foreign arbiter , holding that in view of international jealousy of Britain 's wealth , no arbitration could be impartial , a view Gladstone might well have heeded when he settled the question in 1872.1 Three other questions occupied the Foreign Office during this period . In 1862 the Greeks had rebelled against King Otho , and Palmerston , while recognising the right of the Greeks to change their dynasty , was careful not to alienate England 's co-guarantors , France and Russia . The Russians had their own candidate , but a Greek plebiscite over-whelmingly elected Afred , Duke of Edinburgh , Queen // Victoria 's second son , and then , on his refusal , offered the throne to Lord Stanley . A neutral candidate , a Danish prince , was agreed upon . Less happy was the treatment of the Polish rising against the Tsar in 1863 . Palmerston wished the Russians to restore the semi-autonomy that Poland had been promised in 1815 . Napoleon III supported this , hoping to bring about a peaceful revision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had , by the Alvensleben Convention , secured a potential ally in Prussia , whose ruling class had extensive Polish interests and although Britain , France and Austria sent notesl which hinted at war , the Russians successfully called their bluff . Napoleon was ready for war , particularly one that might acquire the Rhineland for him , but Palmerston , suspecting this , refused to co-operate , even with the holding of a European Congress . Thus Britain had alienated both Russia by protesting too much and France by not protesting enough , factors of con-siderable importance in the next dispute . The Treaty of London of 18522 had provided that the two Elbe duchies of Schleswig and Holstein , with a predominantly German population , should pass with the Danish crown to Christian of Glucksburg on the death of Frederick VII but that they should remain a separate political entity . It was hoped in this way that German nationalism would be reason-ably satisfied , for the duchies had a different law of succession and should technically have gone to a German claimant , while Denmark , of whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1863 , however , shortly before his death , Frederick had begun to incorporate the duchies . When Christian IX succeeded , therefore , the German claimant , Frederick of Augustenburg , renewed his claim and was backed by Prussia , whose Prime Minister , Bismarck , intended to obtain Kiel and involve Austria . British policy showed inadequate awareness of her diplomatic isolation . Palmerston and Russell talked and wrote agressively , favour-ing the Danish cause as did public opinion and undoubtedly encouraging Danish intransigence . The Queen favoured German national aspirations and felt it unreasonable for the // government to have one policy to the south of the Alps and another to the north . By a narrow majority , the Cabinet decided in June not to enter into a war alone for the sake of the duchies , but by then Bismarck had been able to exploit the situation and in August they were handed over to Austria and Prussia , a joint protectorate that Bismarck was to make the occasion of his war with Austria for the supremacy of Germany in 1866 . It might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a French conquest of the Rhineland , while one with Russia could only have been obtained by the revocation of the Black Sea Clauses , and that both these would have had a more damaging effect on the balance of power than what actually happened . It is equally arguable that a more cautious policy would have preserved at least Schleswig for Denmark and perhaps limited Bismarck 's opportunities . What is certain is that the emptiness of Palmerston 's policy was now revealed . It was meddle and muddle ' , Derby criticised , and , as Disraeli had pointed out , he was ginger beer and not champagne at all ' . Palmerston survived a vote of censure but Europe recognised what had been true , in effect , since 1815 , that without an army of continental size of her own and without a major continental ally , British influence on European events was limited . When the British government failed to have any influence on the events of 187o it was not so much Gladstone 's non-interventionism as Palmerston 's intervention unsupported by force that was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of his depth . At the Exchequer Gladstone was determined to complete Peel 's work . He intended to remove all customs duties except on a limited number of articles for revenue purposes only and if possible abolish the income tax . This demanded rigid government economy and on this question Gladstone and Palmerston were often at breaking point . One of the few passions of Palmerston 's declining years was to set the national defences in order , and a complicated series of elaborate and ? as it proved ? useless forts was planned to defend the main dockyards and naval arsenals . A programme of ironclads was also drawn up for the Navy . In the long run Gladstone won his point but not until there had been some extra expenditure . However desirable Gladstone 's attitude from the point // of view of the taxpayers , more money should have been spent on improving soldiers ' unhealthy living conditions . Gladstone 's fiscal triumph was the Budget of 186o . It incorporated the terms of the Trade Treaty that Cobden , at the request of Gladstone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that with greater trade , war was more likely to be averted and the Treaty provided for a mutual reduction of duties . The Budget proposed no protective duty on raw produce , food or manufactured goods . Only forty-eight articles were left in the tariff , for revenue purposes only . The Chinese war and the armaments expenditure necessitated another penny on the income tax but the reductions were paid for by the falling in of some government annuities . In his speech Gladstone spoke of the benefits the changes would bring to the working classes : You are enlarging their means without narrowing their freedom , you are giving value to their labour , you are appealing to their sense of responsibility and you are not impairing their sense of honourable self-dependence . ' The Budget greatly increased Gladstone 's reputation . His subsequent Budgets aroused considerable public interest . He was able to give a certain fascination to their details and his raising of finance to a moral plane had a somewhat whimsical appeal . The national expenditure was reduced from ? 72 m. in 1861 to ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down from Iod . to 4d. , the tax on hops was abolished and the duties on sugar , cheese and tobacco were sharply cut . In 1861 he encouraged the self-dependence of the working class by establishing the Post Office Savings Bank , which also provided the government with a source of loans independent of the City . On one item in his 186o Budget he came into conflict with the House of Lords . From the beginning of the century Radicals had demanded the removal of restraints on the Press . Bentham had prophesied that when this was done , the editor of a prominent newspaper would become the president of a public opinion tribunal ' to which all politicians and public servants would be forced to render account . This was , as it turned out , a somewhat naive prediction but Bagehot had indicated more recently that with the decline of the Sovereign 's power , public opinion as expressed through the Press // was a growing political force . The events of the 185o 's and 186o 's , particularly the Crimean War , increased this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better informed and more influential on a public that was taking its politics increasingly seriously . The periodicals , so important at the beginning of the century , took second place to the daily newspapers which with steam-driven printing presses and better transport could make a more immediate comment . Owned by the Walter family , The Times was in the supreme position . Under its editors Barnes and Delane it was perceptive and influential , but it was difficult always to judge whether it reflected or led public opinion . Sir John Walsh wrote in 186o , It leans upon no single class , it represents no exclusive party , it advocates no separate interest . It expresses the current opinion of all the intelligent and informed sections of the British community . ' At this period its circulation exceeded that of the other London dailies put together . They included The Morning Post , over whose editorial policy Palmerston had much influence , The Daily News founded in 1846 and whose first editor was Dickens , and The Morning Chronicle which had been purchased by the Peelites in 1853 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper was first published in 1855 and was the first penny daily to aim deliberately at as many advertisements and as large a circulation as possible . A vigorous provincial Press followed the same trend , the Manchester Guardian becoming a penny daily in 1855 and the Birmingham Post in 1857 . There were three burdens on the Press whose removal made possible the decrease in price with the resulting increase in circulation and in influence of papers other than The Times . The last Chartist Conference of 1849 campaigned for their removal and an Association for the Repeal of Taxes on Knowledge was formed by Cobden , Bright , Milner Gibson and other Radicals . A tax of Is. 6d. on every advertisement was removed in 1853 . The Stamp Duty of Id . that every newspaper had to bear went in 1855 ; it had constituted a major barrier against a cheap Press ; even The Times was able to decrease its price to 3d. by 1855 . The third burden , which was also , as Gladstone pointed out , a burden for educational books , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // loss to the Exchequer of over L1 m. but when he proposed it as part of his 186o Budget Gladstone was confident he could obtain the money in other ways . Palmerston , however , was reluctant to lose the revenue in view of the difficulty over raising money for defence and , like the Conservatives , he was not anxious to see the newspaper-reading public further expanded . He went so far as to write to the Queen suggesting that if the Lords , encouraged by a small majority in the Lower House , rejected the proposal they would be performing a public service . The constitutional position was somewhat obscure , though conventionally the Lords did not amend money bills . Lord Lyndhurst convinced the Upper House that they were justified in rejecting the proposal . Palmerston , with considerable amusement , passed through the Commons three resolutions mildly denouncing the Lords ' action . However , Gladstone was equal to this ; all the legislation for the Budget of 1861 , including the repeal of the paper duties and the removal of a penny from the income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lords passed . They did not summon up enough courage to reject a Finance Bill until 1909 . The affair helped to move Gladstone in the direction of Liberalism and for the first time in his life he became a popular figure . His achievements in promoting prosperity increased this popularity . It is a matter of profound and inestimable consolation to reflect that while the rich have been growing richer , the poor have become less poor . . . ' , he remarked . A Reform Bill had been submerged by the excitement over the 186o Budget and the Paper Duties , but the Radicals brought forward an annual motion . Interest in reform had quickened of recent years . Bright had interpreted the American Civil War as freedom versus slavery and hastened to make the appropriate application to England . The loyalty to an ideal and the good order that the Lancashire working class had shown under the strain of the cotton famine was a notable stimulus . Garibaldi 's visit to England in 1864 also made a great impression . These events helped to convince Gladstone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the greatest respect . In the course of a debate on the Radical reform resolution of 1864 he remarked , with many careful qualifications that his hearers and the country as a whole ignored : I venture to say that // every man who is not incapacitated by some consideration of personal unfitness or of political danger is morally entitled to come within the pale of the Constitution . ' The speech caused a sensation . It appeared to view the franchise as a right , rather than a privilege to be earned and closely associated with a stake in the country which had always been the Whig and Tory view . The Queen was alarmed ; hitherto she had respected Gladstone because of the admiration Prince Albert had had for him . Palmerston understood Gladstone 's position but cautioned him against committing himself on such issues in advance . He was displeased by the statement and commented to Shaftesbury that there would be strange doings when Gladstone has my place ' . He was a dangerous man , keep him in Oxford and he is partially muzzled but send @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the General Election in 1865 Gladstone was rejected by Oxford University because of views he had expressed in a debate on the Irish Church establishment . Elected by South Lancashire he came among them unmuzzled ' . His assertion of the moral fitness of most men to vote , without it being his intention , had taken hold of the popular imagination and Gladstone became the hero of the reformers . Like is attracted by like and Gladstone , never at home in the milieu of the Whig aristocracy , found association with Bright and his fellow reformers increasingly congenial . Impatient of the official leadership of his party , he was psychologically in need of a popular stimulus to sustain him . He became The People 's William ' but they as little appreciated his aims as he appreciated and understood their material needs . It might be argued that even Palmerston understood these better . A number of useful minor reforms had taken place under his aegis ? the Children 's Commission , extension of the Factory Acts and some useful acts on public health . Palmer-. ston 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was not prepared , however , to undertake institutional reforms that would loosen the control of the governing class and the frustration of men such as Gladstone with his attitude can well be understood from Goschen 's description of him when he asked him about domestic affairs and legislation for 1864 . ' Oh , " he gaily replied , rubbing his hands with an air of comfortable satisfaction , " there is really nothing to be // done . We can not go on adding to the Statute Book ad infinitum . Perhaps we may have a little law reform or bankruptcy reform , but we can not go on legislating for ever . " ' Palmerston dissolved Parliament in July 1865 and fought the election as a vote of confidence in his premiership as promoting the unity of the country . There were more contests than usual but no clear issues . Reform was scarcely mentioned . Palmerston 's prestige ensured an increase in his majority but before Parliament met he had died at Brocket , where Melbourne had died before him . Aged 81 , fifty-eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end , his death marks an important stage in the development of Liberalism . Now there were strange doings ' , and the Whig aristocracy began its slide , which became precipitous in 1886 , into the Conservative party . ( d ) PARLIAMENTARY REFORM , 1866 ? 67 By the time Palmerston died , the unrepresentative nature of Parliament was being openly discussed in the great cities . There it seemed that Gladstone 's Pale of the Constitution ' speech had placed on the anti-reformers the onus of disproving the moral fitness of the urban working class . The previous twenty years had seen the steady emergence of an aristocracy of labour , men in skilled trades who increasingly accepted the moral and social outlook of the middle class . In the Trades Union movement the amalgamations formed by men such as Allen and Applegarth represented an attitude of constructive conciliation . The wages of this group tended to be almost twice those of the regularly employed unskilled labourer and although their conditions were still poor and their prosperity precarious , they built up certain standards of respectability which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by nonconformist sobriety and by such books as Self Help , many saved assiduously . Freehold land and housing associations and the co-operative movement grew up especially where this elite was strongest , in the northern industrial counties . Many joined the Volunteer Movement , revived in 1852 , and with a membership of 200,000 in 1868 . In addition to being a symbol of English liberty and patriotism it was a valuable social bond . To men such as these the franchise was seen as a mark of // approval and acceptance . They felt they had earned a stake in the country . The aim was not as yet political power , although J. S. Mill argued that it was important to have in the Commons men who could speak for the classes most concerned with the social reforms that were needed . Most of the working class elite might grumble periodically about aristocratic privileges but on the whole they accepted the situation and even secretly liked it . Bagehot was not untypical of his age when he argued that the country was most effectively managed by the select @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long culture , a varied experience , an experience by which the judgement is incessantly exercised and by which it may be incessantly improved ' . While their prosperity increased and Parliament showed periodical social concern , most of the working-class elite imagined the vote would come in time . It came as a shock when Robert Lowe impugned their moral worth and the 1866 Bill was rejected . This provided the emotional impetus hitherto missing in the Reform question and the large industrial cities saw working-class demonstrations revolutionary in size but peaceable in intent . There was no urgency for Reform when Palmerston died but when Russell succeeded by virtue of seniority it was evident that he would wish to be associated with some further extension of the franchise , however moderate . Since 1846 his career , with the exception of his work for Italy , had been compounded of frustrations and missed opportunities ; now achievement seemed possible , unshadowed by Palmerston . Gladstone became Leader of the Commons and many were dubious of his ability to lead a House elected to support Palmerston . He wielded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacked the finer arts of conciliation and the easy manner that Palmerston had displayed on so many occasions . These were factors of great significance in determined the course of the bill . The Cabinet reluctantly agreed to support Russell and Gladstone and a bill was prepared which made no mention of redistribution of seats . The borough franchise was to be given to the householder who paid ? 7 yearly in rent , while in the counties , which were assumed to be less independent owing to landlord influence , the dividing line was to be / ' 14 , with or without land . This was essentially a moderate bill which // would perhaps add 400,000 electors . It was evident , how-ever , that a section of the Liberal party was bitterly opposed and it found a spokesman in Robert Lowe , who had been responsible for Education under Palmerston . His memories of New South Wales , where he had been a member of the Legislative Council , a visit to America in 1856 and his experiences of mob participation in English elections pre-judiced him against democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and every speech he made added to his fame and , in due course , his infamy . His standpoint was not the self-interest of the gentry but rather the philosophical and historical conception that government , the highest expression of the aspirations of an ordered society , was a matter for the educated and wealthy who alone could consider policy in a rational , informed and unselfish way . If you want venality , ' he remarked in words that aroused much bitterness outside the House , if you want drunkenness and facility for being intimidated or if . . . you want impulsive , unreflecting and violent people . . . . Do you go to the top or to the bottom ? ' The tragedy of Lowe was that his protest helped rather than hindered Reform . Bright made him the butt of his speeches when he stumped the country as he pictured Lowe and his supporters gathering , as when all who were distressed . . . all who were discontented ' had gathered with David in the Cave of Adullam . Disraeli moved carefully . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognised the opportunity , by careful co-operation with the Adullamites , to exploit a major split in the Liberal party . Lord Grosvenor 's amendment to redistribute seats before reforming the franchise was defeated by only five votes and Russell , supported by those who were reluctant to see office slip from their fingers , introduced a Redistribution Bill . In June the Tories moved Lord Dunkel-lin 's amendment to substitute rateable value for rental which would considerably limit the franchise and even disfranchise some who already had votes . The government handled it badly , neither Russell nor Gladstone providing the type of leadership that was needed and the amendment was carried by eleven votes . Russell never forgave the Adullamites ; he had never known , he wrote , a party so utterly destitute of consistent principle or of patriotic end ' . With a difficult // economic situation at home and war threatening between Austria and Prussia abroad , he vainly sought an honourable way of continuing in office . Gladstone urged a dissolution , but the Whig magnates were hesitant to make an appeal to the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , leaving Lord Derby to form his third administration . In support of the original bill Gladstone had said , You can not fight against the future . . . great social forces are against you . ' And so indeed it was to prove . Economic difficulties provided an atmosphere of social unrest . ' The harvest of 1865 had been bad and had brought distress while the collapse of the banking house of Overend and Gurney in May 1866 , arising from speculation following the 1862 Limited Liability Act , l had brought on a crisis of confidence which helped to renew popular agitation against aristocratic mismanagement . The Reform League , founded in 1865 and containing both working-class and middle-class members , had organised a meeting in Hyde Park for 23rd July . In alarm the Home Secretary , Spencer Walpole , without consulting the Cabinet , ordered the police at the last moment to close the Park . Under the pressure of the crowd the railings collapsed and it was not until the following day that the Park was cleared by the cavalry , with little ill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rowdyism which damaged the impression of sobriety they were anxious to convey ; never-theless the riot gave the question of reform an immediacy it had not hitherto possessed . The Trades Unions , who were facing a crisis in their history , 2 lent their support to the agitation and Bright 's leadership helped to prevent a degener-ation into class war . Huge meetings and demonstrations were held in the provinces , and in London in December an orderly procession testified to the seriousness of the movement . In view of the failure of Derby to form a coalition govern-ment with the Adullamites which meant that they had no majority in the House , and in view of the mounting pressure in the country , it was clearly expedient for the Conservative government to produce some measure of reform , nor was this particularly out of character . Disraeli had produced a bill in 1859 and for a year had been friendly with Bright . The existing franchise had not produced a Conservative majority THE AGE OF THE PRIVATE MEMBER 20I I since 1846 and there was every reason to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whigs ' . Moreover Derby as Lord Stanley had helped to draft the Reform Bill of 1832 and had always shown social concern . Malmesbury and other Conservatives were firmly convinced that the boldest course was the safest . Nevertheless it was only to be expected that the Conservative party would have its Cave ' . When Disraeli introduced resolutions on reform to test the reaction of the Commons in January 1867 , three members of the Cabinet , Lord Carnarvon , Lord Cranborne ( the future Marquis of Salisbury ) and General Peel ( Sir Robert 's brother ) were opposed . Cranborne feared that a transfer of political power would lead to a robbing of the rich by the poorer part of the community and that the proposals would weaken Conservative hold on the small boroughs . In an attempt to satisfy them , Disraeli 's bill , based on the resolutions , was withdrawn , and under the Ten Minute Rule a more cautious one introduced . When it was evident that the majority of the party preferred the original bill , the three Ministers resigned . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had done in 1846 , owed much to Disraeli 's astuteness and expert party management . In the months that followed , Disraeli 's expert management of Parliament itself was shown . The leader of a minority government , with his own party divided on the issue , Disraeli never lost control of the situation . Though the outcome was a bill more extreme than anyone had seriously expected , it was for Disraeli a parliamentary triumph of the highest order and firmly established him in the leadership of his party . It left Gladstone 's leadership , on the other hand , seriously questioned . By adopting Household Suffrage in March , admittedly with careful safeguards of the fancy franchise ' type that he had adopted in his 1859 Bill , Disraeli prevented a frontal attack by the Opposition . Thereafter it was a policy of making such concessions as would most divide them . Although Gladstone made many impressive speeches and kept his popularity in the country , a group of Radicals in the House , known as the Tea Room Party , were enticed away from his leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the question of householders who did not pay their own rates but // who compounded rent and rates in a single payment to the landlord . A decision to exclude them would have led to some curious anomalies but Gladstone became entangled in the legal difficulties and failed to give his party a clear lead . After the Easter Recess the Radicals followed a policy of nibbling at the Bill by precise limited amendments . One reduced the residential qualification to one year , a second included lodgers paying ? IO a year , while the third , Hodgkinson 's , gave the vote to compound householders . This was accepted by Disraeli , who had not made the necessary mathematical calculations , without a division , and it added half a million voters . When Disraeli quietly dropped the fancy franchises ' , Household Suffrage had been achieved . A similar process of erosion made the measures of redistribution more radical . Disraeli 's success in the Commons , though only four of the sixty-one sections of the Bill were actually the work of the government , brought a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though Cranborne spoke of it as a political betrayal which has no parallel in our annals ' . The majority of Conservatives hoped it would prove a permanent settlement . When Derby was ill with gout several wrecking amendments were introduced in the Lords , but on his return he showed his complete mastery of the House by forcing their withdrawal . He made a powerful plea for unity and any possibility of a repetition of the difficulties of 1831 ? 32 was averted . No doubt we are making a great experiment and " taking a leap in the dark " ' he said in August , but I have the greatest confidence in the sound sense of my fellow countrymen . . . and that the passing of the measure will tend to increase the loyalty and contentment of a great portion of Her Majesty 's subjects . ' When the Bill became law the borough franchise was the householder and the ? io lodger , while in the county constituencies copyholders and leaseholders with property of L5 annual value and the Li 2 ratepayer were added to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population of less than Io , 000 of one seat , and those of less than 5,000 of both seats . Twenty-five new seats went to the counties and fifteen to boroughs including a third member for Liverpool , Manchester , Birmingham and Leeds . Separate // acts were passed , on similar lines , for Scotland and Ireland . The electorate was increased from 1,430,000 to 2,470,000 or almost half the adult male householders in the country . Voting , however , was still open and in the counties , where the majority of the population lived , the vote was still restricted . Some of the boroughs had a very small electorate ; thirty-five had less than 1,000 . Although the property qualification for M.P . ' s had been abolished in 1858 there was no salary until 1911 and few working men appeared in the Commons until 1880 . Nevertheless the Act of 1867 was the crucial step in the adaptation of British institutions to the rise of democracy and made the demand for future adjustments irresistible . From the point of view of the Conservatives it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political nation . It also recognised that England had ceased to be a predominantly rural country . The representatives of the towns and particularly of the commercial interests came to be increasingly important in Parliament . The extension of the electorate set a premium on efficient party management and a strong party machine . Apathetic electors had to be registered and hustled to the polls , finance had to be raised for this purpose and in consequence M.P . ' s became less independent of the Party Whips . The year 1867 is the watershed of the 19th Century . The dominant thought had been the preservation and enhancing of individual liberty ; it was a period when Parliament overshadowed the electorate , when politics , almost the only news considered important by the Press , seemed more important than it really was . It was a period of economic security and boundless optimism . After 1867 the liberty achieved was slowly but increasingly used to bring about a new social order , a process that has continued into the loth Century . It was a period that saw , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The power of the executive , supported , as civilisation grew more complex , by an extensive and anonymous civil service , came to overshadow Parliament and interest in politics as such tended to decline . Certain sections of society , notably on the left wing , began to doubt whether politics could provide solutions to the country 's problems . Behind it all , only perceived intermittently by the public as a whole , were growing economic difficulties . V ? GLADSTONIAN LIBERALISM ( a ) PACIFYING IRELAND I T was perhaps appropriate that the passing of the Reform Bill should be so quickly followed by the passing of the leadership of the two great parties to two men both of middle-class origin who , in their very different ways , owed their primacy to their own merits and abilities . At Christmas , 1867 , Gladstone succeeded Russell , who was to live on until 1878 , while in February 1868 Derby resigned through ill health and Disraeli had climbed to the top of the greasy pole ' , as he put it when he succeeded him . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful labours in the service of his Sovereign and his country had now earned for him the high and influential position in which he was now placed ' . He had overcome ridicule , enmity and distrust in a triumph of personality unequalled in the 19th Century . His misfortune was that it took him too long : at 64 he was a Prime Minister without a majority and he was not to obtain one for a further six years . At the time of the Reform Bill public attention had been drawn once again to Ireland . The opportunity to pursue a constructive policy of conciliation had been missed in 1846 and although the famine and the subsequent emigration provided that clearance ' of population which had always been the principal British answer to Irish problems , many difficulties remained . The Encumbered Estates Act of 1849 and the Courts it set up had transferred much Irish land to new owners . These were mainly Irish speculators who lacked even the slender sense of duty of the former landlords . They cleared most of the best land for grazing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people suffered eviction and Disraeli estimated that a quarter of the population by 1868 had become helpless paupers . Those Irish who crossed the Atlantic took with them a sense of bitterness and a determination to remedy matters . Although the great majority contented themselves with making 204 // good in the New World , a number conceived it their duty to draw attention to Irish problems by violence . In 1858 a secret society called The Fenian Brotherhood ' was founded in Chicago , having as its objective an Irish Republic . When the American Civil War ended in 1865 a number of its members , released from the Army , found settling into civilian life difficult and , encouraged by the example of the nationalists of Italy and Poland , began in 1866 and 1867 a series of outrages in England and Ireland . They culminated , in December 1867 , in the bomb attack by Fenians on Clerkenwell Gaol in order to release one of their number . They failed but twelve people were killed and 12o wounded . The Fenians had gone too far ; the Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gladstone , who had thought long and seriously about the problems of Ireland , felt that the moment had come for some measures of reconciliation . Previously , Gladstone had never taken much interest in Ireland . He had never visited the country , but had become unpopular there in 1853 when he extended to it the income tax , which Peel had withheld . He sought no first-hand know-ledge of the problems but once he had convinced himself of the rightness of what he proposed , he became a dedicated man , dismissing objections as factious and ill-considered . He would have bitterly repudiated any suggestion that he was an opportunist , although his enemies detected a greed for office in some of his actions . There were many occasions , however , when he chose an unpopular course because he was con-vinced of its rightness and this led men to respect him for his integrity . His decision to attack the Anglican Church of Ireland was certainly well-timed , however , and re-established the unity of his party after the humiliations of the Reform Bill . The rich endowment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members in a population of six million , had been declared by Lord John Russell thirty years earlier to be indefensible and most of the Whigs were prepared to take the same standpoint . The Radicals warmed to an attack on entrenched privilege . Soon after Disraeli had taken office Gladstone declared in the course of a debate on the State of Ireland that the Irish Church as a State Church must cease 2o6 BRITISH HISTORY 1815 ? 1939 to exist ' , which his party vigorously applauded . When Disraeli failed to define his attitude , Gladstone introduced a resolution to this effect which was passed by sixty votes . Disraeli saw the cup dashed from his lips and to avoid resigna-tion proposed a dissolution . The new electoral registers were not yet ready and no election could be held before November . With what Gladstone considered an extreme lack of conscience Disraeli continued in office , with Gladstone as virtual leader of the House . The result of the General Election of 1868 was a surprise and a disappointment to the Conservative party . They had expected gratitude whereas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bright in a series of speeches all over the country educated the voters in the evils of the Irish Church Establishment and in the urban con-stituencies , with their strong nonconformity , their support exceeded their expectations . The Liberals were returned with a majority of approximately i i o seats . Disraeli resigned and when Gladstone received the Queen 's commission to form a government he remarked , My mission is to pacify Ireland ' and later noted in his journal : The Almighty seems to sustain and spare me for some purpose of his own , deeply unworthy as I know myself to be . Glory be His name . ' He was not to lay down his mission , still in-complete , until 1894 . He at once initiated legislation for the Church of Ireland . He had failed to secure its voluntary co-operation and was denounced at diocesan conferences throughout Ireland as a brigand . The Bill passed the Lower House with large majorities . It provided for the disestablishment of the Church and its partial disendowment . The Church retained a capital of ? I32 M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish hospitals , ? 2 m. to Irish inter-mediate education and teachers ' pensions , over ? m. to distress works , nearly ? I m. to cover rent arrears in 1882 . In the interests of fairness the Maynooth Grant ' and the regium donum to the Presbyterians were discontinued . Although there can be little doubt in retrospect that the course taken was the right one , it seemed for a while as if it would cause a clash between the two Houses . Granville was // a competent Liberal leader of the Lords but already the flight from Liberalism had begun and the Lords , hitherto reason-ably well-balanced , was becoming increasingly a Conservative stronghold . Many peers felt the sanctity of property was being abused and some , notably Lord Derby , believed , wrongly as it turned out , that the Act would be fatal to religion . In the last speech of his life Derby expressed his fears : Go your ways , Ministers of England ; ye have this day , as far as in you lay , quenched the light of truth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the faster for that . ' The Queen had little sympathy with Gladstone 's object but she was impressed by his sense of purpose and wrote to both Derby and the Archbishop of Canterbury that the Bill ought not to be defeated . To Derby 's disgust , the Conser-vative peers agreed to let the Bill through , concentrating on preserving for the Church as much as possible of its endow-ment . Of more immediate relevance to Irish distress and discontent was the land problem . Apart from evictions arising from the Encumbered Estates Act , the great pressure on land led to steady increases in rent and thus to further evictions when tenants found themselves unable to pay . Irish farmers were usually tenants at will , subject to six months ' notice and not entitled to any compensation for improvements , including buildings , effected to the property . In Ulster customary tenant right discouraged eviction if a man paid his rent , and payment of compensation for improvements was usual . Gladstone proposed extending this by law to the whole of Ireland and despite the initial opposition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this matter England had a moral duty . The English landowning interest was sensitive to any infringement of the rights of property ; Palmerston 's epigram , Tenant 's Right is Landlord 's Wrong ' was well remembered but it was recognised that the social bond that smoothed the English relationship was lacking in Ireland . As was so often the case with Irish affairs there was imper-fect knowledge of the problems and in consequence the Irish Land Act of 187o was a half-measure that had to be streng-thened more radically in 1881.1 The end of a laissez-faire // attitude to Irish land and of the landlord 's doctrine of his absolute right of property in it were important steps forward but although the act established a species of dual ownership , it failed to define that relationship clearly and to protect the tenant from rises in rents . Since the landlord had to pay not only compensation for improvements but also compensation for disturbance and on a scale that was weighted for the smaller holdings , he now had every incentive to squeeze out the smaller tenants with rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had done himself , to spend no money on improvements . Thus an act intended to help the peasantry in many cases added to their difficulties . The outcome was an increase in crime and disorder and the government had to introduce a Peace Preservation Act . Irish dissatisfaction with Ascendancy rule increased and a Home Government Association of Ireland ' was founded in Dublin in 1870 . Although his attention was drawn primarily to other problems , Gladstone continued to be aware of the need for conciliation . He envisaged the Prince of Wales as a Ceremonial Viceroy for Ireland , and asked the Queen to establish a royal residence there and to visit it occasionally . In view of the enthusiasm which had greeted George IV on his visit and the Queen herself when she crossed the Irish Sea , there can be little doubt that more regular contact with royalty would have created valuable goodwill . The Queen , however , was too sunk in her widowhood and too convinced that Gladstone , who tended to regard her office in an institutional light though his loyalty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She had little confidence in the character of the Prince of Wales and was unwilling to give him any duties of importance . Gladstone also failed in his scheme of 1873 to improve the provision of university education in Ireland . There existed the richly endowed and Protestant Trinity College , Dublin , two poverty-stricken non-sectarian colleges and a privately endowed Roman Catholic University . Gladstone 's scheme was to unite them all in a new university which was to receive ? 12,000 a year from Trinity College and substantial funds from Irish Church endowments . To avoid controversy , modern history , theology and philosophy were excluded from the syllabus , although the affiliated colleges might continue // religious teaching . Everybody was offended : Trinity College disliked its position in the new scheme ; the nonconformists disliked the endowment of denominational instruction in any form ; Radicals disliked the restriction of syllabuses , while the Roman Catholics wanted a separate endowment . The Bill was rejected by three votes in the Commons and Gladstone resigned . When Disraeli declined to form a government as he was not yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office , but Irish university education had to wait a further generation . ( b ) INSTITUTIONAL REFORM In 1856 Gladstone remarked , There is a policy going abegging ; the general policy that Sir Robert Peel in 1841 took office to support ? the policy of Peace abroad , of economy , of financial equilibrium , of steady resistance to abuses and the promotion of practical improvements at home with a disinclination to questions of reform gratuitiously raised . ' It was the tragedy of Gladstone 's life that Peel 's Conservative party broke up in 1846 for he was thoroughly at home with its brand of progressive Conservatism . He found neither the atmosphere of the great Whig families nor that of the Radical nonconformity , into which circumstances increasingly thrust him , anything like as congenial . The , Peelite group brought to the Liberal party a wider outlook and a high standard of intellectual proficiency . Although it had an important aristocratic element the party became in its composition and its attitudes increasingly middle class , using as a definition for this period the group without inherited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some way . It was out of these elements that there came Gladstonian Liberalism whose high water mark was the Ministry of 1868-74 . The Liberal party which swept to power in 1868 with the largest majority since 1833 had as its slogan Peace , Retrenchment and Reform ' . Palmerston claimed that his foreign policy averted war but it was nevertheless conducted in an atmosphere of belligerency . Now it was maintained that Britain 's greatest interest was peace , a view with which Lord Salisbury , who so long dominated Conservative foreign policy , was to concur . Bright and Gladstone formed Liberal thinking on this question . Bright was a Quaker . Gladstone 2I0 BRITISH HISTORY 1815 ? 1939 was not a pacifist in this sense but to him war was wasteful and repugnant . He distrusted colonies as leading to expensive commitments and the risk of friction with foreign powers . To him justice was more important than national sentiment . They were supported by a strong vein of idealism in the party and by the relative social isolation of the middle class from the small professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dating back to the Economical Reform ' movement of the late 18th Century . In the Gladstonian period it meant rigorous control of government spending , especially on armaments . It was no accident that the two greatest army reformers , Cardwell and Haldane , were Liberals . Armies were repugnant but if they existed they must give value for money . Liberals also shrank from committing the government financially to social reform and thus increasing the responsibilities and hence the expenses of the State . Those functions which the State already exercised , however , must be exercised with the maximum of efficiency and justice . Reform in a narrow sense meant extension of the franchise and on this and the fairer conduct of the polls Gladstonian Liberalism had important influence . In a wider sense it meant improvement in the methods of government , selection of government servants by ability and the improvement of institutions for which the government was responsible . As Prime Minister Gladstone dominated the Ministry . He never ceased to astonish by his parliamentary mastery , his encyclopaedic knowledge , his quickness of decision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not a dictator ; he was ready to submit all major matters to his Cabinet and to defer to them if they disagreed with him . He was served by a series of capable private secretaries , of whom the first was Algernon West . To assist him Gladstone had an able team . Clarendon became Foreign Secretary despite the Queen 's disapproval . She disliked his views on German unification and his somewhat frivolous references to herself as The Missus ' . he died in 187o and was succeeded by Lord Grnville , who led the Liberals in the Lords . Indolent , genial and tactful , Granville was as unlike Gladstone in tastes and temperament as possible , but a very warm friendship arose between the two and contributed much to the efficiency GLADSTONIAN LIBERALISM 21I and stability of the Cabinet . Bright became President of the Board of Trade and although he proved to be administra-tively inefficient , like other men who have made their reputa-tion as a popular campaigner , his membership of the Cabinet was a factor of the utmost significance . Time had mellowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never forgotten the moving way in which he had spoken of her widowhood , but he was quite different from anybody who had ever sat in a Cabinet before and by this very fact distinguished the new Liberalism from its predecessors . It was a mark of great generosity that the villain of the Adullamites appeared as Chancellor of the Exchequer . Lowe was a man of exceptional ability who would probably have been more successful as a Civil Servant . As a politician he showed an unhappy touch with a tendency to cause offence unnecessarily . In particular he increased Gladstone 's diffi-culties by his Budget of 1871 which proposed a new tax on matches , a comparatively new article but already taxed by most foreign governments . Match manufacture was an unhealthy and much exploited sweated industry but the House was much moved by a pathetic demonstration of women workers and a protest of all parties led to the withdrawal of the tax and the placing of 2d. on the income tax . Lowe was forced to resign in August 1873 , with two other Ministers , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenue and Savings Bank balances had been used for capital expen-diture on telegraph services without parliamentary sanction . Gladstone unwisely took over the Exchequer himself and the double burden greatly added to the strain of his last six months of office . His Secretary for War was an able but elderly ex-Peelite , Edward Cardwell . In his reforms of the Army , economy and effciency met . Although the Crimean War had led to some improvement in the supply services and in soldiers ' conditions , ) drastic administrative reform was needed to produce an Army organised to continental standards of efficiency , a point that the three successful wars fought by Prussia , particularly the Franco-Prussian War of 187o , drove well home . With a Conservative party ready to defend time-hallowed abuses in the Army and Liberal politicians such as 2I2 BRITISH HISTORY 1815 ? 1939 Gladstone who demanded ever greater economy , the Commander-in-Chief , the Duke of Cambridge , was able to resist all demand for change from his subordinates and from outside . Spurred on by public concern at British weakness in 1870 , Cardwell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commissions , the inflexible organisation of the Army and the unduly long and harsh terms of service . By an order in council which the Queen reluctantly signed in June 187o , her cousin , the Commander-in-Chief , was subordinated to the Secretary of State for War and forced to move his headquarters from the Horse Guards to the War Office . He exercised command , subject to parliamentary supervision , over all land forces of the Crown including the Militia , hitherto controlled by the Lords Lieutenant and hence the concern of the Home Office . Equal to the Duke in status were the heads of two other War Office sections , the Surveyor-General of the Ordnance and the Financial Secretary . Unfortunately , the Duke remained as Commander-inChief until 1895 to provide a cramping influence on further development and the consequent failure to organise a General Staff on the continental model was a crucial weakness in the South African War . The Adjutant and Quartermaster branches of the Staff were united . A Royal Warrant of Charles II of 1683 had started the sale and purchase of military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1702 . Wellington had given it the approval of his enormous prestige and a Royal Commission defended the system in 1841 . Cardwell saw clearly that it prevented regimental reorganisation , selection and promotion by merit , and perpetuated abuses by permitting commands to be held by men who were untrained and quite unsuited . The Earl of Cardigan , commander of the fated Charge of the Light Brigade , may reasonably be instanced as an example of the system in practice . The opposition , led by its military members , obstructed to such an extent that , when the Army Regulation Bill , which included other reforms , had passed the Commons , Gladstone persuaded the Queen , who appreciated a rare exercise of arbitrary authority , to abolish by Royal Warrant what after all had been created by Royal Warrant . On this , Left and Right wing were in complete // agreement ; the Left distrusted the royal prerogative on principle while Disraeli called it a shameful conspiracy against the rights of the Upper House ' . Trick it was , but it served its turn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money spent on commissions and the Lords , presented with a fait accompli , made haste to pass it . The Army Regulation Act of 1871 provided for an increase of the Army by 20,000 men to 497,000 men and divided the country into sixty-nine infantry recruiting districts . The old numbered regiments of the line had distinguished histories many going back to the 17th Century , but they had no terri-torial links and were almost all under strength . Each regiment was now given a district , and in most cases a territorial name , the junior regiments of the line being united . Each district had two regular battalions , one at home for training purposes , the other of seasoned troops abroad , and between one and three battalions of militia . The Infantry were rearmed with a satisfactory breech-loading rifle in 1872-74 . Cardwell improved the organisation of the Artillery , although the Ordnance insisted on the retention of muzzle-loading cannon for a further twenty years . The Cavalry , an aristocratic stronghold , Cardwell did not touch . The Army Enlistment Act of 187o improved conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on for twenty-one years . In that year it was reduced to twelve but since more than half this time would be spent in tropical climates , men 's physique was rarely good enough to make service in the reserve possible at the end of this time . The shorter service of six years with the colours followed by six with the reserve that Cardwell instituted greatly improved military recruiting , which would have been improved even more if Gladstone had been prepared to increase service pay . It also made possible the creation of a reserve of fit , well-trained men . Cardwell abolished flogging in peacetime in 1868 and the withdrawal of many troops from foreign stations helped to make the Army a more attractive career . The successful campaign in Egypt in 1882 could never have taken place but for Cardwell 's reforms , yet he left the Army Estimates lower than when he took office . ' Liberal reforming zeal also extended to the Civil Service . // The middle-class ideal of careers open to talent was hindered so far as the Civil Service was concerned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office was a source of income . As with the Army , the Civil Service could never become really efficient until promotion and appointment were by merit , and never truly independent until these were taken out of politics . It was with this in view that Gladstone had appointed in 1853 a Commission led by Sir Stafford Northcote and G. O. Trevelyan which reported that appointment should be by examination . The most that Palmerston would accept was that a Civil Service Commission should examine the fitness of candidates presented by the political heads of the various departments . In 187o by an Order in Council all positions in the Civil Service , with the exception of those in the Foreign and Diplomatic Service , whose traditions Clarendon successfully defended , ceased to be filled by patronage and were made subject to public com-petition . High intellectual standards were required for the highest grade , the Administrative Class , and this gave a new stimulus to university teaching . Further changes followed . A new department , the Local Government Board , was created in 1871 and absorbed the Poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office and the medical department of the Privy Council . ' It inherited the functions of the central Board of Health which had been abolished in 1858 . Gladstone was never aware of the crucial importance of local government : it was one of several factors that later led him to fail to appreciate Joseph Chamberlain , and the misfortune of the new department was that from the start it was dominated by the officials and atti-tudes of the Poor Law Board it absorbed . The increasing concern of the State with individuals necessi-tated , to the Liberal mind , an electoral machinery that would more genuinely reflect people 's wishes . Although there was little popular demand in the country the government resusci-tated in 1872 the Chartist idea of the secret ballot . It was strongly opposed by the Conservatives who feared it would mean the end of control by the old governing class ; both parties were firmly convinced that the mass electorate , voting secretly , would always vote for progress and liberty . The Lords // rejected it at first but , when Gladstone bitterly attacked them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to render compara-tively valueless the more obvious forms of bribery , a tendency that was reinforced by the Corrupt Practices Act of 1883 , although isolated cases of bribery continued into the loth Century . Despite the Conservative fears they won , ironically , the first election under the Ballot Act in 1874 ; it was only gradually realised that mass electorates tend to be conservative in their outlook . The revolutionary consequences of the Act were , as no one had foreseen , in Ireland , where it made possible the creation of Parnell 's Irish Nationalist Party . In 1871 the inclusion of the working-class elite in the political nation was demonstrated by the Trades Union Act . Since 1825 the position of Trades Unions had been somewhat anomalous . ) The Act of that year had condemned criminal combinations in restraint of trade without defining them precisely , but had approved combinations whose sole objects were the fixing of wages or hours . Various leading cases had implied that strikes for that purpose would not be criminal , but limitations by Trades Unions of overtime remained dubious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words violence , threats , molestation and obstruc-tion ' in the 1825 Act . Most Trades Unions had Friendly Society functions and it was believed that the security of their funds was covered by the Friendly Societies Act of 1855 . In that belief , in the case of Hornby v. Close of 1866 ? 67 the Boiler-makers ' Society , a respectable craft union , prosecuted its secretary for withholding funds . In the Queen 's Bench it was ruled , to the horror of the working-class elite as a whole , that the Friendly Society Act did not apply and further ; although the Trades Union was not exactly criminal it was so far in restraint of trade as to be an illegal organisation . Disraeli appointed a Royal Commission and it was clear to the Trades Unions that they must justify their existence , a task made more difficult by recent cases of violence involving smaller and less responsible unions . In particular there had been a series of outrages in Sheffield in which workers who refused to join the local union or were behindhand in paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sometimes a man 's tools were removed or broken , in other cases men had // actually been killed and in 1866 a can of gunpowder was exploded in the house of a workman who had just resigned from the local Saw-Grinders Union . Confessions made to the Royal Commission established the responsibility of William Broadhead , treasurer of the Associated Trades of Sheffield , whin-maintained that Trades Unions were entitled to impose what sanctions they chose . The Junta prepared evidence of respectability , seeking help wherever it could , and to mobilise the utmost strength the Manchester Trades Council called the first Trades Union Congress in 1868 . Hughes and Harrison , lawyers and Christian Socialists , were members of the Commission and gave the Trades Unions considerable support . Sober , intelligent workmen were called as witnesses , strikes were disparaged and great emphasis was placed on Friendly Society activities . The Majority Report recommended full recognition of unions and their supervision by the Registrar ofFriendly Societies . It proposed certain restrictions on their activities , notably the condemnation of picketing . A Minority Report of three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1871 gave full legal recognition and protection of funds ; the associated Criminal Law Amendment Act forbade picketing and repeated the molestation clauses . The meaning of this was clear when a number of prosecutions followed , including the imprisonment of two women in South Wales who had said Bah ' to a blackleg . Gladstone became unpopular in consequence in the Trades Union movement and Disraeli repaid the swing of its votes by the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act of 1875 which legalised peaceful picketing , subject to certain safeguards . A group of men in a trade dispute could now only commit a crime if the same action by one of them acting by himself would have been criminal . The Employers and Workmen Act of the same year put both parties on an equal footing in cases of breach of contract . Hitherto , whereas the employer could he fined , the workman could be imprisoned . Now damages were payable in both cases . The principal achievement of the last year of the Ministry was the Supreme Court of Judicature Act of 1873 , the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous year . The complicated series of courts that existed // had frequently been criticised , notably by a Royal Commission of 1867 under the chairmanship of the Conservative Lord Cairns . There were in effect two legal systems side by side , each with a formidable background of case law : the common law in one set of courts , equity which overrode it in another . Both systems were fused ; a single judge was to administer law and equity . The Court of Chancery and six courts which in various ways administered the common law ? Queen 's Bench , Common Pleas , Exchequer , Admiralty , Probate and Divorce ? were merged in the Supreme Court which in 188o was organised in three divisions ? Chancery , Queen 's Bench , and Probate , Admiralty and Divorce . The old Courts of Appeal ? Exchequer Chamber , Appeal in Chancery , House of Lords and Judicial Committee of the Privy Council ? were merged to form the new Court of Appeal , whose decisions were to be final . In 1876 , however , the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , regained its ancient position as the highest court of appeal in the land . The centralisation of the law continued , however , and , apart from the ancient Chancery Courts of Durham and Lancaster , which survived , all common law litigation above the level of the County Courts , established in 1846 , had to be held in London . ( c ) EDUCATION Liberals and all who believed in the freedom of the individual were particularly concerned that the power of the State should not control education . They observed how in France the schoolmaster could be the rival of the priest in swaying the hearts and minds of the people , and they saw the control of education by voluntary bodies , which meant in practice religious bodies , as the best guarantee against undue State influence and interference . Any suggestion of secular education in Victorian England was tantamount to encouraging a lack of faith . The original assumption of the governing classes that education was unnecessary for the poor that it was prejudicial to their morals and happiness ; that it would teach them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the realisation that carefully managed education would promote good order and assist technological advance . The wars of the 186o 's seemed to suggest that education was an advantage in battle . The better educated North beat the South in the // American Civil War , while in 1866 Austria was beaten by Prussia , which had the best elementary educational system in Europe , dating back to the beginning of the century . It was appreciated that an educated electorate was better for the country than an uneducated one and the great extension of the franchise brought home the immediacy of the problem . Individual efforts and the extension of State control had already improved the quality and the quantity of education to some extent . Of increasing social importance and influence in the State were the public schools , many of ancient foundation but some established specifically to provide educational opportunities for the rising middle class . Curricula were chiefly classical and invariably narrow ; teaching was mostly unimaginative and unproductive ; but the chief end of the public schools in mid-century was to produce not men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the century when a great premium was set on intellectual attainment . Thomas Arnold of Rugby was by no means the first reformer ; his predecessor as headmaster had greatly improved the quality and size of the school , while Butler of Shrewsbury ( Headmaster , 1798 ? 1836 ) had introduced modern subjects and tried to create a sense of responsibility among the senior boys , hitherto the ring-leaders in disturbances . Nevertheless , Arnold was enormously influential , not least through the favourable picture drawn by the Radical Judge Hughes , himself an Old Rugbeian , in Tom Brown 's Schooldays . Arnold did much to stimulate genuine intellectual curiosity , introduced French and Mathematics as regular subjects , civilised the almost traditional atmosphere of hooliganism , secured the co-operation of the Sixth Form and above all through his sermons in the school chapel laid down those moral standards that were to make of the public schools nurseries of Christian gentlemen ' . Arnold would not have favoured the canonisation of games as character-forming agencies that began in the late 19th Century . Some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better teaching methods and a wider curriculum , notably the school of Rowland Hill , the inventor of penny postage , at Birmingham . He used small rooms for each class instead of one great room where several forms were taught simultaneously which was the usual practice , and // encouraged experiments in self-government . There were many private schools , however , of a very low standard , some even as bad as Dotheboys Hall ' . The quality of the old endowed grammar schools also varied greatly . Ancient statutes provided salaries so inadequate , in some cases , that it was impossible for a schoolmaster to regard it as his sole source of livelihood . They also invariably restricted the curriculum to classical studies ; a case involving Leeds Grammar School in 1805 established that modern subjects were illegal during normal school time . There was no way of ensuring that masters were diligent , and a few schools had no boys at all . As the century went by , however , the old endowed schools were increasingly influenced by public school reforms . Two Royal Commissions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the nine great public schools ; the Taunton Commission of 1864 with other endowed schools . They resulted in The Endowed Schools Act which Gladstone 's government introduced in 1869 . This appointed three commissioners , whose work was taken over by the Charity Commission in 1874 . They were able to revise statutes and to make available to the schools disused charitable funds . This was an impetus to the adoption of new subjects , notably science , although the schools were slow to respond . The first university examining body for schools was set up in 1871 and helped to raise standards of instruction . The Taunton Commission pressed unsuccessfully for the foundation of more secondary schools and for more opportunities for those who could not afford the fees . If boys ' education was inadequate in the early 19th Century , secondary education for girls was virtually non-existent . It was considered neither necessary nor desirable . After 1840 , however , there were a number of opportunities . Women were able to obtain higher education at Bedford College , London , from 1846 onwards , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. Maurice , who became the first principal , helped to found Queen 's College , Harley Street , London , in 1848 as a training college for women teachers . Among the first students were Miss Buss and Miss Beale ; the former changed the name of the private school she ran to the North London Collegiate School for Ladies in 1850 ,                     