@@773842

txt The brown algae These algae owe their color to the presence of a brown pigment , fucoxanthin , which masks the chlorophyll . They are perhaps the most familiar of seaweeds , being usually restricted to salt water . Fucus , Ascophyllum and Pelvetia are common seaweeds exposed at low tide . They are all covered in mucilage , and the swollen tips or bulges in the stem ( thallus ) represent the vesi-cles where male and female gametes ( sex cells ) form . The male gametes arise in structures known as anther-idia , and the female ones usually in oogonia . Hormo-sira is an exposed shore sea-weed restricted to Austral-asia . Lessonia is a deep-water plant of the Pacific . One of the few forms that floats on the water is Sargassum , which forms large masses such as the Sargasso Sea of thy mid-Atlantic . In common with other groups of organisms , the algae have a sexual phase in their life-history , in which male and female gametes are produced in sexual organs , followed by fusion to fora the zygote of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetic material ( DNA ) which in most organisms occurs as chromosomes within the nucleus . Each event of sexual fusion would double the chromosome number in every successive generation were it not that during the formation of gametes the number of chromosomes is halved . If the halved ( or haploid ) number of chromosomes is represented by x , the sexual cycle can be thus symbolized : In lower organisms , including many of the algae , the haploid ( x ) state is restricted to gametes , but in other organisms , the haploid condition exists as a separate plant . There is , therefore , an alternation of plants which are either haploid or diploid ( 2x ) . This is called the alternation of generations . 31 The red algae Red algae owe their color to the presence of the red pigment phycoerythrin . Perhaps the most spectacular species is Delesseria sanguinea which is almost fluorescent in its appearance . The thallus consists of a stem which produces thin fronds that look like leaves . The cells of some other species such as Chondria coerulescens contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Batrachospermum grow in freshwater streams attached to rocks . The stems are composed of numerous strands which produce whorls of branched filaments , giving the plant its characteristic appearance . Porphyra is a seaweed , having a broad , wavy thallus only a few cells thick . A similar plant is Gigartina , whose surface is covered by minute warts , and which is anchored by a disc-shaped holdfast . The holdfast is a feature peculiar to the algae , comprising numerous thick rhizoids that bind the plants to rocks , . sand , other seaweeds or animals . On some of the larger brown algae , these holdfasts are immense , and represent a very specialized form of tissue . Another shape of growth common to all the major groups of algae is that shown by Nemalion , which is a marine summer annual . It has worm-like branches anchored by a holdfast . The jointed stems of Corallina , an inhabitant of rock pools and underwater ledges , are covered in the lime that the plant secretes . This tends to give it a pinkish . appearance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively small plant , rarely exceeding 2 to 2% inches in length . The greatest size to which red algae grow is about 3 feet , in contrast with the 100 feet achieved by some brown algae . Laurencia is another inhabitant of rock pools , having tubercular dark red stems . Species of Janczewskia , related to Laurencia , are parasitic on it , producing special invading structures which absorb the cell contents of the host . Many red algae are a valuable source of complex sugars . Pectin is obtained commercially from algae , as is carragheen . It is well known that seaweeds represent one of the commercial sources of iodine , and some species of the red algae contain cells very rich in this element . These algae also have the most complex and varied life-histories of the algal groups . 33 The green algae These algae present a tremendous variety of forms , from unicells to complex thalloid types , though none approach the size reached by many of the brown algae . The green film found on trees often consists of Pleurococcus , a simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in ponds and lakes . A related alga is Trentepohlia , occasionally found in damp regions on walls and trees . Although Trentepohlia montis-tabulae is bright red-orange in color , some of the other species of this genus are green . The alga grows as a prostrate filament which produces upright strands . These strands are topped by a peculiar cap the function of which is unknown . Trentepohlia may well provide us with an indicator of atmospheric pollution , as it is very sensitive to gases that are produced by combustion . The membranous , bright green seaweeds belong to either Ulva or Enteromorpha . The thallus is extremely simple , and in Ulva is quite broad , while that of Enteromorp ha intestinalis is tubular . Ulva is like a green version of Porphyra , the red alga , end it produces two generations which are identical ; the haploid and diploid plants can only be distinguished by examining the Cells under a microscope to unt the chromosomes . Codium is another green peaweed , thatgrows in deeper Water than Ulva . Its dark en stems are considerably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freshwater Breen algae that are filamentous . Draparnaldia has clusters of branches that arise from the main filament . Spirogyra produces simple filaments of cells and often forms a pale green scum on the surface of ponds . The much-branched filaents of Cladophora are quite mmon in ponds , often forming mats of vegetation . ' In some species , some of the lower cells are used to store food . In one related genus , the filaments are linked by means of peculiar hook cells . One group of Mediterranean and Caribbean algae , Acetabularia , produces a large cap at the ends of its upright filaments . This cap is , in fact , a whorl of cells , above which the sporangia are produced . Like Corallina of the red algae , the plant is encrusted in lime . The bryophytes Mosses and liverworts are grouped scientifically under the heading of bryophytes . Although mosses are known to most people the liverworts escape much public attention as they usually grow in damp shady places . With some exceptions , the bryophytes only thrive under damp conditions as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dry atmosphere . The moss and liverwort plant , or the thallus , is the haploid generation ( gametophyte ) . The gametes that it produces in its male and female sexual organs fuse to produce the diploid generation ( sporophyte ) . In the bryophytes , this remains attached to the gametophyte , and usually produces sporangia on a long stalk . When the spores are released from the sporangium , they grow into a new gametophyte , and so complete the cycle . The liverworts These are of two types , one of which is represented here by Sphaerocarpos , Marchantia and Riccia . In this first type , the thallus is a relatively simple structure anchored by hairs , or rhizoids , which are unicellular . In contrast with the mosses , no leaves are present , and the thallus may be round , as in Sphaerocarpos , or creeping and branched . This branching may be haphazard , or regular , and Riccia shows an example of a thalloid liverwort which has regular branching . Riccia and its allied genera commonly occur on the surface of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The growth of the larger Marchantia results in a lobed thallus . The sporophyte of Sphaerocarpos develops enclosed within the gametophyte , and the spores are only released by decay of the whole plant . The sporophytes of Riccia grow embedded within the surface tissue of the gametophyte , but those of Marchantia are raised on a long stalk above the thallus. 37 Pellia , Riccardia and Fossombronia belong to another class of liverworts , which although they are related to the leafy liverworts discussed below , appear superficially similar to the Marchantia type . Pellia has four well-distributed species , and grows in a wide variety of places , usually on the banks of shady streams and ditches , though it can be found growing submerged in water . Its dark green thallus is irregularly lobed , and like Marc hantia forms large patches wherever it grows . Its shape of growth can be considerably modified according to the particular conditions of its habitat , and it is therefore a fairly variable plant . A midrib is present in the center of the thallus , though not as pronounced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the upper surface of the thallus , over the midrib and some way back from the growing points . The archegonia are positioned just behind the growing points and appear in groups that are protected by a flap . The egg cells in the archegonia are fertilized by the sperm produced by the antheridia , giving rise to the sporophyte , which develops into a capsule . When the spores inside this capsule are mature , it is raised rapidly up above the gametophyte on a long stalk , or seta , bursting through the protective cover over the archegonia . The capsule then bursts releasing the spores , which germinate into a new thallus ( gametophyte ) . Riccardia is a smaller plant than Pellia , and some of its 280 species grow upright , with the branches differentiated into a midrib and wings . The antheridia and archegonia grow on special side branches . The development of the sporophyte capsule is very similar to that of Pellia . The thallus of Fossombronia longiseta is split into irregular lobes that join on to the central midrib , giving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species , these lobes are quite well defined . In the true leafy liverworts , however , there is a definite distinction between leaf and stem , making it difficult occasionally to distinguish them from the gametophytes of mosses . Such difficulties can only be resolved by using a microscope to examine the leaves and rhizoids . The leaves of such liverworts are arranged in two overlapping rows . The antheridia and archegonia are produced in specialized shoots protected by leaves ; the sporophyte capsule emerges from these when it is ready to shed its spores . Porella illustrates this typical structure . 39 The ant hocerotes This is a widespread group of about 300 species , possessing features of both liverworts and mosses . The gametophyte is thalloid , often with crinkled edges . This thallus is usually many cells thick , comprising one type of cell , and anchored by numerous smooth rhizoids . On the lower part of the thallus there are often mucilage cavities which are filled with Nostoc , a blue-green alga , which gives the plant its characteristic dark green color . The Nostoc cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface . Some anthocerotes are able to tide over unfavorable conditions by means of tubers , in which the outer cells of the thallus form a corky layer to reduce water loss . The antheridia and archegonia are both embedded within the surface tissue of the thallus ; the antheridia are enclosed within a chamber which splits open when they are ripe . The cylindrical sporophyte grows from a foot ' embedded within the gametophyte , and its spores are produced in a central cavity . It continues to grow from its base for some time after the tip has begun shedding its spores , so that spore production is a continuous rather than a simultaneous process , and is thereby unique among the bryophytes . The mosses The 20,000 species of mosses have several features that distinguish them from the liverworts . The spores discharged from their capsules grow into a thread-like structure known as a protonema . This produces upright leafy shoots which bear the sporophyte . The rhizoids that anchor the plant are multicellular in comparison with the unicellular rhizoids of the liverworts , and the sporophyte capsules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peat bogs are the result of continued growth by Sphagnum species over centuries . As the shoots continue to grow , the older parts die and are compressed , eventually forming peat . The several hundred species of Sphagnum vary considerably in their color and size , but their general appearance is very similar , due to the fact that some of the stem leaves give rise to bunches of side branches , covered in leaves . The sexual organs arise at the apex of main shoots , and sporophytes grow on stalks of gametophyte tissue . Andreaea is remarkable for its reddish-black coloration and its unique capsule . The 41 small plants grow on boulders in mountainous or arctic regions under exposed conditions and produce peculiar rhizoids to an chor their stems to the rock surface . The capsules are borne at the stem apex in common with other mosses . Both Sphagnum and Andreaea are unusual in some of their features and can not be classed as typical mosses . Most of these show some degree of internal organization , which in Poly-trio hum has reached the stage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vascular system is best known in the form of wood ( xylem ) and bast ( phloem ) , and is responsible for trans-porting minerals , food and water throughout the plant , as well as providing mechanical strength . For this reason , perhaps , the stems of Polytrichum tend to be longer than most mosses , and the plant is often found in dry exposed habitats . In contrast , Funaria , Bryum and Fissidens are relatively small mosses . Bryum is commonly found in gardens and on walls , produc ing compact shoots which later bear capsules on stalks ( setae ) . These capsules open by a lid which exposes a series of teeth responsible for spore dispersal . This feature of the capsule is common to practically all true mosses . The spores are almost universally all of one size , but in a few mosses ( Micromitrium , for example ) two spore sizes are produced , the smaller one de veloping into a male gametophyte , and the larger one into a female . This condition by no means approaches the hetero sporous ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The shape and color of the moss capsules is one of the fea tures by which they are distinguished from each other . The capsules of Polytrichum are elongate , and in some cases have conspicuous ridges . Many others are pear-shaped , while those of Bartramia pomi f ormis appear in the unripe stage like minia ture green apples . The variety of color and shape in the moss plant ranges from the pale green Mnium to the translucent Hookeria ; from the simple Fissidens to the much-branched Thuidium . Thui dium , found generally on shaded banks , changes color in the autumn to various shades of yellow and red . Some mosses such as Eurhynchium form close mats , while Leucobryum grows in isolated cushions . Many mosses grow on tree trunks as epi phytes attached to the bark , and a surprisingly rich variety is found on decaying stumps and fallen trunks . The pteridophytes The living pteridophytes in clude the ferns , horsetails , club-mosses and psilotes . Also several classes of pteri-dophytes are completely extinct , and the little that is known of them comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance , they share a common type of life cycle in which the sporophyte gen-eration is dominant , and may be represented by a fern plant , such as bracken . This is in contrast with b where the gameto-phyte is the dominant phase of the life cycle . The life cycle diagram here illustrates the sequence for a typical fern , but the sequence is the same for all pterido-phytes . The gametophyte ( in green ) is a heart-shaped pro thallus which produces male and female sex organs on either the same or separate prothalli . The male gamete swims in a film of water to the egg in the female organ ( archegonium ) , and the fer-tilized cell develops into a young sporophyte ( fern plant , in red ) . As this plant grows , the gametophyte dies away . Life cycle of ferns shown in a series of diagrams . Sporophyte is red and the gametophyte is green . 44 The psilophytes Psilophytes are known only from fossils , the first of which were discovered in 1859 in Canada . This fossil was named Psilophyton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aerial shoots bear-ing pendulous sporangia at their tips . More fossils were discovered in Scotland , in-cluding Rhynia , Asteroxylon and Horneophyton . Rhynia also had an under-ground rhizome which bore occasional upright shoots . The shoots had no leaves or scales and forked to give rise to cylindrical sporangia at their tips . The spores are thought to have given rise to gametophytes that possessed both male and female organs . The plants were between one and two feet high and were presumably sporophytes as they produced spores ; no gametophyte has been de-finitely found . One interest-ing fact about them is that they did not have any roots , only rhizoids similar to those found in bryophytes . The psilotes These comprise two types of living pteridophyte which bear many resemblances to the psilophytes . These are Psilotum and Tmesipteris , of which Psilotum is found world-wide in the tropics and Australasia , and Tmesipteris in Australia alone . Their internal structure is almost identical , but in general appearance they can easily be distinguished . Psilotum produces aerial shoots bearing occasional scale-leaves from a rootless rhizome . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which appear to be fused in threes . The spores produce one type of gametophyte , which is in fact the rhizome of the plant , and bears the sexual organs . In comparison with the psilophytes , therefore , it might be assumed that the rhizomes of those plants are also the ga metophytes , but no sexual organs have ever been found . Tmesipteris , which usually grows on trees , has pendulous leaf branches with lateral sporangia at the tips of the shoots . As in Psilotum , the rhizome is known to be the gameto phyte as it produces male and female organs , and the young sporophyte , or prothallus , that is produced by it is similar to that of Anthoceros . This fact has suggested that there may be a link between the anthocerotes and the psilotes . The lycopods Selaginella krausiana has delicate , much-branched shoots that produce cones of sporangia at their tips . Both large and small spores are produced ( heterospory ) ; the larger female ones are retained on the plant until after fertilization , a condition that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lycopodium clavatum ( club moss ) has stems that are closely covered in pointed leaves and terminate in cones ( strobili ) of sporangia . The spores are all identical ( homosporous ) . This species grows in bogs and owes its specific name to the forking of the shoots beneath the strobili . Other species grow hanging from trees . Isoetes lacustris ( quillwort ) produces leaves each year from a buried corm . The leaves are fleshy , and have a bulbous base in which the sporangia are produced . The plant is heterosporous . The first leaves of the year produce female spores , and the later ones produce male spores. whorls of sporangia in groups of up to twelve . Sphenophyllostachys had very prominent whorls of lobed leaves on a weak stem , some branches terminating in fertile cones of sporangia . Each whorl in this cone comprised a complex of numerous sporangia protected by bracts . Crucicalamites was one of a group of tree horsetails , reaching a height of 90 feet . Equisetum is the only living genus in this group , comprising about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Australasia . They are found in a wide variety of habitats , some being evergreen and others deciduous . In contrast with other sphenopsids , the horsetails are small plants , relatively slender and with no secondary thickening . The green , ridged vegetative stems are produced from a complex underground rhizome system , and bear no recognizable leaves ; these are reduced to toothed sheaths at each joint in the stem . The sheaths are not green , and the stems therefore make the food for the whole plant . The fertile shoots , which bear the sporangia in complex cones , are only green in some species and live for a shorter period than the vegetative shoots . Some extinct plants of the Horsetail group . As they are known only as fossils , their colors are hypothetical . 1 . Shoot of Ca/amophyton 2 . Sphenophyllostachys 3 . Crucica/amites 4 . Protohyenia janovii The sphenopsids Sphenopsids may be distinguished from the lycopods by the pronounced jointing of the sporophyte stems , with the leaves and sporangia produced in whorls . As in the lycopods , some species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and became predominant at a time when the coal deposits were being formed . Most of the sphenopsids became extinct after this time , now being found mainly in the coal seams . Protohyenia is often regarded as an ancestral member of this group , as the aerial shoots which arose from a creeping rhizome bore branches and sporangia in primitive whorls . On the other hand , Calamophyton showed very pro-nounced jointing of its stem , with finely forked branches giving the appearance of leaves . The fertile branches bore 48 The ferns ( pteropsids ) Ferns , of which there are some 9,000 species , are generally recognized as bearing complex fronds from an un-derground rhizome , with the sporangia occurring in groups on the surface of the leaf ; the bracken plant ( Pteridium ) is among the best known exam-ples . However , the variation is enormous , and many ferns would not be recognized as such if compared with Pteri-dium . The extinct fern ances-tors often bore little resem-blance to the typical ferns , although some of them had frond-like leaves . Among the living ferns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty-five species distributed over the world , produces one simple leaf each year and gives rise t o a fertile branch terminating in a spike of sporangia . Osmunda forms cushions , in which the first fronds produced each year are sterile , being followed by fertile ones , where the frond leaflets ( pinnae ) are much reduced and bear the sporangia. ' l ' he gametophytes are comparatively large , growing up to 4 centimeters , and are dark green in color , like a thalloid liverwort . The true ferns include Adiantum , the maidenhair fern , the filmy ferns ( Hymenophyllum species ) ; the tree ferns of the tropics , which may grow to 60 feet ( Cyathea species ) ; Polypodium ; and Platycerium , the stag 's horn fern . This last fern owes its name to the fact that it produces two roughly circular fronds next to the tree trunk on which it grows , with projecti ng fertile fronds that are branched and have the appearance of antlers . The gametophytes of the true ferns are typically heart-shaped , with the antheridia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ferns grow exclusively in water . Marsilea mainly grows in shallow water , producing its four leaflets on the top of a long stalk and having the appearance of a fourleaved clover . The sporangia are enclosed in a hard , rounded structure borne at the base of the leaf . Both Salvinia , the water hyacinth , and Azolla grow floating on the surface of water . Azolla is a minute , much-branched plant , whose overlapping leaves support colonies of a bluegreen alga , Anabaena. 51 The gymnosperms The most familiar gymnosperms are the pines , but the group also includes the seed ferns , cycads , ginkgos and gnetales . Their unifying feature is that the heterosporous condition is taken to the point where the female gametophytes are retained on the plant until after fertilization of the egg and the formation of a seed . The female gametophyte is protected by part of the sporophyte to form an ovule . The male spores are liberated as pollen , and the male gametophyte is a much reduced structure . The distinction between the gymnosperms and the angiosperms ( flowering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite archegonia are still produced by the female gametophyte . About 800 types of gymnosperms are known . The plants which are thought to form a link between the ferns and gymnosperms are the seed ferns . These extinct plants consequently shared many features of both groups ; the leaves were fern-like and can not in many cases be distinguished from those of ferns , yet they bore true seeds . Their internal structure , moreover , was similar to the gymnosperms . Examples of this group include Neuropteris and Lyginopteris . The seed ferns probably gave rise to two groups of gymnosperms : the cycads , many of which are living today ; and a similar group which is completely extinct . This second type differed in the unique position of its cones ( strobili ) on the side of the trunk and the much smaller size of its seeds . The cycads have changed remarkably little over many millenia and are often regarded as living fossils . The examples of Cycas , Dion and Zamia show the general shape and structure , in which a thick stem covered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaves , giving the appearance of a palm . In the case of Zamia , the trunk is very small , and one species , Zamia pygmaea , is the smallest cycad known . Dion species vary considerably in height . Although Dion edule is a fairly short plant , some species reach a height of 30 feet . Cycas is also a variable tree-like plant , with spiny leaves that are sharp to touch . The cycad male and female reproductive organs are borne on separate plants at the center of the crown . 52 The ginkgos .. Ginkgo is the only surviving member of a group of ancient trees . The texture of the leaves is almost leathery , and they are lobed and veined in a way similar to the maidenhair fern , from which Ginkgo derives its popular name ( maidenhair tree ) . The trees , either male or female , produce long shoots that give rise to short lateral spurs , on which the male and female structures arise . Each scale on the male cone bears two sporangia containing pollen . The female organs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where it develops into sperm . Fertilization of the egg cell within the female gametophyte results in the formation of a pendulous seed which falls to the ground and germinates . The conifers Conifers are perhaps best typified by Pinus sylvestris , the Scots pine . The needle-like evergreen leaves are produced in pairs at the tips of short spur shoots . They are dark green in color and contain resin . The occurrence of resin is a fairly general character of conifers , and in some species it is a source of turpentine . The male and female cones are produced on separate branches , the male cones liberating winged pollen , the female ones , winged seeds . The spruces ( Picea species ) and firs ( Abies species ) are similar conifers and include those that are used as Christmas trees . Taxus baccata , the yew , is more uniformly covered in dark leaves and usually grows as a large bush or small tree . In some of the more ancient specimens , the stems are gnarled and the center may be rotted away . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tall trees of Araucaria araucana , the monkey puzzle tree of South America , show very regular branching . The branches are clothed in thick triangular leaves which overlap , giving the tree an armored appearance . This is a most distinctive plant . It produces its male and female cones on separate plants , as does Taxus . Agathis australis also has large fleshy leaves , but these are produced on the branches in two opposite rows . It is an enormous tree of up to 150 feet , producing an extremely hard wood . The juniper , Juniperus , grows as a bush or small tree with sharp needle or scale leaves . The male and female flowers are on separate trees , and the female plants produce blue-black fruits , covered with a fine glaucous bloom , about two or three years after development of the cone . The American genus Taxodium , or swamp cy-press , is remarkable for two features : first , the production of upright growths ( ' knees ' ) from the roots , projecting above the surface of the water in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trunk by numerous aerial ( adventitious ) roots that grow downward and fuse on to the stem . The redwoods , Sequoia gigantea and S. sempervirens , are the tallest trees known ( see page 5 ) . The cypresses , Cupressus , have heavily branched leaf shoots bear-ing small fleshy leaves . They are very frequently cultivated as hedges and as ornamental plants . The gnetales There are only three genera of this group , Ephedra , Welwits-chia and Gnetum . Although this group has some affinities with the angiosperms , the ovules are naked ; the gnetales , therefore , are included in the gymnosperms . All have separate male and female plants . Ephedra has about thirty species , distributed over the world . It is a wiry shrub with minute leaves . Welwitschia is known only from a small part of South Africa , growing in extreme desert conditions . The plants , which may live for 100 years , appear malformed and appar-ently bear a number of ragged leaves around a woody crown . There are , in fact , only two leaves , which become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to grow from their base to a length of 6 feet . The crown bears the male or female cones on stalks ; no archegonia are produced in the ovule . Gne turn is a tropical plant , growing as a creeper ( liana ) . Its appearance is much like that of an angiosperm , although it produces strings of cones in which the females have no arche-gonia . Although it is not an angiosperm , it represents the most advanced living gymnosperm . The angiosperms ? the flowering plants The relative dominance of gametophyte and sporophyte has been described for all the main groups of plants so far discussed . In the last group , the angiosperms ( flowering plants ) , the alternation of generations is best understood in the light of the evolutionary trend from the algae to the gymnosperms . In the algae , neither generation predominates , but in the bryophytes , the gametophyte is the dominant generation and the sporophyte is a partially dependent phase that grows from it . In the pteridophytes , however , the roles are reversed ; the sporophyte @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases it produces separate male and female gametophytes . The size of the gametophyte is reduced further in the gymnosperms , where it is dependent on the sporophyte , which produces separate male ( pollen ) and female ( ovules ) gametophytes . The ovules are enclosed and bear traces of their origins ; but in the angiosperms , the ovules are enclosed by sporophyte tissue to form an ovary , and the sporophyte tissue is developed to form a structure ( the flower ) that will protect both pollen and ovules and secure fertilization . The angiosperms can be divided into two main groups on The parts of a typical flower , meadow cranesbill , Geranium pratense . In the accompanying diagram the sporophyte is shown in red , the gametophyte in green . 59 the basis of a number of features . These groups are the dicotyledons and the monocotyledons . The word cotyledon ' applies to the leaf-like structure that is part of the seed and is responsible for nourishing the germinating embryo ; monocotyledons , therefore , have one cotyledon ; the dicotyledons have two . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two groups are somewhat different ? those of the monocotyledons are long and narrow with parallel veins and grow from the base , while those of the dicotyledons are usually broad with complex veins and grow from the tip . A comparison of the leaves of the iris ( monocotyledon ) and beech ( dicotyledon ) will demonstrate this point . The dicotyledons In terms of numbers of species , the dicotyledons more than equal all other plants put together . The reason for this is probably that the angiosperms are the most recently successful of the many plant groups , and fewer of them have , therefore , become extinct . In this group , there is a tremendous variety of both herbaceous and woody plants , as shown by the buttercups and the related woody magnolias . They are among the simplest of dicotyledon flowers . The separate colored petals and green 60 sepals are easily distin-guished . The flowers bear a mass of stamens ; the ovary is split into units ( carpels ) each of which contain an ovule . In the crucifers , which de-rive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ petals , the sepa-rate carpels are united into one ovary . Examples include the cabbages , wallflowers , horseradish and rape . The gentians are well know for the striking blue color of their flowers . Here , the petals are united into a tube , a char-acter common to many other families . The umbellifers are dis-tinguished by the way in which the minute flowers are grouped together in flat heads , borne by stalks giving the appearance of umbrella spokes . They include the caraway , carrot , hemlock , parsley and fennel . Many families of dicotyle-dons consist entirely of trees or shrubs . The chest-nuts , oak , beech , hazel and willow are a few exam ples , where the flowers are small in comparison with the size of the plant . Some show adaptation to wind pollination , for exampl hazel catkins . Another family which bears its flowers in heads includes the sawwort , Serratula . The individual flowers within the heads are small and reduced to a tube surrounded by a calyx of hairs . The stamens and styles often project considerably beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scales . These scales often give considerable protection to the flowers , particularly in the case of the spiny heads of the thistles . The poppies are among the most brightly colored of the dicotyledons , but they are also distinctive for another feature : the sepals drop off when the flower opens . Examples include Argemone , Eschscholzia and the brilliantly blue Meconopsis . The complex flowers of most garden roses bear little resemblance to the wild ones , which have a simple cup of separate petals . The pear , the apple and the plum also belong to this family . Three widespread families that have flowers in the form of 62 tubes are the violets , dead-nettles and figworts . Each of these families has a distinctive arrangement of petals partly related to their mechanisms of pollination . A comparison of the pansy ( violet ) , salvia ( dead-nettle ) and Linaria or Antirrhinum ( figworts ) shows how they differ . The dead-nettles derive their name from their similar appearance to the stinging nettles . The marrows , cucumber and loofa plant belong to the cucurbit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derives from the fruit , which is very fleshy . They are all plants which climb by means of tendrils produced by the leaves . Echium is a member of the borages , which include the forget-me-nots . The bristled stems produce flowers which change from pink to blue as they open . Many of the borages are used medicinally . Another family is that of the legumes , which comprise many crop plants , such as clover , lucerne and peas . The complex flower is termed papilionate after its supposed resemblance to a butterfly . Other well-known members of this group are the gorse , broom and lupine . Toadflax , Linaria vulgar-is ( left ) and Argemone hispida ( right ) . The monocotyledons The lilies and their related plants form a very colorful group of monocotyledons , of which the tiger lily is perhaps one of the best illustrations . The daffodils , tulips and similar bulbs are other examples . In all these cases , the calyx is united with the petals to form a striking perianth , which is a particular feature of this group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions for use in cooking are known as saffron . Other useful members of this family include the onion and garlic , both bulbous species . Many lilies , however , produce a rhizome ( underground stem ) rather than a bulb , including the Solomon 's seal and the butcher 's broom . This latter plant is unusual 64 in that it possesses leaf-like structures that are actually flattened portions of the stem . The flowers , and the red ber-ries which follow them , are situated in the middle of each leaf . The plant derives its name from the fact that the spiny tips of these modified stems are used by one species of bird to store insects it has captured . Sedges , rushes , irises , ban-anas , orchids , duckweeds , bromeliads and pondweeds are other types of monocoty-ledons . Although so varied , they share the same basic features . Some of them , for example the orchids , are extremely specialized in their structure , mimicking the shape and coloration of in-sects to ensure pollination . The flowering rush ( Buto-mus ) is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The duckweeds are reduced to the Calypso bulbosa ( below ) and snake 's head , Fritillaria me/eagris right ) . form of a number of leaves which send down rhizoids into the water on which they float . Comprising over 2,500 species distributed throughout the warmer countries , the palms are of great interest and economic importance . Dates , coconuts and sago all come from palms . In appearance , they are much like the cycads , having a tall trunk topped by a crown of fronds ; they differ considerably in their structure and life history ? they are true angiosperms because their seeds are produced in fruits . Although an ancient group , there is little trace of them in the fossil record . Today , however , there is a rich variety of forms . The traveler 's palm , Ravenala madagascariensis , ( not a true palm ) shows two rows of wind-tattered leaves that radiate out in a vertical circle from the crown of the simple trunk ; in contrast , the Fan-Palm ( Hyphaene ) bears bunches of leaves at the top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another family of economically 66 important monocotyledons . Both types show considerable vegetative growth by means of rhizomes and stolons , a fact that is shown clearly by the way in which grasses very quickly form a lawn . The cereals include a great variety of species ? oats , rye , millet , sorghum , wheat , barley and corn . Still other grasses are sources of sugar and oils . The bamboos are used extensively as building materials . The leaves of this family range in size and shape from the minute to the enormous : they comprise a leaf blade that is attached to a stalk often tightly sheathing the stem . This gives the weak stem extra rigidity . The prairies of South America are often dominated by the pampas grass ( Cortaderia ) , forming dense tufts and compounded with dead and living leaves which have very sharp edges . These plants often reach a height of 10 to 15 feet . ( From left to right ) Festuca glauca , Sorghum , Puya PLANT CHARACTERISTICS The second part of this book is concerned with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These diagrams illustrate some of the problems and functions that are further discussed on the following pages . 68 Figure 69 Strength There is no such thing as a safe generalization in biology , however , it can be said that the unit of life is the cell . It is a very complex structure comprised of a nucleus surrounded by a cytoplasm containing specialized structures . Through-out the cytoplasm runs a network of membranes that connect with the outermost membrance of the cell . In plants , the cell is usually contained within a wall , whose structure reveals it to consist of numerous fibers of cellulose ( true plants ) or chitin ( fungi ) , with the individual cells glued together by pectin . The effect of this wall on the cell is very much like putting an inner tube within a tire ? the tube can be inflated until it is pressing against the tire and , as the tire is composed of flexible strands cemented together , the whole structure is strong . The cell wall , therefore , has very special properties , and accordingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fibers running one way , and the other having fibers spread ing in all directions around the wall . The cell is then cush ioned to withstand stresses from all directions . The cell itself is inflated by water pressure , the water being drawn 70 in by the process of osmosis as a result of the sugars in the vacuole . In the fully inflated state , the cell is swollen and exerts turgor pressure that can be applied as a hydraulic pressure . In this way , plants such as rhubarb and certain fungi can push their way up through concrete and asphalt with no strength other than turgor . The common mushroom grows overnight ; the young fruiting body is formed and then expanded rapidly by the uptake of water . The importance of turgor pressure to the strength of plants can be seen in many garden plants , either when they have been transplanted or on a very hot day when the plants wilt through a loss of water . In terms of the tire analogy , this wilting is comparable to deflating a pile of tires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tires can become top-heavy so turgor pressure alone is Growth of the mushroom , Agaricus campestris . This rapid growth is achieved by turgor pressure . 1 . The button stage covered by the universal veil 2 . The lamellar chambers appear 3 . Cap expands 4 . Veil ruptures leaving ring or ' annulus ' 5 . Mature mushroom not enough to support an upright-growing plant , and therefore some cells become specialized to give added strength . In the thalloid lower plants , strength is mainly a result of turgor pressure , sometimes with a number of specialized thickened cells . Many algae have thickened cells dotted throughout theirthallus . Fucus shows this clearly . In the large Laminarias , which may grow to a length of 100 feet and are therefore subjected to considerable stresses from sea currents , there is a differentiated core to the thallus containing the strengthening and conducting cells . For the most part , however , the algae rely on the leathery nature of many of the thalli for their strength and protection . The thalloid lichens show little sign of strengthening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tubular in its growth , have a central core of fungal cells specialized to give strength . One group of mosses , which includes Polytric hum , has reached the stage of bearing leafy shoots with an internal conducting and strengthening system . The central cells have 72 thick walls and conduct water , while the ring of cells outside this core appears similar to the phloem of higher plants and presumably conducts the food . In the pteridophytes , gymnosperms and angiosperms , these systems are well differentiated into xylem and phloem . The xylem is composed of long pitted , dead cells which are greatly thickened by deposits of the polymer lignin . These cells ( elements ) are connected to each other by the pores , forming a continuous system of tubes for the passage of water and salts . The walls of lignin make the cells very strong and resilient . The structure of these elements varies from one group of plants to another . The gymnosperms have elements known as tracheids which form the soft wood , but the angiosperms have a mixture of tracheids and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the way the cells are joined end to end ; tracheids have numerous pores in their end walls , but in vessels these walls break down to give a system of continuous tubes . 73 A section of a trunk shows how secondary thickening produces a vast central core of xylem with its annual rings arising from the difference in size of the elements produced in spring ( large ) and late summer ( small ) . Running into the heart of the tree are numerous strands of living non-woody cells ( rays ) which act as a passageway and a store for food . These rays connect with the bark , on the inside of which is the phloem , the food-conducting tissue . New wood is added from the circumference of the xylem at the boundary with the phloem , where the cam-bium is situated . Cambium is responsible for secondary growth , both of phloem and xylem . This growth pattern produces a structure which enlarges laterally as it grows vertically from the shoot tips , and yet it still retains some flexibility necessary for stability in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the xylem and phloem are usually found together in small bundles to-ward the outside ; but in the root , xylem and phloem alter nate closely in a central core . This difference is accounted for by the different stresses roots and shoots have to bear . Where tree branches are growing under lateral stress , such as when inclined at a steep angle , compression wood is formed . Much more wood is produced on the lower side of the branch , with the result that in cross section the annual rings are ellip-tical rather than circular . Other tissues also contribute toward the strength of the stem . These include fibers and rounded cells with a heavy thickening of cellulose ( collenchyma ) . Collenchyma is usually found outside the vascular re-gion , and in some plants ( dead-nettles ) they may form distinct ridges on the outside of the stem . The extent of many vascular structures is shown in the large fruit of the loofa , where it is ex-posed when the flesh has rotted and the seeds dispersed ; in this state , it is sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have their stengthening structures in the form of silica ; in many grasses ( particularly cereals ) , which lack secondary thickening , the stems owe much of their strength to layers of silica in the surface tissues . Specially thickened cells , sclereids , are found in a great number of plants , one example of which is the fern Asplenium . Strength in plants is therefore mainly due to turgor pressure and a woody skeleton , which enable the plant to withstand stresses ; most important , it enables land plants with appreci-able secondary thickening to reach considerable heights . Many other , weaker plants are also able to grow upward by dependence on sturdier species . The traveller 's joy ( Clema-tis ) , has a weak twisting stem which smothers bushes and small trees , reaching a height far greater than its stems could otherwise bear . The ivy ( Hedera ) is another common ex-ample , producing small roots on its stems which allow it to climb on walls and up tree trunks . More spectacular adapta-tions include tendrils , which are usually specialized coiled tips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the most common ex-ample , and others include the marrow , cucumber and gourds . The related white bryony ( Cucurbita dioica ) has unusual tendrils which first twist one way and then another . The Vir ginia creeper ( Ampelopsis ) supports itself by means of sucker-pads . Exactly how these pads function is something of a mystery . The rattan palms are unusual in that they produce leaves , which have whips that anchor the leaves to nearby trees and literally drag the stems up with them . The spines produced on many stems ( for example , blackberry ) help to anchor other-wise smooth stems which would slip from their supports ; the same feature is present in Loasa hispida. 77 Protection Plants have evolved a variety of defenses against their natural enemies ? predators , parasites , pests and extreme environ-mental conditions . These defenses include devices to trap harmful insects , poisons to kill attackers or to render the plants obnoxious , rapid wound healing , insulating layers , spines , barbs and stinging glands . One structure which fulfills a number of these demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dead , corky cells which form a barrier preventing water loss and invasion by parasites . A considerable number of trees and shrubs have spines , thorns or barbs to protect them from being penetrated or eaten . Perhaps one of the most spectacular examples of this is the palm Zombia , whose leaf bases rot and leave spinous fibers which project at various angles . Berberis and Euphorbia also have sharp , woody spines which act as a defense mechanism . The thistles are well covered in spines , particularly around the flower heads . The protection this affords them is clearly seen in pasture , where they usually grow untouched . The stinging glands of Urtica dioica ( stinging nettle ) are tipped by a brittle cap which snaps off when touched , causing the injec-tion of stinging acid . 78 The protection of flowers from animals that in some way affect their functioning is an important factor in ensuring successful reproduction . The nectar produced by flowers to entice pollinating insects is often raided by other insects which play no part in pollination . To prevent this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nutans , which trap any small animal climbing up the stems to the flowers . This trapping of insects must not be confused with that of plants which actually digest such prey for their nourishment or harbor bacteria which do the job for them ( carnivorous plants ) . A number of plants have fused leaf bases , forming a cup at each joint , or node , in the stem . These cups collect water , which forms a barrier to the advance of climbing insects , such as ants ; this is clearly illustrated in the teasel , where the cups are often full of drowned insects . The surface of many plants is covered in a mass of hairs which also help to prevent the passage of small animals ; the flowers themselves may be similarly covered , ensuring that only flying pollinators reach 80 the pollen and nectar . The protection of fruits is obviously important to the success of any plant , although some fruits need to be eaten in order to stimulate the germination of seeds . Suc-culent fruits are obviously the most susceptible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect them . The coconut illustrates how the embryo and its supply of food can be protected by a hard shell . Similarly the fleshy fruit of the Opuntia cactus is covered by bristles which become embedded in the flesh of any animal foolish enough to eat or touch it . A surprising number of plants harbor colonies of ants which serve as a living defense mechanism in return for food or shelter . Several examples will be discussed later , but two are relevant here . The first concerns Hyd-nophytum , a tropical plant which houses ant colonies in its swollen stem bases . These insects aggressively defend their home and in so doing protect the plant . A similar situation occurs in many trop-ical palms , such as Acacia , where ants live in the hollow stem spines . Any animal that disturbs the tree causes the ants to rush out to the attack . 81 Besides structural methods of defense , there are many chemicals which protect plants by their toxic or obnoxious effects . The fact that so many poisons and drugs come from plants is evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacture . Hemlock , strychnine , hallucinogenic drugs and curare are a few of the most well-known examples . In many chemicals , their possible protective role is pure speculation , but it is difficult to see how plants would have evolved unnecessary chemicals against the efficient pressure of natural selection . By inference , they must have some use . One recent example of how modern research is clarifying this problem is that of the juvenile hormone ' produced by a particular conifer . This hormone prevents caterpillars which eat the foliage from maturing , and hence reproducing . This Peter Pan ' mechanism , therefore , is a most effective defense against pests . The poisonous chemicals in some plants are lethal to any species of animal , as in Amanita phalloides , the death cap mushroom . But the poisons of many plants are dangerous to some animals and not to others . This apparent drawback can , in fact , be an advantage , as it may pave the way for a special relationship between the plant and one or two particular species of animal . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red berries poisonous to most animals . One exception is the thrush . This bird , therefore , is the distributor of the seeds . It is surprising how many plants are dangerous to livestock or affect their yield . Bracken is poisonous to grazing animals and is thought to contain a cancer factor . The horsetails are similarly poisonous to livestock , while yew causes many fatalities among cattle . The drugs from deadly nightshade and the foxglove which are used in medicine can be fatal if too large a quantity is taken . Many plants release small quantities of prussic acid when damaged ; some strains of the white clover are able to produce this poison and so are resistant to slugs , which attack only the non-toxic varieties . Apple seeds ( pips ) also produce this chemical , but a considerable quantity would have to be eaten to produce any noticeable effect . Resistance to disease and pests also varies as much within species as between species . In duckweed , Lemna , the Nutrition chloroplasts move in response Most plants are able to manuto light intensity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of photosynthesis. 1v1 The energy of light is har- ' " " Ws oloolwain by pigments , most commonly chlorophyll , to 00 , ; o provide chemical energy for the incorporation of simple molecules into complex compounds such as starch . In true plants , this energy is used to fix ' carbon dioxide ( 0.03 percent of the atmosphere ) involving a simultaneous release of oxygen from water . Therefore , provided with an adequate supply of water , carbon dioxide and mineral salts , plants are independent of other organisms Sun 's light for their food . In higher plants , photosynthesis occurs mainly in the leaves , which are adapted to a higher intake of light and Figure 84 carbon dioxide . One such ex-ample is that of the fern Hymenophyllum , where the complex structure of the leaf presents a large surface area to the atmosphere . The chlo-rophyll is located in chloro-plasts within the cells , which in Lemna change positions according to the light inten-sity , as very strong light can be harmful to the pigments . There are numerous exam-pies where a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partially or totally lost . Such plants are saprophytic or parasitic . Those which draw food directly from other iving organisms are said to be parasitic and are attached by special structures to their host plant . Certain plants of the fig-wort family have the appearance of a normal green plant , but they are attached by special roots to other plants that supplement their food supply . Euphrasia , the eyebright , Rhinanthus , the yellow rattle and red bartsia are members of this group of partial parasites . Both Lathraea , the toothwort , and Rafflesia are examples of total parasites . Lathraea is a parasite of the hazel , to which it is attached underground . It only appears in the spring when it produces its flowers . The leaves are peculiar hollow structures , whose function , since they can not make any food , is obscure . The giant Rafflesia is visible only as a fetid flower up to a yard in diameter . It grows on the exposed roots of some tropical trees , nourishing itself within the root and eventually producing a bud which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the parasitic ones are responsible for most diseases . Once they secure entry to the plant or animal tissues , they multiply rapidly , using food derived from dead cells , blood or sap . Some bacteria can double their numbers once every half-hour . The toxins which many produce as a result of their activity may kill surrounding tissues or create a breakdown of regulatory systems in the case of animals , leading to fevers . The effect of the disease may be temporary , lethal or permanent , and the bacterium may infect specialized tissue or the whole body . The diptheria bacterium grows in the throat , but it sends toxins to the rest of the body ; the tuberculosis germ is usually restricted to the chest , but it may spread elsewhere . Bacterial 86 diseases of plants include the soft-rots and wilts of vegetables . The galls seen on many plants result from growth hormones released by the invading bacteria . In the lower organisms , invasion of the host enables the parasite to take in its food requirements directly from the blood or sap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or totally by secreting digestive enzymes . The toxins produced by many parasites kill the host tissue in advance of the organism , ensuring little resistance and a ready food supply . Parasites which can only live in contact with the host are said to be obligate , while those which can live also saprophytically on dead material are said to be facultative . Some fungal parasites extract their food from the host by means of special invading suckers ( haustoria ) . Armillaria is an obligate parasite of many trees , including the apple . Its rapid growth within the roots , and later the stem , soon leads to the death of the tree and production of its basidiocarps . The saprophytes often follow in the wake of the parasites , utilizing the host remains or feeding on products such as dead leaves , dung , leather or food . The intestines of all animals con tain a flora ' of micro-organisms which feed on ingested food and apparently import some degree of resistance to disease . In many organisms this flora is essential to the digestion pro cess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ruminants ) . In the tropics , due to the high humidity and temperatures , fungi readily attack clothing , breaking it down into simple substances for absorption . The secretion of enzymes for this process can easily be demonstrated by culturing certain fungi or bacteria on starch and staining to show how the starch around their colonies disappears . Cellulose is one of the commonest waste materials , and numerous organisms are able to digest it for their own use . The soil is , therefore , the most common source of saprophytes , as most of the waste cellulose occurs as leaves and straw which are buried by earthworms , or form a surface litter . Many basidiomycetes are found as saprophytes on tree 88 stumps , including Fomes , Polyporus and Pleurotus . The bracket , or shelf , fungi digest the cellulose and lignin of wood by secretions from their mycelium , and extrude their basidio carps usually as perennial brackets on the bark , adding new portions each season . The storage products within the wood are a useful source of food . The yellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian pipe , is a dicotyledonous saprophyte associated with the mycorrhiza of the beech , pines or willows . The plant is yellow , consisting of a simple stem covered in slightly over-lapping scales , at the top of which are produced the pale yellow flowers . This plant obtains all its nutrients from the soil and the fungus without photosynthesis . In contrast with the photosynthesis of higher plants , ( in volving the use of energy from light to fix carbon dioxide into more complex compounds , with water broken down into oxygen ) the photosynthetic bacteria are able to replace either carbon dioxide or water by other simple molecules , without the release of oxygen . Some of the purple sulphur bacteria use 89 hydrogen sulphide in place of water to fix carbon dioxide . This process takes place in two parts . In the first , sulphur is released and stored either inside or outside the cell for use in the second part if the supply of hydrogen sulphide stops . Similarly , carbon dioxide may be replaced by other simple carbon compounds , such as acetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bacteria . A few pigmented bacteria are able to utilize hydrogen gas in place of water , fixing either carbon dioxide or other carbon compounds . Many of these bacteria will only live in the complete absence of oxygen ? air is lethal to them . The energy stored in complex compounds by photosynthe-sis can be subsequently released by the process known as res-piration . Respiration is a feature of all organisms , as all require energy , and in the higher forms involves oxygen as the final oxidizing agent . Respiration is therefore effectively the reverse of photosynthesis ; carbon dioxide and water are re-leased from the complete oxidation of sugars . Among the bacteria , to which oxygen is often lethal , res-piration is modified to function anaerobically , so that corn-90 pounds are not completely oxidized to carbon dioxide and water . Yeasts , too , can respire anaerobically , pro-ducing alcohol and carbon dioxide from sugars . The acetic-acid bacteria produce acetic acid from sugars , while other groups produce butyric acid , citric acid or oxalic acid . Among the inorganic compounds used by them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this energy may be released as light , as in luminescent bacteria and fungi , and therefore the cycle of light - photosynthe-sis - sugars - respiration - light is completed . The fixation of nitrogen is another important process , as nitrogen is an element essen-tial to all organisms . Certain bacteria are able to convert nitrogen gas into useful solid compounds , and therefore they play an important part in the nitrogen cycle . The sources of nitrogen avail-able to other organisms are therefore products ultimately derived from minerals , and nitrate produced by the effect of lightning on atmospheric nitrogen . This fixation re-quires considerable energy , which is derived from the oxidation of sugars. 91 Many plants have sticky stems , flowers or leaves that trap small animals , particularly insects . Relatively few of these , however , actually digest them and absorb their remains ; such plants which digest trapped animals are termed carnivorous , of which there are about 450 species . Some fungi are carnivorous , catching their prey by a loop , but most of these plants are angio-sperms . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they can loosely be divided into two types , the passive and the active . In the passive type , the prey is simply caught by a sticky secretion , or falls into a trap ; no movement of any part of the plant is involved . In the case of Byblis , insects are caught by a viscid secretion produced by stalked glands on the stems , leaves and even flowers . Other glands secrete juices that dis-solve the captured animals and absorb them . The pitchers of Nepenthes are modified leaves and collect water into which small animals and insects fall and drown prior to their diges-tion . The peculiar lobster-pot ' traps of Genlisea are produced in shallow water , hanging down like tuberous , hollow roots , with an opening at the tip . As the prey passes down the trap , it is digested and absorbed by the plant . The rosette leaves of Pinguicula , the butterwort , like Byblis bear numerous sticky glands . However , some degree of active response to the trapped prey is shown in the form of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed to be secreted by the glands . A similar system is found in the sundews , Drosera species , in which tentacles are produced over the surface of the leaf and are tipped by glands . Other glands are produced both on the surfaces of these tentacles and over the leaves . The tentacles respond to the presence of food by curling over and trapping it until digestion has taken place . Two other interesting active mechanisms are encountered in the Venus fly trap , Dionaea , and the bladderwort , Utricul-aria . The leaves of Dionaea are hinged , bearing at their margins a number of tentacles . When an insect alights , the leaf rapidly closes , like a butterfly shutting its wings , enabling digestion to take place . 92 Besides the major requirements of carbon dioxide or other organic compounds , water , nitrogen compounds , light and usually oxygen , plant nutrition involves a wide range of minerals . Calcium is an essential part of cell walls , while silica is also deposited here . Magnesium is an integral part of chlorophyll , while iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the elements involved in the functioning of enzymes . Plants deficient in any of these elements display deficiency symptoms that may be characteristic . A shortage of magnesium results in a low level of chlorophyll , and the plant is said to be chlorotic . A deficiency of ' zinc will lead to peculiar flower formation in clover , and shortages of potassium ( potash ) or phosphates give symptoms dreaded by every gardener . Excess can be as harmful as shortage , or even lethal . The spoil heaps of metal mines contain extremely high concentrations of minerals , and hardly anthing will grow on them , as these minerals penetrate the plant and inhibit its functioning , or prevent the uptake of other elements . Yet , strains of some plants can be found that have derived a mechanism which enables them either to tolerate high levels of metals within them , or to exclude them from the plant . Most minerals enter the plant by the roots . In lower plants , these are represented by rhizoids , but in higher plants the roots bear numerous minute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the soil . Mineral salts in solution are taken into the roots and carried via the xylem throughout the plant . The pattern of uptake is often specific for a particular plant , although plants do not only absorb elements which they re-quire . The mechanisms of uptake are still somewhat obscure and controversial . Sphagnum cell walls behave like an ion-exchange resin , such as those used to soften hard water , and exchange hydrogen ions for salts . The surrounding water thus becomes acid . Carnivorous and parasitic plants obviously ob-tain their mineral requirements from their prey or host , while mosses growing on dry soil beneath trees often depend on the drops of rain which drip from the leaves above . 95 Water Relations The fact that many plants are comprised of over 90 percent water indicates the importance of this compound to plant life ; in fact , to all living organisms . As a fluid , with hydraulic properties , it is responsible for turgor pressure , an important element in plant strength . As a liquid with a neutral pH ( neither acid or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical reactions . It is a requirement of photosynthesis and a product of respiration . Under acid conditions , it behaves as a weak alkali , and under alkaline conditions it behaves as a weak acid ; its freezing and boiling temperatures are suited to the range of temperatures most commonly found on this planet , so that water evaporates from the soil to the sky and then condenses as rain to come back again to the soil , rivers and seas . The importance of water is therefore obvious , but one problem remains ? availability . Plants can not move in search of water . At the most , they can extend their roots to new sources . If they grow in a region where water is not always plentiful , they have to conserve it , and a variety of mechanisms has evolved to achieve this . As far as water availability is concerned , plants that grow immersed in water or float on its surface enjoy the best conditions ; but this does not allow for the possibility of the habitat occasionally dry ing up or , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the availability of light and car-bon dioxide . The cells of water plants are very thin , and water is freely exchanged ; their sur faces often contain special pores called water stomata that aid this process . Aquatic fungi , bacteria , algae and bryophytes need no special structures , as their cells are freely permeable to water . Aquatics that become ex-posed at certain periods seaweeds for example ? often contain mucilage cells that are thought to act as water stores . Their surfaces are also covered in mucilage to res trict evaporation . Many high er plants that possess water pores , or hydathodes , on their leaves , take in more water than they can lose by evapora tion and nutrition . Excess water is exuded as droplets , a process termed gutta tion , and much of the dew seen on some plants is a result of it . Salts are sometimes excreted with this water from hydathodes , encrusting the leaves and stems . The whitened leaves of some saxifrages are due to calcium salts deposited in this way . The lower land plants do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon capillary attraction between cells . The rhizoids function as the first link in this chain of con duction , taking up water rapidly . Sphagnum has no rhizoids in the mature plant , and so it relies on conduction by external cells . Some species possess specialized empty stem cells with numerous pores ; in some cases these cells are termed retort cells for obvious reasons . Water is therefore rapidly drawn from cell to cell up the stem . In other species , dead cells in the leaves form the conducting system and absorb water up to a weight twenty times that of the plant itself The leafy liverworts have their pairs of overlapping leaves arranged either above or below the following pair , so that conduction can be facilitated up or down the stem according to the way in which the plant grows . Frullania has a small pitcher at the base of each leaf , which is thought to function as a water-store . The exposed surfaces of all land plants are covered by a protective coat known as the cuticle . It is an elastic skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basically , it is a sponge of cutin whose pores are filled with wax . In cross section , the cuticle can be seen to be attached to the outermost cell walls by a layer of pectin , with which it is interwoven . Even the cells within leaves are coated with a thin cuticle . Although it swells in water , the cutin forms a framework for a water-repelling structure that plays an important part in water retention . The internal wax deposits are often extended as a surface bloom ' ( such as that seen on grapes and plums ) that can be quite complex . The surface wax of the sugar cane , for example , is present as a layer of rodlets . It is the wax that is really responsible for water retention , and if removed allows consider-99 able amounts of water to evaporate . The cuticle also controls the inward passage of water and nutrients from the leaf surface . While the cuticle is impor-tant in retaining water within the plant , a certain amount of evaporation is not only in-evitable but even desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cooling mechanism and pre-vents the plant from over-heating in strong sunlight . This water loss is replaced in higher plants by water drawn in by the root surfaces , where it passes from cell to cell to the vascular core and then moves in the xylem up the stem to the leaves . The xylem acts as a pipe-line connecting adjacent cells to the main supply by a sys-tem of pores . From these cells , water can move to any other cell by connecting threads of cytoplasm that pass through the cell walls . In higher plants , most water uptake occurs in the root hairs growing just behind the root tip ? they are thin-walled out-growths from surface cells of the root . The water roots produced by some trees near water perform the same function . Those of the willows are often bright pink and absorb water in considerable quantities . The rooting systems of many desert plants extend for considerable distances in search of water . Rooting systems are very adaptable and grow toward a water supply ? buried wood holds large amounts of moisture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orchids grow on the trunks and branches of trees , where much of their water supply comes from the humidity present under the tree canopies . They , therefore , . have special aerial roots that absorb the atmospheric moisture by means of a thin-walled tissue several cells deep , the velamen . Vriesea is unusual in having its leaf surfaces covered in absorptive scales . When dry , each scale forms a cup , so that water falling on it is retained . The scales rapidly absorb the water , and in so doing change shape to form a convex cap that helps to reduce water loss . 101 The shortage of water in arid climates has a marked effect on the lives of the plants growing there . In many areas water is available only at one season , often torrentially . Consequently , this short season is a period of intense activity for the plant life , both for growing and for storing water . Some desert and scrub plants behave as annuals ? growing , flowering and setting seed within the space of the wet season . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when water is plentiful . Many shrubs and cacti spend the dry season as naked stems which sprout leaves only under favorable conditions . Kleinia neriifolia is an example where the leaves are deciduous , dropping off in drought , with new ones appearing after a rain . Others include the crown of thorns , Euphorbia splendens , and many other euphorbias . The true cacti have no leaves , only spines , and store considerable quantities of water . Few stomata are present in the thick cuticle , as little carbon dioxide is taken in . The compass plants present an unusual example of a growth pattern that protects the plant from excessive sunlight . Each nearly vertical leaf is twisted on its side , exposing only a small area to the sun . Their name is derived from the fact that the plants often point their leaves in a north-south direction . Examples include Silphium and the prickly lettuce . Many Australian plants adopt this protective habit . Some desert plants are so well adapted to their environment that they can not be distinguished from their natural background . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shape and coloring as many pebbles , and they normally are passed unnoticed . Some of the most familiar examples are species of Conophytum and Fenes.traria . The succulent leaves are completely fused in pairs , enclosing the stem and developing leaves , and giving the appearance of a leafless stem . The top of the plant is often speckled and may contain a translucent structure , or window , which admits some light to the rest of the plant . During the dry season , the plant appears to die , as the outer pair of leaves go brown , but as soon as water is available these split open to reveal a fresh pair of leaves . Other means of protection include sunken stomata in a very thick cuticle or the ability of the leaves to roll up in dry conditions ( Ammophila ) . 103 Breathing The life processes of plants involve respiration and photosynthesis , for which there must be an exchange of gases between the plant and its environment . For photo-synthesis , carbon dioxide must be taken in and oxygen released ; and for respiration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many organisms , such as some bac teria , require hydrogen sul phide or hydrogen . Ethylene is also released by many t is sues . There is , therefore , considerable movement of gases between the cells and their environment . The bal ance of exchange between dif ferent gases varies not only between different plants , but in any one plant throughout the day . In sunlight , the rate of photosynthesis is much great er than that of respiration , making a net influx of carbon dioxide and loss of oxygen ; but at night , respiration is not accompanied by photosyn thesis , and the exchange in volves a net loss of carbon dioxide . In lower and simpler plants , gases are simply ex-changed through the cell or plant surface , and no special structures are required . With increase in size and com plexity , diffusion through 104 the outermost cell walls is not sufficient to supply all lie 1 ) 1.111 requirements ? in a tissue of tightly packed cells , the inns ' ones would suffer both from a lack of certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such tissues , therefore , incorporate numerous small spaces which connect with each other and with the outside , often by pores . In lower land plants , these pores are simple holes , but in higher plants these pores have become specialized stomata . The trend of plant evolution has been from water to land . Therefore , the problems of water availability , as we have sect ) , are mostly associated with higher plants that have colonized land . The need to exchange gases with the environment for the life processes consequently accelerates the loss of water ? if carbon dioxide and oxygen can diffuse freely in and out of tile plant , so can water . How , then , can the land plants compromise on this problem ? The answer lies in the cuticle . As a water-repelling structure which allows the diffusion of carbon dioxide , the cuticle with its stomata allows unimpeded flow of carbon dioxide , while retaining some control over water loss . The lower land plants have simple pores , often characteristic of a given plant . Those of Marc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a lip above and below the outside layer of cells . The lower lip projects into an air chamber , separated from others in the thallus . On the floor of each chamber are scattered the photosynthetic cells . In surface view each pore appears cross-shaped because of the bottom row of four projecting cells . In contrast , the pores of Fegatella conica are raised on a stalk-like projection . The stomata of plants higher than the bryophytes are pores formed by only two cells , termed guard cells . The variable thickening on the guard cell walls allows them to vary their shape according to their turgor . Because of this , their behavior is the opposite of what would be expected ? in the turgid state the pore is fully open , while a loss of water closes it . Thus , the wilted plant closes its stomata and prevents further water loss . The guard cells are usually the only green cells in the outermost layer of the plant ( epidermis ) ? exactly how this effects their behavior is not known , but carbon dioxide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to change their size according to different conditions . Partial closing affects the rate of carbon dioxide and oxygen diffusion very little , while significantly cutting down water loss . The higher plants have , therefore , found a fairly efficient compromise between gas exchange and undersirable water loss . 106 Stomata are found mainly on leaves , but they also occur on green stems and even occasionally on roots . Below the stomata are cavities that lead through air spaces to all the cells of the leaf . Gases can , therefore , diffuse from any cell and find their way out through the stomata , via these air spaces . The stomata of conifers , as shown by the example of a species of juniper , are quite distinctive , while sharing the same basic features as those of angiosperms . Both grasses and conifers have stomata arranged in rows along the leaf . These are connected in a regular fashion by air passages formed by arched cells . The cavities below the stomata are also roofed in by arched cells ( as in Elymus arenarius , the sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tissues . In a number of plants that grow in damp shady places or have leaves which are easily wetted , the stomata are raised on stalks . Cucurbita pepo illustrates how the positioning of stomata in this way helps to increase the loss of water and exchange of gases , while possibly preventing the pores from be-coming blocked by drops of water . The bark of many twigs is pitted by small breathing pores or lenticels . In the twigs of the ash , the lenticels are easily visible as lighter spots against the gray stem . Sambucus , the ground elder , has very conspicuous lenticels that appear as light-col-ored warts on the stem . Each wart is a loose mass of cells that break the uniform covering of tightly packed cork cells . The spaces between these cells presumably allow air to move through the bark to the living tissues underneath . In ac-tively growing twigs this is probably essential , as air can only reach the stem cells by this route ? air taken in by the leaves has too far to travel to allow sufficient exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the stem . In the beech , they are complex , with alternate layers of cork and non-cork cells . Plants growing in water can only obtain their oxygen and carbon dioxide from the gases dissolved in the water , and both these gases are present in lower concentrations than they are in the air . Although this is sufficient for many plants , a number of ways have evolved for avoiding'this problem . One way is obviously to produce some leaves floating on the water surface or projecting in the air , like the water lilies and arrowhead . Another is to have air storage tissues as a part of the underwater structure . The stems and leaves of a number of aquatics contain this spongy honeycombed tissue , which also adds to the buoyancy of the plant . Mangrove roots project pneumatophores above the water-level for breathing . These spongy tubes are filled with connecting air spaces which open by pores to the atmosphere . 109 Transport and Excretion The movements of gases in and out of the cell are accompanied by the movements of liquids and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transport system obviously does not arise in unicellular organisms , as food moves about the cells by a combination of diffusion and transport across the membranes . Waste products , toxins and digestive enzymes are transported across the outer cell membrane , or by connecting pores from cell to cell to the outside of the plant . Even useful food can be secreted in this way ? the unicellular alga Chlorella has been shown to secrete amino acids ( the building bricks of protein ) to the surrounding water . Nectar is also secreted by cells from structures known as nectaries , which are usually part of the flower . Nectar is a sugar solution whose concentration varies from 25 to 75 percent . Flower nectaries may be exposed , as in Ruta graveolens , or concealed to protect the nectar from thieving insects . Higher animals have a blood-circulatory system that allows food and oxygen to be pumped around the body by a heart . It comprises two types of pipeline ? arteries and veins ? which form a continuous system . By contrast , the transport system in plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is drawn up mainly in the xylem from the roots , while food passes from the active leaves to the stem , roots and embryo leaves via the phloem . The two systems are not directly connected and function quite separately , but a certain amount of leakage between them does occur . The active cells in the phloem are the sieve tubes and their companion cells . The sieve tubes are strands of cells joined together by modified end walls ? sieve plates ? containing numerous pores . Each sieve cell is controlled by its own companion cell , as transport in the phloem is an active process . Food is believed to pass both up and down each sieve tube so that movement through the plant is flexible , both for short distances to adjoining cells or from the leaves to storage tissues in the stem or the root . Some of the larger algae possess a tissue similar in appearance to the phloem of higher plants , and its function has been assumed to be the same . Most bryophytes do not have a conducting tissue . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sucrose . Other systems occur in plants for the transport or storage of specialized products . Thus , the resin canals typical of pines transport resins and gums , including turpentine . A cross section of a pine needle shows the canals into which the resins are secreted . A number of angiosperms have systems for transporting latex ; the individual cells of the system are often extensively branched and easily recognizable . The rubber-producing trees and the spurges ooze latex if wounded ? the latex of the common garden spurge can be seen by breaking the stem , when the milky liquid flows from the wound . The tapping of rubber trees by slits in the trunk releases latex that can be collected for making rubber . Apart from its properties of closing wounds in contact with the air , it is not known what importance latex has for the plant , but it has been suggested that it artc ac fnnd rPcPrvP Special substances are also secreted or excreted into individual cells . Calcium oxalate , calcium carbonate , tannins , oils and mucilage are products commonly found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies suspended from the cell wall . The peculiar spherical bodies found in some leaf cells of Dictamnus albus are an example of structures secreted into internal cavities or glands . In this way , leaves accumulate considerable quanitities of apparently useless substances during their life , and many are shed with the leaf . It has often been claimed that this is one way in which higher plants excrete waste products . Nobody really knows whether such substances are waste , or whether they are storage products . Under these circumstances it is difficult to say whether they are excreted or secreted , as the term secretion is applied to useful substances and excretion to waste products . However , the wall materials released by the plant in order to coat its cells are certainly secreted , as they are useful . These substances include cellulose , lignin , pectin , silica , cutin and waxes , and some have been shown to be transported from the cells via tiny vesicles , or sacs. 113 Reproduction Viruses do nothing but breed by invading host cells ? between each cycle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can hardly be said to be living . Yet when a virus invades a suitable cell to breed , it breaks down the cell 's organization and uses it to manufacture more of itself . Reproduction in viruses is a two-step process ; each virus comprises nucleic acid and a shell of protein , and these are manufactured separately before assembling them to make complete virus units . Once this is accomplished , the host cell ruptures , and the new viruses are released . This is the lytic cycle , and thus embraces a very primitive kind of feeding and breeding . Thus , some two hundred viruses may be produced . Under some conditions , however , virulent types will not multiply , but attach themselves to the nucleic acid of the host , remaining there in harmony with the host until some change in the environment stimulates it to multiply and kill the host cell . This process is best seen in the bacteria , where the bacteriophage may become part of the looped chromosome . As sexual reproduction in the bacteria involves the transfer of a male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virus can be transmitted too , although the entire male chromosome is rarely completely transferred . This partial transfer is an unusual feature , as other organisms generally involve the fusion of equal male and female gametes . A particle thought to be related to viruses is also often part of the bacterial chromosome , and its presence makes the chromosome a male ' . This particle , the fertility factor , can also carry the drug-resistance factors that make the bacteria resistant to various drugs ? the resistance for up to eight drugs may be carried here . The interbreeding between various bacterial species enables the resistance to spread from group to group , and is a serious hazard to the fight against disease . Breeding is normally thought of as a sexual process , but vegetative reproduction is very important , including the production of rhizomes , budding or spore formation . In the lower organisms spores allow considerable spread of fungi and 115 bacteria , but sexual reproduction is a shuffling of the pack of genes , and therefore an important part in the process of variation from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a group as diverse as the fungi has an equally diverse variety of breeding mechanisms . The situation is further complicated by the fact that some fungi produce the sexes on separate mycelia , while others are hermaphrodite . Sexual fusion may also involve distinctive separate gametes , or simply nuclei from some of the hyphae . Among the lower fungi the most primitive condition is found in examples such as Olpidium , a parasite of vetches . The gametes are identical in appearance and move by means of flagella . The product from fusion , the zygote , germinates to infect the host once more . In Allomyces , an aquatic fungus related to Saprolegnia , the two motile gametes differ in size . Which is male and which is female ? Unfortunately we judge everything by our own standards . To overcome this problem we can refer to mating strains rather than male and female sexes . The hyphae of opposite mating strains of some Mucortype fungi , Phycomyces for example , come together and fuse to produce a zygospore which has a thick-walled resistant coat . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gamete is larger and contained in an enlarged 116 hyphal tip , while the other gametes are simply nuclei con-tained within smaller hyphae . The smaller hyphae grow toward the larger ones and fuse with them . In some fungi the smaller hyphae are known as antheridia ( male ) and the larger ones containing the egg cells as oogonia ( female ) . The male vegetative hyphae of Achlya are stimulated to produce antheridia by a hormone produced in the female cells ; the antheridia then secrete a hormone in response which causes the oogonia to be formed ? in this way , altogether four different hormones are involved before sexual fusion occurs , as additional hormones are also required in attracting the antheridia to the oogonia and then in the de-limitation of both the male and female organs . The ascomycetes and basidiomycetes bring together a number of different nuclei by fusion of hyphae . These nuclei do not fuse immediately , and growth continues until sexual hyphae arise and fusion takes place . The sexual cells of Pyronema show this in ascomycetes . From the hyphae in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basidia . In asci the zygote nucleus divides to give commonly eight spores , while the nucleus in each basidium generally extrudes four spores at the tip of the cell . As most algae live in water , they do not have to guard against many of the problems facing land plants and , like the acquatic fungi , are therefore able to produce simple gametes . Within each main group , with the exception of the red algae , a series of both motile and non-motile gametes is found ? some motile P gametes being identical ( Chlamydomonas , Cladophora and Ulva ) and others differing in size ( Codium ) . The filamentous Spirogyra fuses its cells in a general manner similar to that of many fungi ; one cell empties its contents into another , and the resulting fusion produces a zygote . Chara , the stonewort , produces its gametes in specialized structures known as antheridia ( male ) and oogonia ( female ) . The same situation exists in the brown algae Ascophyllum , Pelvetia and Fucus . In these algae the antheridia and oogonia develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At low tide the drying of the plant causes contraction of the pits , which squeezes out the antheridia and oogonia . Fusion , therefore , takes place outside the plant . The red algae have the most highly The fruiting head of part of the plant , Pe/vetia , a monoecious seaweed . developed reproductive structures . The antheridia release non-motile bodies which drift in the water currents and may become attached to a special projection from the oogonia . They are also unusual in that fertilization occurs inside the plants . In one form or another the gametes of the land plants are produced in antheridia and archegonia . The archegonia are really modified oogonia in which only one egg is usually formed and retained until after fertilization . In bryophytes they are flask-shaped , with a long narrow neck surrounding a tube leading down to the egg at the bottom of the flask . The antheridia consist of a head borne on a stalk ? in the head the motile gametes ( sperm ) are produced . The positioning of these organs varies throughout the group , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant rather than wholly or partially embedded as in the higher plants . As usual , there are some exceptions to the rule in Riccia , Pellia and Anthoceros . Marchantia and some of its allies are unusual in producing their sexual organs on special stalks , while Sphaerocarpos forms its organs within pear-shaped bracts . The sexual organs of Andreaea develop in the usual way of mosses , but after fer tilization the developing embryo ( sporophyte ) is raised on a stalk which carries some of the other archegonia with it . In order to achieve fertilization the male gamete must first swim to a ripe archegonium ? for this it needs a film of water and is at tracted by chemicals . The antheridia and archegonia of Sphag num are borne on separate branches , either on the same or different plants . Each antheridium is protected by a leaf and has a long stalk , while the archegonia are protected by a cup of large leaves . The male gametes are liberated by rupture of the top of the antheridium . By way of contrast , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the gametophyte tissue behind the growing point , the male organs being completely enclosed in small chambers . At maturity the roof of this chamber breaks down , exposing the antheridia , which in turn split to release the gametes . Each archegonial pore is surrounded by a funnel of mucilage , whose function is not known . In the ferns , the sexual organs are borne on the prothallus , 120 the heart-shaped gameto-phyte . They are typically found on the lower surface , with the archegonia around the cleft and the antheridia scattered toward the apex . The male gametes have nu-merous flagella in contrast with the two flagella of the bryophytes , and are released by the tip , or cap cell , being pushed off . The possession of a motile gamete , therefore , means that the ferns are still dependent on a film of water to allow the male gamete to swim to the egg . As the sexual organs are situated on the lower side of the prothallus , this film of water will usually be present , but in the few types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on separate prothalli , the problem is greater . The fusion of the egg cell and sperm results in a zygote which grows out of the archegonium to become the fern plant . The sporangia produced on the leaves of the fern plant contain the- spores that will grow into new prothalli . In true ferns all these spores are identical and will grow into bisexual prothalli . But many pteridophytes produce two types of spore , the smaller forms a male gametophyte and the larger a female one . This is shown in Selaginella , where the two spore types are produced separately in different sporangia . Furthermore , both types of spore do not grow into a large structure such as a prothallus , but the gametophyte develops within the spore and there produces its sexual organs . In some instances the female spore is not released from the plant until one of its archegonia has been fertilized . The bean-shaped structures produced by the leaves of Marsilea , a fern ally , also contain two types of sporangia . Both eventually release their spores , which grow like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gametes produced by the male gametophyte then fertilize the eggs retained within the female spores . A similar condition exists in the related Salvinia , the water hyacinth . In this way the sexes are separated on to different gametophytes , together with a reduction of the gametophyte generation . However , little reduction has occurred among the pteridophytes in the size of the sexual organs themselves . A further stage in plant evolution can be seen in the gymnosperms . Following from the reduction of the gametophyte in some ferns , those of the gymnosperms are even smaller , 123 though archegonia are still recognizable . The sporangia are organized into distinctive male and female cones , while the female spores are retained on the plant in naked ovules until a seed has been produced . The male spores are the pollen , which is usually carried to the female cones by wind . Pollen is trapped in the sticky chamber at the top of each ovule , and there germinates as a gametophyte . Often , motile gametes are produced from these spores , but in some cases reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there is simply fusion of nuclei . The most significant difference between the gymnosperms and lower plants is that male spores , rather than vulnerable sperm , are transferred to the female cones . In the pines , the yew ( Taxus baccata ) shows the tremendous number of pollen grains that are released from the male cones to be blown to the Female cone female ones . Some male cones release literally millions of spores . The small group including Ephedra , Gnetum and Welwitschia is advanced , in some cases having no archegonia at all ; there is very little trace of the gametophyte left.GThis reduction simplifies the sexual process , making it less susceptible to the environment . The structure of the angiosperm flower has already been described : how , then is this structure important in breeding ? Most angiosperms are insect pollinated ? either pollen or nectar attracts the insects from flower to flower . The colors of the petals also play an important part , although the colors we see are not necessarily those seen by other animals . Bees and birds are sensitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presence of the red Delphinium in America , where the flowers are pollinated by hummingbirds , and of exclusively blue strains in Britain , where bees are the pollinators . The absence of petals or sepals is common in the wind-pollinated trees , which often produce catkins suitable for the wind dispersal of pollen . When the pollen alights on the top of the ovary , on the styles , it germinates to produce a pollen tube which grows down toward the ovules . Fusion of nuclei takes place sooner or later to give both an embryo and a food reserve . No sperm of archegonia are produced at any stage , and reduction of the gametophyte has reached its climax . The variations in angiosperm breeding are slanted toward different methods of pollination and seed production . Nectar and pollen are the usual bait offered to pollinators , but even fetid smells are found attractive by some insects . The cuckoo pint not only attracts some insects by a foul stench but traps them to ensure pollination . They slip down inside the flower and are unable to climb out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pollen for transfer to other flowers . The bright colors of flowers attract pollinators 126 and guide them to the pollen or nectar . Since many insect , , avoid darkness , the inside of flowers are not too dark . ' Hie complex flower of Ceropegia illustrates the presence of win dow 's to achieve this . Some violets are able to produce normal sexual flowers in one season and non-sexual flowers in an other ; the non-sexual ones are small and colorless and never open to set seed . Pollination can take place within the same plant ( self pollination ) or between different plants ( cross-pollination ) . The prevention of self-pollination can be achieved by segregating the sexes in different flowers or plants , or by allowing the anthers and styles to mature at different times . The sexes of some Begonia species are segregated among the flowers on the same plant , the male flowers growing above the female ones . In the event of cross-pollination failing , pollen from the male flowers above can ensure successful setting of seed . Although wind is a common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The most frequently quoted example of water pollination is that of Vallisneria , an aquatic angiosperm . Minute male flowers are released underwater and float to the surface where their stamens are exposed to the female flower . Dispersal To prevent excessive overcrowding and competition between individuals of the same species , seeds or spores from the parent plant must be dispersed . Often this involves only a very short distance . There is also the need to breed with other populations to ensure hybrid vigor . For any organism which can not move these needs are achieved by an active method of dispersal , such as explosive mechanisms , or by passive dependence on animals or agencies , such as wind and water . Wind is one of the most important dispersal factors for plants and their allies , as can be seen by trapping a sample of air-borne spores ; there are countless millions in the air we breathe , as sufferers from hay fever can testify . Any person Dispersal of Cyathus . A raindrop falls into the cups of the fungus ; the ripe spore mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a grass stem . 128 who has tried to grow sterile cultures in a laboratory also knows how difficult this can be , due to the spores of fungi and bacteria present in the atmosphere . The chains of asexual spores produced by fungi are easily distributed by air currents . Rain splash is another factor which plays an important part in passive dispersal . In this way , for example , the spore masses of the fungus Cyathus are catapulted to another site . Viruses may be spread from one host to another by pests , such as rats or aphids , and quite commonly by breath or con-tact . Usually many dispersal agencies are involved . For ex-ample , foot and mouth disease is spread in a variety of ways , but which is the most important is still uncertain . Many viruses are still dangerous after considerable periods of burial or exposure , and bacteria can also tide over unfavor-able periods by forming special spores called endospores . Endospores are formed within the cells , and their walls are heavily coated with calcium . In such a state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radiation , and therefore survive the vagaries of dispersal . The blue-green algae produce endospores or distinctive special cells which germinate to produce a new plant . Many                     