@@773413

txt is 800 hertz and that the testing tone is 1,200 , 1,600 , or 2,400 hertz . After conditioning , the magnitude of the CR will be greatest for the 800-hertz tone , then lee . for the 1,200- , still less for the 1,600- , and least for the 2,400-hertz tone . The organism is thus able to generalize across stimuli that are on the same dimensions as the training stimulus , and the strength of the response is a function of the similarity of the training and test stimuli . Stimulus generalization has also been studied in humans by using words an ? objects related to words . Let us assume that a particular word serves as a CS , and shock is used as the US . The UR in this case is assumed to be the galvanic skin response ( GSR ) . The GSR is a measure of the electrical conductance of the skin and is usually measured in the palms of the hands . If the word and shock are presented following a standard conditioning procedure , we find that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that verbal stimuli may also be conditioned . In addition to the acquisition of conditioned responses with the use of verbal stimuli , stimulus generalization is also possible along semantic dimensions , and hence is termed semantic generalization . An individual may generalize a conditioned response from one word to another which has the same meaning , or a person may generalize a conditoned response from a word to a picture of a word , or vice versa . Using children as subjects , for example , it was found that generalization occurred from the word ball to a picture of a ball . Theoretical interpretations of classical conditioning What is the theoretical significance of classical conditioning ? Pavlov 's original formulation developed in the reflex tradition was phrased in terms of excitation and inhibition . Pavlov assumed that different stimuli were associated with different centers of the brain and classical conditioning was viewed as the development of a pathway between the centers . In other words , the presentation of the CS with the US consisted of an excitation process in which the excitation produced by the CS eventually encompassed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pavlov maintained that the presentation of the CS without the US produced an inhibition process in which the CR became actively inhibited . Subsequent to Pavlov 's original formulation , the theoretical development of classical conditioning emphasized two effects : the contiguous occurrence of the CS and the US ; and the importance of the occurrence of the US . It was maintained that conditioning took place because the CS and US occur together in a close temporal relationship , thus developing a type of stimulus substitution . Emphasis was placed upon the occurrence of the US because it was the US which ensured occurrence of the UR , which in turn provided for the development of the CR . In more contemporary theoretical developments , classical conditioning is being viewed in a somewhat modified way . Essentially , the view is that the CS serves as a signal , a concept used originally by Pavlov , and that the organism relates the signal to a particular outcome . In other words , the dog learns that the bell stands for food and even learns to expect food when the bell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is first necessary to consider certain general movements in psychology over the past decades . The demonstration of classical conditioning was an important factor in the development of a movement in psychology . In 1913 , Watson published a book called Hrhuviori.tn , and stated , " The object of psychology is to predict the response , given the stimulus , and to be able to state the stimulus , given the response . " Hence , the position taken was that the object of psychology is to study the relationship of stimulus and response . The importance of classical conditioning for behaviorism was that classical conditioning accounted for learning . More specifically , it provided a mechanism to explain how people make responses to stimuli which previously had not produced the response . Theoretically , it should be underscored that behaviorism defined the basic units of psychology as the stimulus and the response , and also implied that the primary objective of psychology was to determine the lawful relationships that exist between stimuli and responses . Note that in a general way , this position for the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without getting into the problem of how the organism processes the input . In other words , the laws need state only the relationship of the environmental stimulus to the observable response . It is , therefore , no surprise that classical conditioning fit in so well with behaviorism , for it gave behaviorism the mechanism by means of which learning takes place . Within the behavioristic framework , it is thus not surprising that the theoretical explanations of classical conditioning emphasized stimulus-response relationships . But more recently there has been a general trend in psychology to emphasize ognitive processes , especially in the areas of learning and memory ; and the phenomenon of classical conditioning has not escaped this tendency . In more recent research and theory , there has been a shift toward the organism 's development of signaling types of relationships which , in a sense , are more perceptual in nature . Before leaving the phenomenon of classical conditioning , we should note that the concepts of classical conditioning have had significance in areas of psychology other than learning . Certain classical procedures , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although the issue is far from settled , there is also the possibility that certain emotional behavior is learned quite rapidly by classical conditioning , such as developing a fear of some type of animal or situation by a single traumatic experience that occurred in relation to the animal or situation . Finally , it may be mentioned that names of objects may be acquired by means of the mechanisms of classical conditioning , as for example associating the word ball with the object ball . INSTRUMENTAL CONDITIONING The philosophical position of hedonism essentially states that behavior is motivated by the consequence of an act ? that is , people tend to behave in a way which increases pleasure and reduces pain . Thus , according to this view , behavior is a function of the consequence of the prior experiences of the individual , in terms of whether such experiences were pleasure-producing or pain-producing . The concept of hedonism has found its way into contemporary learning theory . In 1938 , Skinner published a volume entitled the behavior of organisms , a hook setting forth certain principles of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responses are learned if they are reinforced or rewarded . The materials presented in his book were , of course , not without precedence . However , it is primarily through Skinner and his followers that operant conditioning came to attain a strong position in contemporary psychology . The title of this section , instrumental conditioning , describes the role of an action and its consequences . Specifically , instrumental conditioning refers to behavior in which the response is instrumental in producing its aftereffects . In other words , the consequences following a response are in some way contingent upon the response . The one type of instrumental conditioning we shall consider is operant conditioning . Operant conditioning Operant refers to virtually any response which the organism makes . The basic procedure of operant conditioning involves establishing the control of a response by presenting some form of reinforcement whenever a particular response is made . The reward or event , when it produces an increase in the probability of occurrence of the response , is termed a reinforcer . Investigations of operant conditioning have often involved the use of rats or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ box and presses a bar . Each time he presses the bar a pellet of food is dispensed . It is found that the frequency of bar presses increases when the animal has been reinforced by food in this manner . Similarly , pigeons have been trained to peck at a disk or key and are reinforced upon making the response . Again , response frequency increases . The basic level of responding in such situations before reinforcement is administered is termed the operant level . In general , responses with higher operant levels are more easily conditioned . Extinction As one might expect , if the reinforcement is withdrawn , extinction of the response occurs , and the frequency of the response returns to the operant level . As with classical conditioning , it is possible to demonstrate spontaneous recovery in the operant situation . Operant conditioning principles PARTIAL REINFORCEMENT EFFECTS There has been considerable research effort expended on the issue of reinforcement schedules . What happens if you do not reinforce the response after each occurrence but only after every other or every fifth time ? Effectively , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For example , if reinforcement occurs after every fifth response , the organism tends to respond in sets of five responses . The following is one of the most interesting theoretical effects which has taken place on partially reinforcing the organism . Case A : A boy calls a girl for a date , the girl agrees , and they have a good time together . Subsequently , each time the boy calls , ten successive times , the girl agrees to go out , and they have a good time . Then , after ten dates , the girl decides to stop dating this boy . Case B : A boy calls a girl for a date , the girl agrees , and they have a good time together . Subsequently , with ten successive calls , the girl accepts four more times and says no five times , with acceptances and nonacceptances in no particular order . After ten calls , she decides to stop dating the boy . Question : Under which case , A or B , will the boy make more calls until he finally gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinforcement effect . An organism will take longer to extinguish when acquisition has been under conditions of partial reinforcement than when there was reinforcement for each response . This result is somewhat counterintuitive , for one would think that the more response is reinforced , the stronger it becomes and the more difficult it is to extinguish . Yet , under 50 percent partial reinforcement , the response is reinforced only one-half the time of the 100 percent reinforced response , but extinction is slower . One explanation for the effect postulates an expectancy difference in the two cases . When the individual has not been reinforced each time , it is argued that he builds up an expectancy of not being reinforced as part of the reinforcement procedure . A change to no reinforcement then is not initially counter to the expectancy built up in the partial reinforcement situation , but it is counter to the 100 percent reinforcement procedure . DISCRIMINATIVE STIMULUS TRAINING Our account of operant conditioning as presented thus far has not provided for the use of the term stimulus . This has not been an omission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aftereffects of the response , and the control of behavior is assumed to take place by the reinforcement contingencies employed . The concept of a stimulus does play a major role in operant conditioning , however . Let us assume that a pigeon is presented with two lights , one blue and one red . Let us further assume that if the pigeon pecks at the blue light when it is on , then the bird is reinforced with some type of food ; but , if the bird pecks at the red light when it is on , the bird is not reinforced . In this case the blue light is termed the discriminative stimulus , typically written SD , and the red light is termed the negative stimulus , typically written S-1 ( ess delta ) . Under these circumstances , the animal will learn to respond when the blue light is on but not when the red light is on . The animal , in other words , has acquired a discrimination . The procedure just outlined and similar procedures have been employed to bring the animal under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the behavioral fact that under a particular set of conditions , i.e. , under presentation of the discriminative stimulus , there is a high probability of occurrence of the particular response . It should be noted that there is a distinct difference between the use of the terms conditioned stimulus in the case of classical conditioning and discriminative stimulus in the case of operant conditioning . In the former , the stimulus is thought to produce or elicit the response ; in the latter , the stimulus is thought to raise the probability of response occurrence . The discriminative stimulus , in other words , is regarded as having the property of making a response more likely to occur not of producing the response . SECONDARY REINFORCEMENT The principle of secondary reinforcement states that stimuli or events previously not reinforced take on reinforcing properties when they occur with reinforcers . Within the operant context , the SD is assumed to take on reinforcing properties . That it does has been demonstrated in experiments which show that once a stimulus has taken on the characteristics of SD , such as the blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulus may be used to reinforce other responses . The concept of secondary reinforcement has been used extensively by learning theorists . In a general way , the virtue of the concept is that it provides a mechanism for explaining how reinforcers become established . When a child is being fed , for example , it is making responses that are being reinforced , and events occurring in the environment at that time are assumed to take on reinforcing properties . SHAPING What happens if an organism does not make the desired response ? Clearly , one can not reinforce a response if it does not occur . The answer to this question is that the response is " shaped . " Essentially , the shaping procedure consists of a series of successive steps which involve reinforcing a series of responses with each response being closer and closer to the desired response . If a rat is to be reinforced for pressing a bar , but it does not approach the bar , the rat may first be reinforced for turning toward the bar , then for approaching the bar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage occurs , reinforcement for the response of the previous stage is stopped . PUNISHMENT EFFECTS The operant conditioning paradigm has been used to study the effects of punishment , and one study has been especially revealing . Rats were trained to press a bar in order to obtain food . After having reached a reasonably high level of responding , the animals were extinguished , but in the extinction procedure , not only were they not reinforced when they made a response but they received a shock whenever pressing the bar . It was found that extinction was more rapid when punishment was withdrawn . What happened then is that the number of responses increased substantially . The results thus indicated that punishment suppressed their making responses . However , as soon as the punishment was removed , responding increased . This finding leads to one conclusion about the nature of punishment , namely , that it may depress responding but not necessarily eliminate the response . There is an important facet of punishment that is an extension of this and other studies . One of the main effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get rid of the response , the suppression must be accompanied by counterconditioning . In other words , a new response must be learned in the situation . Thus , one of the main effects of punishment is to suppress a response so that a new response may be learned while the first response is not occurring . Results have been obtained which show that punishment has permanent effects In eliminating a response . The punishment employed in such situations has been quite severe , however . At the other extreme , it has also been shown that some forms of punishment may increase rather than decrease responding . This outcome usually occurs when punishment in some way provides a way to help to discriminate ? response . The use of punishment has , of course , been a controversial issue in child-rearing . Apart from the issue of whether physical punishment should ever be used , the results discussed above as well as other findings indicate that punishment may decrease the likelihood of a response ; but unless a new response is learned in the particular situation , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is not true that if a child is burned once , he will not touch the stove again . Token economies In the setting of a mental hospital , where trying to have patients respond in a more acceptable way is prevalent , systems of rewards have been tried in order to produce particular forms of behavior . In the case of mental retardates , for example , it has been found that providing the patients with tokens , which may later be redeemed for some desirable object or activity , increased the frequency of the behavior for which the tokens were given . Such a procedure is referred to as a token economy system . Significance of operant conditioning Primarily due to the impetus provided by B. F. Skinner , operant conditioning has played an important role in the development of an understanding of learning . Possibly the greatest contribution has been methodological , for the operant conditioning procedure has provided physiological psychologists with a means to relate behavior , in this case operant behavior , to certain neural and drug mechanisms . A second contribution of operant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the control of behavior . Moreover , the shaping procedure has provided a means whereby specific responses may be developed by a series of reinforcement stages . Reinforcement concepts are not without problems , however . One issue is that reinforcement can be a circular concept in that whatever increases the probability of a response is reinforcing , and reinforcement is whatever increases the probability of a response . Reinforcement theorists argue that once it has been shown that a given event or procedure is reinforcing , it can be shown to be reinforcing in new situations . A second problem of the reinforcement concept is that in the case of humans in particular , it is not so easy to determine what is a reinforcer . One is essentially pushed to a position in which reinforcers vary with the individual . Indeed , in a classroom situation , being singled out and reprimanded by a teacher for example , may be reinforcing to some children and punishing to other children Also , in the case of a martyr , one is led to the conclusion that a person 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it does raise a question regarding the high specificity of reinforcing events with respect to different individuals . Final ly , a third problem of reinforcement concepts is that in some learning situation% such as certain areas of programmed instruction , the principles do not seem t work effectively . In general , reinforcement concepts emphasize that the more inane diately a response is reinforced , the better should be the learning . This is not always the case . Also , reinforcement of responses tends to deemphasize the mental operations that precede the response . When solving a calculus problem , reinforcing ; the response is not particularly important in that the operations for solving the problem must be learned before the response can be made . In other words , although knowledge of results is important insofar as the individual must know whether his answer is right or wrong , the major operations that go into the solution occur without responding . THE VERBAL-LEARNING TRADITION Basic method and theory In 1885 Ebbinghaus published a classic work entitled On memory . The research reported within the volume constituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The research gave rise to a body of literature which is generally termed verbal learning , an area of study loosely defined as the study of how people learn and retain verbal materials . The work of Ebbinghaus will be briefly reviewed in order to show the nature of the methodology and some of the findings . With respect to the theoretical basis of the work , however , Ebbinghaus conceived of learning and memory in terms of the theoretical position of the time , associationism . This view is that the primary mental process consists of associating ideas . When we think of a table , we tend to think next of a chair . The mind tends to go from one idea to the next , following associative pathways . Ebbinghaus applied this thinking to verbal materials , and studied memory by learning a list of verbal units and then recalling the list at a subsequent time . Ebbinghaus conceptualized this approach as the study of the learning and retention of a series of associations , the basic units of thought . The associative model asserts that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the laws of association . Foremost of the associative laws is the law of contiguity . This law states that two events or ideas become associated if they occur together in time and/or space . Thus , we tend to associate this corner with a right turn , we tend to associate a song with a particular event , or we tend to associate one word ( such as the adjective polar with another word , such as the noun bear ) because each of these pairs of events has occurred together . According to the law of contiguity , therefore , learning takes place because of the temporal or temporal-spatial relationship of the two events . Two other laws extremely impor'ant to the associationistic framework are the law of frequent y and the law of similarity . The law of frequency states that the more often two events occur together , the stronger the association becomes . The law of similarity states that similar events will tend to be associated . Finally , one other facet of associationism is that since the individual learns an association because two events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the individual learns is a copy of the environment . In other words , the associationistic position suggests a passive individual is more or less at the mercy of his environment , since what he learns consists of associations developed because two events occurred together in the environment . Assuming that our ideas consist of associations , Ebbinghaus invented an artificial verbal unit , the nonsense syllable , in order to eliminate the associations that are related to regular words . An example of a nonsense syllable is CEK . Actually , people are capable of making associations to nonsense syllables , and some nonsense syllables lend themselves to associations more so than others . Thus , Ebbinghaus did not really eliminate associations from the verbal material he used . In any event , Ebbinghaus regarded each nonsense syllable as a representation of an idea and then memorized lists of nonsense syllables . Ebbinghaus himself served as the subject . He memorized numerous lists , recording how long it took him to learn each list , and then studied how well he was able to recall a list as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported , namely , when learning a list of items , most forgetting occurs immediately after learning , and subsequently forgetting is very gradual . Of perhaps greater significance than his results is the general approach to experimentation which Ebbinghaus devised . In particular , he established two traditions which have persisted until quite recent times . First of all , Ebbinghaus presented a functional description of his results with relatively little theoretical development . the theoretical model employed was associationism , but beyond this , there was relatively little attempt to develop " process " theories , i.e. , concepts regarding what may be underlying processes producing the effect . Instead , Ebbinghaus emphasized the functional relationships existing between performance and a given variable . Second , Ebbinghaus assumed the theory of associationism . A third tradition of verbal learning was added shortly after the work of Ebbinghaus . Let us assume the existence of two associations , A-B and A-C . Both associations thus have the same stimulus . Let us next assume that stimulus A occurs . Which response should follow ? Sometimes you place a particular key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now you need the key . To which pocket do you reach ? What has been assumed is that although response competition may occur between the two responses , B and C , the stronger of the two responses will occur . Thus , although there is response competition , it is taken that the response that will occur is the one having greater associative strength . The third tradition is thus one of assuming that associations may compete with each other when they have a common stimulus . Going one step further , let us assume that A-B and A-C are acquired , and that we later test to see how well A-B is retained . Furthermore , let us say we find that we forget A-B . It is thought that the most important reason for the forgetting of A-I3 is that somehow A-C produces interference and we fail to recall I3 . Why sue interference takes place is not of importance at this point ; the important teatu of the analysis is that forgetting is produced by interference . Hence , with the verbal learning tradition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jrr ence theory . Thus , we find that the verbal-learning tradition has accepted certatll views about learning and memory . Moreover , the views were generally accepted until about the last decade , when they were placed under attack ; or as one psychologist put it , with respect to traditional verbal learning , " the Haus was ebbing . " Methods of verbal learning One of the methods that has been used extensively to investigate the problem of verbal learning is paired-associate learning . In principle the method is quite simple , Pairs of verbal items are presented to an individual and he is instructed to learn the pairs . Typically each pair is presented for a fixed amount of time , usually 2 or 3 seconds . After one presentation of the list , the first item of each pair is presented and the individual tries to recall the other member of the respective pair . Thus , a trial consists of presentation of a list of pairs followed by a test to determine how many of the pairs were acquired . There are a number of variations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the acquisition of pairs of verbal items . The second general verbal-learning method is termed serial learning . In this proce dure a list of verbal units is presented in a particular order . On the subsequent presentation of the list , the subject is instructed to anticipate each successive item when a given item is presented . For example , when on the second trial the first-list item is presented , the subject is instructed to anticipate the second item , and when the second item occurs , the subject is instructed to anticipate the third item , etc . Again , variations of this procedure have been employed , but the anticipation method has been most prevalent . Theoretical issues of verbal learning Taking first the development of paired-associate as a method , we have noted that this method was first used as a means of studying how associations are formed and remembered . We also noted that the basis of such study was the doctrine of associatiohism . The paired-associate method , as a method , embraced the laws of contiguity and frequency : pairs were presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pairs were repeatedly presented ? the law of frequency . The associationistic position was thus assumed by the method . In the 1960s this emphasis upon associationism was severely attacked , not from one but from many sources . Two arguments raised in opposition to association theory were that there is a greater degree of organization in mental life than that of a number of associations , and second , that we learn associations via a mediational process in which individuals tend to find relationships between the items of an association . The individual is thus viewed as an active organism who develops associative relationships ; he is not a passive recipient of the environment . We shall now consider each of these issues . RAINING One way in which organizational processes were shown was by the occurrence of a phenomenon called clustering an effect which was arrived at by the use of a method called free recall . This method consists of presenting a number of words and subsequently trying to recall the words in any order . What we find is that the early and late items of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the list are more difficult to recall . The phenomenon of clustering occurs when a number of different words are presented which belong to the same conceptual category and are scattered in the list . The remaining items may consist of other categories or may be randomly chosen words . What is found is that when the list is recalled , the items belonging to one category are recalled together , or clustered . At first glance this result may seem to be trivial in the sense of showing simply that we tend to group things by categories . However , the result increases in significance when we realize that this finding would not be predicted from a strict contiguity or associationistic view . From a contiguity position , we would predict that items that were presented adjacently should tend to be recalled adjacently because they occurred contiguously in time . Clustering results thus point to the idea that verbal materials may well be organized in some way other than by strict associations . The phenomenon of clustering also demonstrates that the output relations do not necessarily represent a copy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the input of a list and the output , the individual does something , and this active process of organization implies that the individual is not a copy of his environment , as associationism suggests . The role of organizing has also been demonstrated in a phenomenon termed subjective organization . In this case a group of unrelated words are presented followed by recall . Subsequently , the list of words is presented in a different order and the subject recalls the items . Using such a procedure , it has been found that the order in which the subject recalls the words tends to be maintained even though the order of the words changes with each presentation . This result has been termed subjective organization , a term which implies that the materials of the list are organized subjectively , even though the actual sequence of words tends to have no apparent intrinsic organization . The second theoretical argument against associationism is that individuals do not learn pairs of verbal units by contiguity but rather by developing a relation between them . One result has shown that mediators often are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that relates the two items . For example , if presented with CEK-MOR , he may mediate by thinking of " checkmore . " In some cases , the individual may even use a visual image which in some way connects the two items . Theoretically , the important point is that the individual is not simply learning what is presented to him ; instead , associations are apparently learned by a more active process in which the individual tries to find some " meaning " of the association in terms of his own knowledge . In other words , the learning tends to take place through development of a relationship with what is already known , a process called mediation . Thus , from these results , we find that the study of paired-associate learning has undergone a type of transition . Originally , the investigation was an attempt to get at how the basic verbal units are acquired , how associations are form Subsequently , the paired-associate paradigm was used to determine the functio relations between some measure of performance and a given variable . Finally , more recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of th individual in the learning situation . These three approaches essentially depict the theoretical climate of the various periods of time . The use of the serial-learning method has had a very similar history , as o might expect . When the serial procedure was developed , it was taken to be a mea by which one could study how a series of associations are learned . In the past two decades , serial-learning research has been directed toward the theoretical pr cesses involved in serial learning , and some of these studies have rather stongl shown that serial acquisition can not be simply considered as the learning of series of associations . As an example of such a finding , one approach has bee to study the acquisition of a paired-associate list after the individual has previousl learned a serial list . If serial learning is really the acquisition of a series of associations , and if a paired-associate list is composed of pairs that were the adjacent items of the serial list , then it would be expected that paired-associate learning should be better than that occurring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serial list that are nonadjacent . This type of result has not generally been obtained . These and other findings have indicated that there is little evidence for the contention that the serial-learning tasks may be best viewed as the acquisition of a series of associations . The verbal-learning tradition thus depicts the psychology of human learning in transition . From a theoretical orientation of associationism , we find that emphasis has shifted somewhat to a greater concern for organizational and mediational processes . figure 1 Are you able to give any examples from everyday experience that demonstrate habit-uation ? 2 Are you able to state any examples of classical conditioning from everyday experi-ence ? 3 How do the following statements possibly relate to conditioning ? ( a ) People with red hair have bad tempers . ( b ) When I see one example of a particular class of round objects , I call it a ball . Why do I not usually call it a sphere ? 4 One investigator effectively taught pigeons to play Ping-Pong . He trained the pigeons to peck at a ball until it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A shaping procedure was used . Describe what you think may be the procedure employed . 5 How could money be considered as secondary reinforcement ? How might social prestige be considered as secondary reinforcement ? 6 Suppose that if whenever you see a particular person , you talk about a particular movie . At some later time , the person initiates a conversation with you by talking about the movie . Why ? 7 Results generally have indicated that learning in parts is quicker than learning a whole , until one must combine the parts . Then it seems whole learning is better . Using memorization of a poem as an example , state why this result is found . 8 In serial learning people tend to learn items easily at the beginning and end of the list . Why are the middle items so difficult ? Try to give an explanation based upon organizational principles and another based upon interference principles . 9 If you are asked to learn a list of pairs of words and the list contains the pair house-roof , what verbal or image type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What similarities and differences do you find in classical conditioning , operant conditioning , and verbal learning ? Hint : How would you use the term reinforcement in each paradigm ? the term association ? SUGGESTED READINGS Deese , J. E. , &; Hulse , S. Psychology of learning , 3d ed . New York : McGraw-Hill , 1967 . The work presents an introduction to the field of learning . Dixon , T. R. , &; Horton , D. L. ( Eds ) . Verbal behavior and general behavior theory . Englewood Cliffs , N.J. : Prentice-Hall , 1968 . A collection of papers is presented which surveys the area of verbal learning and verbal behavior . Glaser , R. ( Ed . ) The nature of reinforcement . Columbus , Ohio : Merrill , 1971 . A collection of papers is presented which gives a more contemporary treatment of reinforcement . Kimble , G. A. Hilgard and Marquis " conditioning and learning , 2d. ed . New York : AppletonCentury-Crofts , 1961 . Logan , F. A. Fundamentals of learning and motivation . Dubuque , Iowa : Brown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of learning , emphasizing animal work in learning and motivation . The concept of learning involves the acquisition of information and skills , and the concept of memory pertains to the permanence of such knowledge and skills . We shall consider the following aspects of memory : methods of studying memory , the factors that are the most important to our ability to retain , and finally , the major theories of memory . THE CONCEPT OF MEMORY Our ability to recognize and to recall events is clear evidence for a memory process . Probably the most prevalent concept of the memory process to the layman is that memory is essentially a thing . Memory is thought of as a series of pigeonholes , a massive file into which we place knowledge . This view is due to some extent to a nineteenth century movement termed faculty psychology , a theoretical position which conceived of the mind as a number of different faculties , in the sense of capacities and functions . Memory was thought to be one of these faculties . The concept of memory as a faculty has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems to be much more accurately viewed as a complex process , one which in some ways involves storing and retrieving information but is nevertheless a process . A reasonable definition of memory would be that it is a process which provides for the retention of information and skills over time . Forgetting may be defined as the inverse of retention ; whatever is not retained is regarded at forgotten . Reseal ( h in memory is usually conducted by presenting some materials under a specified set of conditions , having the subject learn the materials , and then testing for the retention of the materials at some later time ; and it is the Variable of time that characterizes the study of memory . T111 : MEASUREMENT OF RETENTION There are four basic ways in which retention has been measured : recall , recognition , relearning , and reconstruction . Recall Consider the following example . A list of ten pairs of items is presented to the Individual in a paired-associate experiment and he learns the list to a criterion of one errorless trial . He is tested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he retains the pairs . On the test trial he is presented with the stimuli of the list and he tries to recall the appropriate responses . This example would be an illustration of cued recall , in that the individual is provided with a cue ( the stimulus item ) in order to aid his recall . Noncued recall , in this illustration , would require recall of the pair without stimulus presentation . In our example we may find that after learning the list , one group of subjects given an immediate recall test recalls a mean of 9.9 of 10 pairs . After 20 minutes another group has a mean recall of 7.3 pairs . After 2 hours , another group recalls a mean of 5.9 pairs ; and after 2 weeks , one group has a mean recall of 5.4 items . We thus find that recall decreases as a function of time , with the most substantial drop in recall occurring immediately after learning . Recognition The recognition procedure involves acquisition of a given set of materials , followed by a subsequent test designed to determine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , let us again assume that a paired-associate list of ten pairs is acquired . At various times after acquisition , the individual is tested by being presented the pairs with five of the ten pairs taken from the list that was learned and five new pairs inserted in place of the others . The individual is then asked to state whether or not each pair was one of the pairs he had previously learned . In other words , his ability to recognize what has been learned is tested . As with recall , recognition decreases over time , but some studies have reported extremely high recognition scores after a number of days or weeks . In the above example , the individual need only say yes or no regarding whether he recognizes a given pair : that is , he must state yes if the pair was in the acquired list and no if it was not . There are , of course , other ways to study the recognition process . One that is quite familiar is the multiple-choice test , in which the individual must recognize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests the reader has taken , he may by this time have concluded that recognition is easier than recall , and in general , this is true . It is usually easier to be correct on a multiple-choice test than it is to recall the particular fact or principle . However , multiple-choice tests specifically or recognition tests in general can made quite difficult by providing distractors ( incorrect alternatives ) which are high similar to the acquired material . Relearning This method consists of determining how readily someone is able to relearn ma terials he has already learned . Let us again assume that an individual acquir a paired-associate list having ten pairs and that he learns the list to one errorle trial . Let us further assume that the individual takes ten trials to reach this criterio Let us say that the individual takes seven trials to relearn the list . Since it tak ten trials to learn the list and seven trials to relearn the list , there is a savin of three trials . In terms of percentage , there is a 30 percent savings , ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formula , in terms of trials , refers to ( original learning relearning ) = original learning . This method is called the percent savings metho It should be noted that with this method , retention is inferred from the fact that it took fewer trials to relearn the list than it took originally , so that something of original learning must have been retained . Reconstruction Reconstruction , probably the least-used measure of retention , is usually employed when the materials studied are perceptual figures or stories . The method is quite similar to recall ; the individual is essentially asked to reconstruct a figure to whi ( h he was exposed or to reconstruct a story . In a classic series of experiments , reported in 1932 , Bartlett presented subjects with a story of a few paragraphs and at a later time the subjects were asked to retell the story . This method could thus be called recall , but for practical as well as theoretical reasons , the method is called reconstruction because the term places emphasis upon the notion that the individual is not recalling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the story from whatever information he is able to retain . Similarly , individuals may be presented pictures and , at a later time , be asked to draw or reconstruct the pictures . To get an intuitive idea of the method of reconstruction , try to state an account of a movie you have seen . What is likely to happen is that you will remember certain aspects of the movie and from these you will try to reconstruct what happened . In comparing these four methods for studying retention , certain points of interest emerge . First , as previously mentioned , recognition is usually easier than recall . Second , reconstruction , as indicated , is used with complex verbal materials and with perceptual stimuli . Recognition procedures , of course , may also be used with perceptual stimuli . Third , relearning is a measure somewhat different from the others . In a sense , one is measuring retention indirectly in the relearning method because one is using a learning measure to suggest how much retained is being used . Finally , the question may be asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The answer , of course , is that they all do . No one measure is a more " true " indicator than any other . The more basic question is whether the methods are tapping in on the same general process ? a question yet to be answered . There is no question but that many factors are able to influence our ability to remember . There are three variables , however , that are especially important . These are degree of learning , nature of the material , and time . A fourth factor that is also of importance is the nature of retrieval cue , or cues . Degree of learning Probably the most important factor that contributes to the retention of something is that it is learned in the first place . Without learning , there can be no retention or forgetting . This simple fact is quite often overlooked . Indeed , in studying for examinations , it is probably the case that most incorrect answers are not stated because something is forgotten . It is much more likely that one never learned the specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a necessary condition for retention , we now ask : If we increase the degree of learning , does this produce better retention ? The answer in most cases is that it does . Degree of learning may have two meanings , however , so let us consider these two alternatives . If a person reads a chapter in a book and then rereads the chapter , his degree of learning may increase in the sense that on the second reading he learns more new material . On the other hand , the person may learn something such as a multiplication table and practice on what he has already learned . In this case , degree of learning means continued practice on something known , and is commonly referred to as overlearning . Increasing the degree of learning may thus provide for the learning of new material or for the overlearning of material already acquired . The nature of the material Figure 9.1 shows how retention is a function of meaningful and nonmeaningful material . As shov'n , meaningful materials are retained better than nonsense materials . Although the results of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the results are by no means clear . Similarly , it has been found that poetry is retained better than prose ; and investigation regarding why poetry may be better retained showed that principles such as rhyming reduce the number of alternative responses at the ends of lines . The question of why recall of meaningful materials is greater than that of nonsense material is a difficult problem , however , and one that is far from being solved . In a general sense , prose material is probably better retained because the individual is able to relate it more readily to what he already knows . Before leaving the issue of type of material , it is of interest to note a methodological problem that exists in the study of memory . Notice that all three curves of Figure 9.1 start from the 100 percent retention level at 0 time and then decrease and level off . To make a retention test valid between two or more conditions , it is necessary that learning among the conditions be equated . However , even though the criterion of acquisition may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial , it may also be true that learning in fact is not really equated . In other words , figure perhaps when poetry is memorized to one errorless trial , it is really learned better than is nonsense material when memorized to one errorless trial . Thus , the better recall of poetry may be due to superior learning . At the present time there is no sure way of getting around this problem . Time The third important variable that influences retention is time . Figure 9.1 shows the form of the retention function as it has usually been found . The data indicate that forgetting is more rapid immediately after learning and then decreases gradually over time . The question of why most forgetting occurs immediately after learning is a theoretical question for which various answers have been offered . Theories of memory that have so far been developed are considered later in this chapter . Retrieval cues Imagine that you are to learn a list of words and that each item of the list is denoted by a particular descriptive expression of the word , as with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " " a church official ? cardinal , " " a tool used for scraping ? plane , " " part of an electrical circuit ? relay , " etc . After being presented once with such a list , you are asked to recall the items under three experimental conditions . First , one group is presented the cues " a card game " and " a church official " and asked to recall the items . Second , one group is presented no cues and asked to recall the items . A third group is presented different cues , but each cue refers to one of the list items , such as " a construction across a river , " " a bird , " " a means of transportation , " and " something we walk on , " for the four words above . How do you suppose that recall of the words is influenced by the three recall conditions : - PT hams ? cue , no cue , diNerent but appropriate cue ? Which condition gives the best recall ? Which condition yields the poorest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same cue at retrieval that was presented at input shows the best recall . Furthermore , there is no difference in word recall for the no-cue and different-cue conditions . We might note parenthetically that this effect is rather dramatic when it is demonstrated . If a person happens to be In the different-cue conditions , it is a frustrating feeling to try to recall the words from the list and find that the cue presented to him simply does not seem to help . What do these results mean ? The interpretation that has been offered is that when the items are stored at input , i.e. , upon the presentation of the list , the items are stored with the retrieval cues . Subsequently , when one wants to retrieve the items , he must use the retrieval cues that were present at input . The other cues , which really may be just as appropriate for the particular words , do not help because they were not there at input . If this interpretation is accepted in a general way , the implications for memory are rather enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is necessary to use as a retrieval cue something that was present at the time of input . An extremely important implication that must be especially noted is that this viewpoint modifies the traditional concept of what is forgotten . We usually think of something being learned and then , for whatever the reason , forgotten . However , the results of the study just mentioned suggest that it may be that we have not forgotten a given event at all ; that instead we may not have appropriate retrieval cues . It does not follow from this view that nothing is ever forgotten , in the sense that somehow it is no longer stored . Whether or not something is ever forgotten in this sense is an open question . However , the theoretical position does point out that much of what is thought of as forgotten may really be due to the fact that an appropriate retrieval cue is not available . THEORETICAL APPROACHES TO MEMORY The analysis of stages of memory One approach to the study has been an attempt to analyze the memory process into stages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the postulating of an initial stage termed iconic memory , followed by two types of memory termed short-term and long-term . The term " icon " essentially means " image " ; thus , iconic memory refers to a rapidly fading sensory memory . Let us assume that you are presented with an array of fifteen numbers and letters for a fraction of a second . The numbers and letters are arranged in three rows of five items each . If you are asked to recall the numbers and letters as soon as the presentation stops , you might find that you are able to recall six , seven , or eight of the items . However , if instead of being asked to recall the items , a flash with a circle on it is presented and you are asked to recall the letter or number within the circle , it has been found that most individuals have virtually perfect recall , although such recall falls off after - a few seconds . This form of memory is termed iconic memory because immediately after the cessation of a stimulus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an individual to retain the input for only a brief interval . The importan point is that although one is unable to recall all the items immediately after stimul presentation , an individual is nevertheless able to recall any one of the fifte items . Thus , it appears that there is a brief sensory memory which occurs immed ately after stimulus presentation but which fades rapidly . It is not clear whether iconic memory is important or not to long-term memory In other words , we do not know whether iconic memory is used in any way othe than to aid retention at extremely short intervals . The most-frequent distinction made with respect to stages of memory is tha of short-term and long-term memory . Short-term memory is usually characterize as a system having a relatively small capacity , one which is therefore limited in the amount of information it may process . It is thought that information is transferred from short-term memory to long-term memory , although some information may be lost because of the capacity limitations of short-term memory . Let us assume that a group of individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ item of which is presented at 2-second intervals . After the list has been presented , the individuals recall as many items as they are able to , in anv order . Curve A of Figure 9.2 indicates the results usually found in such a free-recall experiment . The figure shows that recall is best for items presented at the beginning and at the end of the list , the two effects being referred to as primacy and recency , respectively . But what happens if we delay recall for about Y2 minute ? The answer is shown by curve B : the recency effect has been eliminated . One interpretation of this result is that the short-term memory store is of limited capacity , so that as the items are presented , they are rehearsed in that store . Upon such rehearsal , the items are transferred to long-term memory . If an item has not been transferred , however , it is " bumped " out of the short-term store by a new item . Consequently , early items are remembered well because with only the first few items @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the presentation of the list continues , some items do not make it into long-term memory and are replaced by items being presented ; and at the end of the presentation , the last few items are still in short-term memory . When recall occurs , these last items are recalled first and the recency effect is operative . However , if recall is delayed , the most recent items are not recalled better because they have not been transferred into long-term store . The failure to find the recency effect is thus attributed to the failure of the last items to make it into long-term memory , primarily because the presence of the preceding items in short-term memory does not permit sufficient rehearsal of the last items . Short-term memory is thus envisioned as a system which acts as an intermediate step between the environment and long-term memory . Whereas long-term memory is thought to have an extremely large , almost limitless , capacity , short-term memory is regarded as quite finite in capacity . This means that the ability to store something in long-term memory is limited by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The short-term-memory system is also thought to be important for retrieval . If a stimulus item is presented , that item is thought to be maintained in short-term memory while long-term memory is searched for the appropriate response . In other words , short-term memory again provides a means of holding the item on a temporary basis while the response is being retrieved . There are memory theorists who have argued against the short-term-long-term distinction , maintaining that there is no basic difference between memory processes when measured shortly after or considerably after learning has taken place . How effective the short-term-long-term distinction will ultimately be is not clear ; at present it has been found to be a useful distinction in certain situations . We have discussed characteristics of short-term memory . What might be the properties of long-term memory ? In recent years there has been a concept developed that is termed semantic memory . This form of memory is regarded as a long-term system which contains the various words known by an individual and the rules for generating and understanding language . The complex network of interrelationships of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for example , is one word of a complex network of words including " bug , " " wings , " " fly , " " insect , " etc . Research is currently being conducted on the structure of semantic memory in an effort to give a more precise description of its structure . What is important to note is that semantic memory is regarded as essentially independent of time considerations . In other words , our memory for language structure and rules is regarded as different from our memory for specific events . The latter tend to be related to a point in time , the former do not . Interference theory As mentioned in the previous chapter , interference theory postulates that forgetting occurs because one thing that the individual has learned interferes with the retention of something else that has been learned . Interference effects have been studied by the use of two paradigms : retroactive inhibition and proactive inhibition . The first refers to interference that is produced by the learning of materials between original learning and retention measurement ; the second refers to interference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Figure 9.3 presents a diagram of the two paradigms , with each of the two paradigms consisting of an experimental and a control condition . As shown in the upper part of the figure , the retroactive inhibition ( RI ) paradigm consists of the acquisition of one set of materials and acquisition of a second set , after which retention of the first set is measured . The control group , however , does not acquire the intervening material but instead performs some task that is not related to the acquisition of the materials . Thus , any difference in performance in the retention of the originally learned materials is attributed to the effects of learning the intervening materials . The lower portion of Figure 9.3 presents the paradigm of proactive inhibition ( PI ) . As with retroactive inhibition , there is an experimental group and a control group . However , the learning of the material that is presumed to interfere takes place before original learning rather than between original learning and retention . figure Recall B Any difference in retention is consequently attributed to the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference between the two paradigms thus consists of where the interference takes place . Let us now turn to some studies of RI and I'l in order to indicate how evidence for interference theory has been obtained . One hypothesis that can be derived from interference theory is that sleep or some other form of relative inactivity should produce good retention , whereas learning materials similar to the materials to be retained should produce the most interference . In one study , individuals serving in one condition learned a list of words and then went about their normal daily activity ; in another condition , the individuals slept for a specific amount of time after acquiring the list . Retention was measured in both conditions after the same period of time , and in accord with interference theory , sleep produced better retention than did normal working activity . However , it may be noted that about 50 percent forgetting did occur in the sleep condition . We thus find that general activity tended to produce more forgetting than did sleep ; but even though interference was reduced because of sleep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiment given above is quite general and thus demonstrates rather gross retroactive inhibition effects . More recent work suggests that the question of retroactive inhibition is quite complex . A study demonstrating an effect termed " unlearning " points to this complexity . The conditions of the experiment of most concern at this point involved the use of what is termed the A-B-A-C paradigm . What this means is that first a paired-associate list termed A-B was learned , followed by a second list , A-C . The fact that the stimuli of both lists are designated A signifies that the stimuli of the two lists were identical . Since the lists consisted of nonsense syllable-adjective pairs , an example of the two list pairings would be CEK-BUSH , CEK-STREET . Subsequent to the second-list learning , the first list was recalled , presenting the stimuli and requiring recall of the first-list responses . Appropriate control conditions were employed , such as an A-B-D-C condition in which the second list had different stimuli , e.g. , CEK-BUSH , VUR-STREET . Also , the degree of second-list learning was varied . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of the first-list pairs was forgotten . Furthermore , as degree of second-list learning increased , the amount of first-list forgetting increased . No such forgetting was found in the control condition . Thus , the results rather strongly suggest that second-list learning interfered with the recall of the first-list responses . A considerable amount of research followed this study , and theorizing in the area has fluctuated considerably . The major theoretical concepts employed include the concepts of response suppression and specific interference . As learning of the second list takes place , it is thought that because the responses of the first list may interfere with such learning , they may be suppressed . This view suggests that retroactive inhibition may involve not so much the direct interference of associations , but suppression of the list responses . Support for this notion comes from the finding of recovery of the forgotten associations : if you wait for 20 minutes after the second-list learning , recall of the first list will he better than it was at immediate recall . Thus , it appears that forgetting may be related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence which suggests that specific interference occurs between associations having the same stimulus . We therefore find that retroactive interference occurs , but the reasons for it are complex . Recent studies have also raised some interesting questions with respect to proactive inhibition . Proactive inhibition findings have been repeatedly reported . When one list is learned , followed by acquisition of the second list , recall of the second is lower than if the first list were not learned . Indeed , as Figure 9.4 indicates , as the number of lists learned increases , the retention of the last list that was acquired decreases . We find , however , that although the PI effect has been readily established , it has also been found that the PI effect is virtually eliminated under a number of conditions . First , proactive inhibition is greatly reduced or eliminated if one changes the class of materials being learned . This has been shown to be the case especially in short-term-memory experiments . Assume that a person is presented with words that represent means of transportation and after a few seconds he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set of such words and asked to recall them . After a number of such trials , there is a decrease in recall found , i.e. , the individual 's recall of these items becomes poorer . This suggests that proactive inhibition is operating . If , however , there is a change in the materials ? if the three items presented are three planets ? proactive inhibition is eliminated . Recall , in other words , is again quite good . A second procedure which reduces or eliminates proactive inhibition is that of separating in time the materials to be learned . If two lists are learned , one right after the other , and recall of the second list is measured 2 days later , there is considerable forgetting , or proactive inhibition , of the second list . If , however , figure one list is acquired one day and one the next and then retention of the second list is measured 2 days later , recall will he quite good and probably no different from the control ( single-list ) condition . Thus , proactive inhibition is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned . The third way in which ' I may be eliminated is by instructions to forget the first list . Thus , it appears that PI is due at least in part to some type of interference occurring when similar materials are acquired successively under the same instructional conditions . Furthermore , it may be that PI is due both to interference that takes place at learning and to interference produced at retention . What are we able to say at this point about interference theory ? It would seem that the following questions and answers may be warranted , at least tentatively . ( f ) Is forgetting caused by the interference of one set of materials with another ? The answer seems to be that under specified conditions , such interference does take place . ( 2 ) Does interference theory account for all forgetting ? The answer to this question must be no ; there are other factors that apparently are involved . ( 3 ) When interference does occur , what is its locus , i.e. , what interferes with what , and when ? It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retrieval problems ; for some reason , it is difficult to retrieve something because something else is in the way . In the case of proactive inhibition , there is the possibility that under some conditions , the material learned later is weaker at the time of learning , thus producing more forgetting ; on the other hand , interference at retrieval may also be important . Organization and memory Another aspect of the recent study of memory is that considerable emphasis has been placed upon organizational processes . The basic argument is that individuals organize what they learn and that such organization enhances subsequent retention . The nature of the organization may vary with the materials , but the general organizational process i4 , assumed to occur . We shall consider two ways in which organizational processes have been studied . The first situation is a sorting task . Assume that you are given a deck of one hundred 3 x 5 cards , each containing a single word , and that you are instructed to sort the words into categories , say six to eight . In the sorting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on each pile but not any other words . So you sort through the deck , and upon completion , you sort through the same deck again . In a second condition , an individual sorts the deck of cards but is told where to place each card . In other words , the category memberships are essentially prescribed in the second condition . Again , when the individual finishes sorting , he sorts through the deck again , trying to place the items in the same stacks . Question : Which person learns to sort better , and which group remembers the particular sort better over time ? The answer is that the group that sorts according to the categories they derived themselves both learned the particular sort more readily and , moreover , retained it better . Thus , it can be concluded that organization , as developed by the individual 's sorting according to his own criteria , produces better retention . A second series of studies , referred to earlier in this - hapter , involved presentation of a short story of only a few paragraphs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was asked to repeat it . In some cases , individuals were asked to repeat the story a number of times , with the successive recalls spread out over a period of weeks . The findings of greatest importance for our present concern are thej following . ( 1 ) A substantial number of omissions occur , i.e. , individuals simply are not able to recall much of the story , even though they have just read it . This is not surprising ; just try to recall " all " of a movie that you have recently seen , ( 2 ) Individuals tend to remember the main features of the story , as such features relate to the overall meaning of the story . ( 3 ) Individuals often recall certain specific details of the story which have a weaker relation to the story as a whole . ( 4 ) When the story is recalled repeatedly , there are systematic changes , with certain details dropping out and other details changed somewhat to fit the general meaning of the story . The interpretation of these data was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schema , or general plan , of the story . Moreover , there are certain features of the story which are important to this schema , and the individual often remembers these features . However , over time , what is forgotten are details that are unimportant , unimportant in that they are not critical to the schema . Finally , the data were also interpreted as indicating that memory in this case is a constructive process , a process by which the individual , remembering his schema , tries to reconstruct the story in terms of the schema . Memory , therefore , does not always involve a literal remembering ; instead , it may also involve an attempt to reconstruct events , based upon the schema remembered . If one realizes that what is here referred to as a schema is a plan of organization of the story , then what is being said is that organization is influencing what is being recalled , or perhaps more properly , what is being reconstructed . Rather than consider prose materials of paragraph length , let us ask what happens when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language may be analyzed in terms of various levels , and of particular concern in the study of sentence memory is the role of the syntactic and semantic components of the sentence . The theoretical question that has received substantial attention in recent years is whether sentences are encoded in memory syntactically , semantically , or both ways . Rephrased , the question is whether if we try to remember a sentence , we remember it on the basis of grammatical structure , on the basis of sentence meaning , or both . Current evidence seems to indicate that we readily forget the grammatical structure of the sentence ; what we primarily retain is the semantic content , the meaning , of the sentence . Thus , as with a story , it seems as though we abstract meaning from the verbal input . Furthermore , it appears that the syntactical structure seems to consist of a set of rules that are used in the input and output of the sentence , but what is retained about the sentence is its semantic content , or meaning . What then may we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems that taking the previously mentioned research on prose and poetry into account , organized materials are learned more readily than are materials poorly organized . Why is not so clear , but at least two factors are probably involved . First , there are stronger inter ( onnecting relations among organized material . Second , these relatively stronger interrelations probably produce superior retrieval cues . Skill retention Up to this point in the chapter we have primarily been considering the retention of information . But what about the retention of certain skills , such as driving and bicycle riding . How well are these retained ? Evidence supports the intuitive conclusion that most readers are probably able to state , namely , motor skills tend to be quite well retained . Once an individual reaches a given level of proficiency , his performance may decrease over time , but on the whole , the level of performance is well retained , especially if a warmup period is provided . Terms memory forgetting recall ( cued and noncued ) recognition relearning faculty psychology cued recall noncued recall percent saving method reconstruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retroactive inhibition proactive inhibition organization iconic memory schema QUESTIONS I If you learned the capitals of South American countries while in grade 6 and now can not recall them , what explanations can you offer for this forgetting ? 2 Can you thAnk of any cases where relearning is no faster than original learning ? 3 People who are able to remember much about a given topic , when asked a question often do not remember the answer simply as an isolated fact but instead first recall different things about the content of the question and then recall the answer . Why might this be the case ? 4 Are you able to think of any evidence to support the statement that often something forgotten is not really forgotten because it was never learned in the first place ? How can this statement be related to the short-term-long-term memory distinction ? 5 The tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon refers to knowing what something is , such as someone 's name , but not being able to recall it . The expression that it is on the tip of my tongue is used . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as more retrieval cues are presented , recall is more likely to occur . Why ? 6 Assume that you try to recall someone 's name and make an error in doing so . How would you attribute the origin of this error to input ? to retrieval ? 7 Interference theory suggests that forgetting is more likely to occur when two events are similar . Are you able to think of any illustrations of this effect ? 8 What does the concept of short-term-memory system suggest about why we forget ? Chapter 10 THE UTILIZATION OF INTELLECTUAL INFORMATION AND SKILLS Thinking ? the mo complex and thought provoking of uman activities ; elusive , ephemeral , and evident . Thus far in this unit we have considered certain aspects of development , learning , and memory . In this chapter we shall be concerned with how information may be utilized in new situations . The first part of the chapter is devoted to the phenomenon of transfer ; the second part , to particular complex functions of the organism . Specifically , the issues of the latter part of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking . TRANSFER OF TRAINING Does knowing how to play tennis help you to learn to play Ping-Pong ? Does it interfere with learning to play Ping-Pong ? Or does it have no effect at all ? Does learning Latin and geometry help you to think ? These questions are questions of transfer , sometimes called transfer of training . Phrased in a general way , transfer has to do with the effect that learning one task has upon the learning of a second task . Positive and negative transfer The study of transfer typically consists of two conditions . In the experimental condition , individuals first learn task A and then task B ; in the control condition , individuals learn only task B. Differences in performance of the experimental and control groups on task B acquisition are attributed to the learning of task A. The terms positive transfer and negative transfer are used to denote whether the acquisition of task A had a facilitating , an interfering , or no effect upon the acquisition of task B. If , for example , learning to play tennis helps one learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive ; if , on the other hand , Ping-Pong is more difficult to learn after one has learned to play tennis , we refer to such transfer as negative . Typically , positive and negative transfer are presented in terms of percentage . There are a number of ways to measure the percent transfer , but in general the measure employs the control-group score as a base line , and the performance of the experimental condition is considered in reference to this standard . Let us say that in one condition subjects take a mean of twenty trials to learn a list of words and subsequently the same subjects acquire a second list on ten trials . In a second condition , the control , the subjects acquire only the second list Let us assume that they acquire this in a mean of fifteen trials . With a mean of fifteen trials on the second task in the control condition , and a mean of ten trials on the second task in the experimental condition , acquisition of the first list produced positive transfer of ( 15 - 10 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The formula used in this case is ( Control - experimental ) /Control x 100 . An extremely important methodological problem in the study of transfer is the question of what it is that is being transferred . Assuming that positive or negative transfer takes place , isolating exactly what produced the effects is not a simple problem . If the learning of tennis could produce facilitating effects upon the acquisition of Ping-Pong , what could have produced such results ? The tasks are similar in that both require courts , nets , rackets , and an exchange system , and in both the serve is important and there are similar strategies on getting the person off balance and putting the ball where it can not be returned . To understand how transfer is produced , it is necessary to indicate the specific features that are transferred , and from this information to develop theories of the transfer process . Factors influencing transfer performance First , let us consider when negative transfer is most likely to be found . Assume that subjects learn a list of associations that is designated A-B @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , negative transfer may be obtained . In other words , when a new response is acquired in relation to an old stimulus , negative transfer often occurs . This is not a surprising finding , for there are examples of such transfer in everyday life . However , there is evidence which suggests that if A-B is learned quite well , it may not interfere with the acquisition of A-C . In other words , if some associative relationship is learned to a high level of strength , it may interfere less with the learning of new materials then if the materials were not as well acquired . Thus , if a student takes one course such as psychology which uses a particular - et of terms and subsequently takes another course such as sociology which may use the same terms but with somewhat different definitions , there is less likely to he a negative-transfer effect in learning the definitions of the terms in sociology if the student knows the psychological definitions quite well . The situation which produces the most negative transfer is the A-B-A-Br paradigm . This design consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a list composed of the same stimuli and responses , but with the responses repaired with the stimuli . Under these conditions , negative transfer is almost always found , although once more , under conditions of substantial A-B overlearning , positive transfer has been found , even in this paradigm . Why is it that degree of learning on the first task seems to influence the amount and even direction of transfer on the second task ? One possible reason is that when in the A-B-A-C or A-B-A-Br paradigm the first task has been learned to a lesser degree and the individual has started to acquire the second task , the occurrence of A in the second task may evoke the response of the first task , thereby reducing the effectiveness of the occurrence of the response in the second task . In other words , the first-task response may interfere with the acquisition of the second-task response because the first-task response is evoked by A. However , when the first task is overlearned , then the stimuli and responses of the first task constitute a unit or a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second task does not evoke the first-list response because the first-list structure is not evoked . However , with a lower level of first-list learning , the first-list structure is not as coherent , and occurrence of the second-list stimulus may evoke the first-list response . Positive-transfer effects are of two types , specific and nonspecific . Specific transfer effects refer to effects that occur as a result of the manipulation of the stimulus and response characteristics of the task . As an example of a specific effect , once more consider that an A-B list is acquired , followed by acquisition of an A-B ' list , where B ' means that the responses of the second list are associates of the responses of the first list ( such as the words " table " for B and " chair " for B ' ) . If individuals learn the A-B pairs first , positive transfer is produced in A-B ' learning by the individual 's apparently using B to mediate the learning of B ' during second-task learning in an A-B-B ' manner . In this discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associative paradigms in the list-learning context . Illustrations could be found , however , to show that the effects found with list learning may be generalized to other situations . When you learn to drive , you learn certain perceptual-motor relations . What would happen if you had to drive in England where the driving lanes are reversed with respect to direction . Although there apparently are no data available on this question , it is quite likely that negative transfer would be found initially but that the ability to adapt to the new driving situation would quite likely be a function of one 's amount of driving experience ; new drivers would have a greater problem of adjustment than would veteran drivers . Nonspecific transfer is general in nature , somewhat related to practice effect Let us assume that an individual has acquired a paired-associate list in fourte trials . Let us now present him with a series of such lists and ask how many trial . are needed to learn each of the successive lists with each list consisting of new pairs . The answer is that in general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criterion than the immediately preceding list . This effect is termed nonspecific transfer because the transfer found is a function of general learning effects and not to changes in stimulus-response relationships . One type of nonspecific transfer effect is warmup . In this situation some initial activity facilitates performance during a single experimental session . A second type of nonspecific transfer is referred to as learning to learn . This effect is illustrated by the above example in whit h each of a series of paired-associate lists is learned more readily than the previoni. list . In a sense , what individuals apparently are doing is learning to learn paired associate lists . Thus , the learning-to-learn effect is a type of positive transfer in which the individual acquires new material with increasing ease in a particular task situation . The learning-to-learn effect has been studied under various task conditions , with the subjects employed having been monkeys , children , and adults . It has been shown , for example , that monkeys are able to form a learning set , an ability to solve a particular type of problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consists of presenting three objects as stimuli , two being the same and one different If the animal picks the odd stimulus , reinforcement is given . In such a situation , monkeys demonstrate increasing facility at solving successive problems , thereby showing the formation of a learning set for oddity problems . The theoretical basis of learning-to-learn effects is uncertain . One writer has suggested that such effects involve the development of systems which process information in a particular way , depending upon the task requirements . The issue is important and will no doubt receive more theoretical attention . Transfer of principles One of the first studies on the topic of transfer was conducted at about the turn of the century and involved the use of principles as the first task in a transfer situation . The task to be performed consisted of learning to hit a target by shooting an air rifle when the target was submerged a few inches below the surface of water . In one condition the principles of diffraction were explained so that an individual understood how light waves bend when they are transmitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diffraction were not explained . It was found that the condition in which the principles of diffraction were explained produced better performance in the development of the individual 's ability to hit the target . Thus , a knowledge of the principles important to the task facilitated learning . Since the study of the influence of a knowledge of relevant principles upon the performance of a given task is another area of transfer that has received relatively little attention , one is unable to state the processes by which performance is facilitated by a knowledge of the appropriate principles . // The theoretical basis of transfer t ) espite the general importance of the issue of transfer , the theoretical developments in this area have been minimal . The theory one usually finds in textbooks is that termed identical elements . This theory states that positive transfer will occur according to the number of elements which the first situation has in common with the second situation . Carried one step further , one might expect that positive transfer would be a function of the similarity of the two tasks : as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reader should sense why this theory has not led us very far . There are a number of problems with the theory , foremost of which is the matter of identifying the elements of the tasks . No tasks have been analyzed into elements ; indeed , it seems to be next to impossible to do so for virtually every task . Also , the question of similarity is a recurrent problem to psychologists because although everyone seems to know when something is or is not similar to something else , it is nevertheless quite difficult to develop and utilize a measure of degree of similarity . Thetheory of identical elements makes it incumbent upon the psychologist to identify task elements and then manipulate these elements from one task to the next . Since attempts to identify elements have thus far not been fruitful , the theory of identical elements may be regarded as essentially untested and perhaps untestable . With respect to other theories of transfer , there unfortunately are none . Transfer in education Some years ago there was a theory in education called the doctrine of formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology , the view that the mind consists of a number of faculties and that use of any given one will enable the individual to enhance the subsequent use of the faculty . In other words , it was held that learning a particular subject such as Latin would involve a type of mental discipline of the mind which would carry over to other subject-matter areas . Some years ago research was conducted on the concept of formal discipline by having one group of students take Latin and another group not taking Latin . The results of such studies tended to show no large differences in the subsequent learning of new material , although usually there was a slight difference in favor of the Latin group . The question of transfer has been in one form or another implicit in most educational theory . Despite its importance , however , transfer has received little experimental study in the educational context . Basically , the question is what type of education provides for the best transfer ; and naturally , one must ask transfer of what . In educational theory and practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training is an example , for the vocational school experience is designed to provide an individual with a skill he or she is able to use on the job ; and the training is as closely related to the demands of the job as possible . At the other extreme , the education usually advocated at most liberal arts colleges , the so-called liberal education , assumes a much broader base with respect to transfer . In receiving a liberal education , a person usually takes courses procedure thus provides the individual with the opportunity to select the install and thus enables him to test particular hypotheses , Theoretical interpretations of concept identification DISCRIMINATION LEARNING One of the earliest interpretations of concept identification was to view the concept . learning task as an elaboration of discrimination learning . In a T-maze a rat le provided with a two-choice situation , where the choices may be labelled S ' an S- . S refers to the path which leads to the goal where reward is to be found , and S- refers to the path which leads to no reward . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goal , it is reinforced . Similarly , in concept learning , there are positive ( S ' ) instances presented to the subject as well as negative ( ' , instances . The individual makes a response indicating whether a particular stimulus array is a positive or negative instance of the concept , and he is subsequently informed about whether or not the particular stimulus array was an instance of the concept , which effectively tells him whether or not his response was correct , Hence , although not identical , the discrimination-learning and the concept-identification situations do appear to have much in common . Consistent with this interpretation were findings on how certain variables that influenced performance in the discrimination learning were effective in the con cept-identification task . The amount of irrelevant information was shown to lw effective ; in the discrimination situation , this variable amounts to the number of incorrect alternatives ; and in the concept task , the analogous variable is the number of irrelevant dimensions . Delaying feedback was shown to retard acquisition ; in the discrimination task the delay of feedback is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reward , whereas in the concept task it is that of the interval between making a response and being told whether or not the response is correct or incorrect . Thus , from these and other results , it would seem that viewing concept identification in terms of discrimination learning is a reasonable theoretical position . Signs that the issue is not so simple may be found in one facet of early theorizing regarding concept identification which involved the use of two notions : abstraction and generalization . The first refers to the idea that individuals must somehow select the appropriate stimulus elements that are pertinent from a particular stimulus configuration . The second generalization relates to the belief that the individual must be able to see commonality from one stimulus situation to the next . In other words , it is necessary for the individual to observe that although two different stimulus configurations occur , he must be able to see the elements that are pertinent in one of the situations and then generalize to the second stimulus array . Thus , the concepts of abstraction and generalization more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the discrimination-learning view of concept identification , namely , that the discrimination view does not provide for showing how the individual is able to determine that although two situations may vary , there is some commonality between them . It is not clear from the theory of discrimination TRYIN ! 1TI7 WRRp - 17 , learning how the individual is able to observe commonality in two different stimulus arrays , nor is it possible to state how the individual is able to select as pertinent certain elements of the stimulus to the exclusion of others . It perhaps should be mentioned that refinements of the discrimination view of concept identification have been developed to try to handle these problems . But the point to note here bi that the attempt to analyze concept identification as a relatively simple discrimination-learning situation was essentially not successful and a more involved theoretical analysis became necessary . THE MEDIATIONAL HYPOTHESIS A second type of explanation that has been advanced is called mediational theory . Actually the mediational view consists of a class of theories which have a common thread , namely , that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to develop a response common to the stimulus instances constituting a particular concept . Let us say that not only does a subject make a response to a particular array in a cone t-identification situation but he also makes a mediational response , termed r , to th stimulus array . Thus , the stimulus array may be considered as 5 , and the individ 1 may make a response R , or Si - R1 , with feedback indicating whether R1 was correct . In addition , Si evokes r1 , a mediational response relating to a particular dimension , or Si  --  rl. figure Subsequently , when another stimulus array S2 is presented , a second response R2 may occur ; but another mediational response r2 occurs . Now , over the course of training , what happens is that a given stimulus array Si may evoke a particular mediational response ri , and this in turn serves as a stimulus to produce the overt response Ri . The stimulus arrays vary from one case to the next , but they may produce the sime mediational response . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept-learning task , the individual may make the same mediational response to various stimulus arrays , thus enabling him to make the correct overt response . The advantage of the mediational response concept is therefore to provide a mechanism by which the individual is able to develop a response to a stimulus dimension across a number of stimulus instances rather than make only a specific response to a specific stimulus instance . The mediational view has been especially effective in dealing with problems that relate to labeling . For example , does verbal labeling help children identify a concept correctly ? Such a question has been dealt with by providing a verbal label for a given stimulus array and asking the subject to subsequently identify a stimulus as a positive or negative instance of a concept when the label was not present . The statement of a verbal label thus may be viewed as a mediational mechanism which provides the subject with some potential help in identifying the components of the stimulus array . Such verbal labeling does seem to help concept identification after children reach an appropriate verbal level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of concept identification that has been provid considers the task as having two components , attribute learning and rule learn ' The first consists of the individual 's being able to specify the dimensions whic may be found in the stimulus array , the dimensions along which the concept ma vary ; the second consists of the rule by which the stimulus dimensions must divided in order for the subject to be able to identify the concept . The identification of a concept thus consists of the ability of the subject to identify the dimension . and the values thereof , and also to determine the rule by which the concept may be identified . Hence , the concept-identification task consists of identifying the varia ? tion that occurs within the stimulus dimensions , and of either identifying or possl ? bly , in a more complex situation , generating the rules that govern the identificatio of the concept . HYPOTHESIS-TESTING MODELS A somewhat different approach to the study of concept identification has bee to try to describe the hypothesis employed by individuals during concept attainment . The selection method has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hypotheses or strategies , with investigators inferring strategies from the response sequence of the individual . Two general strategies of concept identification have been identified . The first is termed focusing , characterized by the individual 's testing an attribute selected from a previous positive instance . As an example , assume that the individual ha , . been informed that " two green triangles " is a positive instance of the concept , He may then select the card containing " two red triangles , " thereby focusing on the color dimension . If this card is positive , then green has been eliminated ; if the card is negative , then greenness may be relevant to the concept . This tyln ' of focusing is termed conservative focusing because the individual is gaining info ! mation on one dimension at a time . Another form of focusing , termed focus gain bling , involves the individual 's selecting a card which varies on two or more dime n sions . For example , if the two-green-triangles card is known to be positive , the individual may next select @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time . A second type of strategy is scanning . This strategy consists of developing a hypothesis and testing it by selecting a series of cards which can be hypothesized to be either positive or negative . If the individual thinks that the concept is " blue circles , " he may try the " one-blue-circle " card , then try the " one-red-circle " card , expecting the former to be a positive instance and the latter to be a negative instance . PROBLEM SOLVING The problem-solving task Laboratory study of problem-solving typically consists of presentation of a set of materials with instructions to solve a particular problem , using the provided materials . One example of a problem-solving task is that of anagram solution . The letters of a word are presented in a scrambled order and the individual must determine what the word is . The time to solve the problem is the dependent variable of most experiments employing the anagram technique . A second example is the pendulum problem . An individual enters a room to find two strings hanging from the ceiling and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the room to complete the task . When the individual holds one string , however , he Is unable to reach the other string . The question is thus how he is to tie the two strings together when he can not reach both at the same time . The solution is that the individual must tie some object of sufficient weight to the bottom of one string and set that string in motion , effectively making it a pendulum . Then , the individual holds the unweighted string , catches the string in motion , and ties the two together . The solution thus rests upon the individual 's realization that he is able to make a pendulum of the one string . Theoretical interpretations of problem solving GESTALT THEORY As the reader ma ' recall ( hopefully ) , Gestalt theory has been an influential theory in the area of perception . Two of the major characteristics of Gestalt theory are : emphasis is placed on the whole as determining the role of the parts ; and emphasis is placed on the perception of a given event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual . Furthermore , perceptual reorganization is possible , and when it occurs , the individual typically perceives a situation in a different way . The Gestalt view of problem solving is essentially an application of these perceptual principles . Impetus for the development of Gestalt theory within the context of problem solving was furnished by experiments conducted by Kohler in the early twentieth century . This research involved observing chimpanzees in a variety of problem-solving conditions . The most widely cited example consists of a situation in which a banana was placed at a particular distance from a chimpanzee 's cage , just beyond the reach of a long stick that the chimpanzee had to rake the banana in . There was another stick , a short one , at the disposal of the chimpanzee . The chimpanzee 's efforts at reaching the banana with either stick were futile , as was an attempt to reach the banana with a strip of wire torn from the cage . The chimpanzee then looked at the long stick and the short stick , took both sticks , and tried to insert one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the improvised stick and raking in the banana . The Gestalt interpretation of such problem-solving behavior places strong emphasis upon the concept of insight , the sudden solution of a problem ? the " Aha ! " experience . In the Gestalt context , insight is also interpreted as the restructuring of the perceptual organization of the individual . In other words , the organism sees a new whole and this realization of a new whole is what constitutes insight . One important aspect of the theory is that the role of experience is minimized . According to Gestalt hypothesizing , there is no substantial effect of past problem solving ; instead , problem solving is taken to be a perceptual-like effect involving a new view of the total problem-solving situation . The Gestalt interpretation of problem solving has also been applied to hums situations . In particular , the importance of perceptual reorganization or insight ha been stressed in a Gestalt analysis of the teaching of geometry . As one might expect , the Gestalt view emphasizes the importance of the individual 's developing an understanding of the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted , the Gestalt view of problem solving minimizes the importan of experience and stresses the suddenness of solution . The associative view of problem solving , on the other hand , considers problem solving as a process who h occurs as a result of developing the appropriate habits that may be utilized in a given problem-solving situation . One study used to support this view has shown , for example , that for an animal to solve an insight-type problem , such as obtaining the banana by putting the two sticks together and obtaining the banana , it is first necessary for the animal to have had some experience with the sticks . By implication , therefore , the associative view holds that presolution activity provides for the development of habits which are later used in problem solution . What these habits specifically are is open to some question , but they may be viewed in terms of an animal 's learning to manipulate the sticks and acquiring some functional notion of the stick as an extension of the arm . With this knowledge and with the knowledge that sticks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combine the habits and solve the problem . Perhaps the difference of this view and the Gestalt view was stated most appropriately by Pavlov , who in criticizing Kohler 's work commented that he could hardly believe that Kohler would claim that the most important part of problem solving occurred when the animal just sat there and did nothing . Instead , Pavlov argued , insight was possible only after the animal had acquired all the necessary habits to solve the problem . What Kohler was doing was emphasizing what happens after the animal had acquired all the pertinent associations . Another form of problem solving that has been used as support for the idea that experience is important is that of a classic study of Thorndike 's , published in 1899 . The subject was a cat that was placed in a cage , and the problem was for the cat to get out of the cage to obtain food . To leave the cage the cat had to learn to open a latch . What was found is that the cat 's time to get out of the cage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ den-insight type of solution was not found . Thorndike interpreted the findings in terms of trial and error , in which the animal made erroneous responses in an effort to leave the box but eventually learned to make the appropriate response and then performed it with increasing rapidity . The interpretation offered was thus in terms of a habit development and not in terms of a type of insight . As a tangential comment regarding Pavlov 's orientation , Pavlov rejected Thorndike 's concept of trial-and-error behavior because it was too mentalistic . LEARNING-SET THEORY A theory that brings together the Gestalt and associative views is one developed from the concept of learning sets . It was mentioned previously that an organism may develop an ability to solve a particular type of problem , such as the oddity problem previously discussed . After forming the learning set , the organism solves the problem in an insight manner , i.e. , quickly and without error . However , to arrive at this ability , it is necessary that a series of similar problems be solved , and in the initial phases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other words , one may consider that the development of a learning set involves a continuum along which the organism 's initial behavior is associative and terminal behavior is insightful . Along the way to insightful behavior , there Is a shift from associative to more insight processes . This analysis of problem solving is intuitively appealing in one sense because it does seem to resemble what happens in many human problem-solving situations . In solving a particul r type of algebraic problem , an individual may utilize whatever skills he has avail ble and try the techniques in various combinations . Without appropriate solutio , he attacks the problem in a new way , again using the skills at his disposal that he may need . Solution may or may not be insightful in nature . However , when additional problems of the same class are presented , sudden and errorless problem-solution behavior may be found . Thus , the individual has gone from an associative type of responding to that of determining insightful solutions . INFORMATION-PROCESSING THEORY In recent years there has been considerable interest shown in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ termed information processing because the general approach has been that of trying to determine how input information is processed . One of the earlier attempts to study problem solving in this manner consisted of having a subject solve a problem , reporting verbally as he went through the ateps of the solution . A program was then written from his verbal account and put into a computer . Subsequently , he and the computer were given another problem , and the computer solution of the problem was used as a predictor of the steps of the individual 's problem solution . The question thus was whether the steps of solution predicted by the computer were in agreement with those used by the individual . It was found that , in general , there was reasonably good agreement . It is important to note that when a computer is able to solve a problem , the computer does nothing more than what it is told to do , and what it is told to do is called the computer program . The theory of problem solving that is involved in computer simulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Two types of problem-solution strategies have been employed within the computer-simulation framework . The first is termed an algorithm solution , which consists of a systematic exploration of all possible alternatives and their outcomes , up to a certain point . For example , if the computer is programmed to play checkers , iP. the computer , in a given situation , will consider all possible alternative moves well as implications of these moves to perhaps four or five subsequent move finally selecting one move based upon certain criteria . The second type of solution is termed heuristic , a word which means a " value for finding things . " Within heuristic solution , the computer does not scan all possible alternatives but instead considers only certain possible moves , moves based upon criteria . These criteria , of course , are selected on the basis of the probable importance of the information that will be obtained . More recently , the computer simulation of problem solving has involved more extensive protocol analysis , the term used to describe the technique of putting the verbal account of problem solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : figure where D is 5 . Each letter represents a single digit between 0 and 9 , with each digit represented only once . If the reader tries to solve the problem , he should also try to state an account of each step as it occurs . This is the verbal account that would be transformed into a program . It is important to note that the intent in this case is not to try to predict a future solution but to write a program which will meet what is called a sufficiency criterion , namely , that which will solve the problem . In addition to this type of problem , symbolic-logic problem solution has been studied , and the steps involved in the chess games of a champion chess player have been analyzed . Beyond the question of whether a program can be written for the solution of certain problems , as the steps in the solution are stated , there has been an attempt to extract from such programs what seem to be the critical elements in problem solution . What has emerged sounds familiar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has a limited capacity . In problem solving the individual uses the short-term system to hold certain information in memory while he tries to retrieve other information from long-term memory to bring to bear on the information he has in short-term memory . A series of such steps occur , with each step based upon a given goal or subgoal of the problem-solving task . In a similar manner , within the framework of the MAN model , problem-solving activity may be viewed as a series of events of the higher-level processor , where there is an attempt to utilize the information of long-term memory to solve the problem or subgoals of the problem . Set and functional fixedness One of the aspects of problem solving that has been found in various contexts is the operation of a problem-solving set . As stated in reference to perception , the word set refers to a predisposition of the individual to solve a problem in a particular manner . Consider the following anagram example . Try to solve this anagram : I'LAI:I ' . If you have the solution , now try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now try this one : RAGONE . Having solved these three , if you were now eked to solve another anagram , the chances are that you would expect another Instance of a particular conceptual category . Thus , you have a set to respond in a particular way . Another type of situation that has been used to study set-related effects is the water-jar problem . This consists of using three hypothetical ' containers of water labeled A , B , and C. A particular volume is ascribed to each container and the Individual is asked to indicate how he could obtain a given quantity of water . For example , let us say B holds 12 quarts , A holds 8 quarts , and C holds 7 quarts . He is asked to obtain 6 quarts . How does one do this ? The answer is that you use the combined quantity of A + B and then dump out water into C two times from the quantity of A + B. This solution has the formula of B = A - 2C . In one study , individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same solution B + A - 2C . Another problem was given which could be solved by the same fora la but also by the simpler solution B - C. What was found was that individu is did not see the easier solution but continued to solve in the previous manner . The author attributed the failure to use the easier solution as a form of rigidity in a problem-solving context . The final example of this type of phenomenon is termed functional fixedness , which may be illustrated by the following example . Let us assume that on a table is a relay and a switch , two objects used in an electric circuit . One group of individuals is trained , one person at a time , to use the switch ; a second group is trained to use the relay . After training , each person returns and is given the pendulum problem . The question is not how he solves the pendulum problem but which object he chooses to solve it , the object upon which he received training or the other . The answer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not have training . The explanation of these and other similar results has been in terms of the individual 's inability to perceive an object as having a new or different function than the function he knows . When we know that an object has a particular function , it is difficult to view the object as having a new function . Indeed , when we do see a new function , there sometimes is even a feeling of accomplishment . Incidentally , in the study cited in which the pendulum problem was used , the investigators reported that individuals sometimes became indignant when they were asked why they chose one object , the unfamiliar one , rather than the familiar one . Answers included such comments as " Everyone knows that 's a relay . " Functional fixedness thus consists of a type of inflexibility with respect to the use of some object . One may view it , in a sense , as negative transfer , for the training procedure evidently reduces the individual 's ability to see a new use for the object . Problem solving and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person solves a particularly difficult problem , what can we say about the nature of such problem solution ? How are creative discoveries accomplished ? Some time ago problem solution was described in terms of four steps : ( 1 ) definition of the problem ; ( 2 ) the gathering of information and possibly an attem at solution ; ( 3 ) an incubation period ; ( 4 ) a problem solution . This account is , course , descriptive and not explanatory , but it does provide for a general account of the stages of creative problem solution . The most interesting stage in this descrip. tion is the third , the stage that is quite important and yet extremely difficult to study . There have been a number of papers written by scientists which provide account .. of their experience of discovery , and such accounts are usually quite in line with the four-stage description . Typically , scientists report that they worked quite hard and extensively on a problem without solving it . Then they put it aside for a while and later the solution suddenly occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , who formulated the concept of the carbon ring used in organic chemistry , was watching flames in a fireplace when the flames took on the shape of the ring which Kekule realized was the solution to his problem . It is of further interest to note that such accounts are not limited to scientists ; composers and writers have reported giving extensive thought and mental activity to a particular project and then after a period of time , having the entire work suddenly become apparent . Beethoven reported an experience somewhat like this in the writing of his Sixth , or Pastoral , Symphony . THINKING The psychological investigation of thought processes is difficult to discuss because there is a genuine problem of stating what one really means when he uses the expression thinking or thought process . We may view thinking as what goes on inside our head when we walk down the street or when we try to solve a problem . We may regard thinking as an attempt to be logical in what we say and in the reasons for our verbal statements and actions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be able to state a precise definition . However , let 's not avoid thinking by not being able to define it ; instead , let us consider different areas of study which may tell us something about the thought process . The Wiirzburg school Probably one of the most important contributions to the theoretical analysis of thought was made by a group of investigators at a European university , Wurzburg , during the first decade of the twentieth century . An important tool at the time was introspection , the method by which an individual reported the events that took place in consciousness when he was presented with a particular stimulus or was asked to perform a certain task . Also at the time , act psychology was influential , and there was interest in phenomena such as the act of judging or the act of willing . The initial Wiirzburg study consisted of having an individual perform a number of judgments and report what the contents of his consciousness were while he was making the judgment . The individual may have been given a weight in each hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of this study were unexpected . Essentially , there was no conscious content found when the individual was making the judgment . There was , however , a feeling of awareness reported , or a vague feeling that something was happening . Since at the time it was thought that consciousness consists of three types of contents , sensations , images , and feelings ( in an emotional sense ) , this result was thought to be important because such imageless thought , as it was called , did not seem to fit any of the categories . A second study involved use of an associative technique in which an individual was given a stimulus word with instructions to respond in a certain way . " State the first word that comes to mind when I say ' table , ' " or , " State a superordinate of the word ' robin ' . " Thus , the individual may say " chair " or " bird , " respectively . Again , the observer was to introspect to determine the contents of consciousness that occurred between stimulus presentation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was found that frequently there was little or no conscious content but once again sometimes imageless thoughts . These two studies thus yielded essentially negative findings , bu they did produce the interesting conclusion that determining what goes on in consciousness during the performance of a given task does not provide an explanation regarding the processes involved in the performance of the task . This result is of considerable importance , for it argues against something that people intuitively feel is true , namely , that our conscious experience provides us with the real key to our ability to solve problems . The Wurzburg findings indicate that in matters such as making decisions , an analysis of consciousness does not provide us with an explanation for our behavior . The Wurzburg research also attacked the problem of the role of the task in determining performance . Consider the following example . The digits 6 and 2 are presented to the subject , before which he was told to add , subtract , multiply , or divide . Let it further be assumed that a number of similar problems were presented . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the period from digit presentation to the answer contained no appreciable conscious contents . What is important , however , is the task , the basic instruction of what to do . The task is important in that once given the task , the occurrence of the response to the stimulus is typically a quick reaction . The conscious content that is reported , moreover , tends to occur in relation to the task early in the sequence of task-stimulus-response . This type of study was pursued at length with the conclusion reached that the statement of the task is of critical importance to subsequent response occurrence . In other words , it seems that to a certain degree an individual 's response to a stimulus situation is a function of events prior to stimulus occurrence . With respect to the implication for the psychology of thought , such findings suggest that once again , contrary to our intuition , certain mental activities are highly influenced by general task events which precede the specific stimulus occurrence . The Wurzburg research thus provided two general results , one negative and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an explanation of what determines certain responses we make involving judgments , stating associations , or performing other tasks ; and events related to the objectives of a given task situation are important in determining behavior . Logical thinking We all like to imagine that we think logically , and such a belief probably dem strates how illogical we are . Nevertheless , the study of logic has been of inter for some time . It seems only reasonable that psychologists would attempt to stu logical thought by the use of logical constructions called syllogisms . Thus , t question may be asked whether the conclusion of a syllogism is valid , in the se that it follows from the two premises . " All horses have four legs . Silver is a hor Therefore , Silver belongs to the Lone Ranger . " This conclusion is , of course , n logical . Perhaps Silver does belong to the Lone Ranger , but that fact does not foil from the premises . " Silver has four legs " would be a valid conclusion , however . Research using syllogisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to make errors in logical judgment . One line o investigation has shown that the judgment of validity can be influenced by what is termed an atmosphere effect . If the first two premises are positive statement ... the individual is more likely to conclude that the syllogism is valid when the conclusion is positive , even though the conclusion does not follow . The same hold% when negative statements occur in the premises . A negative conclusion is likely to be judged valid . The most common error found is overgeneralizing an attribute to a class of objects when it is not valid to do so . For example : " All bugs are insects . All flies are insects . Therefore , all flies are bugs . " Or , " Some flies are insects . Some bugs are insects . Therefore , some flies are bugs . " Neither of these syllogisms is valid . Another area of study has consisted of presenting syllogisms which have political , religious , or some other contents which may be controversial , and then asking individuals to judge the syllogism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in opposition to one 's belief . For example , " All members of the John Birch Society are conservative . Barry Goldwater is a conservative . Therefore , Barry Goldwater is a member of the John Birch Society . " This syllogism is not valid , yet it has been found that if the conclusion is in agreement with one 's beliefs , he is more likely to judge the syllogism as valid than if the conclusion is not consonant with his beliefs . The study of logical judgment by use of the syllogism has thus been made to determine where fallacies in reasoning tend to occur and the importance of motivational factors in making logical judgments . The shortcoming of the use of syllogisms is , of course , that what we consider to be thinking often does not occur in syllogistic form . Language and thought There has been considerable interest expressed in the relation between language and thought . One of the strongest statements of the possible relation has been stated in the linguistic relativity hypothesis . This position advocates that the world as seen by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the culture . Eskimos have different words for different types of snow and a certain tribe in the Philippines has many names for rice , depending upon the state or appearance of the rue Whether from such examples it is true that the language shapes the view of the world is not clear . It instead may be argued that the view of the world may influence how language develops within the culture . Most psychologists would be in agreement with the assertion that there exists a close relation between language and thought . The problem is to determine the nature of this relation . One way in which a relation would be expected to exist Is in what may be termed categorization behavior . Language in part consists of conceptual categories which more or less define particular domains . Moreover , when particular categories are defined , one expects thought to be influenced by the narrowness or breadth of the category . Let us assume that instead of the three common types of women 's hair color , blonde , brunette , and red , there were five major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current three . Now , if statements were made about people having red hair , fewer people would probably be included in the five-category system than in the three-category system and we would thus find that certain attributes that we might ascribe to redheads would involve fewer people in one case than another . In a not dissimilar vein , it has been found that verbal labels can influence categorization behavior with respect to colors . Individuals were given a series of colors and a label was associated with each color . Subsequently when categorizing a large number of colors , the categories used were found to be a function of the verbal labels . When verbal labels were not used , categorization behavior was different . The precise relation between language and thought is not clear . No doubt a good portion of the lack of knowledge in this area resides in the fact that what is meant by thought is not clear . Despite this haziness , however , it seems that our mental processes are related but not identical to thought . One final example on this topic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chess playing by placing a large chessboard on a wall and making a hole in the center of the board so that he could photograph the eye movements of given players . The players were asked to verbalize their thoughts regarding the game . It was found that sometimes the verbal statements were better predictors of future moves than were the eye movements , but at other times , the eye movements were better predictors . The investigator concluded that thought in such a situation involves a continual interaction of verbal and nonverbal factors ; thought is related to but not the same as language . The motivation of thought FREUDIAN THEORY What motivates thinking ? In the most general sense , one might argue , as some have , that thinking occurs when the individual feels a need . If the organism does not satisfy the need , then he participates in the activity termed thinking in order to satisfy the need . This general formulation has taken on more specific forms , two of which will be discussed . Freud postulated that thinking arises in the infant from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young baby feels hungry and is not fed , thereby having a need that has not been fulfilled . According to the theory , the infant m form an image of the bottle , thereby receiving some gratification . This act of imagining is termed the primary profess . The child , however , is ultimately not satisfied the image of the bottle since he remains hungry . The lack of gratification by t primary process gives rise to the secondary process , the process by which the organiM tries to obtain the bottle itself . This is a significant period according to the theory for the infant must now come to grips with reality in his desire to satisfy his need ; and in so doing , he must learn ways to interact with his environment so that he may satisfy his needs . It is from this motivation that thought develops , thought constituting the internal mechanisms that the individual develops in his attempts to deal with the environment . Similarly , adult thinking occurs in a similar manner . It is motivated by wishes or desires of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need . A more complete picture of the motivation of thought according to this vi must take into account the role that unconscious processes play . To Freud this human has three mental parts , the id , ego , and superego . The id consists of basic sexual desires of the individual . It is a carryover from man 's evolution , is amoral , and is completely unconscious . Moreover , the id demands gratification . The super ? ego consists of the conscience , what should not be done , and the ego-ideal , what should be done . The superego is partly conscious and partly unconscious . The ego consists of the structures of the individual that must deal with reality and , at the same time , handle the struggle that continually occurs between the id and the superego , Finally , one other aspect of the theory , the libido , should be mentioned . The libido is a life energy or sexual force within the individual that may become related to people or objects . One may view it as something like a sex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the libido represents a general force of life energy . Within this framework , thought becomes a complex process , primarily engaged in by the ego , in the ego 's attempts to meet the urges of the id , the limiting aspects of the superego , and reality . Basically , thought is still viewed as initiated by an urge , a desire that is probably unconscious . The thought process thus involves trying to satisfy this urge by dealing with reality . In this view , thought is produced by motives that are usually unconscious , consisting of the developing or utilizing mechanisms to satisfy these desires . Motivation by goals . For want of a better term , the expression motivation by goals is used to describe a rather loosely formulated conception of motivation and thought Assuming that an individual has a given objective or problem , motivation in this framework consists of the factors that are important to the filling in of the steps toward achievement of this goal . Motivational states may become important in the selection of particular steps toward the goal , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and submotives may exist which influence one choir ? over another . The point of this notion is that once a goal has been established , the primary motivation consists of taking steps toward the achievement of the goal . figure QUESTIONS // I Describe a simple concept , conjunctive concept , disjunctive concept , and conditional concept . 2 Think of when you have solved a difficult problem . Was there an incubation period in the problem solution ? What happened during this time ? 3 What factors may be involved in learning to learn ? How important are the specific materials that are learned ? 4 What limitations might the procedure of protocol analysis have ? 5 Are you able to think of any time when you overcame functional fixedness ? 6 If you solve one problem and then later solve it again , the solution time of the second solving is typically much more rapid then the first time . What processes are changed that permit this change in solution time ? 7 Try to develop a definition of the term thinking . What difficulties do you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a definition of problem solving ? 3 If you were to develop a theory of transfer , what theoretical processes would you postulate ? What would your theory imply for education ? 9 Are you able to think of any examples which provide some idea of the relation that exists between language and thought ? 10 Try to design an experiment for studying the importance of memory in concept identification , where memory refers to the ability of the individual to remember the instances that are presented and whether they are positive or negative . SUGGESTED READINGS Bourne , L. E. , Jr . Human conceptual behavior . Boston : Allyn &; Bacon , 1966 . This work presents an introduction to concept identification behavior . Newell , A. , &; Simon , H. A. Human problem solving . Englewood Cliffs , N.J. : Prentice-Hall , 1972 . This work presents a detailed discussion of some of the more recent work in the computer simulation of problem solving . Voss , J. F. ( Ed . ) . Approaches to thought . Columbus , Ohio : Merrill , 1969 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaches to the topic of thinking . ONE of the major problems with the term motivation is that when wI use this expression , we usually think of the question " Why ? " Although there is nothing wrong with asking why when it is understood properly , the fact is that it is usually not understood properly . To show some of the problems involved , let us consider the following example . A man 's wife dies and a few days later the man jumps off of a bridge . A friend says , " He became despondent over the death of his wife and he committed suicide . " The friend and almost everyone listening feels that there probably can be no other explanation . Why did he commit suicide ? Because his wife died . The question of his motivation is thus an open-and-shut case . But let us take a closer look at the matter , for the real question is not whether this is the correct explanation ; the real question is whether this is an explanation at all . The first matter we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which men lost their wives by death . The answer , of course , is that we probably do know of a number of such cases . Next , we may determine how many of these men committed suicide and find , let us say , that not one did . Well then , we may inquire , why was it that the one particular man committed suicide but all of the others did not ? It is at this point that one should realize that saying " He committed suicide because his wife died " is an oversimplification . The death of the wife may have been the precipitating event , but it does not constitute a sufficient explanation . Now let us look again at the question of why . Clearly , there is no simple cause of the man 's suicide and no simple answer to the question . We must realize that in this example the why is really " What characterizes individuals who commit suicide and under what conditions do such individuals commit suicide ? " To understand what has motivated this particular individual to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the characteristics of the individual and the events that seem to have a particular impact upon the individual . We find , therefore , that to understand a given act in terms of its motivation , we are really asking about the conditions under which the act occurs . In other words , the problem of trying to understand motivation is fundamentally no different from that of trying to understand any other type of behavior . Returning to the husband who committed suicide upon the death of his wife , let us say that we now seek an explanation in terms of the characteristics of the individual and the conditions surrounding the individual . Such an effort leads to another problem that clinical psychologists and psychiatrists must cope with , namely , that it is necessary to determine causative factors after the fact . When a clinical psychologist is studying a particular case , he is forced to look at the history of the individual and try to determine which characteristics of the individual and which particular events were critical in the individual 's development . The problem , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to explain some form of behavior , we may be quite influenced by preconceptions . It is quite easy to say " It all goes back to his childhood " , and then to pick out certain facets of the person 's development and say that these events caused the behavior . However , we are quite inclined to select events that lit into our conception of what happened ; objectivity is difficult to maintain . Unfortunately , we are normally unable to manipulate these events In an effort to produce the behavior . Thus , one finds that identifying the cogent events of one 's background that are important to a given form of behavior indeed Constitutes a major stumbling block . It should also be mentioned that biological explanations of motivation are also sometimes oversimplified , especially as related to the evolutionary concept of adaptation . As an example , to say that the pattern of migration of a particular type of bird reflects adaptation to environmental conditions is simply not an explanation . To understand why birds migrate , it is necessary to have a knowledge of conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motivation is considered in the present volume , let us examine the MAN model of Chapter 2 , shown in Figure IV-1 . According figure                     