@@773448

txt Emile Durkheim assured , but the survival of the collective life of the clan ( 1912:240ff . ) . A final and somewhat different example of Durkheim 's functional analysis is needed in order to show the range of phenomena to which he applied this form of interpretation . Durkheim notes that as society becomes more complex , traditional beliefs and ideas become less constraining ; as a result , reflection and free inquiry are given greater scope . This greater intellectual freedom is also necessary , for organic societies are too complex to operate according to blind tradition . The growth of reflective thought therefore has the function of making complex society possible ( 1895a:96 ) . It seems inescapable that Durkheim was proposing a functionalist and utilitarian theory , and yet this interpretation seems totally inconsistent with the other features of his thought . A leading theme running throughout his work is that social phenomena can not be explained in terms of their utility to the members of society . He saw all such explanations as forms of reductionism . The enigma of his functionalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his theory of social causation . His causal analysis was consistent with his desire to establish the irreducibility of collective life ; in proposing his ideas about social causation he was trying to show that collective beliefs and sentiments have a source other than individual interests and reflection . On the other hand , there appears to he nothing in his theory which would lead him toward functionalism and utilitarianism . Not only was utilitarianism inconsistent with his thought , it was uncalled-for . I believe that Durkheim 's functionalism was not an unnecessary and inconsistent appendage tacked onto his theory , how ever , for I think it performed an important role in his scheme . But before explaining this I must go more deeply into his meaning of function and show that it was not a form of utility ianism at all . 200 01 Emile Durkheim The function of a social fact , he states , consists in the production of socially useful effects , but he is careful not to imply that this social utility has anything to do with the interests of the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utility mean " the greatest possible good for the greatest number of people , " for that is still explaining social facts in terms of individuals ( i gi i a:83ff . ) . By socially useful effects he does not mean what is good for the members of society , but whatever makes possible the persistence or existence of the system of collective representations . It is not the physical or material needs of man which functions serve , but the needs of the collective life . Durkheim differed from other anthropologists , such as Radcliffe-Brown and Leslie White , in refusing to carry the analysis a step farther : he did not go on to assume that the collective life itself serves utilitarian ends . For example , Durkheim argued that religious ritual serves to maintain the collective life of society , but nowhere did he suggest that a vital social life and strong moral cohesion result in economic or political benefits . Nowhere did he try to show that the rituals or beliefs improve the Australians ' chances of survival or increase their efficiency in the search for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The value of the collective life to man is apparently " spiritual " in the sense that Durkheim used the term , and not material . Collective life provides man with cultural systems of thought and moral values which allow him to surpass his animal nature . By means of the discipline of collective life the individual is able to surmount the determinism of his organic wants , and by means of cultural ideas he is able to transcend a life of simple and fleeting sensations . To Durkheim , collective life is worthwhile , regardless of the incidental creature comforts it may or may not offer ( see Bougie 1951:xxxix-xli ) . Why did Durkheimm feel compelled to assert that there are so ( i ; il needs and t hat sot ial facts serve to satisfy them ? Durkheim 201 Emile Durkheim was determined to show that collective life has its own nature , a nature which is different from the individual 's . Having already shown to his satisfaction that it is not possible to explain the origin of culture in psychological terms , he tried to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was proposing the existence of a dimension of social phenomena above the level of human volition and operating according to principles located outside the human mind . This is a dimension , or field of processes and principles , made up of such elements as the functions of punishment and ritual and the role of reflective thought in complex society . This layer of social processes and principles is generally beyond the conscious understanding of the members of society and has to be grasped from the outside : the observer has to assume the objective point of view in order to analyze it . Boas offered no corollary to this level of factors ; according to him , it did not exist . Durkheim 's functionalism was not an expression of utilitarianism at all . Instead , it was a manifestation of his relentless drive to avoid reductionism . SUBJECTIVE ANALYSIS . The third type of explanation which Durkheim used was his subjective form of explanation , or his interpretive analysis of the subjective meaning of behavior and beliefs . I have discussed Durkheim 's views about subjective culture or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following will be brief . The reason why Durkheim was led toward the subjective analysis of cultural phenomena is that he viewed collective life as more or less autonomous with respect to its material substratum ; it is governed at least in part by its own sui generic principles . Causal and functional explanations provide only a partial understanding of social facts , and to complete the analysis collective phenomena have to be viewed in terms of their internal , or subjective , principles . 202 Emile Durkheim Two principles in particular are prominent in Durkheim 's work . The first may be called the principle of symbolism . I have discussed Durkheim 's argument that the collective representations transfigure the world by superimposing meaning and value on it . For example , a flag is simply a piece of cloth , but it is transformed by collective thought into a sacred symbol of society ; and a human being is transformed from a system of cells into a moral person deserving respect . This transfiguration of the empirical world is a product of the collective enthusiasm which is generated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for collective activities such as rituals , they experience a feeling of effervescence . They also sense that they are dominated by an external force  --  even in their day-to-day activities they feel a transcendent power impinging upon them . This is actually the collective force of society . The people project these feelings onto the things around them ; they attribute value and importance to whatever may seem to be the source of this power . For example , the clan totem is singled out and invested with supernatural properties which are foreign to it . Similarly , a leader , fetish , or even an idea may be apotheosized ( see especially 191ia:goff. and 1912:469-70 ) . The projection of value and meaning is at bottom a symbolic process , for whatever is apotheosized or transformed by collective thought is a representation of social forces . For example , the supernatural power of the clan totem is a symbolic representation of the collective force behind society , and the totem 's sacredness represents the respect which the people feel toward their society . Similarly , the Australian concept of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  it symbolizes the collective beliefs and sentiments which he has acquired in society . To understand a people 's beliefs , it is not enough merely to recognize that the world of empirical facts is transfigured by collective thought . One must realize that this transfiguration 203 Emile Durkheim amounts to the creation of a system of symbols which have society as their referent.6 There is , then , a " logic " behind collective representations , and this is the logic of social symbolism . The contrast between Tylor and Durkheim could not be more fundamental , for to Tylor beliefs and practices are to be viewed as rational attempts to achieve specific goals . To Durkheim , collective beliefs are metaphorical representations of collective forces , and if primitive ideas seemed ill-reasoned to Tylor it was because they do not operate according to the principles of rational thought . Even the good sense that Tylor believed was the basis of his own Victorian standards was symbolic . Tylor apotheosized the traditional standards of his society by projecting onto them a reasonableness which did not exist in fact . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victorian institutions , but the moral power of society . The contrast between Durkheim and Boas was equally marked . From Durkheim 's perspective , Boas had a very " flat " view of culture . According to Boas , a culture trait is explained simply by describing its features and then showing how it fits into the larger system of culture traits ; there is no need to search for meaning behind it . Custom is habitual and not symbolic . Boas and Durkheim , looking at the same ethnographic datum , saw entirely different things , because they placed the datum in entirely different contexts . The second principle behind Durkheim 's subjective approach may be referred to as his optimism . Some writers , including Marx and , to some extent , Leslie White , interpret beliefs and practices from a cynical perspective , for they sec . 20.1 Emile Durkheim self-interested motivations behind social institutions . For example , in the last chapter I mentioned White 's explanation of celibacy among the Roman Catholic clergy . According to White , the celibacy rules were probably motivated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intact and out of the hands of wives , children , and heirs . Cynical interpretations are completely foreign to Durkheim . In his analyses there is no hint that cultural beliefs may mask selfish interests , or that reputedly disinterested institutions may actually be organized for the pursuit of personal advantage . Selfinterest appears in his analyses of social phenomena only when he discusses sectors of society in which the collective life is either undeveloped or has broken down  --  in short , when he is discussing anomie . An example is his analysis of the malaise of contemporary society , a malaise brought about by an insufficiency of ethics or norms within the economic sphere ( igo2a ) . The reason for his optimism is clear enough . In his theory , collective life is above the life of individual interests ; it transcends these interests . To explain beliefs and practices in terms of egoism , and to explain social process in terms of interested manipulations , is to resort to reductionism . What is the relationship between Durkheim 's principles of subjective interpretation and Boas ' culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and processes implied by Durkheim 's functionalism had no correlate in Boas ' thought , but that this was not true of Durkheim 's idea of social causation . Durkheim 's causal analysis corresponds to Boas ' environmental limitations , in that both of these sets of factors are the connecting link between cultural systems and the objective world . Although Boas held that the environmental limitations are quite broad , and that cultures vary almost randomly with respect to the objective world , he did not mean that cultural systems lack governing principles altogether . The principles are sui generis and consist of the processes of diffusion and modification . Similarly , when Durk hciin held that collective life enjoys a degree 205 Emile Durkheim of autonomy with respect to the social substratum , he did not mean that it is totally orderless . Collective life is to be viewed in terms of the sui generis , subjective principles which I have outlined . These , then , are the analogues of the Boasian principles of diffusion and modification . It is possible to be even more explicit about this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boas ' principle of modification is actually a subjective principle . Boas ' concept of diffusion allowed him to give the historical reason why traits appear in particular cultures , but it could not account for the " shape " that cultures seem to have . Rather , it is the principle of modification which explains the internal character of cultural systems . The principle of modification implies that a subjective theme tends to pervade a culture , and this theme supplies the system with its unity or internal consistency . It is this subjective element which Benedict later called the cultural configuration . To Boas and Benedict , this theme , or " cultural genius , " provides the key to subjective understanding , for once it is discovered in a culture the internal coherence of the system becomes apparent . Similarly , the subjective principles in Durkheim 's scheme constitute the keys to subjective understanding . In short , Durkheim 's principles of subjective analysis and Boas ' principle of modification are analogous in a double sense . They are alike in being sui generis principles behind culture ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this relationship between Boas ' and Durkheim 's schemes is recognized , a similarity between the development of Durkheimian anthropology in England and Boasian anthropology in the United States becomes apparent . Benedict 's idea of ' cultural configurations is a Boasian analogue of the Durkheimian theory of Evans-Pritchard , whom we consider in the next chapter . Benedict and Evans-Pritchard represent a rejection of positivist theory . In place of the objective and causal schemes proposed by Steward , White , and Radcliffe-Brown , among others , they have proposed an interpretive form of cuI 2o6 Emile Durkheim tural analysis . Benedict 's cultural configurations represent the logical direction for the subjective approach to take within the Boasian tradition ; Evans-Pritchard 's scheme represents a similar development within the context of Durkheimian thought . In short , each represents a similar movement in anthropology , and the differences between them follow largely from the different versions of culture which they inherited . Within Durkheim 's own work there was a progressive movement away from positivism and toward the study of ideas , or toward the subjective analysis or interpretation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Durkheim 's focus was decidedly upon the causes behind the development of organic society , whereas in his Elementary Forms ( 1912 ) the emphasis shifted to the subjective interpretation of religious ritual and beliefs . This shift in interest was associated with a significant shift in theory : Durkheim progressively loosened the tie between social morphology and the realm of collective representations . He progressively viewed collective life as autonomous with respect to the material substratum of society ( see Benoit-Smullyan 1948 : 51off . ) . For example , in The Division of Labor he held that the rules of conduct regulating the relations between people express the nature of those relations ; in other words , the rules are a reflection , at the level of the moral system , of certain features of the social substratum ( 1893:365-66 ) . By the time he wrote The Elementary Forms , however , his position was decidedly nearer idealism . He argued that the moral system transfigures t he features of the social substratum and does not simply reflect t hem , so that society does not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life transforms the members of the group  --  who in fact are physical beings  --  into moral persons , and it transforms their physical movements into moral relations . Of course , he never completely severed the tie between the sot ial life and the social substratum . In The Elementary Forms , for example , it is clear that he thought the religious system of the lustralians is consistent with their segmental and mechanical 207 Emile Durkheim society , and that more complex societies demand different forms of ritual and belief . This movement in Durkheim 's theory  --  from positivism toward idealism  --  may be related to his persistent efforts to establish the autonomy of collective life . One of his early arguments for the irreducibility of social life was that it is the product of a distinct set of causes which operate independently of the human will . The collective representations arise from the social substratum and are not willful creations of the individual 's mind . However , Durkheim came to feel that an explanation of collective representations solely in terms of the social substratum is itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted earlier in this chapter . He began to elaborate another argument concerning the irreducibility of collective life , which is that collective representations transcend the world of physical facts . They project symbolic meaning and value onto it . Durkheim was led to place increasingly greater emphasis on this second argument , and in doing so to stress the transcendence of the social life in relation to the morphological basis of society . The increasing autonomy that Durkheim ascribed to the collective life was important in another context as well . The social substratum is not a part of culture ; it is not a body of traditional material handed down from one generation to the next . It is the collective life which is the equivalent of culture as that term is used today . In stressing the autonomy of collective life , therefore , Durkheim was emancipating culture and providing for a greater recognition of the role it plays in shaping rather than expressing human experiences . CONCLUSION : DURKHEIM , BOAS , AND THE MEANING OF HUMAN AFFAIRS Boas and Durkheim were both participants in the turn-of-thecentury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much in common . First , both developed a form of 208 Emile Durkheim cultural determinism . They concluded that culture or social life is a vast system of ideas which the individual learns rather than creates , and they thought that the personality is fundamentally transformed by this cultural milieu . Second , in rejecting the individual as the causal force behind culture , they also rejected the utilitarianism of writers like Tylor and Spencer . To both Boas and Durkheim , culture operates according to its own principles , so to an important degree it is autonomous with respect to the interests of individuals . Culture may provide for the satisfaction of man 's needs , but that is not its primary function , the guiding principle behind its development , nor the key to its meaning . If culture is not grounded in reason and self-interest , what is its basis ? Why do people adhere to their customs and institutions if they do not derive benefits from doing so ? The third parallel between Boas ' and Durkheim 's thought is that to both of them culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquire stronger and stronger emotional associations the more they are repeated , whereas to Durkheim the collective life is invested with moral authority . In either case , the emotional underpinnings of culture are generally powerful enough to overcome any impulse which the individual may have to follow his own inclinations rather than the patterns laid down by society . Fourth , Boas and Durkheim rejected absolutism and developed a form of cultural relativity . The institutions of civilization are not necessarily more true and useful than those of simple societies because reason and utility are not the mainsprings behind the development of culture . To Boas , each culture is the result of a multitude of fortuitous historical events , and each is therefore qualitatively different from the others . To Durkheim , each society is subject to certain necessary causal factors , including population size and the dynamic density of interpersonal relations ; institutions are to be viewed in terms of these forces and not iii terms of the absolute standards of truth and usefulness . 201 ) Emile Durkheim Boas and Durkheim were proposing an image of man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The human being is not a calculating animal , operating according to more or less enlightened self-interest and governed primarily by his rational faculties . Rather , he is motivated largely by emotional principles which are planted in the mind by culture . There are also some fundamental differences between Boas ' and Durkheim 's images of man . Boas proposed a monistic view of the human animal , for he tacitly assumed that the individual is a tabula rasa at birth and that his personality is almost completely a product of culture . Once enculturation is complete , the cultural response becomes the natural or automatic form of behavior . In contrast , Durkheim 's was a dualistic view of man . To him , social life is superimposed on man 's nature and obliges the individual to surpass himself ; culture entails discipline and constraint . Mechanisms of social control are an almost incidental aspect of society , in Boas ' mind , whereas to Durkheim they are essential ; the moral foundations of collective life periodically need to be reaffirmed through religious ritual , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society if he is to surpass his nature . There is a second difference between the Boasian and Durkheimian images of man . To Boas , behavior is to be seen in terms of simple , learned responses . An individual 's attachment to a flag or other social symbol is a pattern of response acquired through habit ; it does not differ fundamentally from such patterns as eating with a knife and fork rather than the fingers , or decorating pottery with one design rather than another . To Durkheim , however , behavior is far more complex than Boas recognized . Durkheim agreed that people adhere to custom largely because it is invested with sentiment , but he also saw a second , symbolic dimension behind human behavior . A person 's reaction to the desecration of the flag , for example , is more than a customary response . The flag 's desecration constitutes an affront to the whole body of sentiments which make 210 Emile Durkheim up the collective life , and people 's reactions to the act surpass what one would expect from a mere breach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbols , like flags or clan totems , which can elicit symbolic responses , for symbolic meaning is superimposed upon much of the collective life . For example , according to Durkheim , the breach of a moral norm is not only an offense against moral principles . It represents a symbolic threat to the whole society . A criminal is viewed by society not as a mere rule-breaker , but as a sinister , diabolical person . Moreover , in Durkheim 's view , internal divisions of society  --  such as clans or social classes  --  exhibit differences in custom , patterns of speech , modes of dress , and the like , and these differences become symbols of the respective segments of the society . Such traits as distinctive pottery designs or lower class speech patterns are symbolic as well as customary patterns . In arguing that culture is sui generis with respect to the natural properties of the human mind , Boas and Durkheim were saying that social phenomena are governed by their own principles ; and they implied that it is by reference to these principles that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , there were several parallels in their thought about the nature of these principles . Both writers began with the notion that there is a set of objective , necessary conditions by " which cultural systems are linked to the phenomenal world and which restrict the range of cultural variability . To Boas , these are the limitations imposed by the environment , whereas to Durkheim they are the elements which make up the social substratum . Second , both held that culture can not be fully explained in terms of these objective factors since cultural systems are partially autonomous with respect to them . Culture is governed by another , strictly sui generis , set of principles . To Boas , these are the principles of diffusion and modification , whereas in Durkheim 's theory they are the principles employed iu subjective analysis . Durk helm also proposed a third set of factors which was un-211 Emile Durkheim matched by anything in Boas ' scheme . This is the field of principles and processes implied by the notion of functionalism . To Durkheim , it is necessary to postulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which society works , because otherwise one is forced to explain the persistence and operation of cultural systems in terms of individual mental processes . Boas , however , was content to limit himself to these mental processes . To him , in order to understand a culture as an ongoing or dynamic system it has to be approached subjectively . There is no need to look beyond the level of subjective culture . The Kwakiutl potlatch , for example , is adequately explained solely by reference to the cultural ideas of the people and without reference to the functional significance of money or the functions which the potlatch performed in relation to the whole society . The differences in Boas ' and Durkheim 's minds about the objective , necessary conditions which link cultural systems to the phenomenal world led them to other fundamentally different ideas about the nature and meaning of social institutions . To Boas , the conditions of the environment are comparatively broad , and hence they are not very significant for an understanding of cultural systems . To Durkheim , on the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this framework is fundamentally different in complex and simple societies . Any small , compact , and homogeneous society with a high moral or dynamic density exhibits an elaborate development of formalism , a passionate commitment to even the most detailed aspects of custom , and social surveillance so intense that deviations of any kind are severely repressed . In short , it is characterized by a comparatively minor development of individuality . On the other hand , the conditions are almost the reverse in complex societies . For example , religion in primitive society is less reflective than in complex society , and it is more closely tied to the social substratum . It was no historical accident that the Australian clans 212 Emile Durkheim were characterized by totemism , as Boas would have believed . Moreover , legal systems differ between simple and complex societies . In particular , laws which express the sacredness of the individual are less marked among primitive peoples . It is no accident that human sacrifice passes out of existence with the advent of civilization , or that the punishment of criminals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contract and private property develop as complex societies emerge . If Boas missed this necessary framework behind social phenomena it was because he was looking at the data from the wrong angle ; he was seeing the wrong sets of features and pursuing the wrong sets of connections . In doing so , moreover , he missed some of the meaning of human affairs , for he failed to recognize that such features as the development of the contract in complex societies are to be seen in the context of the process of social differentiation . Similarly , Boas and Durkheim conceived the sui generis principles behind subjective culture ( or behind the collective life ) in radically different terms . Boas viewed cultural patterns as learned responses , and he saw no need to penetrate them in order to get at their symbolic meaning . To Boas , it is not the principle of symbolism which makes sense of cultural systems or which constitutes the key to subjective understanding . Rather , it is the principle of modification . When a culture trait is diffused it tends to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading motive or theme of the cultural system . Moreover , Boas would not have agreed with Durkheim 's optimism . To Boas , self-interest , competition , and interpersonal conflict can become a basis of institutions just as easily as altruism . Some cultures , such as those of the Pueblo Indians , require an optimistic interpretation ; but others , like that of the Kwakiutl , demand a cynical analysis . The principles of cynic ism and optimism are culturally variable in the same way as pottery styles . // IN THE STUDY OF HUMAN SOCIETIES A. R. RADCLIFFE-BROWN AND E. E. EVANS-PRITCHARD Hughes has written that the British played very little role in the turn-of-the-century revolution in social thought ( Hughes 1958:12 ; see also Soffer 1970 ) , for the chief participants were from the Continent . The British reflected but did not actively contribute to the changes which were taking place . Moreover , the way in which the revolution took root in England has not yet received the study it deserves . Whatever the factors may have been which brought British social thought as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that within anthropology the influence of Durkheim was critical . In this chapter I shall treat two British frameworks for viewing human affairs . The first is that of Radcliffe-Brown , who was strongly influenced by Durkheim early in this century . Radcliffe-Brown was a leading figure in the development of modern structural-functional theory , which has become one of the dominant approaches to society among twentieth-century social scientists . Radcliffe-Brown 's theoretical ideas have provided the 214 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard underpinnings of a large share of the anthropological research which has been conducted since the early 1920S , and his works are also standard reading among sociologists and others beyond the borders of anthropology . The second framework I deal with is that of Evans-Pritchard , who entered the discipline after Radcliffe-Brown 's reputation had already been established . Evans-Pritchard was initially trained by Malinowski , but as his ideas matured he became more and more closely aligned with the Durkheim school . Evans-Pritchard 's ideas were also strongly influenced by Radcliffe-Brown , but the differences between the two are fundamental . Radcliffe-Brown insisted that society is a natural system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Evans-Pritchard it is a moral system , and anthropological analysis consists in the subjective interpretation of institutions . Evans-Pritchard enjoys an international reputation both for his African research and for his theoretical views , and within anthropology he is one of the leading opponents both of positivism and of the structural-functional approach to society . A. R. RADCLIFFE-BROWN A. R. Radcliffe-Brown ' was born in England in 1881 . In 1901 he entered Trinity College , Cambridge , reading for the Mental and Moral Science examination . He took his degree in 1904 , and promptly became the first anthropology student of W. H. R. Rivers at Cambridge . Rivers had recently returned from the Torres Straits Expedition , and he had just changed his emphasis from the study of psychology to anthropology . He was in the process of developing his views about the relationship between kinship and social organization , and his ideas on these matters were to be of fundamental importance in the subsequent growth of Radcliffe-Brown 's thought . 2 151 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard Radcliffe-Brown undertook two important stretches of fieldwork soon after beginning graduate work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indigenes of the Andaman Islands in the Bay of Bengal , and from 1910 to 1912 he investigated the Australian aborigines . Between these two periods of research he taught Comparative Sociology and Ethnology at Cambridge and the London School of Economics . Radcliffe-Brown returned to England after his Australian research , but was back in Australia in 1914 . Because of illness he found it necessary to remain there , teaching for a short time at a grammar school in Sydney . From 1916 to 1919 , during part of World War I , he served as Director of Education in the kingdom of Tonga in the South Pacific . He again suffered ill health , however , and was forced to resign ; he then relocated in South Africa . In 1920 he returned to university teaching . He occupied chairs at Cape Town , South Africa , from 1920 to 1925 ; and at Sydney , Australia , from 1925 to 1931 . At both institutions he developed anthropological programs from scratch . In 1931 he received an appointment at the University of Chicago , where he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still the center for Radcliffe-Brown 's approach in the United States . In 1937 he was selected to occupy the newly created Chair of Social Anthropology at Oxford , which he held until he retired , against his will , in 1946 . RadcliffeBrown was not content to remain idle , however , and from 1947 to 1949 he established a new department at Farouk I University in Alexandria , Egypt ; and from 1951 to 1954 he taught at Rhodes University , in Grahamstown , South Africa . He chose to live in South Africa due to a tubercular condition which had bothered him periodically since he was a boy . He returned to England in 1954 , and died the next year at the age of seventyfive . In addition to the principal appointments mentioned above , Radcliffe-Brown served brief periods in Yenching , China ( 1935-36 ) , and Sao Paulo , Brazil ( 1942-44 ) . 216 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard Radcliffe-Brown published comparatively little relative to his professional stature . His eminence as an anthropologist was due as much to his teaching as his writing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students . He had a commanding knowledge of the literature , he was articulate in his dialogue with the students , and he had an unusual capacity to expose what was essential in a complex problem . Moreover , he had an imposing personality , and the image which he projected was that of a man with few intellectual peers . Although he taught very little in England prior to taking the chair at Oxford in 1937 , he virtually revolutionized anthropological theory in that country once he became established there . Malinowski was another eminent teacher and had already trained a body of gifted fieldworkers in Britain ; in a sense , RadcliffeBrown reaped Malinowski 's harvest . In spite of his charismatic qualities , Radcliffe-Brown was not universally loved . Stanner has written that " No one . . . responded to him with neutrality or indifference " ( 1955:117 ) . The same manner that engendered a strong devotion from some alienated others . Benedict , for example , thought he was pompous and hollow . In a letter to Margaret Mead she wrote , " He seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ( Mead 1959:327 ) . THE DEVELOPMENT OF RADCLIFFE-BROWN 'S THOUGHT . Radcliffe-Brown was remarkably innovative . While studying at Cambridge he acquired a decidedly nineteenth-century approach to culture , but largely because of the stimulus from 1 ) urkheim he developed an approach which was sufficiently powerful and elegant to catch the attention of social scientists both within and outside of anthropology . His thought , then , was never static , and it is best understood within the context of its growth . There were at least three distinguishable periods in the development of his ideas : the historical period , his early functional period , and the period of his mature functionalism. 217 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard The historical period was brief but important . Beginning with Radcliffe-Brown 's initial training at Cambridge , it includes the span of time during which he studied the Andamanese ( 1906-19o8 ) , and it ended upon his discovery of the Durkheimian point of view in 1909-10 , just before he undertook field research in Australia ( Eggan and Warner 1956:545 ) . In his historical period Radcliffe-Brown employed what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research among the Andamanese with an explicit interest in making " a hypothetical reconstruction of the history of the Andamans and of the Negritos in general , " and he writes that Appendix A of The Andaman Islanders is an example of his earlier historical approach ( 1933:vii ) . Moreover , his historical interests verged on evolutionism , even though he was decidedly uncomfortable with evolutionary hypotheses ( for example , 1933:468 ) . Not only did he want to show the historical development of Andamanese and Negrito cultures , but he was also tempted to reveal the evolutionary principles behind this development . A significant feature of his historical approach during this period was an intellectualist framework , rather like Tylor 's , by which he analyzed the Andamanese institutions . For example , in his account of the evolution of basketry among the Andaman Islanders he seems to have assumed that basketwork evolved as a result of the progressive , rational , and conscious elaboration of technique ( 1933:468ff . ) . His intellectualist approach is even more marked in his 1909 article on Biliku and Tarai , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " perhaps somewhat hazardous , " and he emphasized that he did " not wish to attribute too much importance to it " ( p. 267 ) . Biliku is a sentient , supernatural being which is identified by the Andamanese with the annual monsoons . It is thought that Biliku is angered by the burning or melting of beeswax , among other things , and that it is his anger which brings the yearly storms . Radcliffe-Brown suggests that 218 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard these beliefs are the result of empirical observations , for the Biliku monsoons occur at approximately the same time as the gathering of honey , for example ( 267ff . ) . This explanation is suprisingly close to Tylor 's reductionist interpretation of nature myths , according to which beliefs are thought to be rational attempts to explain the natural phenomena which the individual observes around him . The second period in the development of Radcliffe-Brown 's thought , his early functional period , begins with his conversion to the Durkheimian point of view just prior to his Australian fieldwork . An example of this functional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which was completed in 1914 but remained unpublished until 1922 ( 1933:vii ) . In introducing the theoretical portion of that book Radcliffe-Brown wrote : Every custom and belief of a primitive society plays some determinate part in the social life of the community , just as every organ of a living body plays some part in the general life of the organism ( p. 229 ) .2 The central thrust of his analysis was that certain important sentiments have to be stimulated in people 's minds if society is to exist , and his account focused on the role of the Andamanese beliefs and ceremonies in working upon these sentiments . Most of Radcliffe-Brown 's analysis in The Andaman Islanders rested upon his concept of social value , by which he meant the effect of a thing on the well-being of society ( p. 264 ) . Hunting implements , fire , food , and storms , among other things , have important effects on Andamanese society , and therefore they have social value . According to Radcliffe-Brown , anything of social value is invested with some form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , bows and arrows are supposed to be charged with a mana-like power and to be capable of warding off dangerous spirits ( pp. 258-59 ) , and the annual storms are personified as supernatural beings ( 351 ff . ) . The greater the social value of a thing , the more powerful it is believed to be . According to Radcliffe-Brown 's analysis , the beliefs and rituals which express the social value of phenomena have a double function . On one hand , they serve to impress the importance of a phenomenon on the people 's minds ( p. 264 ) . The Andamanese man and woman are forced to feel society 's concern for storms , hunting technology , and the like . On the other hand , beliefs and rites create what Radcliffe-Brown called a " sentiment of dependence . " The individual is made to feel that he depends on society and what it has to offer him , and that he can not get along without its institutions . For example , the individual depends on the bow and arrow not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a result , his adherence to tradition is assured , as is the stability and cohesion of society ( pp. 257-58 ) . The beliefs and rites are one means for the creation and maintenance of sentiments which are necessary if society is to persist . Radcliffe-Brown was converted to functionalism early in his career , and yet the functional approach virtually disappeared from his work from the time he completed the manuscript of The Andaman Islanders in 1914 until 1922 . It is true that he wrote comparatively little during this period ; he published nothing at all during the three years from 1919 to 1921 , for example . Nevertheless , his attention seems to have shifted away from his functional theory and toward his ethnographic work on the Australians . Almost all of his published writings between 1910 and 1922 were on the aborigines , 3 and his objectives in these studies were to report his field materials and to untangle the complicated systems of Australian social organiza- 220 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard tion : he attempted to elucidate the way in which the kin terms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local groups fit together into a coherent whole ( see ' glob , 1912 , 1913 , 1914a , 1918 , 1923 , 1927 ) . In virtually all of his studies of Australian social organization  --  at least in those which were published prior to 1930  --  the approach which Radcliffe-Brown used was not at all unlike the Boasian integrational form of analysis . His focus was on the connectedness between the parts of the system , or the way in which they fit together , and not upon their functional role in promoting solidarity and cohesion . When Radcliffe-Brown returned to the functional analysis of institutions in the early 192os , his function concept seems to have been far less precise than before . When he wrote The Andaman Islanders he described the function of an institution as its contribution to stability and cohesion ( 1933:234 ) , but during the early 1920S he presented an omnibus definition , placing his emphasis as much on the interrelatedness of institutions as upon their role in promoting an orderly society . For example , in 1922 he defined the function of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with other institutions , what part it really plays in the economic , moral and religious life of the tribe , and to what important needs of the social organism it is related ( 1922:40 ) . A year later he wrote of the functions of institutions as " the place they occupy in the mental , moral and social life " ( 1923 , ill 1958:31 ) . His 1924 article on " The Mother 's Brother in South Africa " ( reprinted i11 Radcliffe-Brown 1952 ) was his first explicit functional analysis since the writing of The Andaman Islanders . In this paper he again employed a function concept similar to that which appeared iu his book on the Andamanese , for he analyzed a few ritual patterns of behavior in terms of their role in contributing to the stability and cohesion of society . By the late 221 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard 1920S he seems to have shed his omnibus concept of function altogether . The third period in the development of Radcliffe-Brown 's thought  --  the period of his mature functionalism  --  begins in the late 1920S , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis of institutions . To him , stability and cohesion should not be taken for granted , for they are contingent or problematic . Radcliffe-Brown noted that societies present the anthropologist with problems parallel to those faced by the physiologist and the electronic physicist . The molecule or atom is composed of constituent units which are repelled and attracted by one another , and the electronic physicist 's goal is to discover how these units remain together . Similarly , the persistence of an organism is not automatic , but is to be explained in terms of the functions of such organs as the heart and kidney . The persistence of society , too , is problematic , and the anthropologist must seek the factors which contribute to social stability and cohesion ( i 937:8off . ) . Radcliffe-Brown 's work during the period of his mature functionalism was dominated by attempts to ferret out the functions of specific institutions , and some of his analyses have become famous . An example is his analysis of joking and avoidance relationships . The joking relationship is a custom whereby an individual is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fun of or tease another , who in turn can not take offense . It is a relation of " permitted disrespect . " The avoidance relationship is the mirror opposite , for it is characterized by extreme respect , often to the point that there is no contact whatever between the individuals involved . According to Radcliffe-Brown , joking and avoidance relationships occur in a certain type of structural situation ; they occur when a social relation is characterized by both attachment and separation , or by social conjunction and disjunction . For example , once a man marries he establishes an important relationship with his wife 's kin ; his relationship with them is 222 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard one of conjunction . On the other hand , he is an outsider to them , and consequently the relationship is characterized by disjunction : there is always the possibility of differences of interest between his kin group and theirs , and conflict is a perpetual threat . A relationship of this kind may be stabilized in two ways . One is by institutionalizing the avoidance relationship and requiring the individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other is to establish the joking relationship , whereby hostility is prevented by playful teasing and the obligation not to take offense ( 1940 and 1949 , in 1952:99ff. , 1 o5ff . ) . Radcliffe-Brown 's functionalism implies the existence of a synchronic system of some kind , for it is the persistence of this system which functions serve . In short , Radcliffe-Brown 's function concept entails another , namely , social structure . When his thought was first developing he was strongly influenced by Morgan , Rivers , and Durkheim ( see Fortes 1969:Part I ; and Tax 1960:471  --  74 )  --  all of whom gave an important place to social structure or social organization . In addition , RadcliffeBrown showed a decided interest in the structural aspects of society in much of his early work . Nevertheless , the specific nature of this system does not seem to have been clear in his mind until the period of his mature functionalism . In The Andaman Islanders , for example , his analysis focused on the functions of specific beliefs and rites in relation to " society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by that term , and it appears to have been used with considerable ambiguity . At least three steps marked the development of RadcliffeBrown 's later views about social structure . First , he conceived this system in increasingly precise terms . In 1914 he referred to social structure as " the way in which the society is divided into social groups of different kinds ,  --  local divisions , phratries , clans , etc. " ( 1914b:622 ) . However , once his ideas matured he was defining it as a network of dyadic , person-to-person relat ions ( e.g. , see 19.10 , in 1 952 : 188ff . ) . It was now much more spe-223 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard cific than simply the organization of society ; it was now the social organization viewed explicitly in terms of the system of interpersonal relations . This conception of social structure seems to have derived from Radcliffe-Brown 's studies of the Australians , as Fortes has observed ( 1969:46 ) . Radcliffe-Brown viewed the Australian kinship system as a network of dyadic relations ; he also stressed that their kinship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible for a man to have any social relations with anyone who is not his relative because there is no standard by which two persons in this position can regulate their conduct towards one another ( Radcliffe-Brown 1913:157 ) . Radcliffe-Brown 's analysis of Australian kinship appears to have provided him with the prototype or model for the social structure concept once he began to specify its nature . A second step in the development of the social structure concept was the formulation of a mode of analysis which has become a hallmark of Radcliffe-Brown 's approach . This is the idea that social structures are organized upon a set of internal structural principles . Fortes has drawn the analogy between this approach and that of Mendelian genetics ( 1969:34ff . ) . Structural principles are like genetic factors ; they are constitutive principles , and by recombining in different ways they result in fundamentally different types of social system.4 For example , social relations in primitive societies are frequently ordered and regulated on the basis of kinship , and several principles of descent may be used for this purpose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 224 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard both males and females , and one type of kinship organization which results is that of the bilateral Teutonic sib . The principle of unilineal descent  --  according to which ancestry is traced either through males or females but not through both  - -  commonly gives rise to a lineage organization . The principle of unilineal descent is often combined with the principle of the unity of the sibling group , according to which siblings are regarded as structurally equivalent in certain contexts . Thus , if I have a kinsman in a lineage other than my own , I may find that I owe his brothers the same obligations as I owe him ( Radcliffe-Brown 1950:13ff . ) . The structural principles approach was foreshadowed in Radcliffe-Brown 's famous paper on " The Mother 's Brother in South Africa , " published in 1924 , but the first fully developed analysis occurs in the 1930  --  31 monograph entitled " The Social Organization of Australian Tribes . " By using his newly conceived approach , Radcliffe-Brown was able to throw considerable light on the internal consistency and interconnectedness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monograph also firmly established " the modern era in the study of kinship and social organization " ( 1969:42 ) . The third step in the development of Radcliffe-Brown 's social structure concept involved its separation from the larger concept of culture . Initially , Radcliffe-Brown regarded social organization as but one facet of culture ( for example , 1929b : 200 ) . Until the latter half of the 1930s he wrote of social anthropology as the " science of culture " ( e.g. , 1929 , in 1952 : 123 ) and not of social systems at all . However , as his ideas developed he began to emphasize that society is a distinct system and that it is to be set apart from cultural institutions . F his tendency reached its climax at the Faculty Seminar which Radcliffe-Brown delivered at the University of Chicago in 1937. 111 his seminar discussion Radcliffe-Brown initially invoked a taboo on the word culture , for he felt that it had been seriously misused in anthropology . He insisted that culture 225 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard can not be understood if disengaged from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a characteristic of a social system " ( 1937:1(36) . What I believe he was trying to establish was that institutions are preeminently utilitarian in nature , in that they serve to ensure the persistence and stability of the social structure . In short , culture is to be understood in terms of its role in relation to the social structure and not in terms of its own , sui generis principles . These three steps in the development of Radcliffe-Brown 's idea of social structure provide a brief summary of the essential features of this concept . First , the social structure is a system of dyadic , person-to-person relations . Second , this system of social relations is to be analyzed in terms of the structural principles upon which it is constituted . Third , the institutions of mankind are best understood not in terms of themselves , but in terms of their functional role in relation to the social structure . The full elaboration of Radcliffe-Brown 's concept of social structure took place during the period of his mature functionalism . I suggest that this was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contingent on and stimulated by the growth of his functional analysis of institutions . RadcliffeBrown believed that it is the persistence of the system of social relations which functions serve , and once his interest began to center on functional explanations he was led to focus on the concept of social structure as well . Radcliffe-Brown 's analysis of kinship illustrates how this took place . Almost from the beginning of his career RadcliffeBrown had been writing that among primitive peoples kinship is an important means for the regulation of interpersonal relations . In 1913 he wrote that kinship among the Kariera of Australia " is not only a system of names or terms of address , but is preeminently a system of reciprocal rights and duties . " He continues , " Thus the relationship or kinship system regulates the whole social life of the people " ( 1913:157 ) . The idea that kinship serves to regulate interpersonal relations had also been emphasized by Rivers ( for example , see Rivers 1914:12 ) . 226 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard Once the problem of the stability and cohesion of society became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea of the regulation of social relations acquired new importance . The ordering of behavior was now conceived as necessary for the persistence of society : there is little room for conflict when the details of social action are prescribed by custom . The content of kinship relations  --  the behavior which kinsmen can expect from one another and the rights and duties by which their relations are defined  --  was no longer a mere ethnographic datum ; an account of kinship usages which was at one time purely descriptive was now a functional analysis . In his 1930  --  31 monograph on the Australians Radcliffe-Brown could analyze the intricacies of kinship with renewed vigor , for he now saw the point to the endless details of the system . Collectively , the complicated rules ensured social stability ( e.g. , see PP- 431 , 443 ) . Radcliffe-Brown 's emphasis on the functional importance of the regulation of social relations reached a climax in his 1935 article on " Patrilineal and Matrilineal Succession " ( in Radcliffe-Brown 1952 ) . He wrote , In any society in which kinship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . it is essential for social stability and continuity that the rights of different individuals over a given individual should be defined in such a way as to avoid as far as possible conflicts of rights ( p. 40 ) . Ile asserted that the reason for the frequency of patrilineal and matrilineal systems in primitive societies is that these forms of organization allow a very precise definition of rights , and they serve the functional needs of stability and cohesion better than the bilateral forms ( p. 46 ) . Radcliffe-Brown developed a penetrating analysis of unilineal kinship and lineage structures , and his motivation was to show the functional advantages of this form of organization . Radcliffe-Browns views about functional consistency constitute another example of the way in which his functionalism stimulated his thinking about social structure . According to 227 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard Radcliffe-Brown , the various parts of the social system tend to harmonize with one another , since discordances tend to work themselves out over time ( e.g. , see 1935 ; and 1935 , in 1952:181 ) . For a number of years Radcliffe-Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Australian kinship system fit together , but in his 193o  --  31 monograph this interrelatedness acquired new meaning . Functional consistency was now viewed as necessary if the social system were to persist ( see especially 1937:125 ) . The internal concordance which he found was no longer a mere datum to be reported , for an analysis of the way in which the parts of the system fit together was a functional analysis . The integrationalism of RadcliffeBrown 's earlier work was now absorbed by his functionalism . RADCLIFFE-BROWN AND THE INTERPRETATION OF INSTITUTIONS . Given the key elements of Radcliffe-Brown 's thought , we can consider some of their implications for his understanding and interpretation of custom . A useful way to approach this problem is to place his scheme in juxtaposition with those of Durkheim , White , and Boas . Radcliffe-Brown conceived himself as an intellectual follower of Durkheim , but the theory he developed was in fundamental opposition to Durkheim 's scheme . One basic difference between the two is that Radcliffe-Brown tacitly rejected the idealistic view of society . To Durkheim , society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its essential features are superimposed on the observable facts by collective thought . As early as 1914 , however  --  just two years after the publication of Durkheim 's Elementary Forms of the Religious Life  -- Radcliffe-Brown defined social structure i11 terms of its phenomenal features and explicitly distinguished it from such subjective elements as morals and beliefs ( 1914b:622 ) . He eventually came to view social structure as a system of actually existing social relations , which is the equivalent , roughly , of I ) urkheim 's social substratum . In short , to Radcliffe-Brown , social structure has an actual , physical existence . 228 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard Similarly , little more than a superficial similarity exists between Radcliffe-Brown 's and Durkheim 's concepts of function . To Durkheim , the function of ritual , punishment , and the like , is to maintain or reinculcate the collective representations , the transcendent or " spiritual " features of society . To RadcliffeBrown , the function of an institution is its contribution to the persistence of the phenomenal features of society ; institutions function to promote stability and cohesion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Durkheim did not assume that the functions of institutions serve man 's material well-being . To Radcliffe-Brown , however , institutions promote the common good by ensuring stability and cohesion . Radcliffe-Brown 's functionalism had more in common with the work of such writers as Tylor and Spencer , and ultimately Bentham and the Utilitarians , than it had with the theory of Durkheim . Durkheim originally employed three forms of explanation , causal , functional , and subjective . Radcliffe-Brown placed functional analysis in the center of his scheme , and this form of explanation almost completely usurped the role that Durkheim gave the other two.5 First , to Durkheim , an institution becomes at least partially intelligible by reference to causal principles : for example , the decreasing severity of criminal punishment in modern times makes sense in view of the changes taking place iii the social substrata of organic societies . Durkheim 's entire causal framework is virtually neglected in Radcliffe-Brown 's 22t ) Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard work  --  he makes almost no mention of the differences between mechanical and organic societies , for example , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cult of the individual , which , to Durkheim , is a concomitant of organic societies . Second , Radcliffe-Brown 's functionalism subsumed Durkheim 's subjective interpretation . According to Durkheim , collective beliefs and sentiments have an autonomy of their own , and as a result they have to be interpreted in terms of their own internal principles . However , Radcliffe-Brown all but reduced subjective culture to the problem of the maintenance of the social system . He acknowledged that systems of belief and value may have a degree of autonomy and that they may not be wholly explainable in terms of their functional role in the social system ( e.g. , see 1945 , in 1952:177 ) . But in his own work he all but ignored beliefs which are lacking in functional significance , and he provided no framework for their interpretation . The implication is that they are an unimportant and residual category of cultural phenomena . An example of his functional analysis of subjective culture is his discussion of the Australian belief that certain locations contain a supernatural force or power ( 1937:117ff. ) ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hole , or other physical feature is supposed to contain the life force of such species as the kangaroo . RadcliffeBrown asserted that he could demonstrate that the whole social structure of the tribe hung on such erroneous beliefs as these . He wrote , Destroy those beliefs and you destroy the whole structure . The whole system of relationships of the people with one another is maintained and kept going by . . . these beliefs and ideas . . . ( p. 121 ) . Subjective culture is not to be interpreted in terms of subjective principles , but in terms of the objective features of society , or in terms of the problem of persistence of the social system ( see 1931 , in 1958:68 ) . 230 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard Radcliffe-Brown 's scheme is fundamentally utilitarian , and in this respect his ideas about culture are much closer to White 's than to Durkheim 's . The similarity between Radcliffe-Brown and White is far from accidental , of course , since White explicitly borrowed from Radcliffe-Brown when he was developing his own utilitarian version of culture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however . Both agree that the meaning of an institution is supplied by discovering the functions it performs , and yet they disagree fundamentally about the framework within which the function concept is to be couched . White views institutions as the means for adapting man to the external world , whereas Radcliffe-Brown focuses on the internal functions of institutions , or their role in adapting man to man in society . Radcliffe-Brown agreed that adaptation has both internal and external aspects ( e.g. , t 933 : ix ) , but once his ideas matured his interest was directed exclusively toward the issue of internal adaptation . The difference between the functionalism of RadcliffeBrown and White is illustrated by their disagreement over the interpretation of incest rules . To White , these regulations serve to promote cooperation in society , which in turn provides for security against enemies and insurance against scarcity during hard times . Radcliffe-Brown explicitly rejected White 's interpretation and insisted instead that incest rules serve to promote social integration ; they are to be seen in terms of the problem of ' stability and cohesion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system to its external environment ( Radcliffe-Brown t 949a ) . There is a sense in which Radcliffe-Brown 's utilitarianism is more equivocal than White 's . To White , institutions contribute more or less directly to man 's security and well-being ; for example , incest rules constitute a form of insurance against the threat of enemies and against economic scarcity . To Radcliffelit own , however , institutions have an indirect value ; the func-231 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard tion of an institution is its contribution to order and cohesion , which in turn is supposed to benefit the members of society . Radcliffe-Brown assumed that the material advantages of an orderly and cohesive social system were self-evident , and he never critically examined this assumption . He seems to have been engrossed in the more immediate or empirical question of the actual functions of working institutions . Associated with the differences between Radcliffe-Brown 's and White 's forms of functionalism are their fundamental differences over the nature of evolution . To White , evolution amounts to progressive adaptation , and it is measurable in terms of the amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , Radcliffe-Brown regarded evolution from the standpoint of social structure , and to him development is to be seen , first , as a process of diversification whereby many different kinds of society originate from a small number of original forms ; and , second , as a trend toward increasing social complexity , or toward a progressive extension of the number of people integrated within a system of social relations ( e.g. , 1930  --  31:452 ; 1940 , in 1952:203  --  4 ; 1949b:322 ; 1952:7  --  8 ; 1958:179 ) . White views evolution in relation to external , and Radcliffe-Brown in relation to internal , adaptation . An even more illuminating difference between RadcliffeBrown and White is that of the relationship between evolution and progress . To White , evolution implies the gradual improvement of man 's position in relation to the physical world . In view of Radcliffe-Brown 's focus on the problem of persistence , however , it is difficult to see how he could have regarded civilized peoples as more highly advanced than the more homogeneous and cohesive societies at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern society affords more room for discord and disunity than is found in the simple societies . In short , Radcliffe-Brown 's scheme seems to leave little room for the principle of progress . He avoided this dilemma by explicitly eschewing the idea that evolution implies advance-232 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard ment ( e.g. , 1935 , in 1952:183 , n. 2 ; 1940 , in 1952:203 ; 1947:80 , 82-83 ) . To him , evolution amounts to the process whereby societies become increasingly diverse and complex , and he left the question of the evaluation of this process to one side . Some of the most distinctive features of Radcliffe-Brown 's interpretation of human affairs emerge when his work is compared with that of Boas . Boas presented a monistic image of man , whereas Radcliffe-Brown inherited the dualism of the Durkheim school , and some of the main differences between the two writers rest upon this foundation . First , Radcliffe-Brown and Boas arrived at fundamentally different views about the nature of human action . I am not sure that Radcliffe-Brown fully accepted the psychological implications of Durkheim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composed of two parts , the natural and the social , divided by a state of tension . Nevertheless , he clearly accepted another aspect of this framework : the notion that if society is to persist , the individual 's behavior must be regulated by a system of obligatory norms , and that the individual can not be left to himself to select the appropriate response for a given occasion . Radcliffe-Brown emphasized the constraint behind institutions . I'o Boas , however , custom is simply habitual , automatic behavior . The customary response of an enculturated person is so thoroughly ingrained in him that in a sense it is " natural . " The difference between Boas ' and Radcliffe-Brown 's interpretations of taboos illustrates their differences on the issue of constraint . Boas viewed taboo as a form of habit , like all other customs ; taboos become attached to forms of behavior which arc contrary to customary practices . Boas cites American dietary habits as an example . Some animals are regarded as appropriate to eat in the United States , whereas others , such as dogs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and horses is a violation of a habitual pattern and is therefore regarded with disgust . SimiI.irly , Eskimo life has habituated those people to the eating of seal and caribou meat during different seasons of the year , and 2333 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard they have come to feel that it is inappropriate to eat the flesh of these animals on the same day ( Boas 1938c:204ff . ) . To Boas , a taboo is like an automatic reflex ; it is an expression of an internal compulsion . Radcliffe-Brown 's interpretation of taboos emphasized their external constraint . In his 1939 Frazer Lecture he tried to show that taboos are to be explained in terms of their contribution to the maintenance of society ; he argued that taboos establish the social value of things and events , and he offered the case of childbirth among the Andaman Islanders as an illustration . The Andamanese man and wife are required to observe a variety of taboos just before and after the birth of a child . The other members of the community are also under certain taboos at this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man and woman by name . Radcliffe-Brown writes , the Andamanese taboos relating to childbirth are the obligatory recognition in a standardized symbolic form of the significance and importance of the event to the parents and to the community at large . They thus serve to fix the social value of occasions of this kind ( 1939 , in 1952:150-51 ) . A taboo does not express an internal compulsion , and its observance does not rest upon blind adherence to custom , for it is enjoined from without . Boas would have agreed with Radcliffe-Brown that institutions have the authority of society behind them , for he was explicit that when people observe an infraction of custom they suffer an automatic , negative reaction and are prone to apply sanctions to the wrong-doer . Boas affirmed that customs are characterized by constraint , but he did not evaluate this constraint the way Radcliffe-Brown did . What is theoretically important about customary behavior is the internal , automatic reflex , and external constraint is a subsidiary product , a side effect . To Radcliffe-Brown , however , a stable and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and juridical mechanisms . 234 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard This difference between Boas and Radcliffe-Brown had considerable importance for the future development of anthropology in Great Britain and the United States . On the whole , British anthropologists have accepted the dualism of RadcliffeBrown and Durkheim , as well as their emphasis on constraint , whereas American anthropologists have tended to accept Boas ' monistic image of man . As a result , British anthropological studies have tended to emphasize the juridical aspects of society , such as the legal and political mechanisms which regulate the social system . I believe that these studies are not received with the same enthusiasm by American anthropologists as they are by the British , for these analyses do not have the theoretical significance from a monistic standpoint that they have from the perspective of dualism . The reverse may also be true , in that the British tend to read American monographs and feel that something is missing . I suspect that when Radcliffe-Brown 's followers read Steward 's analysis of the Shoshoneans , they see a rather " flat " account of custom , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which constitute key elements iii the system . A second important difference between Radcliffe-Brown 's and Boas ' interpretations of human affairs is that they had basically different views concerning functionalism . Boas ' image of scan must have made him quite skeptical of the idea that there is a problem of persistence at all . To Boas , stability and cohesion are not problematic , for adherence to custom is automatic . It is no more likely for the system of social relations to collapse than it is for Americans suddenly to discard their knives and forks and to begin eating with their fingers . Social behavior is the only form of conduct that enculturated people know , and the only way they know how to live is in society . To Boas , functional analysis can not be the basic form of explanation in anthropology , because the problem of persistence is not the fundamental and ubiquitous issue that Radcliffe-Brown thought it was . 23rd Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard From Boas ' perspective , institutions may indeed perform functions of the type which Radcliffe-Brown focused upon ; but if so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The function which an institution performs is an incidental matter and not the key to its interpretation . The importance of the difference between Boas and Radcliffe-Brown on the issue of functionalism becomes clearer when it is realized that they both held that cultural systems are governed by the respective principles which they singled out . At least implicitly , they held that the principles which they located have the capacity to influence both the course of cultural development and the nature of a given custom or institution . To Boas , once a new trait , such as a myth , is acquired through diffusion , its form is at least partially determined by the subjective premises behind the cultural system . For example , the myths of the Kwakiutl Indians tended to reflect the Northwest Coast emphasis on social competition ( e.g. , see Boas 1933 , in 1940:448 ) . On the other hand , to Radcliffe-Brown , it is the principle of function which guides institutions . He noted that cultural elements are frequently diffused from one society to another , and that they are then " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the existing cultural system " ( 1931 , in 1958:73 ) ; but all changes in culture , including the modifications which take , place subsequent to diffusion , " are not properly comprehensible until we know the functions of those institutions " ( 1931 , in 1958:77 ) . In The Andaman Islanders Radcliffe-Brown distinguished between major and minor motives in myth ( pp. 339ff . ) . Minor themes are those which vary between the different groups of Andamanese peoples , whereas the major ones are those which are consistent or stable from one group to another . The reason for the stability of certain themes is that they perform important functions and are thus fixed in place . The minor myths perform less crucial fine - tions , and as a result they are comparatively free to vary . It follows that when a new trait is modified after being introduced 236 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard into an existing cultural system , what it has to be adjusted to is the more essential or basic institutions , those with important functions to perform . Radcliffe-Brown 's notion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expressed even more clearly in his view that " the raison d'etre of an institution or custom is to be found in its social function " ( 1950:62 ) . In 1939 he wrote , My own view is that the negative and positive rites of savages exist and persist because they are part of the mechanism by which an orderly society maintains itself in existence , serving as they do to establish certain fundamental social values ( in 1952:152 ; emphasis mine ) . Elsewhere he asserted that unilineal forms of succession occurred in the great majority of primitive societies ; he remarked that the reason for this frequency , and the " sociological cause ' or origin ' " of unilineal succession , was the functional value of unilineality . In particular , unilineal succession allows a precise definition of rights and duties and it thereby serves to avoid unresolvable conflicts in society ( 1935 , in 1952:46 ) . The " cause " of the high incidence of matrilineal and patrilineal forms of society is to be sought in the functional advantages which these modes of descent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of function is the governing factor behind institutions implies that cultural systems are not subject to the vicissitudes of history to the degree t hat Boas believed . In Radcliffe-Brown 's scheme , the necessary , objective conditions which constitute the sociological " cause " of custom and which anchor institutions in place are the " needs " for stability and cohesion . To Boas , on the other hand , the only objective , necessary , and present conditions to which the . sui generis cultural system has to yield are the rather broad limitations of the environment ; the emphasis on social stability and cohesion in society is a cultural variable , like pottery designs or kinship terms . Sonic peoples , like the Kwakiutl , toler-237 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard ate a considerable degree of conflict , whereas others , including the Pueblo Indians , do not . Radcliffe-Brown 's and Boas ' disagreement over whether or not anthropology is a science is to be seen in the context of their disagreement over the issue of historical contingency . To Boas , each culture is the product of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general laws behind culture . To RadcliffeBrown , on the other hand , the problem of persistence is both fundamental and ubiquitous . It is not important that societies have different histories , for institutions are to be interpreted by reference to the exigencies of the present and not the vicissitudes of the past . The problem of persistence provides a set of fixed points for a comparative analysis of institutions and the establishment of cross-cultural regularities or laws.6 According to Radcliffe-Brown , the central goal of social anthropology is to compare societies in order to discover both the features which are common to all social systems and those which characterize societies of a particular type ( 1937:71 ff . ) . For example , Radcliffe-Brown suggested that it is a natural law that all societies have a system of morals ( 1937:72 ) . The existence of morals is not a cultural variable , but is necessary if society is to persist . A law of narrower applicability is that , in societies characterized by a hunting and gathering economy , the animals and plants which occupy an important place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the social value of these species is thereby established ( 1929 ( in 1952:117ff . ) . The recurrence of totemism , joking and avoidance relationships , taboos , ritual attitudes , morality , and the like , in societies which are highly remote from one another , 238 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard merely demonstrates that the forms of functional adaptation are finite . Even though all societies have to come to terms with the problem of persistence , there is no logical reason why Radcliffe-Brown had to assume that different peoples will adapt in similar ways . It would have been legitimate for him to accept the Boasian notion that each culture is unique and to assert that each people achieves a unique mode of accommodation . What was it that led him to the idea that there are cross-cultural regularities and that society is based upon natural laws ? From the beginning of his career  --  even before the full development of his theory  --  Radcliffe-Brown wanted to view anthropology as a science and to discover natural laws behind human institutions ( e.g. , see t 9t as ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the i 86os , at least , it had been almost a truism in British anthropology that cultural forms recur with an almost monotonous regularity across the world . Tylor , for example , accepted the existence of cross-cultural similarities as a self-evident truth ( e.g. , see Tylor 1871 , I : 1 , 6 ) . Radcliffe-Brown 's view that anthropology is a natural science and that societies are natural systems was logically unnecessary in the context of his theory ; rather , these ideas are to be traced to the general intellectual milieu in which his thought took shape . E. E. EVANS-PRITCHARD Evans-Pritchard was born in 1902 in the town of Crowborough , in Sussex , England . He attended one of England 's old and eminent public schools , Winchester College , after which he entolled at Exeter College , Oxford . Upon receiving his M.A. from Oxford in 1924 he went to the University of London , where he and Raymond Firth became Bronislaw Malinowski 's lust two students iii anthropology . Evans-Pritchard conducted a number of field expeditions between 1926 and the outbreak of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard him to much of Central , East , and North Africa , although he is best known for his work among two peoples in particular , both in the Sudan . The first were the Azande ( singular , Zande ) , whom he visited during three different field trips between 1926 and 1930 . He spent a total of twenty months among the Azande , and the material collected during the first of his expeditions constituted the basis of his Ph.D . thesis at London . The second people were the Nuer , whom Evans-Pritchard visited on four occasions between i 930 and 1936 . His total residence with them was about a year . His work among the Azande was not marked by great difficulty , and he found the people themselves generally hospitable and friendly . By contrast , the Nuer were hostile and irritatingly uncommunicative , at least in the early stages of his research . The physical discomforts of fieldwork in Nuerland were extremely trying as well , and Evans-Pritchard had to contend with severe bouts of illness while there . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Egyptian University in Cairo . This enabled him to become intimately acquainted with that part of Africa , for much of his leisure time was spent studying the desert . He next served briefly as a Leverhulme Research Fellow , and then received an appointment at Oxford as a Research Lecturer . He held the Oxford post throughout the last half of the 1930s . In 1940 Evans-Pritchard left teaching and research in order to enter active military service . He served for a period with the Sudan Defense Force , and in 1942 became the Political Officer of the British Military Administration of Cyrenaica in North Africa . Evans-Pritchard served in Cyrenaica for over two years , spending most of his time among the more nomadic Bedouin groups . Later he was to publish an important historical account of the Cyrenaicans ( 1949 ) . Upon returning from military life in 1945 Evans-Pritchard was appointed Reader in Social Anthropology at Cambridge . The following year he was elected to succeed Radcliffe-Brown 240 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard in the Chair of Social Anthropology at Oxford , a position which he held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergone marked changes during his lifetime . His early work was influenced by the functionalism of his teacher , Malinowski ( e.g. , see Evans-Pritchard 1929a ) . He also made frequent reference to Radcliffe-Brown ( e.g. , see 1928 , in 1965b:188  --  89 ; 1929 , in 1965b:94 ; 19296 ; 1 931 c ) , whose influence was both patent and decisive by 1933 ( see 1932  --  33:97ff . ) . During the mid-193os , however , his thought began to take a significant turn , which is most clearly exemplified by his Witchcraft , Oracles and Magic among the . - lzande , published in 1937 . Essentially , the shift was from a positivistic and functional interpretation of institutions toward an idealistic one . According to Evans-Pritchard , society is a moral and not a natural system , and anthropology is not a science but one of the humanities . Today Evans-Pritchard explicitly identifies himself with the Durkheim school  --  " though with serious reservations " ( 196o:24 )  --  and it is clearly the idealistic elements of Durkheimian theory , and not the positivism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all at once , and possibly the various strands of the development did not knit together until the 194os . Moreover , this drift remained implicit at first , and most of Evans-Pritchard 's colleagues , including RadcliffeBrown , apparently were not fully aware that it was taking place . Evans-Pritchard did not publicly express his disagreement with the positivistic view of society , which had dominated social anthropology for so many years , until he delivered his Marett Lecture in 1950 ( 1950 , in 1964:139f )  --  four years after succeeding Radcliffe-Brown at Oxford . However , he did of ft. ' . a few guarded hints somewhat earlier ( 1946:412 , 413 ; : 1t the time of this writing it has been over twenty years sine e Evans-Pritchard first spelled out his departure from Rad-241 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard cliffe-Brown 's framework , and yet his position is still not altogether clear . He has sketched his ideas in bold outline but remains silent on many of the crucial aspects of his theory  - -  apparently in part because of a predilection for empirical research over philosophical and theoretical matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EvansPritchard 's position : " My own general impression , as an analogy , is that of an underexposed photographic plate  --  strong contrast , with brilliant passages in the high lights but lack of detail in the shadows " ( Firth 1952:37 ) . The same analogy could be drawn today . Consequently , it is difficult to summarize Evans-Pritchard 's ideas and to compare them with others ' . In presenting Evans-Pritchard 's scheme I shall begin by discussing one of the most prominent and basic developments in his work : his restoring the integrity of subjective culture . I shall then discuss the broader theoretical context within which this development is to be seen . THE INTEGRITY OF SUBJECTIVE CULTURE . Closely associated with Evans-Pritchard 's ideas about subjective culture are his rather strong feelings about free will . In Evans-Pritchard 's view , Radcliffe-Brown reduces man to an automaton by attempting to explain human actions , ideas , and beliefs in terms of necessary sociological laws ( Evans-Pritchard 1950 , in 1964:154 ) . Evans-Pritchard writes that , to Radcliffe-Brown , " societies are natural systems in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complex of necessary relations to maintain the whole " ( p. 145 ) . This , he feels , is a scientifically sterile and pernicious form of positivistic determinism . I am not sure how Evans-Pritchard acquired his commitment to the principle of free will , but his strong Catholic convictions must have played a part . His religious beliefs require that he view the individuall as a morally free agent , for if the individual is not responsible for his actions Christianity is nonsense . Evans-Pritchard 242 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard writes , " sociological determinism and the teachings of Jesus are irreconcilable " ( 1959 , in 1964:170 ) . Evans-Pritchard 's personal religious convictions are important as background , perhaps , but his sociological or theoretical views stand or fall independently of them . What is significant is that , associated with his views about the freedom of the human will , he is introducing into social anthropology the German idealist distinction between the cultural and natural sciences . This distinction rests upon the premise that ideas and human actions do not operate according to the laws of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the natural sciences . These notions were taken up by the Italian historian and philosopher Benedetto Croce , and spread into English historical thought largely through Croce 's follower , R. G. Collingwood , who , like Evans-Pritchard , was an eminent Oxonian . In certain respects Evans-Pritchard 's position seems quite close to Collingwood 's , and the similarity has been remarked upon by such writers as Firth and Fortes ( Firth 1952:37 ; Fortes 1953:33 ) . According to Collingwood , nature can be understood only as a phenomenon , that is , from the outside , whereas the events of history may be apprehended from the inside as well . He writes , " the events of history are never mere phenomena , never mere spectacles for contemplation , but things which the historian looks , not at , but through , to discern the thought within them . " Moreover , it is the main task of the historian to discern the thought which is within or behind the actions of human beings ( 1970:213-14 ) . Collingwood gives the example of an historian of Rome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Code . In order to understand this edict the historian must envisage the situation the emperor was trying to deal with , and he must envisage it as the emperor himself envisaged it . The historian must see the alternatives which were open and the reasons lou making one decision rather than another . 243 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard plains " ( e.g. , 1950 , in 1964:152 ; 1951a:62 ) . Evans-Pritchard has all but turned Radcliffe-Brown on his head  --  or , perhaps , he has turned society inside-out . These features of Evans-Pritchard 's thought first clearly appeared in his book on Zande witchcraft ( 1937 ) . This book was the culmination of a series of articles which he wrote on the Azande , the first of which was published in 1928 ( 1928 , 1929a , 1929C , 1931a , 1931b , 1932-33 , 19340 , 1935 ) . By following these studies it is possible to get an intimate look at the growth of his ideas . All of Evans-Pritchard 's witchcraft studies which were published prior to 1934 exhibit a decidedly functionalist orientation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Evans-Pritchard 1929a:621 ) and Radcliffe-Brown ( Evans-Pritchard 1932-3397 ) . For instance , Evans-Pritchard argued that the Zande beliefs function to promote confidence and assurance in people 's minds . According to the Azande , witches are men and women who have inherited a certain substance inside their bodies and who therefore have the power to bring misfortune to others , and whenever a man is beset by troubles he immediately thinks of witchcraft . He may then set out to discover the identity of the witch by means of oracles or witchdoctors and to ask him to withdraw his malign powers . Evans-Pritchard asserts that these beliefs enable a man to feel that his misfortunes are not due to " ignorance , incompetence , or bad luck , " but that they are due to people whom he can identify and then influence ( 1932-33:98-99 ) . In another context Evans-Pritchard writes that these beliefs " have a common function in stretching out man 's capabilities rather further than they actually reach . They lengthen his arm , so to speak . . . " ( 1929c:188 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral standards which are necessary for the persistence of Zande society . A witch is not an evil person merely because he has inherited the powers of witchcraft , for his possession of the witchcraft substance is beyond his con-246 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard trol . He was born with it . He is blameworthy only if he uses his power against people . When a person suffering from misfortune seeks to discover the witch who is causing him harm , he only places before his oracle the names of those who bear him malice . The one to be accused , therefore , is the neighbor or acquaintance with whom the individual has bad feelings . Consequently , the Zande man or woman who exhibits antisocial behavior  --  who often quarrels and is difficult to get along with  --  receives social opprobrium and humiliation ( 1929C:21 off . ) . A theme which runs through all these studies of witchcraft , and which seems to have occupied an increasingly important position in Evans-Pritchard 's mind , is how the Azande could adhere to such patently absurd ideas and practices . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this hocus-pocus " concerning witchdoctors ( 1932-33:320 ) . In reference to the belief in witches themselves he writes : how is it that men can so firmly believe in something which seems to us so remote from reality as to appear almost pathological ? Through what mental processes does such a fiction arise , and how is it maintained in culture in spite of the enormous waste which it appears to engender ? ( 1929C:198 ) . Evans-Pritchard accounts for this in part by reference to function : the functional value of the institution provides at least a partial explanation for both its existence and its retention ( see 1929c : l g8ff . ) . Like Radcliffe-Brown ( and Malinowski ) , he regarded the utilitarian value of a trait as a measure of its viability . Even in his earliest writings Evans-Pritchard was not satisfied with this functional explanation by itself , however ; he attempted to show that the beliefs , absurd though they seemed to the outsider , were logically coherent and intellectually defensible given the point of view of the believer himself . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beliefs could be explained away by the people . Contradictory 247 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard verdicts of the oracles were resolved by invoking the idea that the oracles could lose their potency , by asserting that certain taboos were not adhered to when the oracles were consulted , or by reference to the work of hostile witches . Not only were the beliefs maintained because of the functions they performed , but also because they were perfectly credible . They provided an intellectually satisfying and reasonable idiom of thought . In 1934 Evans-Pritchard delivered a paper in London on witchcraft , published the next year in Africa ( 1935 ) , which seems to represent a shift in his thinking about Zande beliefs . He placed less emphasis than before on functionalism , and relatively more on understanding Zande beliefs as a system of ideas . Moreover , between 1933 and 1936 Evans-Pritchard published a series of articles on Frazer , Tylor , Levy-Bruhl , and Pareto ( 1933 , 1934a , 1936 ) in an attempt to delineate these writers ' theories concerning the nature of primitive thought ( see 1937:5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing concern for understanding belief systems from the inside , rather than in terms of such outside factors as the functions they perform . This development in Evans-Pritchard 's thought reached its culmination in his book on Zande witchcraft ( 1937 ) . This book was written specifically with Levy-Bruhl in mind ( Evans-Pritchard 1970 ) . According to Levy-Bruhl , primitive peoples view the world in terms of mystical influences and give little scope to natural causation . He also held that primitives are comparatively uncritical in their thinking , having little tendency to reflect upon the empirical validity of their ideas . Evans-Pritchard thought that Levy-Bruhl presented a distorted image of primitive beliefs ( see 1934a ) , and in his book on the Azande he attempted to correct Levy-Bruhl 's mistakes . Evans-Pritchard argued that savage systems of thought are not as thoroughly dominated by mystical elements as LevyBruhl believed . Evans-Pritchard described what he called the dual causality in Zande beliefs , by which he meant that Zande thought incorporated both mystical and natural causation . He 248 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard cites the case in which a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unknown to them , had been weakened by termites . The granary collapsed , causing injury , and witchcraft was blamed ( 1937:69ff . ) . The Azande were aware that the natural cause of the granary 's collapse was the action of termites , but to the people this merely explained how , and not why , the structure fell . Why was it this granary which happened to collapse , and why did it do so precisely when these persons were beneath it ? Evans-Pritchard also rejected Levy-Bruhl 's view that primitives were uncritical in their thought , for he held that the Azande are quite skeptical within the limits of their beliefs . They are critical of the actions of their oracles , and carefully check or test them to make sure they are working properly ( pp. 329ff . ) . They are critical of their witchdoctors , and are aware that there is a good deal of fakery in their performances ( pp. t 83ff ) . But the existence of chicanery among some practitioners does not lead the Azande to assume that all are quacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witchdoctors are highly successful in their professional roles ( pp. 194ff . ) . In presenting the Zande witchcraft beliefs Evans-Pritchard shows that they constitute a logically tight and circular system , for each part is dependent upon and supports the others : Witchcraft , oracles , and magic form an intellectually coherent system . Each explains and proves the others . Death is proof of witchcraft . It is avenged by magic . The achievement of vengeance-magic is proved by the poison oracle . The accuracy of the poison oracle is determined by the king 's oracle , which is above suspicion ( ' 937 : 475 ) . Moreover , these beliefs are impervious to contradictions from empirical evidence . I noted above how the contradictory oracular verdicts are explained away . Evans-Pritchard remarks that the blindness of the Azande to the inefficacy of their oracles is not due to stupidity , but rather " they reason excellently in the idiom of ' their beliefs , but they can not reason outside , or Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard against , their beliefs because they have no other idiom in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his 1934 paper on witchcraft , this book shows little evidence of the functionalism which was so important in his earlier studies . To he sure , he specifically avoided theoretical issues in this work ( 1937:5 ) ; nevertheless , the weight of his argument was upon the intellectual force of the beliefs . In short , the system of ideas  --  and the actions associated with these ideas , including the accusation of witches , the consulting of oracles , and the like  --  are explainable by seeing them from the inside rather than by viewing the larger social system from the outside.9 It should now be clear what I mean when I assert that Evans-Pritchard has restored the integrity of subjective culture and has elaborated a form of explanation quite different from that which Radcliffe-Brown employed . I do not want to overlabor this point , but neither do I wish to give the impression that Evans-Pritchard is solely concerned with the logical coherence of beliefs and that he feels that all subjective analyses must follow the pattern of his book on Zande witchcraft . Evans-Pritchard actually investigates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrated by the analysis contained in his Nuer Religion ( 1956 ) . A substantial portion of this book is concerned not with beliefs specifically , but with a few Nuer conceptions or representations . Evans-Pritchard attempts to convey the meaning of a few key terms or categories of thought , and particularly the concept of Spirit , or kwoth . Kwoth is conceived by the Nuer as having an intangible quality , like air , and as being ubiquitous . Everything in nature , culture , and society  --  and everything 250 Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard having to do with man  --  is the way it is because kwoth made or willed it that way . For example , Spirit gives and sustains life ; he also brings death , largely by means of natural circumstances such as lightning ( see 1956:Chapter I ) . Although there is a single idea of Spirit , this idea has a variety of manifestations . There are the spirits of the air , colwic spirits , totems , and the like , all of which may be conceived as " refractions of God in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups " ( p. 107 ) . Evans-Pritchard is explicit that these religious ideas are sui generic ( pp. viii , 92 , 121  --  22 ) ; he implies that " the essential nature " of Nuer religion can not be understood by reference to the functions the system performs in relation to the larger society ( p. 122 ) . Indeed , the relationship between Nuer social structure and Nuer religion  --  such as the association of certain totems with lineages and clans  --  is fortuitous . Evans-Pritchard writes that the Nuer " had first the conception of Spirit and it was a quite fortuitous event which . . . brought about a religious connection " between the social groups and totems ( pp. 92  --  93 ) . An understanding of the essence of Nuer religion is not acquired by means of a functional analysis , but by discovering the meaning of the religious conceptions themselves . In another work Evans-Pritchard speaks disparagingly of writers like Radcliffe-Brown and Durkheim who regarded religion as an illusion and whose theories attempted to account for this illusion . Writers such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " how everywhere and at all times men have been stupid enough to believe " in souls , spirits , and gods . By contrast , Evans-Pritchard proposes that the believer need not regard religious conceptions as illusions and therefore does not feel compelled to explain them away by psychological or sociological theories . The believer accepts them tom what they are and then simply attempts to understand them ( 1965a:121 ) . What is important about this argument is that it 251                     