@@774042

txt // Missouri ( Kucera , 1958 ) , sandy soils in Oklahoma ( Rhodes etal. , 1964 ) , silt loam soils in New Zealand ( Edmond , 1958 ) , and numerous other pasture and forest situations as reviewed by Reynolds and Packer ( 1963 ) . Studies in the short-grass region of the United States have generally found that bulk density increases directly as intensity of grazing becomes more severe ( Brown and Schuster , 1969 ; Knoll and Hopkins , 1959 ; Rauzi and Hanson , 1966 ; Read , 1957 ; and Reed and Peterson , 1961 ) . In contrast , Canadian workers reported lowered pH and changed carbon content of soils , but little effect on moisture tension , bulk density , total available phosphorus , and total nitrogen . One report was on fescue grassland ( Johnston et al. , 1971 ) and the other on the short-grass type after 19 years of heavy grazing at Manyberries Station in southern Alberta ( Smoliak et al. , 1972 ) . Earlier , Lodge ( 1954 ) in southern Canada and Orr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found increased bulk density in some grazed soils but not in others . Bunchgrass ranges in southeastern Washington ( Daubenmire and Colwell , 1942 ) and subalpine grasslands in Utah ( Meeuwig , 1965 ; Laycock and Conrad , 1967 ) showed no change in bulk density with heavy grazing . Packer ( 1963 ) maintained that winter grazing by elk reduced plant cover and increased soil bulk density in theArtemisia-Agropyron areas north of Yellowstone Park . He suggested that ground cover should not be allowed to diminish below 70 percent and bulk density to increase above 1.04 grams per cubic centimeter . Standards have not been suggested for other soils . Work with tractors on forest soils showed that the most compaction for any trip occurs during the first trip and the maximum compaction occurs between the fourth and tenth trips ( Steinbrenner , 1955 ) . If this principle can be extended to grazing , it would suggest that soil compaction by livestock has a maximum value for each set of soil conditions . Ideal and maximum possible bulk density values should be determined for major types of rangeland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Soil density changes with moisture content , as it did when soils were compared during early and late growing season ( Laycock and Conrad , 1967 ) . Removal of mulch from the soil surface resulted in changes in botanical composition and significant increases in soil bulk density , without trampling by animals ( Heady , 1965 ) . These results suggest that altering animal impact on the vegetation itself , and thus changing species composition and soil water content , has an influence on soil density which is separate from the influence of compaction by trampling . Thus , soil compaction may not be caused entirely by animal trampling . Increased bulk density correlated with decreased soil porosity ( Read , 1957 ; Kucera , 1958 ; Reed and Peterson , 1961 ) . Grazing of farm woodlots reduced water infiltration ( Alderfer and Merkle , 1941 ; Steinbrenner , 1951 ; Johnson , 1952 ) , which justified recommendation that they not be grazed . Trampling with an artificial hoof increased overland flow of water in the Agropyron spicatum ? Bromus tectorum type in southern Idaho ( Packer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grazing seldom reaches 15 centimeters , frequently is limited to the surface 5 centimeters , and probably recovers in five to ten years after heavy grazing is reduced ( Reynolds and Packer , 1963 ) . Lusby ( 1970 ) reported soil recovery in three years after removal of cattle from the salt-desert-shrub type in Colorado . These conclusions were based on an insufficient number of reports and are likely to change with additional studies in more soil types . Alternating swelling and shrinking , as with freezing-thawing and wettingdrying , reduced the persistence of soil compaction in the studies described above . More than likely , freezing-thawing and wetting-drying together with the activities of animals begin to reduce soil compaction as soon as it occurs . Desirable Trampling Effects Although trampling usually implies damage to vegetation and compaction of soil , a number of benefits result from the physical impact of animals . Without disturbance , the surface few millimeters of soil may become sealed and capped with algae and mosses , and intake of water and establishment of new seedlings may be reduced thereby . The mosses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions , as may be observed in long-term livestock exclosures . The trampling action of livestock breaks the cap , moves soil , and helps to cover seeds ( Davies , 1938 ) . Trampling action lays standing dead material onto the soil surface , where decomposition increases and the minerals return to the soil . In addition , trampling reduces large accumulations of mulch and litter by breaking it and may actually stir plant materials into the mineral soil . Like many other factors in moderation , a small amount of treading may be beneficial or show no detrimental effects ( Campbell , 1966 ) . Livestock have been used to trample broadcasted seed into the soil in order to increase chances for successful seedling establishment ( Tanganyika Agriculture Corporation , 1961 ) . Rolling or compaction of seedbeds on light soils tends to increase moisture retention and moisture per unit volume of soil and improve several factors for plant survival ( Hyder and Sneva , 1956 ) . Effects of Soil Compaction on Vegetation Compaction of the soil has been shown to reduce root growth of sunflowers ( Veihmeyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Pendleton , 1950 ) , root growth of several tree species ( Forristall and Gessel , 1955 ) , and penetration into soil of mustard and wheat roots ( Fountaine and Payne , 1952 ) . Soil compaction reduced yields of ryegrass ? white clover pastures in New Zealand ( Edmond , 1963 ; 1966 ) , alfalfa-brome mixtures in Wisconsin ( Federer et al. , 1961 ) , bluegrass pastures ( Bryant et al. , 1972 ) , and sugar maple in grazed woodlands ( Dambach , 1944 ) . Artificial trampling reduced ground cover and production of Agropyron spicatum and Bromus tectorum in southern Idaho // ( Packer , 1953 ) . Similar results were reported as a result of use by elk on their winter range in southwestern Montana ( Packer , 1963 ) . Compaction of soil below the plowed zone reduced emergence and first-year yields of seeded range grasses ( Barton et al. , 1966 ) . Roots of Bouteloua curtipendula , cv Premier , did not penetrate a compacted layer in old fields during the first year after seeding ( Fryrear and McCully , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and trampling , they suggest that soil compaction reduces growth of roots and thereby lowers yield of tops . Extension of these principles to dry rangelands seems reasonable , but results there may be less severe than those from moist soils . Apparently , dry soils do not compact easily . Extensive range grazing , much of it during the dry season , may have little effect on soil compaction and herbage yield . Animals often walk the same paths again and again as they move across slopes or to and from water . Lange ( 1969 ) showed that a network of radial trails developed around water in relatively flat desert-shrub vegetation in Australia . Herbaceous vegetation at the path sides tended to be different from herbaceous vegetation between the paths . In moist regions with long growing season , the paths may be bare in the center and support annual grasses and weedy species or even tall grasses along the edges . Somewhat shorter grasses dominate between the paths ( Bates , 1938 ; Thomas , 1959 ) . Probably , treading exerts major influence in the paths and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the path edge may result from increased soil water beneath the bare paths with less competition for it . These strips of different vegetational compositions in both dry rangelands and moist pastures suggest successional stages that result from various degrees of animal use . MEASUREMENT OF PHYSICAL EFFECTS Separation of the physical effects of animals from changes due to defoliation presents difficult problems ; these results have been confounded in nearly all grazing studies . Two techniques have been used to determine trampling effects by livestock : One requires herding of muzzled animals along narrow fenced pathways ( Edmond , 1958 ) or across plots for a certain number of trips ( Bryant et al. , 1972 ) . Another uses a type of cage that allows grazing inside but prevents animals from walking in it ( Smith et al. , 1971 ) . In the second technique , the investigator beats or strikes vegetation and soil with a weighted device that approximates the size and pressure of a hoof . It may approach the vertical pressure from hooves but is unlikely to duplicate walking . Experimental control of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burrowing of rodents , has been reported less frequently . Measurements of the effects of trampling on vegetation include those commonly used to sample for changes in botanical composition and biomass of the // vegetation . Measurements of changes in the internal geometry of soil include specific gravity or bulk density , porosity , pore size distribution , conductivity of air and water , and infiltration . Changes in the pressures needed to displace soil particles and the load that a soil will hold without failure can indicate trampling effects . These techniques have been defined and evaluated for soil compaction studies ( ASAE/SSSA Soil Compaction Committee , 1958 ) . EVALUATION OF PHYSICAL EFFECTS Relating vegetational changes to the causes of those changes remains a difficult problem of separation of multiple interrelationships . For example , disappearance of plant materials in grazed-ungrazed treatments may be due to foraging by insects , birds , and other animals ; to trampling ; to pulling or breakage of plants ; to falling of mature plant parts such as flowers , lower leaves , and fruits ; and to the shattering action of wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these losses by regrowth may further complicate measurement and interpretation . Martin ( 1970 ) called the losses invisible utilization because difference in and out of cages or before and after grazing confused all changes in biomass due to physical impacts with those due to actual eating of forage by the excluded animals . Physical effects of animals are as ageless as the animal species themselves . England and De Vos ( 1969 ) reported the presence of fossil trails and wallows made by bison on the Canadian prairies . Burrowing animals have pushed more soil materials downhill than uphill for as long as these animals have existed . Ground birds have changed soil characteristics by their scratching and dusting ; all animals have exerted pressure by walking ; and many more physical effects have occurred during geological time . Therefore , trampling and other physical effects of animals are unavoidably parts of the grazing process . As one evaluates these related effects , compensations or counterinfluences becorne increasingly obvious and the concept that physical effects mean damage becomes less important . It is true that livestock compact the soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , other animals and the physical environment tend to reduce the compaction . Breaking of plants may stimulate them to new growth . Bare soil quickly becomes occupied with new plants . Populations of plants and animals succeed as their physical requirements become available , and they diminish as their surroundings become more favorable for other species . Thus , the physical effects of animals may be either desirable or harmful depending upon the context of evaluation . Permanent changes in rangeland ecosystems can result from excessive physical effects of animals , but usually compensations quickly cover one physical effect with another . The vigor of rangeland systems likely depends as much on favorable physical conditions for the dominant plant species as upon adequate quantities of nutrients and energy . Unfortunately the physical state of rangeland systems has received little attention . Chapter 5 Energy Flow and Nutrient Cycling The mass of live and dead organic materials in any rangeland system exists within a potential energy level determined by the inherent capabilities of organisms and by the energy sources of the site . Assessment of the magnitude of the many pathways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Studies of arid and semiarid rangeland ecosystems usually concern energy use by grazing mammals , but the uses of energy and minerals by other animals need to be emphasized . The energy transformations actually achieved in the primary production of photosynthates and the secondary production of biomass in other tropic levels ? herbivores , predators , and decomposers ? depend upon minerals as well as upon energy . The cyclic flow of nitrogen and the essential minerals , especially phosphorus , calcium , magnesium , sodium , potassium , chlorine , and sulfur , closely associates with energy transfer . At each trophic level , energy is partitioned and minerals altered by assimilation , respiration , excretion , defecation , and production . These transfers of energy through biological systems and the cycling of minerals from soil through plants and back to the soil constantly change in rate and magnitude . An objective in range management is to increase the efficiency of energy and nutrient cycles . 70 // ENERGY FLOW Primary productivity transforms radiant energy from the sun into chemical energy by photosynthesis . Gross primary production includes energy stored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The more useful concept , net primary production , excludes the energy used in respiration and is the accumulated plant biomass . Williams ( 1966 ) estimated that his range plots in the San Joaquin Valley , California , received 1,600,000 kilocalories per square meter of solar energy of which 700,000 or 44 percent were in the wavelengths usable by plants . Net primary production amounted to 3,275 kilograms per hectare or 1,410 kilocalories per square meter . This was 0.09 percent of the total energy received at the site . Steers , one type of secondary producer on those plots , had a net productivity of 69 kilocalories per square meter for an efficiency of 0.004 percent relative to the total energy income . Although studies in other ecosystems have shown different proportions of energy converted from plants to animals , all are in broad agreement that a small fraction of the total energy becomes net primary production and that a still smaller part becomes net secondary production ( Williams , 1964 ) . For example , Buechner and Golley ( 1967 ) reported in a review that the meadow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the African elephant 23.3 , the white-tailed deer 43.1 , and the Uganda kob 62.4 kilocalories per square meter a year . Energy passes through biological systems with tremendous unrecoverable losses at each transfer . Because energy is not recycled , increased efficiency of energy use depends upon prevention of losses . Macfadyen ( 1963 ) estimated that metabolic activity in kilocalories per square meter per year was 186 for herbivorous and decomposer organisms including molluscs , arthropods , and earthworms in an oak woodland in Holland . Biomass and mean annual respiration of harvester termites in tropical regions may be of the same order of magnitude as that of mixed populations of mammalian herbivores in Africa and much greater than that of the marsupial fauna in northern Australia ( Lee and Wood , 1971 ) . Macfadyen ( 1964 ) . maintained that energy respired by a temperate meadow was proportioned about one-seventh by plants , two-sevenths by herbivores , and four-sevenths by decomposers . Apparently poikilothermic animals transfer energy more efficiently than homiotherms do because most of the former have an extremely efficient digestive system and use the energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Macfadyen , 1970 ) . Small animals process more energy relative to their weight than do larger animals . Clearly , small soil-dwelling animals have a little known but significant influence on energy flow . Cook ( 1970 ) suggested that energy transfer presents a new approach to calculating biological efficiency of range ecosystem for domestic animals . On the assumption that 40 to 50 percent range utilization expresses forage consumption , between 18 and 25 percent of the herbage produced becomes metabolizable energy // in cattle and sheep . Cook allocated that amount of energy among the various physiological functions such as reproduction , growth , heat , and travel . This information and body weight changes of grazing animals permitted him to calculate energy productivity on rangeland . Different classes of animals had different energy requirements . For example , a yearling steer required energy equivalent to 0.85 of a nonlactating cow unit and about 0.67 of a cow-calf unit . A ewe and lamb rated 0.21 of a cow-calf unit . Energy transformation and animal responses can be used to establish standards for measuring range livestock production . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Utah produced about three times more energy than did desert winter ranges , and that steers converted dietary energy to meat about 45 percent more efficiently than did cows . Partitioning of energy draws attention to points of energy dissipation where ecosystem modifications to increase efficiency of energy use may be effective ( Fig. 5-1 ) . The energy budget shows the relative impact of different organisms . Because different kinds of animals use energy at different rates , biomass comparisons between such diverse species as grasshoppers , mice , and livestock have much less value than do comparisons of energy transfer . The aboveground species account for a small proportion of the secondary production . Macfadyen ( 1961 , 1968 ) maintains that microorganisms in the soil produce as much as 90 percent of the secondary production because of their large numbers and rapid metabolic rates . Apparently , far more energy is liberated through soil-dwelling organisms than through aboveground herbivores . If this is so , the decomposers may limit range ecosystems , and increasing range productivity can depend upon speeding their // activities . Proper assessment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as energy transfer agents within the total range ecosystem requires knowledge of energy flow rather than of biomass . NUTRIENT CYCLING Herbivores divert portions of plant nutrients into animal food chains . Unlike energy , which leaves the system when released from chemical bonds , nutrients return to the soil . They may be circulated from soil to plants to animals to soil numerous times . Each nutritive element follows its own particular pathway because each serves separate functions and is held by different chemical bonds . Grazing animals alter these pathways , change the rates of nutrient release by decomposition , reposition nutrients in the pasture , and may even remove significant amounts of nutrients from the area . Without herbivory , nutrients in vegetation leach directly to the soil or return to the soil via decomposition or organic material . Generalized Nutrient Cycling A generalized diagram of nutrient cycling is shown in Figure 5-2 . The boxes represent nutrient accumulations , and the arrows show pathways of transfer from one sink to another . Descriptions abound of quantities of minerals in the various pools such as the soil and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budgets the total quantity of minerals among all the compartments . Detailed analysis of mineral reserves describes the system organization and provides a base for the study of mineral flow through the system , the system physiology . Such an analysis depends upon estimates of the sizes of the various nutrient pools and the transport of minerals from one pool to another . Transfers occur in both space and time . The annual cycle of plant biomass accumulation and litter decomposition has received much attention . Comprehensive reviews of this information are available ( Rodin and Basilevich , 1965 ; Charley , 1972 ; Pieper , 1974 ) . Without herbivores , minerals cycle from soil to plants , to litter , and back to soil . Grazing adds many more routes because minerals pass through the animals and are deposited as dung or urine , which decompose at rates different from those of the uneaten plant litter . The herbivores may die , may be eaten by carnivores , or may be removed from the area by man ; thus many more pathways for the flow of minerals are added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with cycling of nitrogen , phosphorus , potassium , and calcium . Schultz ( 1964 , 1969 ) speculated that primary production in the arctic grassland declines and the lemming populations crash when vegetation is overgrazed and a high proportion of the nutrients become unavailable in plant and animal detritus . As decomposition releases the nutrients , primary production increases and the lemmings soon increase . The pattern of accumulation and decomposition of dead herbage on rangeland is closely related to productivity . Early recognition of this point is evidenced in stipulations that proper utilization was removal of 50 to 80 percent of the herbage crop . Mulch ? litter or plant residue ? in terms either of amounts per unit area or of percent of soil cover , has been used to evaluate range conditions and trend . Generally , litter cover correlates directly with production , but an excess may decrease herbage growth . Recent studies suggest that dead herbage is an important but neglected constituent of pasture and range systems . Beginning at the low point of plant residue accumulations , near the end of the rapid-growth season @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Decomposition , consumption by invertebrates , and grazing by vertebrates gradually reduce the amount of residue until the next yearly increment is added . However , that addition does not occur as a single large amount at one time . Growth and decomposition are overlapping in time ; for example , flowers and lower leaves in herbaceous vegetation begin to die almost as // soon as they begin to grow . The living and dead materials are tangled in space . Both the time-related and space-related variables are subject to modification by grazing and the physical environment . Dead herbage must be included or used to modify conventional range production and utilization parameters if vegetational changes and the nutritional environment of the grazing animal are to be under-stood . Man adds minerals to any system by fertilization and supplemental feeding of livestock , which in effect borrow from some other system . Natural additions of minerals include those in rainwater , dust , fixation by microorganisms , and con tinual decomposition of soil parent material . After analysis of data in several papers , Pieper ( 1974 ) constructed an approx @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern New Mexico ( Table 5-1 ) . This table shows that domestic livestock at moderate stocking rates altered the routing of only a small quantity of minerals as they cycled and that rodents were unimportant in the area . Commonly , soil reserves constitute many times the amounts of cycled minerals ( Charley , 1972 ) . Elements Returned to the Soil Grazing animals return a large proportion of the consumed plant nutrients to the soil . Petersen et al . ( 1956 ) have determined that a mature cow produces 25 kilograms of dung and 9 kilograms of urine daily . Chemical composition on a percentage net weight basis of the excreted materials was as follows : Most of the voided phosphorus occurred in the dung whereas the urine was rich in nitrogen and potassium . // Hutton et al . ( 1965 , 1967 ) found that dairy cattle voided most of the minerals consumed , excreted from 5 to 26 percent in milk , and retained less than 10 percent of any element . The elements were distributed in the following percentages : These values vary according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the animal , and physiological state of the animal . However , direct relationships were found for nitrogen in dung and in forage ( Raymond , 1966 ) and between nitrogen , phosphorus , and potassium in forage and in soil ( Vandermark et al. , 1971 ) . Although exact estimates vary , it is accepted that 80 to 95 percent of all ingested nutrients are returned to the soil in the excreta of domestic animals . Elements from Outside Sources Rainfall , dust , and microorganisms that fix materials from the atmosphere continuously increase the reserves of nitrogen and several of the major minerals in the soil ( Henzell and Norris , 1962 ) . Rock decomposition may be the only significant source of additional phosphorus for range soils . Decomposition of soil parent material adds other minerals to the available supply . Fried and Broeshart ( 1967 ) and Allison ( 1965 ) showed that rainwater adds about 9 kilograms ( range 2 to 45 ) of nitrogen to each hectare per year as a worldwide average . Sulfur additions in rainwater may be over 112 kilograms per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fossil fuel . Extensive rangelands receive less , perhaps as little as 100 grams per hectare per year . In Great Britain , Robertson and Davies ( 1965 ) showed that minerals added to the soil in rainwater each year were calcium , 7 kilograms per hectare ; magnesium , 4 kilograms per hectare ; potassium , 3 kilograms per hectare ; and essentially no phosphorus . Arid and semiarid regions with more dust than Great Britain likely have greater quantities of minerals in rainwater . Relatively high contents of ammonia , nitrate , and sulfate in rainwater occurred in the industrial regions and central part of North America . Chlorine and sodium were concentrated near the oceans , potassium occurred uniformly across the continent , and calcium concentrated in dry regions ( Junge , 1958 ; Junge and Werby , 1958 ) . Numerous studies reported nitrogen fixation by Rhizobia on planted pasture , legumes to be between 56 and 670 kilograms per hectare per year ( Fried and Broeshart , 1967 ; Sears et al. , 1965 ) . Most native legumes contribute nitrogen to range ecosystems . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species // in 13 genera of nonleguminous seed plants were known to fix nitrogen . The genera are as follows : Alnus , Casuarina , Ceanothus , Cercocarpus , Coriaria , Discaria , Dryas , Elaeagnus , Gale , Hippophae , Myrica , Purshia , and Shepherdia . Numerous species of bacteria , actinomyces , fungi , yeasts , and blue-green algae are known to be nonsymbiotic fixers of nitrogen from the air ( McKee , 1962 ) . Nonsymbiotic nitrogen fixation is difficult to measure , but it is likely to be 22 to 56 kilograms per hectare per year on unfertilized pastures ( Whitehead , 1970 ) . Elements Lost from an Area The bovine body contains about 20 percent ash and 80 percent protein on a fat-free and water-free basis ( Reid et al. , 1955 ) . Both water and fat contents vary tremendously but have little influence on the amounts of protein and ash . A 450-kilogram animal contains about 15.9 kilograms of nitrogen , 5.9 of calcium , 3.2 of phosphorus , 0.9 of potassium , 0.7 of sodium and sulfur , 0.5 of chlorine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1969 ) . If that animal were two years old and required the forage from 4 hectares , it would remove 2 kilograms per hectare per year of nitrogen , 0.7 of calcium , 0.4 of phosphorus , and less than 0.1 of the other elements . A dry sheep on the Australian pastures which ingests 450 kilograms of feed in a year might fix half a kilogram or so of nitrogen in its body each year ( Barrow and Lambourne , 1962 ) . Annual transport of nutrients by sheep from heather lands in England amounted to 1 kilogram per hectare of calcium and phosphorus and 2 kilograms per hectare of nitrogen ( Robertson and Davies , 1965 ) . Domestic animals that are sold or removed from the land take elements with them , but not large amounts . In contrast , grain crops may remove 67 to 78 kilograms per hectare of nitrogen , 11 to 17 of phosphorus , and 67 to 78 of potassium ( Fried and Broeshart , 1967 ) . Recoveries of fertilizer nitrogen in forages seldom reach 50 percent . Many attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Skyring , 1962 ) . Nutrients are eroded and leached from an area in runoff and ground water . Likens et al . ( 1967 ) found that forested watersheds had losses of calcium , magnesium , and sodium but the losses were balanced with release from rocks through weathering . Domestic animals removed from rangeland take minor amounts of nutrients with them . DOMESTIC ANIMALS AND NUTRIENT CYCLING Although they remove few nutrients , large grazing animals have a small but probably significant effect on the overall mineral cycles on rangeland . Hannon ( 1958 ) in Australia suggested that less than 0.1 percent of the total nitrogen in the soil actually cycles . Williams ( 1964 ) , working with improved pastures , accounted // for 7 percent of the total nitrogen that annually cycled through plants and animals . Nitrogen fixed in the yearly crop of California annual grassland averaged less than 22 kilograms per hectare and accounted for less than 0.5 percent of the total nitrogen in the soil-plant system . Phosphorus in the herbage amounted to approximately 0.2 percent of the total ( Heady , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the net primary energy ( Macfadyen , 1968 ) , so they probably cycle more nutrients than domestic animals do . The preceding conclusion and others about nutrient cycling lean heavily on work with pastures grown under humid and irrigated conditions . However , energy transfer and nutrient cycling on dry rangeland are likely to differ from those situations more in degree than in principle . Research underway in several range areas will shed light on these relationships . THE NITROGEN CYCLE Nitrogen , which is the largest component of air and tends to return to its relatively inert gaseous state in the atmosphere , is an ideal indicator of nutrient cycling . Unlike energy , which moves through an ecosystem once and is lost , nitrogen cycles continuously from the atmospheric and soil reservoirs to primary producers , to consumers , and back to the reservoirs . None is lost from the system , although time may need to be reckoned on a geological basis for completion of the longest cycles . Pathways that nitrogen may follow are numerous and complicated ( Doak , 1952 ; Allison , 1965 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rangeland . It indicates that losses and gains occur continuously as nitrogen moves from place to place and alters in chemical form . Figure 5-3 should be considered a flow chart of possibilities , not a closed cycle nor a steady state of nitrogen movements . Nitrogen was selected to illustrate cycling because of the key role it plays in range production , the large body of available information about it , and the emphasis on urinary nitrogen describing . animal influences . Urinary nitrogen from cattle and sheep was found to be 76 percent or more in urea form , 12 percent in amino acids , 1 percent ammonia , and the remainder in numerous other nitrogenous compounds ( Doak , 1952 ) . Most of the amino form of nitrogen is glycine ( Bathurst , 1952 ) . Depending upon temperatures and soil moisture , urinary nitrogen moves rapidly through the various pathways in the nitrogen cycle ( Fig. 5-3 ) , and its effects on plants may disappear in a few weeks . Nitrogen deposited on the leaves may be absorbed or returned to the atmosphere . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reservoir , where it changes to ammonia , to nitrite , and finally to nitrate . At each step , nitrogen may be absorbed by plants , lost by leaching , or returned to the atmosphere . Volatilization results when ammonia is formed from chemical decomposition of nitrogen oxides and by enzymatic reduction of nitrogen oxides ( Woldendorp , 1968 ) . V // Simpson and Freney ( 1967 ) found that nitrogen reactions were most rapid in soils with low quantities of nitrogen . However , Power ( 1972 ) claimed that fertilizer nitrogen may become immobilized in any part of the cycle and suggested a three to four-year cycle for complete nitrogen turnover in the northern Great Plains . Apparently the rate of nitrogen release from urine is much faster and from dung slower than from decomposing plant litter ( Barrow , 1961 ) . On balance , turnover of nitrogen is accelerated by passage through animals but , like other nutrients , it may go into reserves anywhere in the cycle . THE SULFUR CYCLE Sulfur , like nitrogen , is cycled from soil through plant and animal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sulfate ion ( SO4= ) is the principal form of sulfur used by plants . The sulfur cycle begins with the oxidation of rock sulfides and elemental sulfur into sulfates . These may be leached from the soil , precipitated as sulfate salts , absorbed on the surface of clay particles , absorbed by organisms , or reduced to sulfides . Sulfur is added in fertilizers , introduced into the cycle in rainwater , and absorbed as SO2 from the atmosphere . The sulfur that becomes bound in organic matter is unavailable to plants and must be converted to sulfate form , largely by microbial action , before it can be used again . The ultimate source of sulfur , unlike that of nitrogen , is the soil parent material , which releases sulfates during weathering . High atmospheric sulfur contents are primarily due to burning of fossil fuels . Much of the sulfur in range ecosystems is associated with plants , animals , and organic detritus . Till and May // ( 1970a , 1970b ) , in Australia , found about 200 kilograms per hectare total sulfur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 100 in the cycling pools ( Fig. 5-4 ) . Undoubtedly other grazing situations would show different amounts . These authors maintained that the sulfur cycle formed a highly complex closed system with few losses and net additions essentially from fertilization ( Till and May , 1971 ) . Reductions of the total pool were due to cropping , which takes about 4.5 kilograms of sulfur in 2,700 kilograms of grass hay and 11.3 kilograms in alfalfa hay ( Whitehead , 1964 ) . A 450-kilogram steer has about 0.7 kilograms of sulfur retained in its body . A cow probably consumes 9 kilograms of sulfur in a year , nearly all of which is returned to the soil . Voided sulfur is about 30 percent in dung and 70 percent in urine ( Frame , 1970 ; Walker , 1957 ) . OTHER ELEMENTS Animals influence rates and amounts of other cycling elements as well as those of nitrogen and sulfur . Voided phosphorus occurs almost completely in the dung , where it apparently is more concentrated than in the original feed . It leaches slowly from dung , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Approximately 20 percent is inorganic and readily available to plants ( Bromfield , 1961 ; Bromfield and Jones , 1970 ) . Organic phosphorus in dung becomes slowly available to plants as the dung decomposes ( Doak , 1952 ; Petersen et al. , 1956 ; Williams , 1962 ; Floate , 1971 ) . Complexity of mineral cycling is further illustrated by phosphrous turnover within the ruminant animal ( Tomas et al. , 1967 ) . Saliva constitutes the principal source of phosphorus for rumen organisms . It determines the inorganic phosphorus level in the rumen fluid . The cycle is from gut to blood to saliva to rumen . Potassium , mostly in the urine , is readily taken in by plants ( Sears , 1956 ) ; hence its effectiveness disappears in a few months . Wolton ( 1963 ) found potassium in the urine of grazing animals to be the key to favorable response to fertilization with nitrogen and phosphorus . This illustrates the fact that nutrients in animal excreta have interacting influences . If one is in short supply in the pasture system , increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MINERAL CYCLING Living matter is likened to a chemical engine that transforms the energy of biomass to usable form . Minerals are important to that transformation . Availability to plants of all minerals except phosphorus appears to be enhanced by passage of herbage through grazing animals . Animals increase the rate of cycling , especially of those ions , such as chorides and nitrates , which move easily in soil solution . Evidence supporting this contention appears in the relationships of animals to // pasture productivity . Frame ( 1970 ) showed that dung patches have the equivalent of over 112 kilograms per hectare of phosphorus and 224 kilograms per hectare of potassium . Urine spots have fertilizer rates of nitrogen above 336 kilograms per hectare and potassium rates above 560 kilograms per hectare . Urine spots from a single cow may cover a combined area of 1 or more square meters each day . Even though part of the deposited nutrients is lost , more than 50 to 60 percent becomes effective in forage production in which the nutrients constitute an important factor ( Herriott et al. , 1959 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobile nutrients but is likely to have little effect on the supply of phosphorus ( Barrow , 1967 ) . Working in a pasture situation in New Zealand , Sears ( 1953 ) found that dung and urine increased the grass component of pastures and decreased the Trifoliums . Other investigations repeated this general conclusion ( Wheeler , 1958 ; Norman and Green , 1958 ; Green and Cowling , 1960 ; Mundy , 1961 ) . Brockman et al. , ( 1971 ) maintained that mineral cycling due to grazing increases the efficiency of fertilizer use over cutting . For example , dry-matter pasture yield increased from 10,000 to 12,000 kilograms per hectare for grazing over cutting and removal with the same rates of fertilization ( Brockman , 1971 ) . Apparently , rate of nitrogen circulation increases directly as grazing intensity becomes severe and nitrogen status in the soil improves . Nitrogen recirculation by grazing animals permits maintenance of pasture production with fewer inputs than with forage harvesting . While these results were found on pastures with high stocking rates , it would seem logical that they should apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low stocking rates should change only the speed of cycling and the amounts of nutrients in the cycle . Wight and Black ( 1972 ) found that unfertilized range systems in the northern Great Plains cycled about 67 kilograms per hectare per year of nitrogen but that two to three times more biomass production occurred when cycling nitrogen amounted to 112 to 185 kilograms per hectare per year . Rates of dung decomposition depends upon coprophagous insects in many regions of the world . Their activities incorporate dung into the soil , reduce infective stages of parasitic worms , reduce breeding areas for flies , and increase rate of mineral cycling ( Fig. 5-5 ) . Dung-feeding insects have been shown to vary in kinds and numbers in different adjacent vegetational types ( White , 1960 ) . Australia has introduced dung beetles from Africa to improve organic matter decomposition and soil fertility in their tropical pastures ( Bornemissza , 1960 ; Gillard , 1967 ) . The bottleneck in mineral cycling likely rests in the slow decomposition of organic accumulations . Management to increase the rate of mineral turnover includes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with moisture and soil organisms is increased , addition of nutrients to reduce imbalances , and spreading of unnecessarily large accumulations of litter . Chapter 6 Redistribution of Minerals At any location , the supply of nutrients in the ecosystem constantly changes . Increased and improved nutrient availability results from weathering of rocks , deposit of erosion products , precipitation and fixation from the atmosphere , immigration of organisms , and fertilizer applications . This chapter describes the redistribution of minerals attributable to the presence of plants and actions of animals . Displacements in quantities of minerals occur vertically and horizontally . An influx one place means an outflux from another . Although nitrogen is a gas , many references to nitrogenous compounds are made in this chapter . REDISTRIBUTION BY PLANTS Minerals absorbed throughout the root zone become a part of the aboveground plant biomass or fall back to the soil in leaves , flower parts , bark , and other plant parts . Eventually the woody structure dies and its stored minerals return to the soil reserve or are removed from the system . Roots gather minerals from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus localized concentrations of minerals and 88 // organic matter under the woody plant canopy result . This movement of minerals has been examined in many ways : as a vertical and horizontal mosaic of minerals , environmental conditions , and organisms ; as an annual cycle of production , deposit , and decomposition of litter ; as to variations among regions due to climate and vegetational types ; in relation to plant succession and changing species composition ; and as the cause for changing mineral status of soil . Gradients of minerals , organisms , and microenvironments occur because plants are discrete and live sufficiently long for striking patterns to develop . Open canopies foster mosaics , which may be highly regular or random in their distribution . Once formed the pattern may remain , as shown by gradients of nitrogen around stumps of the legume Acacia aneura and chlorides of sodium and potassium aroundAtriplex vesicaria ( Charley , 1972 ) . Perennial herbaceous plants and even annuals contribute to the mosaic , but less is known about their influence than about that of woody plants . Vegetational mosaics are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . They may be altered in their development by grazing animals . Trees The transfer of various chemical elements between trees and soil follows a number of routes and occurs at different rates according to the species of plant and the kind of chemical . Studies have shown that radioactive elements introduced into roots // and stems rapidly pass into other plant parts , from which they may be leached by rain , fall in litter , and be released from the roots . Rain leached approximately 15 percent of cesium-134 from innoculated Quercus alba trees before leaf fall ( Witherspoon , 1964 ) . Potassium reacts much like cesium . Calcium apparently leaches at a slower rate than does potassium and falls in the litter . Rainfall under Pseudotsuga menziesii contained as much phosphorus and twice the potassium as that dropped in litter fall ( Will , 1959 ) . Potassium , calcium , magnesium , and sodium occurred as leachates in rainwater that dripped through tree canopies and ground flora and flowed down the stems ( Carlisle et al. , 1967 ) . Cornus florida functioned through uptake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to increase exchangeable calcium in the soil of a Pinus taeda plantation over that in a pure pine stand ( Thomas , 1969 ) . These results show that part of the nutrients complete a cycle from plant to soil and return to plants without intervening leaf fall and decay . Accumulations of wood and litter contain large amounts of mineral nutrients in unavailable form . After rapid initial leaching of soluble nutrients , further release occurs slowly by decomposition , which may be the limiting factor on rate of nutrient cycling in forests ( Olson and Crossley , 1963 ) . Of the aboveground material in a Pinus taeda plantation , Switzer and Nelson ( 1972 ) estimated that 18 percent cycled during the twentieth year after planting . This percentage varied from 7 percent of the calcium to 28 percent of the potassium . Soil contained more phosphates under both pines and oaks than under grass in a transect from the central valley of California ( elevation 225 meters ) to the mixed conifer type in the Sierra Nevada Mountains at 1,250 meters ( Johannesson , 1958 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from that in open areas , plant development may be somewhat later under the trees , and differences in selectivity of forages occur between shaded and unshaded sites . These differences may be due in part to the combined redistribution of nutrients by both plants and animals . Soil phosphates and other accumulations could decrease to the grassland levels if the woody plants were removed . Cycling of one item influences another ; hence mosaic development of organisms as well as nutrients occurs . Shrubs Nutrient and organic matter gradients become sharper with increasing aridity , especially where individual shrubs are separated by unoccupied soil , as in most shrub steppes . Closed canopies often show little pattern in the distribution of nutrients ( Charley , 1972 ) . Distribution of nitrogen under a bush of Atriplex vesicaria ( Fig. 6-2 ) illustrates concentration near the soil surface and somewhat to one side of the central stem due to wind action and gravity . Oxygen uptake and nitrification underAtriplex bushes averaged about twice that in the interbush area . The shrubs may be cycling nitrogen , speeding the nitrification process , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nitrogen in soils under Acacia gregii , Cassia armata , and Larrea divaricata decreased significantly as a function of distance from the center of the shrub canopy ( Garcia-Moya and McKell , 1970 ) . Beaty and Tan ( 1972 ) described a situation in which 23 percent more nitrogen occurred under pensacola bahiagrass ( Paspalum notatum ) than in fallow soil after three years without harvests or fertilization of the grass . Distributions of other nutrients , as well as nitrogen , correlate with shrub presence . Five species of Atriplex concentrated salts of sodium , potassium , cal cium , and magnesium in their leaves and fruiting bracts ( Beadle , 1952 ) . These minerals tended to reach constant concentrations in the materials , regardless of soil content ( Beadle et al. , 1957 ; Ashby and Beadle , 1957 ) . The five desert-shrub species varied in their ability to concentrate minerals in the soil beneath them . In another situation , Grayia spinosa concentrated potassium in the leaves and soil beneath the plants and Sarcobatus vermiculatus accumulated sodium . Bromus tectorum reflected the concentration with higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Rickard , 1965 ) . REDISTRIBUTION BY LARGE HERBIVORES Large herbivorous animals tend to concentrate near water , salt , feeding areas , bed-grounds , and shade . These are focal points to which animals move in more or less regular daily or seasonal migratory patterns . By consuming forages away from these focal points and depositing excreta near them , animals cause a redistribution // of minerals . Hilder ( 1966 ) found that sheep deposited about a third of their excreta , on only 5 to 7 percent of the total area of pastures 40 hectares in size . About 30 percent of the pasture became enriched and 70 percent impoverished . Earlier in the same study , Hilder and Mottershead ( 1963 ) showed that sheep bed-grounds , in comparison with areas 128 meters away , had twice the total nitrogen and exchangeable calcium , 5 times the magnesium , 14 times the available phosphorus , and a 130-fold increase in potassium . Weir ( 1971 ) described a situation in Wankie National Park , Rhodesia , in which herds of about ten wild species of game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a kilometer of water and depletion occurred from 3 to 5.5 kilometers away from water . Losses of minerals were likely in the area along the edges between grassland and woodland , a favorite grazing habitat for several species . A number of workers showed that excreta was not distributed uniformly in dairy and other intensively used pastures , especially if the grazing period was more than a few days ( Petersen et al. , 1956a , 1956b ; Hilder , 1966 ) . Cattle droppings appeared more random than those of sheep . Not only do animals redistribute nutrients that they consume , but also they remove nutrients disproportionately because of their selectivity for certain feeds ( Van Dyne and Heady , 1965 ) . Defecation rates for cattle vary between 10 and 16 times per day ( MacLusky , 1960 ) . After review and experimentation with two kinds of dairy cows , MacDiarmid and Watkin ( 1972 ) showed that the average defecation rate was 14 times per day and the dung covered an area of approximately a square meter . Dung affects vegetation on an area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three to six square meters on a daily basis , if no overlap occurs . Castle and MacDaid ( 1972 ) suggested an average affected area of 4 square meters per cow day . Urination rates per day vary from 8 to 12 times , but each urination patch affects an area larger than the dung patch ( MacLusky , 1960 ; Lotero et al. , 1966 ) . According to these approximations , cattle apparently influence about 8 square meters per day by deposit of dung and urine . This is 7 to 8 percent of the total grazed area in a year if the stocking rate is one cow per 4 hectares per year . Many factors alter these influences . Effects of urine decrease in a linear manner from the center outward ( Lotero et al. , 1966 ) . The greatest impact of dung on vegetation occurs under the deposit and at its edge ( MacDiarmid and Watkin , 1971 ) . Rapid losses of moisture and ammonia immediately follow deposition of both dung and urine . After initial decomposition of fine materials , disappearance of dung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the upper surface of a dung pat dries , it tends to shed rainwater and remain for a year or two before disappearing ( Lotero et al. , 1966 ) . Both the magnitude of effect and rate of dissipation directly relate to precipitation and temperature , to rate of plant growth , and to actions of coprophagus insects ( Davies et al. , 1962 ) . Estimates have varied as to the importance of dung and urine in pasture management . Sears ( 1956 ) , Weeda ( 1967 ) , Watkin ( 1954 ) , Wheeler ( 1958 ) , and // Wolton ( 1963 ) maintained that return of dung and urine to pastures increased production of forage and altered botanical composition . Norman and Green ( 1958 ) found effects from urine to last no longer than two pasture rotations and effects from dung , about four rotations . Herriott and Wells ( 1963 ) , Lotero et al. , ( 1966 ) , and Marsh and Campling ( 1970 ) suggested that little fertility is contributed to the pasture as a whole but concentration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leads to losses of nutrients by leaching and evaporation ( Watson and Lapins , 1969 ) . Except where animals congregate and enrich the soil with large accumulations of dung and urine , effects may be minor . Effects of dung and urine on rangeland remain poorly understood . Forage production on ranges and pastures depends upon grazing intensity , selectivity by animals , trampling , and many other influences that have not been separated from the redistribution of nutrients by animals . Little wonder that contrasting results accrue from different studies . Still , abundant observations have established that congregations of grazing animals alter soil and vegetation . REDISTRIBUTION BY OTHER ANIMALS Other animals in addition to the large herbivores consume foods in one place and concentrate their waste at a central point in their territories . Termiteria in Africa are richer in nutrients than is the surrounding soil because of the gathering of plant materials by termites . The mounds are high in organic material because termites use salivary or fecal materials to cement the soil ( Goodland , 1965 ) . Lee and Wood ( 1971 ) found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and potassium in a mound of Nasutitermes triodiae in northern Australia . These authors cited other studies that illustrate nutrient gathering by several soil animals as follows : The conclusion that all animals alter the distribution of nutrients seems reasonable , although the influence of many species on their habitats has not been determined . MINERAL CONCENTRATIONS DUE TO LIVESTOCK FEEDING Confinement and feeding of animals in a small space concentrates waste materials and results in mineral concentrations in soil and water . The element of greatest concern is nitrogen because it may reach concentrations in drainage water which exceed health standards ( 45 ppm NO. or 10 ppm NO3 - N ) ( U.S. Public Health // Service , 1962 ) . Examples in which these standards have been exceeded include areas with numerous dairy herds in southern California ( Adriano et al. , 1971 ) and the livestock feedlot area along the North Platte River Valley in Colorado ( Stewart et al. , 1967 ) . Nitrate standards mentioned previously are based on dangers of methemoglobinemia , which may occur when the body converts nitrates to nitrites . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ livestock and humans . Minerals concentrated in corrals or in home and community sewage systems often find their way into streams and lakes . This fertilization of the water may increase algae and other aquatic plants , eventually resulting in large amounts of decaying organic matter that reduces oxygen content of the water , kills fish , and causes unpleasant odors . Other sources of leachable minerals include fertilizers used on cropland ; decomposing crop residues ; industrial discharges ; and natural sources such as erosion , fixation from the atmosphere , rainwater , and rock decomposition . Evaluation of the relative contributions to mineral pollution in both surface and ground water remains difficult . Nitrogen undergoes rapid and complex transformations as it moves in and out of soil reservoirs , making the evaluation of nitrate as a water pollutant difficult . Allison ( 1966 ) described the principal soil losses of nitrogen as leaching of nitrates , denitrification , and volatilization of ammonia . Stewart et al . ( 1967 ) found about 100 kilograms per hectare of nitrate in a natural grassland in the North Platte River Valley and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface water generally have much more nitrate than do deep wells , according to Smith ( 1967 ) , who believes that most nitrate in water comes from natural sources and that little comes from fertilizer nitrogen . The most common minerals in underground water are calcium , sodium , potassium , magnesium , and ammonium . Usually , abundance of these and other minerals relates directly to composition of local soil and rocks . However , excessive concentrations of nitrate in water do occur in relation to livestock concentration and to crop fertilization . High concentrations in water of phosphorus and other elements that rapidly become fixed on soil colloids result from direct discharges of sewage and industrial wastes . Eroded soil material from runoff plots in Wisconsin contained 3 times the available phosphorus and 19 times the exchangeable potassium found in the soil proper ( Massey and Jackson , 1952 ) . Radioactive phosphorus , potassium , and calcium moved more rapidly into a forest soil as a result of colloidal particle transport and faunal activity than by leaching ( Riekerk , 1971 ) . Normally , water filtered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements until saturation has been exceeded . MANAGEMENT BASED ON MINERAL DISTRIBUTIONS Movements and redistributions of minerals are important to rangeland management , especially when the whole range is considered ( Fig. 6-3 ) . Corrals need to be below the domestic water supply to lessen danger of pollution . Winter feeding of livestock should be located in a different area each year to lessen concentration of nutrients that increase danger of discharges into surface water and shallow wells . Domestic water supplies should be sealed and wells adequately cased to prevent contamination from corrals , septic-tank drain fields , and fertilization of crops and gardens . Each ranch presents its peculiar problems in positioning of water supply , homestead , and livestock . Nitrate leaching and cycling appear to be related to depth of moisture penetration ( White and Moore , 1972 ) . Even where annual precipitation is too low to leach minerals beyond the root zone , an occasional flood or unusual weather even may cause pollution of water supplies if care has not been taken in positioning the various ranch functions . Grazing management obviously plays an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protects the soil resource from accelerated erosion that carries away valuable elements . Control of animal distribution minimizes nutrient redistribution by preventing local overgrazing and livestock concentration . Recognition that patterns of minerals and organisms occur naturally and that animals contribute to them provides the land manager with a better understanding of his landscape . The mineral pattern formed in one vegetational type continues when another vegetation is established . The effect may be seen as varied results of plot treatments , varied success in seeding , patterned response to fetilization , and areas selected by animals for grazing . The " tracks " of previous plant and animal communities may disappear slowly . Reestablishment of original assemblages usually follows the earlier pattern . // People on small acreages in Africa and other parts of the world have used redistribution and management of minerals to increase total production and kinds of products from their farms . The central and new effort is to stall feed a cow or two and perhaps a steer with forages hand cut and carried to them . The droppings from a few caged chickens may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nitrogen . Manure from the stall goes to the cropland as each new crop is estab lished . Commercial fertilizers may be given to either food or pasture crops . Normal expectations from establishment of this system would include ( 1 ) as much crop productivity from less land than before because of improved soil mineral status and physical conditions ; ( 2 ) improved nutrition for the family because of better-quality crops , proteins from the stall-fed animals , and more eggs from the chickens ; ( 3 ) less soil erosion because forage crops are rotated with food crops ; ( 4 ) more cash flow to the small farmer ; ( 5 ) reduced livestock trespassing on crops ; and ( 6 ) relief to overgrazed rangeland surrounding the farms . Professional range managers find that range improvement may come more easily with an indirect attack , as illustrated by this example , rather than with a frontal attack on the range problem alone . Control of mineral redistribution in its broadest sense helps the range manager to put his problems and their solutions into the total ecosystem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant grows on a spot of soil indicates that somehow a seed or other bit of germ plasm arrived there and became established . This chapter concerns the dispersal of plants by herbivorous animals . No attempt is made to review dispersal of organisms in general , as that was done by Ridley ( 1930 ) , Good ( 1964 ) , Carlquist ( 1965 ) , and van der Pijl ( 1972 ) . In 1971 , Stebbins claimed that animal dispersal of seed plants was the most effective means by which those plants moved . He based that conclusion on the large number of plant species which have adopted animal dispersal mechanisms . Apparently , every animal that is large enough to move seeds does so . At least no evidence was found to the contrary . Animals actively transport disseminules to nests and caches . They egest unharmed at least a few seeds of most , but not all , ingested species , and they passively carry disseminules that adhere to fur , feathers , and feet . The materials moved may be seeds , fruits , living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants by animals is considered here to mean movement of disseminules beyond the territory where they normally would occur without animal influence . 99 // ACTIVE TRANSPORT Among small mammals , birds , termites , and ants , numerous species gather and store plant disseminules in their nests and in other hiding places , usually small excavations in the soil . More material is collected than consumed , some caches may not be found , and mortality of the caching animals results in some of the hidden material not being eaten . Clusters of Oxalis cernua occur where mole rats have cached the bulbs ( Galil , 1967 ) . Birds are perhaps the most effective transporters . For example , the jay in England actively buries acorns , one per hole , for about two months each autumn in a radius of about 1 kilometer from the source ( Chettleburgh , 1952 ) . Active transport may be the principal dispersal mechanism for large fruited species such as oaks , walnuts , and hazelnuts . Obviously this activity , as well as other types of dispersal , peaks at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in small soil pits by rodents has occurred as far as 300 meters from any seed source ( Nord , 1965 ) . Clusters of perhaps a dozen seedlings may appear if the seeds are not eaten . The kangaroo rat and Great Basin pocket mouse in Nevada cache seeds of Bromus tectorum , Agropyron inter-medium , Agropyron cristatum , Chrysothammus spp. , and many other species in soil pits about 5 centimeters deep and 3 centimeters wide . One pit contained 65 plants and 155 seeds of Bromus tectorum . Heteromyid rodents generally recover few cached seeds , leaving many planted . La Tourrette , Young , and Evans ( 1971 ) believed that this activity influences the dynamics of plant populations by enhancing plant establishment . Other species of kangaroo rats and pocket mice in Arizona cached and favored establishment of Prosopis , Opuntia , and large-seeded grasses ( Reynolds , 1950 ) . Harvester termites collect leaves , stems , and seeds that are stored in their nests and may be exposed and planted by termite-eating mammals that destroy the nests . Bare soil and vegetation of low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in subtropical grasslands . Ridley ( 1930 ) suggested that collection of the seeds plays a part in the establishment of the particular vegetation found on these mounds . Accumulations of seed and chaff from consumed seed around ant mounds indicate that harvesters occupy the burrows . Transport of seeds by harvester ants is not for great distances , but the diffusion of plants in the locality is altered and planted seed may be eliminated . Working in the Sonoran Desert of southern California , Tevis ( 1958 ) found that the ant Veromessor pergandei selected and gathered 8 percent of the seed crop of three plant species . He concluded that Veromessor had no significant influence on the native seed supply . INGESTION AND SPREAD OF FRUITS Animals spread plants by ingesting seeds at one location and egesting them at another place . In reviewing 94 papers on the dispersal of viable seeds by birds , McAtee ( 1947 ) found that crow droppings contained more than two viable seeds // per gram and that some 50 avian species ate and voided the seeds of Juniperus virginiana . Predators that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and mallard duck egested seeds of many aquatic and semiaquatic plants in viable condition . Many hydrophytes have small , hard seeds ; thus they can pass unharmed through the gizzard and are resistant to digestive acids ( DeVlaming and Proctor , 1968 ) . Ringnecked pheasants and bobwhite quail destroyed beyond recognition the seeds of 3 common fencerow plant species and voided at least a few seeds of 16 species ( Krefting and Roe , 1949 ; Swank , 1944 ) . Bromus mollis seeds , which easily imbibe water , were completely digested by four different bird species ( Krach , 1959 ) . Olson and Blum ( 1968 ) found viable seeds in all parts of the digestive tracts of the tropical birds they examined . Fruit bats disperse seeds by anal discharge or expectoration anywhere between the place of consumption and the roost ( van der Pijl , 1957 ) . Riegel ( 1941 , 1942 ) recovered viable seeds of several grasses and Opuntia sp. from pellets of cottontails and California jackrabbits . Ten herbaceous species germinated from deer fecal pellets placed on sterile sand in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals will pass a few seeds of nearly every species that they consume . Burton and Andrews ( 1948 ) recovered the following proportions of seeds fed to dairy cows : one-half Paspalum notatum and Cynodon dactylon , one-third Axonopus affinis and Sorghum halepense , one-fourth Paspalum dilatatum , and one-eighth Lespedeza striata . Seeds of six common farm weeds were recovered at average rates of 11 to 24 percent when fed to calves , horses , sheep , and hogs , but few survived digestion by chickens ( Harmon and Keim , 1934 ) . McCully ( 1951 ) recovered half the Rosa bracteata seeds fed to mature cows , and 90 percent of the seed showed no damage . Kern ( 1921 ) found 45 seedlings of Berberis vulgaris in a single cow dropping . He attributed spread of the barberry from fencerows to pasture to dispersal by cattle . Thirty percent of hard seed but only 3 percent of scarified seed ofTrifolium repens passed through sheep ( Suckling , 1952 ) . Sheep grazing rangeland in California voided 15 species as determined by germination tests with seeds in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ germination tests of seed in dung , Dore and Raymond ( 1942 ) claimed that in a grazing season a single cow on pasture redistributed 36 species totaling over 900,000 viable seeds . Seeds that pass through digestive tracts unharmed include desirable pasture grasses and legumes , undesirable range species , and weeds of cultivated crops . Fecal pellets of sheep and jackrabbits collected where animals had been grazing areas heavily infested with Halogeton glomeratus contained 14 and 18 viable seeds , respectively , per 500 grams of material . This quantity is sufficient for sheep to have spread Halogeton over its wide area of distribution in a few years ( Cook and Stoddart , 1953 ) . Studies to determine the reasons for Prosopis invasion into semiarid grassland of the southwestern United States implicate livestock , deer , peccary , cottontail rabbits , jackrabbits , coyotes , rodents , and Gambel 's quail for their roles in seed dispersal ( Reynolds , 1954 ) . Between 12 and 45 percent of the hardProsopis // seeds passed through livestock ( Reynolds and Glendening , 1949 ) . Twenty-seven percent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Paulsen , 1950 ) . Many rodent caches remained unopened and produced Prosopis seedlings , sometimes several years after the cache was deposited ( Reynolds , 1958 ) . Rodents , most of which have small home ranges , may not carry the seed more than 100 meters and would seem to be less important distributors of seeds than are the larger animals . Livestock trailed at the rate of 15 kilometers per day might transport Prosopis seeds in their digestive tracts more than 100 kilometers . Some seeds show improved germination following passage through a digestive tract . PassedRosa bracteata seed germinated at a 50 percent rate in dung ( Fig. 7-1 ) whereas the controls and stratified seed failed to germinate ( McCully , 1951 ) . Opuntia seed germination increased 50 percent after passage through jackrabbits ( Timmons , 1942 ) . Consumption of the wild tomato ( Lycopersicon esculentum var. minor ) by the giant tortoise on the Galapagos Islands broke dormancy of the seed and increased germination from 0 to 80 percent ( Rick and Bowman , 1961 ) . Seeds of farm weeds recovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uneaten controls but less than did uneaten acid-treated seed ( Harmon and Keim , 1934 ) . The seeds of different species germinate differently in response to passage through the digestive tract . About half the species fed to pheasants and quail showed no change in percentage germination ( Krefting and Roe , 1949 ; Swank , 1944 ) . Cynodon dactylon was the only one among seven southern forage species which increased in germination rate after passage through cattle . The other species decreased ( Burton and Andrews , 1948 ) . Atriplex confertifolia was the only one among seven common species of the sagebrush-grass type in southern Idaho which // showed increased germination by passage through sheep . Bromus tectorum , of seeds and other plant parts which facilitate their dispersal by animals include burrs ; hooks ; barbs ; mucilaginous coverings ; and retrorse arrangementsof hairs , spines , spikelet parts , etc . Large accumulations of Xanthium burrs in the tails of livestock , Stipa andErodium fruits under the skin of sheep , and cactus joints hanging on the faces of cattle illustrate obvious dispersal mechanisms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1930 ) . The magnitude of seed dispersal by animals may be greater than commonly realized . Almost half of 369 hares ( Lepus capensis ) collected in Kenya had disseminules in their fur which totaled 810 and included 17 plant species ( Agnew and Flux , 1970 ) . Since these hares groom themselves daily , the number of seeds they carry in a season must be considerable . Sharp , Hironaka , and Tisdale ( 1957 ) commented that seeds of Elymus caput-medusae were carried and spread by men and machinery as well as by animals . Few studies have been made of this hitchhiking kind of plant dispersal by man . Clifford ( 1956 ) , working in England , listed 43 species that he found in dried mud on footwear ; the maximum disseminule number in one sample was 176 . In a later Nigerian study ( 1959 ) , he found over 40 species in samples of mud taken from automobiles . This material averaged one to two seeds per 10 grams of mud . Clearly , man and his equipment are agents of plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing without cultivation in California and stated that the invasion began in 1769 with the first permanent settlement at San Diego . Very likely , alien plants arrived to stay in California before 1769 . Discarded packing materials and livestock debris from sailing vessels along the California coast no doubt contained seed . Animals and men put ashore for short trips inland . The first European settlers into Mexico and the eastern United States arrived long before 1769 , and plants brought by them could have been spread by migrating birds and mammals . In fact , once man brings an alien plant species onto a new continent , it has potential to spread and occupy suitable habitats throughout that continent without further dispersal by him . MANAGEMENT IMPLICATIONSDispersal of plants by animals and man has a number of implications for managementof rangelands . Obviously , clean shoes , trouser cuffs , truckbeds , feeds , and seed reduce chances of invasion by undesirables. //Duration of Seed Retention in Digestive TractsApparently cattle retain a few seeds in their digestive tracts for seven to ten days ( McCully , 1951 ; Burton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Trifolium repens seed in gelatin capsules to sheep , Suckling ( 1952 ) found the first seed in the dung 24 hours later , the maximum number on the second day , and decreasing amounts through the sixth day . One autopsied sheep had 1,559 seeds in the digestive tract , mostly in folds of the omasum , six days after feeding . Sheep in Idaho were found to retain viable seeds for nine days , and New Zealand rabbits still had seeds after four days ( Lehrer and Tisdale , 1956 ) . Trailing and hauling of animals spreads the retained viable seed along stock routes . Other animal species may retain seed for various intervals ; for example , the maximum seed retention time was five days for killdeer and four days for mallards ( DeVlaming and Proctor , 1968 ) . Different seed species pass through a single animal at different rates . Details are largely unknown , but small , hard seeds are likely to be retained longer and with less reduction in germination than are large seeds and those that rapidly imbibe water . Cud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acids do not destroy all seeds . Longevity of Seeds in DungHarmon and Keim ( 1934 ) found that seeds of six common weeds lost their viability within four months of burial in fermenting manure , but Trifolium repens showed 16 percent germination after burial in dung for five months . Manures used for fertilizer may contain viable seed of undesirable species . Although return of manures to rangeland may not be a common practice and seeds may not survive long storage in manure , alien plants may become established in a corral area where shipped livestock are unloaded . The Use of Animals to Spread SeedAnimals can be used to spread desirable forage plants . Burton and Andrews ( 1948 ) mentioned cattle as a factor in the spread of Axonopus affinis in the South and suggested this method as an aid to reseeding in the piney woods . At least one rancher in Lake County , California , fed Medicago hispida to sheep in order to spread it over his rangeland . Jones and Carroll in California ( 1953 ) found that Oryzopsis miliacea and , in a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cattle . Phalaris tuberosa , Lolium spp. , and Melilotus indica failed to establish themselves in the same experiment . The practicality of this method of seeding rangelands is yet to be determined . Feeding hay with considerable seed attached results in subsequent seed dispersal by animals . Feeding on rangeland should be rotated from place to place to spread seed and reduce undesirable effects of concentrated animals. //In rough country , such as cutover timberland , planting of forage species often can be done only in irregular patches or strips . Animals will spread the seeded plants when grazing occurs at the time of seed maturity . Seed CollectionSquirrel caches yield seeds of coniferous species . Many rodents pile grass seeds around or in their burrows . Farmers have raided these caches to obtain seeds of wild plants for commercial purposes . Hawbecker ( 1944 ) described stocks of Bromus rubens seed gathered by giant kangaroo rats ( Fig. 7-2 ) . Ridley ( 1930 ) gave many examples of animal ' caching habits being used to advantage for seed collections . Hard seeds that pass through the digestive tract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more easily than seeds gathered directly from plants . Improved germination may give a double advantage to the use of theseseeds . Effective Dispersal DistanceDuration and rate of travel by animals determine dispersal distances . For example , a migrating mallard flying at 75 kilometers per hour could easily carry seeds for distances of 1000 or more kilometers before they were voided . DeVlaming and Proctor ( 1968 ) believed that the characteristic widespread distribution of many aquatic and semiaquatic plants is due to migration of aquatic and shore birds. //The classic study ( Ridley , 1930 ) of revegetation on the island of Krakatau after all organisms on it had been destroyed by volcanic eruption in 1883 gave a rough estimate of dispersal rates . This island lies in the path of prevailing sea and air currents from Java , 30 kilometers away . Thirty-six years after the eruption , many plants had reached Krakatau . Many were not present on similar islands further from Java ( Table 7-1 ) . These data and Ridley 's interpretations suggest that distance is a factor in dispersal , that seaborne dispersal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distances than does wind . EFFECTIVENESS OF PLANT DISPERSAL BY ANIMALSOn a small scale , say one or two square kilometers , animals probably serve to keep plant populations thoroughly mixed . They bring disseminules to each point of ground in such numbers and variety that every species growing nearby has potential to become established on each new bare area . This vicinity effect from neighboring stands functions directly with distance . Dansereau and Lems ( 1957 ) claimed that dispersal rates as a function of distance alter the pace of vegetational change but that little is know concerning magnitudes of these effects . An example of plant-animal interaction was given by Janzen ( 1972 ) . Seeds falling from Sterculia apetala trees were eaten immediately by the insect Dysdercus fasciatus . Squirrels and monkeys carried seeds and lost or discarded a few in nearby grasslands where the insects did not occur . There appeared to be no survival of this species within the forest , and ' only a few plants were able to become established in the grassland habitat . The results are a scattered population , characteristic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which involves more than one animal species , illustrates complexities of animal influenceson vegetation . Although the example came from a tropical forest , the hypothesis is presented here that many such interactions are likely between domestic animals and range vegetation . Hawbecker ( 1944 ) considered the giant kangaroo rat as beneficial on Californiarangelands because it increased Erodium cicutarium and Bromus rubens and it//contributed to soil formation . Sheep preferentially grazed the burrow precincts . Although 12 rodent species consumed 14 kilograms of vegetation and 7 kilograms of insects and stored about 11 kilograms of plant materials per hectare as well as denuding 10 percent of the land area with their dens in the desert grassland of New Mexico , several beneficial effects occurred ( Wood , 1969 ) . Part of the cached seed escaped consumption , it germinated , and plants became established . Rodent consumption of herbivorous insects reduced grazing pressures on seeds and plants . Magnitudes of animal effects depend upon many factors , especially upon the niche and behaviorial characteristics of each animal species and upon the numbers of animals . Food-habit information alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal impacts on rangelands . Animals consume seeds and fruits of many plants in amounts varying with individual preferences and seasonal availability . A portion of the seeds consumed passes through the animals in viable condition , that portion being dependent both on the nature of the seed and on characteristics of the animal . These and other actions contribute to the dispersal of plants and to the vegetational composition on rangeland . The magnitude of animal influences and effective management of plant dispersal by animals are still largely matters of speculation , needing further exploration . Chapter 8Numbers of AnimalsAs each animal grazes , it reduces available herbage both in quantity and in quality , thereby changing the habitat for itself and altering its future response . Control of animal numbers is the most important single tool available to the rangeland manager . Grazing pressure is the principal force ? other than , perhaps , fire and cultivation ? controlling species composition and forage production which the manager can manipulate . However , without stipulation of kind of animal , grazing distribution , and season of use , stocking rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regeneration of desirable plants maintains good range condition . However , grazing by too many animals or too heavy use by a few animals result in overuse , loss of vigor , and ultimately disappearance of the desirable plants ( Fig. 8-1 ) . Deterioration of the range begins when less valuable forage species replace the desirable plants . Diminished land values , lowered income , and soil instability eventually result . Replacement of destroyed vegetation by seeding remains expensive . Furthermore , animal numbers must be strictly controlled if new seedlings are to become established . Other range-improvement practices also require relief from//heavy grazing . If range resources are to be perpetuated at the highest productivity levels , the range must be properly stocked and utilized . Excessive forage utiliza tion by either livestock or game reduces weight gains , growth rates , and profit . Coordination of forage utilization with forage growth through control of animal numbers usually determines the success or failure of other range practices and the economic stability of the operation . This principle can hardly be overemphasized . It is the result of many stocking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Hurtt ( 1951 ) , Launchbaugh ( 1957 ) , Klipple and Costello ( 1960 ) , Reed and Peter- son ( 1961 ) , Beetle , et al . ( 1961 ) , and Merrill and Miller ( 1961 ) , which have shown that moderate and conservative stocking rates give greater returns than does a heavy stocking rate because with those stocking rates there are higher selling prices , improved animal condition , more wool , greater percentage calf crops , higher weaning weights , fatter cull animals , less death loss , and need for less supplementary feed . CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONSRange management literature lists many terms related to numbers of animals . Grazing capacity refers to the number of animals over a long time period , and stocking rate means the number of animals in a pasture for a stated time period . Other terms describe the degree of forage utilization at a given time in the current year and the effects of utilization over a longer time period . Measurement concepts such as animal unit and sheep day are employed in attempts to quantify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applicable to grazing influences , grazing products , and other values of wildlands . Carrying Capacity and Grazing CapacityRange resources are supplies of commodities and services originating from rangelandswith certain capacities . The relative utility of these resources is a result of physical environmental factors , effects of organisms upon the resources , available technology concerning their use , and their current or potential value to the society of man . Recent . extensive changes in the use of all wildlands , including grazing land , stem from changes in the types of goods and services demanded in the marketplace . Carrying capacity is defined in terms of products , generally , useful ones . Managerial inputs that combine personal ability and available technology alter production strategies and carrying capacities . Rangeland resources result from more than the physical characteristics of the site . Individual resources increase or decrease in importance and new ones are created as a result of demands by society and inputs by management ( Lime and Stankey , 1971 ) . The concept of rangeland resources signifies a synthesis of physical environment , plants , and animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rangeland carrying capacity results from the productivity levels of the several rangeland resources . Therefore , as many carrying capacities can be definedas there are management objectives . If inputs and management objectives did not change over time , carrying capacity would have an unchanging maximum value or combination of values that could be maintained . But inputs and objectives do change ; thus the notion of carrying capacity as a biological constant becomes untenable , as does the concept of sustained yield when applied to a single unchanging product . The Range Term Glossary Committee ( 1964 ) defined carrying capacity as " the maximum number of individual animals that can survive the greatest period of stress each year on a given land area . " Sharkey ( 1970 ) defined carrying capacity as " the total weight of animals that can be supported permanently . " These definitions should be rejected because they do not encompass the capability of rangeland to produce several different products . Carrying capacity includes more than maximum numbers of animals that can survive and that do no damage . It expresses the greatest return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It should not be confused with grazing capacity . Grazing capacity is the number of animals that produces the greatest return without damage to the physical resources and in concert with other values received from the land . Optimum carrying capacity expresses the most profitable levels of all products and services . Optimum grazing capacity suggests the most profitable stocking rate ( Cowlishaw , 1969 ; Hart , 1972 ) . //Many factors determine grazing capacity . For both livestock and game , the principal limits on grazing capacity are quantity and seasonal availability of feed . Winter snow , which lowers food availability , limits populations that , at other times of the year , do not completely use available forage . High-quality summer forage promotes large individual size and general good health that enhances winter survival and reproductive success . Thus , the desirable herd size of any animal population on a summer range may be considerably different from that of the same herd on a winter basis . Alternating wet and dry seasons have effects similar to those of alternating winter and summer seasons . During a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeded ranges , seeded pastures , crop aftermath , hay , and concentrates . No two ranches produce or purchase the same proportions of feed types . Efforts to increase grazing capacity center on increasing the feed supply at the time of greatest stress . Where both feed supply and livestock numbers cycle , three types of calculationshave been used in quantifying basic herd size for yearlong operations . One method requires identifying the feed supply and number of animals supportable during the months of least available homegrown forages . A second method determines a yearlong herd size on the basis of average monthly feed supply ; usually this method gives high estimates of animal numbers that can be maintained . A third method arrives at the basic herd size by comparing month-bymonthestimates of feed supplies and requirements by animals of all ages ( Workmanand MacPherson , 1973 ) . Merely increasing the feed supply can not increase grazing capacity where overriding behavioral mechanisms control numbers . The populations of Uganda kob are limited by territoriality ( Buechner , 1963 ) . Interaction between predators and prey can result in relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Isle Royale ( Mech , 1966 ) . Grazing capacity is more difficult to define in populations that " explode " or cycle than in those that tend to be stable , such as the numbers of livestock on a ranch . Examples of exploding populations are those of species introduced onto islands ; some examples are the reindeer , which rapidly increased , then crashed , on St. Matthew Island'in 1963 ? 1964 ( Klein , 1968 ) , and the moose on Isle Royale in Lake Superior ( Mech , 1966 ) . In these instances , the limiting factor seemed to be only one ? the food supply . Control or crash was both sudden and severe . The common sequence of events is a geometric population increase beginning with a few animals , summer food in short supply , and animals entering the winter in poor condition . Extreme weather conditions result in a heavy die-off . In a catastrophic decline , the numbers of reindeer on St. Matthew Island crashed from 6,000 to less than 50 during one winter . When a second limiting factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers of moose fluctuatedmuch less severely than they did with only changing food supply. //These examples illustrate the difficulties in defining and interpreting the concepts of carrying capacity and grazing capacity . To avoid misunderstanding , one should use them sparingly after defining them tersely in each given situation . Units of Animals and GrazingAn animal unit ( AU ) is widely accepted as a mature cow with calf , or their equivalent . Horses , sheep , and goats commonly are converted to animal units at the rates of 1.25 , 0.2 , and 0.17 , respectively . Young animals between weaning and maturity vary from 0.6 to 0.9 of their adult female equivalent animal units . Adult bulls are about 1.25 animal units . These conversion factors are indicators of equivalent amounts of forage needed by different kinds and classes of domestic animals with similar diets . They have little application in expressing equivalent impacts on range vegetation from animals with wide differences in food habits . Animal unit requirement refers to forage needed by an AU for one year . An animal unit month ( AUM ) is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one month of grazing . Related terms for specific instances include band day , sheep day , cow day , cow month , and many others that refer to different kinds of animals and time periods . Animal unit equivalents symbolize mixed herds as groups of average animals , whether they are different kinds of mature animals that change little in feed requirements from day to day or growing animals that gradually increase their daily intake . Coordination of varying AUM requirements and forage increments in day-to-day livestock management still is a matter of judgment by the manager . Animal unit months of grazing , or a variant such as steer months , are widely used as leasing units and as a basis for pasture rental . Grazing fees on public lands and on many private pastures are attached to animal units on a yearly or monthly basis . Grazing PressureThe pressure of grazing at any given moment is defined as a relationship between demand for forage by animals and a combination of daily herbage increment and standing crop of vegetation ( Fig. 8-2 ) . This function is related only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The standing crop of new forage available for grazing begins at 0 , proceeds to a peak at plant maturity , and falls to 0 as herbage is consumed by herbivores and decomposers . In many vegetational types , the cycle of herbage produced one year overlaps part of the following cycle before it disappears . Animals , or their demand for forage , are imposed on the cycle at a more or less constant rate in most range operations . Exceptions include gradually increasing demands for feed by young animals , a sudden decrease in needs at sale time , and complete use of feed during the growing period in steer operations. //Thus , almost all range grazing programs result in varying seasonal grazing pres sures on the vegetation . Grazing pressure is light during times when the daily growth increment is greater than the daily harvest and during times of grazing on accumulated mature growth . Heavy pressure occurs when daily consumption exceeds the daily growth increment and the available forage supply is low . Yearly as well as seasonal variations alter these relationships . Expressions and measurements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the degree or percentage of forage utilization signifies the influence of grazing on the vegetation ( Campbell , 1937 ) . This relationship sug gests that grazing pressure is proportional to the amount of herbage eaten during a season or a year . A better expression of grazing pressure for rangelands and pastures may be one relating numbers of animals to available forage ( Hyder , 1954 ; Heady , 1956 ; Mott , 1960 ) . Campbell ( 1966 ) expressed this concept of grazing pressure as a ratio of animal days per 1,120 killograms of available dry matter per hectare . The influence of day-to-day changes in grazing pressure ( ratio of forage demand to supply ) on range condition and production needs further clarification . Stocking Rate and DensityStocking rate is the actual number of animals or animal units on a specific area for a specific period of time , usually for a grazing season . Where the grazing season is yearlong , a time period may not be stipulated , but in temperate and mountainous regions , stocking rate commonly defines all the grazing that occurs during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for four months of grazing . It may be expressed as 120 AUMs per hectare or 1 AUM per 0.0092 hectare . This is an **28;0;TOOLONG fully controlled by the operator . He decides which animals will graze a pasture and in what concentration they will harvest the forage . Stocking rate should be used to express the animal-to-land allotment on a ranch or on a complete unit for the entire grazing season . It differs from stocking density , which describes the animal-to-land relationship at an instant of time ( Booysen , 1967 ) . Stocking density is a function of herd and pasture sizes . The distinction between stocking rate and stocking density becomes important in any rotational grazing plan . For example , 1 animal per 5 hectares could be the density of animals in each unit of a 5-pasture rotational plan , but the stocking rate for the grazing season is 1 animal per 25 hectares . Because stocking density does not refer to degree of herbage use , the concepts of understocking and overstocking should be applied to interanimal rather than to animal-to-pasture relationships . Stress due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be density-dependent in some species of animals and is a function of stocking density . Stocking rates have been expressed as units of area for each animal as well as animals per unit area . These expressions of stocking rate have shown differently shaped functions when plotted against a third variable such as animal gains per individual or land unit . Animal-to-area expressions are preferred because they are more directly related to grazing pressure and production per hectare than is area per animal ( Shaw , 1970 ) . However , in regions with low grazing capacity , the ideal designation may be area per animal because it avoids the use of fractional terms for animals . PRODUCTION PER HECTARE VERSUS PER ANI MALGiven the same length of grazing period , as numbers of animals are increased per unit of area , closer utilization , less feed , and less nutritious forage per animal result . Each animal gains less , and animals vary more in weight gain . Slowgrowinganimals and those with great fluctuations in weight must be fed for a longer period of time and often to a heavier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at rates that reduce weight gains per animal often leads to range and financial problems . If gains per animal are plotted against numbers of animals per unit area , the relationship usually is linear and the two factors negatively correlated within the range of practical stocking rates ( Riewe et al. , 1963 ; Cowlishaw , 1969 ; Peterson et al. , 1965 ; Blackburn , et al. , 1973 ) . This relationship is one of animal response to nutrition rather than to stocking rate or feed availability ( Harlan , 1958 ) . At low stocking rates , individual animals show little response to changing numbers because the food supply is beyond their capacity to use it . Individual animal potential rather than pasture productivity is defined when few animals graze abundant forage ( Morley and Spedding , 1968 ) . Occasionally in practice , //low forage utilization may allow plants to become coarse and of low quality , resulting in less gain per animal than at moderate stocking rates . At high stocking rates , gains per animal fall rapidly with relatively small change in numbers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the curve breaks , the optimum level or slightly to the right of it in Figure 8-3 , has been called the peril point for management ( Harlan , 1958 ) . Above that point , range-forage availability declines and animals rapidly lose condition although livestock numbers or grazing pressure increase relatively little . Stocking below the peril point gives more leeway in management and little response to changing stocking rates . Quantities of animal products per hectare increase directly as stocking rate increases , reach a peak , and fall rapidly at high stocking rates ( Fig. 8-3 ) . Many , but not all , studies have shown the greatest per-hectare gains in productivity with the highest stocking rates ( Riewe , 1961 ) . However , treatments in the narrow range of stocking between the highest gain and no gain per hectare are difficult to select ; therefore many experiments have missed them . Furthermore , managers and experimentersalike deliberately eliminate high stocking rates in order not to damage range and livestock . Maximum gains per hectare over the long term indicate ample opportunity for animals to select @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stay in a pasture normally should not exceed a degree of forage utilization that causes excessive weight loss. //After assuming equal beginning weights , grade changes , and other animal characteristics ; taking no account of pasture and fixed costs ; and selling steers at the same price per kilogram as the purchase price , Riewe ( 1961 ) calculated that the highest gross returns came from a stocking rate that yielded maximum gain per hectare . As selling price increased over purchase price , gross income increased at all stocking rates and remained maximum at or near the point of highest gain per hectare . If prices fell , high stocking rates tended to maximize financial loss . The least financial loss occurred with the greatest weight gain per animal at low stocking rates . Intermediate price reductions resulted in gross losses at high stocking rates and lowered returns at low stocking rates . Apparently high stocking rates produce high gross returns when price changes are favorable and produce the greatest financial losses when prices fall . Analyses that assume changes only in prices tell little about net return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole enterprise . Production per unit of labor , per kilogram of fertilizer , per centimeter of rainfall ; number of game animals harvested ; and other factors may be as relevant to economic analysis as is production per hectare . These input and output factors vary widely in time and place . As costs increase and prices decrease , the economically optimum stocking rate appears to decrease . Lower stocking rate does not always yield lower net returns . If rapidly gaining animals develop a price differential in their favor , the manager may need to redress stocking rate toward lower levels and less gain per hectare to maintain high rates of gain and profit . Other factors being equal , the curve of profit against stocking rate appears to be relatively flat ( Hildreth and Riewe , 1963 ) . This relationship gives the manager considerable flexibility . He is not required to have stocking rate at a fixed point to obtain near-maximum profit . As Mott ( 1960 ) wrote , optimum stocking is a range of rates rather than a single one . The manager should strive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modified by risk and his ability to cope with changing factors . Partially controlled game populations present stocking rate problems similar to those of livestock . For example , for deer and elk , changes in fecundity rate correlate inversely with changes in stocking density , net production per breeding animal decreases as population size increases , and the stocking density at optimum yield of young animals demands less feed than the habitat supplies ( Gross , 1969 ) . At maximum stocking density , the harvest is reduced for game as well as for livestock . FORAGE UTILIZATIONThe amount of plant material consumed by herbivores , expressed as a percentage of the current herbage crop , has been known as range utilization , degree of use , percentage use , actual use , herbage use , and range use . Actual use may be an expression of the AUMs obtained in a grazing season and thereby may be confused with stocking rate . In this hook , actual use refers to the current utilization of//herbage without stipulation of kind or numbers of animals or recommended levels of utilization . Range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any service derived from rangeland . Where the word use is a synonym for utilization , the context will leave the meaning clear . The distinction is made here between stocking , which is a daily phenomenon ; range forage utilization , which is seasonal ; and grazing , which has a longer time reference . Thus , overstocking can be corrected in a day and overutilization ( or overuse ) in a growing season , but the results of overgrazing may take several years to eliminate with proper utilization each year . Many comparative terms result from combining the prefixes under , and over and the word proper with stocking , use , and grazing . Definitions of these terms may be self-evident , but several are given here as follows : Overstocking , ifcontinued for the season , results in overuse at the end of the current grazing period , and if continued for years , will result in overgrazed or deteriorated range . In comparison , proper stocking results in proper use at the end of the grazing period and promotes maintenance or improvement in range condition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , destructive , extreme , full , light , local , moderate , slight , and severe . Determination of Forage UtilizationStockmen and range technicians estimate and measure forage utilization to determinewhen the correct amount of grazing has occurred , to indicate the amount of forage that remains to be harvested , and to ascertain the extent of livestock distributional problems . Utilization may be expressed in percentages of the herbageweight removed , of the number of plants grazed , and of the height removed . These expressions emphasize the proportion of material that has been removed . Sixty percent utilization means that forty percent of the herbage crop remains on the ground . The 60 percent that was eaten and therefore is unmeasurable directly also is the portion that was converted into livestock products . The 40 percent that remains as organic residue can be measured directly . It is the portion that initiates future growth and indicates continued good health of the range . Quantity of material rather than proportion of the crop likely is the better indicator of grazing effects . Therefore amount of herbage ungrazed should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground after grazing can be measured directly , and standards of range utilization based on those amounts can eliminate the inaccuracies of estimating the proportion of the herbage crop that has disappeared . Several techniques give estimates of forage weight removed by herbivores and herbage remaining on the ground . The most accurate method compares the weight of herbage before and after short periods of grazing . When herbage growth occurs during the grazing period , these estimates of forage use are inaccurate . On rangelands , the preceding method may be used for measuring utilization during//short rotation periods and on both browse and grass types that are grazed during the dormant season . Grazed and ungrazed herbage weights are widely obtained by the use of paired plots , one caged or fenced to prevent grazing and the other nearby and grazed . Measurements made include clipping and weighing of the materials or ocular estimates of the weights or differences in weights . A combination of estimates and measurements of weight is used in standardizing the ocular estimates . If grazing is light or moderate , many individual plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the number of ungrazed and grazed plants and the weight of each permits measurement of utilization without protection of plots . Usually the key species are measured separately . The percentage of ungrazed plants has been used to indicate utilization of rhizomatous species such as Agropyron smithii . The Range Analysis Field Guide for Region 5 of the national forests suggests that , for bunchgrasses , fewer than 53 percent ungrazed plants indicates less than 35 percent utilization and fewer than 5 percent ungrazed indicates more than 75 percent use . The technician most commonlymeasures utilization of annual grasslands by determining the amount of unused herbage at the beginning of the growing season . This determination may be based on weights on clipped plots or on ocular comparisons between the appearance of the herbage residue and a set of standard photographs . After a technician has gained considerable experience with measurement techniques and standardizationof his estimates , he may judge directly the degree of use on individual species or on the range unit as a whole . Commonly these estimates are recorded as one of five categories ; slight , light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods are available for measuring the utilization of browse . During the dormant season , tagged twigs may be measured for length before and after grazing and samples of grazed and ungrazed twigs of current growth maybe taken for weighing . More commonly , utilization of browse is described in qualitative terms , which include hedging of key species ranked severe , moderate , or not evident , and categories that describe the browse line . Proper UtilizationMethods of determining utilization have received more attention than has the interpretation of the accumulated measurements . Use measurements indicate effects of different intensities of grazing if adequate cause and effect relationships have been shown . Plants have a tolerance to grazing , and many are stimulated by low levels of defoliation by grazing animals . If herbage removal exceeds a certain critical point , however , most plants will lose vigor , produce less herbage , and eventually die . Proper use is that maximum point of defoliation which continues to maintain excellent range productivity or to improve poor range . Many factors cause variation in actual use and in proper use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered a general guide to be used with care. //Animals select and graze any single species in relation to other available species . On a summer cattle range in the mountains of eastern Oregon , the grassland portion was 23 percent grazed when 60 percent of the herbage produced by Agropyron spicatum and 55 percent of the herbage produced by Koeleria cristata had been removed ( Pickford and Reid , 1948 ) . Commonly no two species in a vegetational type will be grazed to the same degree , and the degree of use will not be the same for a single species in different parts of a vegetational mosaic ( Table 8-1 ) . Cattle in the Oregon study foraged on open grassland sites to a greater degree than they did on timbered range , although several of the major forage species occurred in both areas ( Harris , 1954 ; Johnson , 1956 , 1966 ; Smith , 1967 ) . Other factors such as season of use , kind of animal , and distribution of animals contribute to variation in range utilization . These factors are discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same from year to year , variation in forage production in response to climatic variations will cause large yearly differences in degree of forage utilization ( Table 8-1 ) . In only one year of ten was utilization considered proper by Harris ( 1954 ) ; and the variations in utilization were too great to justify yearly changes in stocking . As summarized by Hedrick ( 1958 ) , an average utilization of the key species over a number of years which approximates 50 percent removal is a reasonable expression of proper use for most grassland ranges . Estimates of production and utilization of actually used plants which are based on measurement of plants not grazed at all may be inaccurate . For example , expressions of forage removed by clipping ofAgropyron desertorum varied from 54 to 82 percent depending upon the method of calculation ( Cook and Stoddart , 1953 ) . Spring clipping resulted in 82 percent removal of mature herbage weight produced by the plant itself , but this amount was equivalent to only 54 percent//removal from mature plants that were not spring-clipped . In another example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ceases early enough to permit stem growth and maturation of seeds , but grazing later should occur after food storage ( Stoddart , 1946 ) . What constitutes proper degree of herbage removal for most species at different times along the growth curve remains unclear . Standards of utilization which are expressed as a proportion of the current herbage crop removed require reconstruction of the total crop as if it were ungrazed . Large annual variations in the total crop make reconstruction a difficult exercise . The physiological dependence of each plant on the ungrazed or remainingregenerative tissue makes reconstruction of the total crop of doubtful value in evaluating range responses . Accordingly , a number of workers have suggested that measurements of utilization and establishment of proper utilization standards should be based on herbage residue rather than on herbage removed . Among the first workers to use this concept were those concerned with Mediterranean annualtypegrassland in California ( Hormay and Fausett , 1942 ; Bentley and Talbot , 1951 ) . Their method required matching range appearance with a set of standard photographs . Under moderate utilization , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavily used areas . Vegetation in swales is used to an even stubble height of approximately 2.5 centimeters . Small objects on the ground are masked from view by plant residue at 6 to 9 meters from the viewer . The landscape has the patchy , yellowish cast of varying amounts of vegetation rather than a uniform gray or brown soil color . Both under- and overutilization give more uniform appearancesthan does moderate utilization . Heady ( 1956 , 1965 ) and Hooper and Heady ( 1970 ) showed that productivity and species composition in the California annual type are directly related to herbage residue on the ground at the beginning of the growing season . They recommended 560 kilograms of mulch per hectare when utilization is proper ( Fig. 8-4 ) . Hyder ( 1953 ) developed the residue approach for sagebrush-grass range in eastern Oregon and suggested that the proper amount is 270 kilograms per hectare . In a summary of data from grazing trials over a 19-year period on the Central Plains Experimental Range in Colorado , Bement ( 1969 ) emphasized that the most satisfactory way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hectare ( Table 8-2 ) . Analysis showed the greatest animal gains per hectare when the herbage residue was 280 kilograms per hectare , a plateau of greatest gains per animal when the residue was 390 kilograms and the highest net profit when the residue was 335 kilograms , equivalent to an average stocking rate of 1.06 hectares per heifer month . The net return column ( Table 8-2 ) was calculated on the basis of 1964 ? 1966 prices , interest on the purchase cost of animals for the six-month grazing period , and other costs of $1.16 per head . Proper use was recommended at 335 kilograms of plant residue per hectare . This study indicated that short-grass range is ready for grazing when the herbage supply reaches 335//kilograms per hectare . Animals should be removed from a pasture anytime during the grazing season when the residue becomes less than that amount . This amount is an optimum standard for livestock production because the vegetation will with- stand heavier use ( Ryder et al. , 1966 ) . //Considerable information on proper use factors has accumulated through experience as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventories . Some of the plant lists that are associated with those surveys mention stubble heights of individual species when they are properly utilized . In general , these heights are estimates of the residue after grazing . The selected group of species and stubble heights for proper utilization in Table 8-3 has resulted from grazing trials and clipping studies . The stubble heights indicate that 40 to 60 percent of the herbage crop remains . Utilization of browse usually is given in percent of the current crop remaining . Deteriorated ranges if they are to recover , require less severe utilization than those in excellent condition . Valentine ( 1970 ) recommended proper use at 50 percent removal on good Bouteloua eriopoda ranges and 32 percent removal on those in poorer condition . Variability in Proper UtilizationSeveral types of grassland appear to be difficult to damage permanently by overgrazing . Among these are the short-grass plains of central North America and the Mitchell grass downs in Australia . Severe droughts in these types cause extensive reduction of ground cover and herbage production irrespective of grazingpressure . As has been shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of good rainfall . Stocking rate in these situations appears to be more important to the immediate welfare of the animal than to the health of the range vegetation . The Northwestern bunchgrass type in the United States can be damaged easily by grazing , but the mixed prairie type of the Great Plains is difficult to damage permanently by overgrazing . Production can be maintained at a low level with//close forage utilization . Heavy grazing pressure may be extremely damaging to range vegetation . The degree of damage depends on the characteristics of the dominant plants . Consequences of OverutilizationThe degree of herbage removed by the grazing animal has more influence on range vegetation than does any other grazing factor . Reduction in plant vigor results when too high a proportion of the photosynthetic tissue is removed . Experiments in which the treatments included a series of stocking rates , some too high and some too low , have characterized many pasture and range studies . Vegetational changes that resulted from the different stocking rates have permitted range managers to describe over- , moderately , and lightly grazed ranges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the animals present on rangeland are selected for the first bite and perhaps selected again and again as grazing continues . Preferred species , especially where they exist in preferred areas , receive repeated defolia. - //tion . A gradual demise of plants and a gradual deterioration of the vegetation result . The individual plant responds with fewer and smaller leaves , stems , seed stalks , and roots . Energy capture and flow are interrupted , as also is the accumulation of carbohydrates . Destruction of vegetation , where plants die and their replacement falters , continues . During the process of vegetational destruction , the soil surface becomes exposed to the beating action of raindrops and the scouring action of running water because its protection by mulch and live plants is reduced . The environment at the soil surface increases in variability , and its extremes increase in severity . The soil may be puddled by rain and by stirring as animals walk over it . Infiltration is reduced , runoff increased , and the available water for plant growth diminished . A bare and eroded landscape ultimately occurs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can support less xeric species . Many of the concepts regarding vegetational changes and plant succession have resulted from concern with destruction of vegetation by yearly overutilization . Early quantitative studies of overuse included those of Sampson ( 1919 ) in the mountain bunchgrass types of eastern Oregon and in Utah . He listed the successionaltypes as ( 1 ) subclimax perennial grasses , ( 2 ) mixed grasses and weeds , ( 3 ) second weed stage , and ( 4 ) first weed or ruderal weed stage . Although the species of plants , rates of vegetational change , and relative importance of drought and overgrazing vary from one place to another and although many different plant successional terms have been applied , these stages may be identified and usefully employed to characterize the deterioration and improvement of ranges throughout the world ( Fig. 8-5 ) . ADJUSTMENT OF ANIMAL NUMBERS TO FORAGE SUPPLYForage supply on all ranges varies from year to year in response to changes in weather . A few examples illustrate the magnitude of these fluctuations : //A manager may use a number of procedures to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to obtain efficient forage utilization , the best possible livestock response under the circumstances imposed by the limits of each forage crop , and maintenance of range condition . One procedure stipulates stock ing rates that result in proper use of the average crop , or more conservatively , that result in proper use when only 65 to 85 percent of the average crop is produced . Stocking rates may remain about the same from year to year , as , for example , permitted numbers on federal lands . Unless the grazing period is adjusted , the result can be a number of years when the range is overused and others when it is underused . The objective of the preceding plan is to balance range improvement in the years of high production against damage during the years of low production , while steady livestock numbers are maintained . Overuse is likely to occur in a quarter to a half of the years if one follows this procedure . Any strategy that maintains constant livestock numbers on rangeland results in widely varying grazing pressure and large changes in gains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next . It is an easy plan to follow for a pasture but a difficult one for a ranch . On the other hand , changes in stocking rates also are difficult in practice because they often require sale or purchase of animals in unfavorable markets . As a managerial expediency , it probably is best to combine fixed stocking of a base herd ( cows ) with flexible stocking of other animals to obtain the most rapid possible improvement during the favorable years and the least damage in the poor years . The base herd should be approximately 80 percent of the average grazing capacity . Low-producing animals may be sold to reduce the herd further in very//bad years . Calves may be held over , stocker animals purchased , and grazing rights leased in the good years . In this plan , a certain amount of organic residue would remain on the soil surface after grazing each year , regardless of the amount of herbage grown . In the good years , the amount would be more than in poor years , but at no time would herbage utilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sometimes , more frequent adjust ments in numbers of animals , length of grazing period , or both . As a strategist , the manager knows that these are the most important factors available for manipula tion . As a tactician , he needs to arrange skillfully the numbers of animals that are put into pastures , the time when they begin grazing , the time when they are moved , and the place where they go next . The key to these animal movements is the degree of forage utilization . If future feed supplies are not available , certain animals should be sold so that those not sold will have sufficient feed . In times of surplus feed , young animals may be grown to a larger size , additional animals purchased , and forages conserved as dry hay . Ranches often need alternative feed supplies developed through irrigation , seeding , and fertilization , primarily to counter the variability of range forage . A successful method for predicting range forage production could result in near-perfect forage utilization each year . However , success has escaped those searching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful for day-to-day management decisions . Clawson ( 1947 ) showed that consecutive years tend to be either below or above normal in precipitation in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountains . In the southwestern United States , the distribution is more random . Even at best , the prediction of forage production based on prediction of weather has no better chance than three years in four of being correct . Sneva and Hyder ( 1962 ) reviewed and agreed with a common belief that winter-spring precipitation correlates closely with subsequent herbage yields of bunchgrass in the intermountain region . By the time spring rainfall is known , the time to make effective changes in animal numbers is past . A decision on the number of animals to winter often determines the number of animals on spring range . An attempt at determining number of cattle to winter by applying Sneva and Hyder 's procedures shows that half the calves should be sold in late fall if below-normal July through October precipitation occurs and all the calves should be kept until they are yearlings if rainfall is above normal ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more testing before it can be recommended , as do all methods that use weather as a determinant for adjusting stocking rates . Chapter 9The Mixof Animal SpeciesThe practice of grazing two or more species of domestic animals together or separately on the same range in a single growing season has long been known as common use or dual use . Common-use ranges should have mixed vegetation and should support at least two kinds of domestic animals that will fully use a wide spectrum of plants . Before the free-range era and even following it , when little management was practiced , common use was discouraged because often it resulted in double use . It carried the connotation that grazing by more than one species was undesirable . Essentially ignored until recently were the grazing influences of large , herbivorous wild animals . Attitudes toward common-use management have changed gradually . A few experiments using cattle and sheep , sheep and goats , or all three together proved more profitable on ranges with mixed vegetation than did the grazing of any one animal species alone ( Cook , 1954 ; Merrill and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changing people 's attitudes towards mixed-species grazing has been the growing vast interest in preservation of wild animals , game meat products , and135//recreational services from wildlife . Because of these changes in attitudes , managementof a mixture of animal species , some of them wild , presents new and challenging problems . In national parks , national forests , and other recreational areas , man ? the hunter , the builder , and the recreationist ? has become a part of the producing system as well as a harvester of its produce . If one man reaps the beautiful view but in so doing blocks the view of another , he becomes a part , in this example , a negative part , of the producing system . Therefore the original range concept of common use is extended from its early reference to livestock to include wild animals and man . In this context , all rangeland is and will continue to be commonlyused . A mixture is assumed to be inevitable and desirable . Selecting , maintaining , and manipulating the mix of species using rangeland presents major management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WILD ANIMALS ? While proponents of either game or domestic animals usually agree that mixtures of species are more productive than monospecific populations , they disagree in many respects as to whether game and domestic species should be mixed . Claim and counterclaim seem to be based more on opinion ? or at least on incomplete information ? than on fact . In general , debate runs about as follows . Skyrocketing tourism , based largely on the hunting , viewing , and photographingof wild animals , and predictions of high production of game meat , skins , horn , and hair , increasingly support contentions that large areas of rangeland should be devoted to raising a mixture of wild animals . Worldwide , the biomass of game animals , including a variety of species filling a wide array of ecological niches , has been estimated as high as 18,000 kilograms per square kilometer . Implied is high efficiency in the conversion of a large spectrum of forage plants into animal products without damage to soil and vegetation . Reproductive and growth rates of many game species are high , killing-out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the lean meat . Some wild species do not need frequent access to water , so trailing and trampling are less than with domestic animals . Game can use areas in Africa where tsetse flies prevent livestock grazing . Wild species are resistant to many other diseases that plague livestock ( Talbot , 1966 ) . Conversely , it can be argued that several species and breeds of domestic animals contribute variety to the appearance of the countryside , consume most of the available forage species , and contribute the only or the principal support to many pastoral peoples . Where pastoralism is of the subsistence type , as in parts of Africa and the Near East , incomes from wild animals usually accrue to the nation as a whole and to industries other than pastoralism . Furthermore , in these areas , production from viable herds of game often or usually is compared with that from//poorly managed livestock . Biomass of properly and intensively managed livestock can be as high as or much higher than that of game . So long as livestock provide the daily food and secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has little incentive to change his system . Many pastoral peoples do not interfere with the wild populations that have shared their lands for centuries . Subsistence pastoralism evolved using mixed herds . Market pastoralism is rapidly learning how to use mixtures of animal populations . The mix of species that the land manager selects for any given situation results from the interplay of many constraints such as tradition or custom , laws , market demands , handling facilities , food habits of different animals , and biological relationships among species . Other people with a sincere interest in animals , as well as those with direct land-management responsibility , approach these constraints in different ways . They have various objectives , attitudes , and opinions . The following analysis of views toward animals is given to help clarify man 's differing actions toward them . ATTITUDES TOWARD ANIMALSMan 's attitudes toward animals determine the way he manages and uses them . For purposes of discussion , three attitudes are described here . The first attitude is one of protection of animals . Man protects animals in many different ways : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; by laws against cruel treatment and killing of animals ; by regulations ( even in international trade ) against the use of skins , meat , hair , and horn ; and by his religious beliefs and taboos . This protectionistview regards wild animals as pets . And no pet should be eaten . Only a few cannibalistic peoples eat their pets . Pets are to be enjoyed and protected as living creatures , as part of the family of man , and are to be killed mercifully only after all efforts to save them have failed . Included in this attitude is the idea that if a wild-animal population goes through a buildup and crash cycle during which it has major detrimental effects on its habitat and on other species , so be it . Catastrophe due to drought or disease is natural and expected . Any efforts of management must aim at improving the habitat and minimizing such problems as disease transfer to man and domestic animals , while not disturbing the animals themselves . Support for this view is likely to be highly emotional and to include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the refusal to eat game meat , to use game skins , or to admire mounted trophies . Oddly , this crusading spirit for preservation is likely to be only in the interest of the crusader 's favorite species . The ultimate goals of people who have this attitude are to prevent extinction of endangered species , to keep other species from becoming endangered , and to maintain balanced biological systems . Carried to extreme , this attitude suggests attainment and maintenance of the conditions of animals and environment as they were , say , 20,000 years ago . An immediate purpose of preservation activities is//maintenance of animal populations for sightseeing and photography . Fortunately , most people have this attitude to some degree ; otherwise many more species would be extinct and the world 's wealth of wild animals not so rich as it is today . A second attitude toward animals has led man to domesticate them for food , clothing , transport , and work ( Fig. 9-1 ) . He was highly successful with cattle , sheep , donkeys , horses , yaks , reindeer , poultry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for different purposes in different environments . Animal breeding , a large and effective discipline , aims to improve domestic animals through application of genetic principles . A rancher who selects and keeps the cows in his herd for better adaptation to his particular rangeland practices this science . For several thousand years , few serious attempts were made to domesticate new wild species . Within the last 50 years , eland have been domesticated in Russia and Africa and bison raised as ranch animals in the United States . In the last two decades , there has been a surge of interest in ranching many kinds of game animals , principally in parts of Africa and the United States . This interest is based on the proposition that man can preserve valuable and profitable species . Domestication aims at complete control of breeding , health , growth rates , herd composition , and production . When applied to game animals , it requires elimination of population cycles caused by fluctuations of food supplies , disease , and wild predators , Domestication substitutes a highly developed predator-prey relationship in which man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applies high health standards in slaughtering , processing , and transporting of game meat . Domestication of new species places them in direct competition//with species already domesticated . Ultimately the marketplace determines the winner or combination of winners . The term game ranching expresses this approach to game . A long-term result of wild-animal domestication may be private ownership of game and perhaps no wildlife at all , but conversely , efficient meat production . Since the wise manager uses his animals as tools in the management of his range vegetation , regulation of the whole vegetation-animal system becomes easier as the domestication process becomes more complete . Man 's third attitude is one of maintaining animals in a wild state but cropping . them to keep populations in check and to reduce cyclic extremes in numbers . This viewpoint extends the traditional hunter approach and commonly is known as game cropping . Sale of all types of animal products makes profitable the keeping of game on extensive areas , usually in competition with livestock . Man , as a predator , controls populations only after disease , natural predators , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with diverse herd compositionsand at densities that prevent overgrazing of food supplies . Wild animals exercise full competition with each other , have freedom of movement , and follow natural behavioral patterns . The ultimate management objectives are to protect the species and their habitats by taking over formerly natural controls and at the same time , but secondarily , to produce as many products and services as possible . The profit motive is of minor importance . Probably no person limits his views to any one of these attitudes , but most people tend more to one attitude than to another . For example , hunting clubs and safari businesses tend more to the third attitude . Ranchers and agriculturalists who raise domestic animals need to control the wild animals , so they favor domesticationof wild species . National park administrators and tourists looking for game usually take a protectionist attitude and look on the animals as pets . Most people agree about saving certain species ; for example , in recent years , few have argued against efforts to save the mountain zebra in South Africa and the California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not match the requirements for long-term preservation of these species . Unfortunately , considerable discord exists among persons with different attitudes and objectives toward wild and domestic animals ; thus the rate of accomplishment in the whole field of range-animal management is slow . Since no two wild species present the same needs for survival , the same values to society , and the same opportunities for management , attitudes toward wild and domestic animals will continue to be varied , but they need not conflict . FORAGE AND ANIMAL COMBINATIONSIn a general way the proportions of grass , broad-leaved herbaceous plants , and browse determine the desirable kinds of animals on a given range . Cattle and@@962.txtCHAPTER ITERRA AUSTRALIS INCOGNITATHE WORD ANTARCTIC owes its origin to Greek mythology . For it was the ancient Greeks who named the constellation that rotates above the North Pole arktos ( the bear ) ; and with the passing of time arktos , now modified to arctic , came to be used not only as the name of the group of stars but as the name of the polar regions on which it shines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions which lie anti ' or directly opposite the constellation'of arktos . The Greeks not only named Antarctica , they put it on their maps . The man who initiated this concept of a great southern continent was Aristotle , who might therefore be termed the first Antarctic explorer ? though his discoveries , of course , were purely theoretical . Aristotle put forward the then revolutionary idea of a spherical globe . The earth must be a sphere , he argued , because all matter tends to fall together to a common centre , because during an eclipse the earth throws a circular shadow on the moon , and because no shape except a sphere could account for the ever-shifting horizon and the disappearing , as a man travels north or south , of familiar stars . This was inspired logic . And Aristotle 's school of philosophers took his concept of the world a stage further ; they put forward the theory of a great southern continent ? a theory that was to influence men 's thoughts and actions for 2,000 years . This theory was based on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and it seemed to them a sine qua non that if the earth was a sphere , there must be a landmass in the south of it to counter- balance the landmass of Eurasia in the north . We can see from Mela 's map how a cultured Greek or Roman of the first century pictured the world he lived in : an orderly , logical ( and in view of what came later ) surprisingly accurate conception . A more sophisticated view of the world in general and the great southern continent in particular is provided by Macrobius 's map . We have here the same orderly layout of land and sea , plus the addition of a number of parallel zones of climate . The ancients regarded these zones of climate not as supposition but as fact . They were convinced that to the north of their temperate and habitable Mediterranean lay a frigid zone where life was precluded by cold , and that to the south of it lay a torrid and quite impassable zone where life was precluded by heat ; and it seemed to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zones of the northern hemisphere would be duplicated in the south . They believed , in other words , in the existence of a great southern continent that was populated but inaccessible , divided from the known world by a belt of equatorial heat , too great to be passed through. 2INot for a thousand years was man to have so clear a picture of his environment . For the rational thinking of Aristotle and his philosophers was superseded in Europe by the chaos of the barbarian invasions and the stultifying doctrines of the Christian Church . The millennium between the collapse of the Roman Empire and the dawn of the Renaissance was in the field of cartography an era more of recession than of advancement . This recession can be seen at a glance by comparing the earth as visualized by Mela and Macrobius with the earth as visualized , four or five centuries later , by Rainaud and Indicopleustes . The grotesque creations of the latter were a direct result of the Christian Fathers ' refusal to accept the idea of a populated Antipodes . For the concept of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theological questions . How , if such a land was divided from the known world by a belt of impassable heat , could the people who lived in it be descended through Noah from Adam ? Had these people been vouchsafed a separate revelation ? Could they be saved by a separate atonement ? These , in the Middle Ages , were quite literally burning questions . It therefore seemed wisest to the Church to insist that the bottom half of the world was uninhabited , and one of the easiest ways to propagate this belief was to depict it as ioo per cent water ? hence Rainaud 's comical non-concentric globe without Antipodes . An even stranger creation was that of the monk Indicopleustes , who , determined to do away altogether with the southern hemisphere , constructed an Earth modelled on the Jewish tabernacle , with a great conical mountain in the middle for the sun to rise from and set behind . When theories such as these , not surprisingly , failed to gain credence , the Church played their trump card . Belief in a spherical globe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heresy . With the stroke of a quill the wisdom of the ancient civilizations was set aside , and for the better part of a thousand years the great southern continent was wiped not only off the maps of the world but out of the minds of men . A handful of dissidents , it is true , continued to speculate during the22next few centuries by extending the world , in their imagination , on wheel map or tapestry . But heresy in the Dark Ages was not to be indulged in lightly ; the authority of the Church was infrangible and ubiquitous ? in 741 , for example , Pope Zacharias excommunicated an Irish priest for teaching the doctrine of the Antipodes , thereby admitting the existence of souls who shared neither the sin of Adam nor the redemption of Christ ' ? and it was not till the early years of the fifteenth century that man began once again to grope towards a realistic conception of the world he lived in . This renaissance in cartography , when it at last got under way , was different in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was practical rather than theoretical . The men who inspired it were not philosophers like Aristotle , but down-to-earth travellers like Marco Polo and Columbus ; and what the ancient Greeks had deduced a thousand years previously by logic , the men of the Renaissance now confirmed by experience . They pushed farther and farther out of Europe , south by west , until they proved the earth was a sphere by the most practical method imaginable ? they sailed round it . After Magellan in the Victoria had turned a furrow of blue water round the globe ' it seemed to the mapmakers that since the Greeks had been right over their spherical earth , they might well be right also over their great southern continent . It was therefore at this point in history that the search for Antarctica got under way . What the early explorers expected to find was an enormous landmass the size of which can be seen from Ortelius 's map , where the land marked Terra Australis nondum cognita occupies almost a third of the globe . Dreams die hard . And for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probe the Southern Ocean convinced that every landfall they made was the tip of this Terra Australis , the legendary Land of Brazil Wood , Elephants and Gold ' . It might be thought that as these early explorers landed first in the Solomon23Islands ( 1568 ) , then the Falkland Islands ( 1592 ) , then Espiritu Santo ( 1606 ) and finally in 1616 in Australia itself , their reports would have exploded the myth of a great southern landmass . On the contrary , they strengthened it . For cartographers seized on the landfalls the seamen made , transcribed them onto their maps , then joined them together to form a continuous coastline : a classic example of the wish being father to the thought . And if today it seems almost incredible that so fundamental an error should have been made at all let alone perpetuated for so long , we should remember two facts . Firstly , that when someone has been at sea for a long time in a small ship almost any coastline appears extensive ; and secondly , that in the sixteenth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that hydrography and surveying were far from being the exact sciences they are today . The 200 years 1550 ? 1750 which form a prelude to the unveiling of Antarctica were therefore a period of frustration and uncertainty . Seamen made determined efforts to locate the Great Southern Continent and place it on the map ; but their efforts were thwarted by the enormous distances they had to travel , and by the fact that when they did make a landfall their navigation was nothing like good enough for them to fix their whereabouts accurately ( their position north and south they could judge with some precision by the stars , but their position east and west they could do little better than guess at ) . The southern hemisphere , therefore , remained an enigma . Though it occupied half the globe , it contained in 1600 less than to per cent of its population ? and few of these had attained a high degree of civilization ; though it could boast half the coastlines in the world , it had less than 2 per cent of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental question about it as did it consist principally of land or principally of water ? ? though it was generally assumed that land , to balance Eurasia , would be pre- dominant . Indeed before 1750 no more than a handful of voyages had made a worthwhile contribution to man 's knowledge of the Southern Ocean . The most important were those of Drake ( 1578 ) , de la Roche ( 1675 ) and Bouvet ( 1739 ) . //Many people today still believe that when Drake left England in 1S77 , bound for the Strait of Magellan , his objective was piracy ? an attempt to singe not the king of Spain 's beard but his less well-protected tail . This is not so . Recent research has shown that Drake 's principal objective was exploration . His sailing orders are explicit on this point : You are to enter the South Sea i.e. the Pacific and to explore and claim suzerainty over all lands and territories not already in the possession of any Christian Prince . ' The land referred to in these orders could hardly have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been claimed and colonized by Spain ; it must therefore have been the ubiquitous Terra Australis , and in particular that part of it known as The Land of Beoch rich in Gold . This Land of Beoch , first reported by Marco Polo , was marked on all contemporary maps ; the Spaniards indeed were so convinced of its existence that in 1546 they appointed a governor , Sancho de la Hoz , to be responsible for all those very Great Lands of Beoch which lie to the south and west of the Strait of Magellan ' . Hoz , it seems , made no attempt to visit his domain : an omission which it was Drake 's intention to remedy . His armada left Plymouth on 15 November 1577 , and so veiled in secrecy were his orders that the crew signed on in the belief they were bound for Alexandria . The revelation of their less attractive goal triggered off a mutiny in the South American port of St Julian , where Drake beheaded his second-in-command on the very spot where Magellan some sixty years previously had beheaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet passed through the Strait of Magellan , pausing only to land on an island where they found great store of foule almost certainly penguins which could not the , of the bignesse of geese , whereof we killed in lesse than one day 3,000 and victualled ourselves thoroughly therewith ' ? the first but by no means the last of the fauna of the Southern Ocean that man was to butcher with merciless efficiency . A couple of days after clearing the strait , Drake 's vessels were scattered by a violent storm ; the Marigold sank with all hands , the Elizabeth was driven back into the Atlantic , and the admiral himself in the ' Golden Hind was driven farther to the south than a man from Europe had ever been driven before . Drake and his nephew describe their experiences as follows : From the Bay we were driven back to the southward of the streights in 57 degrees and a terce : in which height we came to anker among Islands , having there fresh and very good water , with herbes of singular virtue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell in with the uttermost part of the land towards the South Pole , which uttermost cape or headland of all these islands stands in the 56th degree , beyond which there is no main nor island to be seen to the Southwards ; but the Atlantic Ocean and the South Sea meet in a large and free scope . ( His nephew 's account ) Drake named his islands The Elizabethiades , and calculated their position as being//a little to the south and west of Tierra del Fuego . There is no doubt , however , that what he in fact discovered was Cape Horn , which is not part of the American mainland , but the most southerly bluff in an archipelago . The Elizabethiades were in due course added to the plethora of mythical islands that adorned contemporary charts . But it was Drake 's nephew , Francis Fletcher , who put his finger on the key point in their discoveries when he wrote that beyond the Horn there is no mainland nor island . . . to the Southwards , but the Atlantic and the South Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the first man to realize that Tierra del Fuego was part of a relatively small cluster of islands and not , as was then widely assumed , the tip of the great southern continent . His interpretation of his discoveries , however , was too revolutionary for sixteenth-century cartographers , who continued to mark on their charts a vast landmass to the south of Cape Horn , merely altering its name from Terra Incognita to Terra nunc bene Cognita ! ? an example of the fact that there is seldom much enthusiasm for a theory that runs contrary to popular belief . Another explorer who received scant recognition for his discoveries was Antonio de la Roche , the little-known London merchant who was first to sight land which might be regarded as part of Antarctica itself . There is only one contemporary account of his voyage : that of the Spanish naval captain Don Francisco de Seixas y Lovera . In the autumn of 1673 , the Spaniard tells us , de la Roche raised money from a syndicate of merchants to finance a trading expedition to Peru ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty-six , and set sail in the spring of the following year . We do not know how successful his trading was , but we do know that he was homeward bound when he made his discovery . Here is what Don Francisco says : And endeavouring to make the Passage of Le Marie i.e. to round Cape Horn in April 1675 they could not effect it because of the high winds and strong currents . . . which made them disconsolate , for it was the beginning of winter and they began to doubt if they would escape with their lives , especially as they had no knowledge whatsoever of the new land which they suddenly came upon in 54 and 55 degrees . Reconnoitring this land and using every diligence to approach it , they anchored close to a Cape or Point which stretched out to the S.E. , where they had depths of 28 , 30 and 40 fathoms , the bottom being of sand and stones : in which anchorage they had a prospect of great snow-covered mountains falling sheer into the sea . They remained here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which time , the wind having dropped and the cloud and mist somewhat lifted , they realized they were at the extremity of an island . . . and saw towards the S.E. and S. other high lands covered with snow : leaving which , with a gentle wind , they sailed up the coast . . . . And it appeared to them that from the one land to the other the opening was about ten leagues and the currents strong to the N.E. Soon they found themselves in the North Sea , having in the course of three glasses passed through the said passage which is short , indicating that the newly discovered island was not of great extent . Only one island in the vicinity of Cape Horn lies between latitude 54 and 5526runs from southeast to northwest , and has snow-covered mountains falling sheer to the sea : South Georgia . And to make identification doubly certain , South Georgia is flanked by a small group of islands , the Clerke Rocks , that lie exactly 30 miles off its southern tip , where there are soundings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gravel . It therefore seems clear that de la Roche must have sailed between South Georgia and the Clerke Rocks . The former he identified correctly as an island not of great extent ' ; the latter he seems to have mistaken for the tip of Terra Australis . And if today the inconspicuous cluster of the Clerke Rocks looks , on the map , to bear little resemblance to the extensive coast of a great new continent , we should bear in mind that when de la Roche saw the Rocks they were veiled in mist and cloud , and as likely as not surrounded by tabular icebergs . Such a line of cliffs , Boo feet high.and covered with snow , must have been an imposing sight ; also they loomed up in exactly the place where contemporary maps depicted the coast of the mythical Terra nunc bene Cognita . It would be unfair to deny de la Roche his major discovery because he misidentified his minor . The finding of this first lonely outpost of Antarctica may not have been a particu- larly great feat of exploration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because it gave men for the first time an inkling of what the land they were searching for would be like when eventually they found it ? windswept , barren , and desolate beyond the power of words to describe. //A voyage that did even more to increase man 's knowledge of the Antarctic was that of the French naval officer Jean Bouvet de Lozier . Bouvet , Janus-like , looks both backward to the past and forward to the future . His expedition could hardly have had a more archaic background ; for it was conceivedas a search for de Gonneville 's mythical Cape of the Austral Islands ' , from which , according to legend , a native prince had been brought to France in the early seventeenth century . No one , not even the descendants of the prince concerned , was sure where this cape was situated , though it was generally believed that it lay to the south of Africa . ( Its most probable location , I think , is Madagascar . ) In the early years of the eighteenth century the French East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a useful staging post for their vessels en route to India and China . They therefore commissioned two vessels , the Aigle and the Marie , signed on a specially selected crew , and placed the expedition in the hands of Bouvet de Lozier , a young and exceptionally able officer who had experience in commanding both warships and East Indiamen . Bouvet 's orders were to locate the Southern Lands formerly known to de Gonneville , proceeding if need be as far as 55 degrees South ; and thereafter to follow a zig-zag course , at the highest latitude you are able , towards the East . ' These orders were commendably flexible ; they included a promise of increased pay for every day the ships were within sight of new land , and they also included a proviso which , in humanity and sensibility , was far ahead of its times . In an age when slavery was seldom questioned and natives were all too frequently massacred on the slightest pretext , Bouvet was expressly forbidden to bring back to Europe any inhabitant whatsoever from the Lands you discover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 1738 , with provisions for eighteen months ; and by early December Bouvet had pushed far enough to the south to be encountering ice . On 15 December he sighted the first of the great slab-sided icebergs , the vanguard of Antarctica 's defences , and a couple of days later his vessels ran into fog . It would be hard to imagine a more dismal scene : heavy seas , high winds , sleet pouring out of a low-hung canopy of cloud , and drifting into every nook and cranny of sea , ship and sky the ubiquitous miasma of fog . Bouvet , however , was a fine seaman and a determined man . He pushed on , through ice that became progressively thicker and fog that grew ever denser , until on New Year 's Day his perseverance was rewarded . Early in the second watch the Aigle 's lookout gave warning of breakers on the starboard bow , and a few minutes later there loomed out of the mist a great snow-capped headland , its striated cliffs falling sheer to the sea . The events that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Antarctic had to cope with . For twelve days the Aigle and the Marie beat to and fro , attempting to land . But the sea was so heavy , the wind so strong and visibility so poor that no landing party was able to set foot ashore , nor was Bouvet able to discover if the cape was part of an island or part of the more extensive coastline of a continent ; it was all he could do to keep his landfall in sight , a8and survive . On the thirteenth day a storm , even more furious than those that had gone before , drove his vessels away to the southeast , and the cape , which he named Cape Circumcision , disappears from history for the better part of 200 years . Not till 1927 was a Norwegian team able to land and survey his island ? now known as BouvetOya ( Bouvet Island ) , a single volcanic cone rising almost vertically to 3,068 feet out of a vast loneliness of sea . ( Bouvet0ya in fact has the distinction of being the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a thousand miles . ) By 20 January the Aigle and the Marie had reached 540 40 ' S , and the ice had thickened to such an extent that it was impenetrable . Bouvet , in any case , had now reached the southern limit laid down in his orders , and he therefore turned east and//ran parallel to the edge of the pack ice , expecting any moment to sight the mythical Terra Australis . He skirted the pack ice , in appalling weather , for 1,500 miles ; but he sighted nothing ? nothing that is except icebergs , penguins and seals ? and late in 1739 , his crew debilitated by exposure and scurvy , he returned to France . His expedition won him few accolades at the time . Yet it was a magnificent feat of seamanship , and it contributed a great deal to man 's knowledge of the world . It should , in the first place , have removed Terra Australis once and for all from a vast segment of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans . ( I say should have removed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perversely loath to accept Bouvet 's findings , and the mythical Terra Australis continued to feature in their maps right up to the 1770s . ) In the second place , Bouvet brought back what might be termed the first truly scientific account of the approaches to Antarctica . It was he , for example , who was first to notice that the gargantuan icebergs were frequently streaked with bands of sand or deposits of rock , and must therefore have broken off from a not-too-distant mass of land . It was he too who was first to give a precise description of the penguins and seals that he encountered in vast numbers along the edge of the pack ice ; he identified both these creatures as amphibian , and rightly construed their presence as yet another indication of the proximity of land . Bouvet , in fact , was the first man to visualize Antarctica as it actually is : an inaccessible continent girdled by pack ice ; a land of wind and snow in harsh contrast to the green pastures promised by the cartographers of eighteenth-century Europe . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead of his time to win the recognition he deserved . For in spite of Bouvet 's voyage , and in spite of the voyages of trading vessels which in increasing numbers began in the eighteenth century to seek out the steady trade winds of the Forties on their way to India and japan , the southern hemisphere was still believed in 176o to be predominantly land . H. R. Mill in his book The Siege of the South Pole sums the situation up : In the middle of the eighteenth century the southern hemisphere figured upon all maps as the seat of a great continent awaiting discovery . The tenacity of the hold of this continent on the minds of geographers is remarkable , and probably no prepossession based on such inadequate data ever died a harder death . Two of the last and most vociferous champions of this mythical continent were the able but unbalanced Dalrymple and the brave but over-optimistic Kerguelen . Alexander Dalrymple 's portrait gives an indication of his character : a massive brow , intolerant eyes and a florid complexion . He was a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an astronomer of international repute ; he was also , alas , self-opinionated , arrogant and ' contentious . In 1767 the Royal Society suggested he should be given command of the naval expedition that was about to sail to the South Pacific to observe the transit of Venus . Dalrymple , however , had few friends at the Admiralty ? the First Sea Lord declared he would rather cut off//his right hand than give him command of one of His Majesty 's ships ? and the appointment was offered instead to Cook . This sparked off a spate of acrimonious correspondence which has to be quoted to be believed . Dalrymple was determined - to search for the southern continent , which , he was convinced , previous explorers had failed to find only through inefficiency . He bombarded the government with requests for a concession to exploit all those lands I shall discover between the equator and 6o S ' , and the following extract from his application demonstrates very clearly the sort of territory he expected to find : The American colonies are generally supposed to contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of inhabitants in the Southern Continent is probably more than 50 millions , considering that their extent , from the eastern part discovered by Juan Fernandez to the western coast seen by Tasman is about too degrees of longitude , which in the latitude of 40 deg. amounts to 4,596 geographic or 5,323 statute miles . This is a greater extent than the whole civilized part of Asia , from Turkey to the eastern extremity of China . There is at present no trade from Europe thither , though the scraps from this table would be sufficient to maintain the power , dominion and sovereignty of Britain , by employing all its manufacturers and ships . Dalrymple 's concession was never granted . His expedition never sailed . And today , because he was wrong , we are tempted to smile at what has been termed his dogmatic absurdity ' . Yet it is worth remembering that the whole civilized part of Asia could indeed have been fitted into the South Pacific , and if Dalrymple had been right in his supposition historians today would be showering him not with ridicule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragic , of those who believed in an idyllic Southlandwas Yves-Joseph de Kerguelen-Tremarec , a Breton aristocrat who in 1771 was given command of yet another expedition with orders to search for the Very Great Land of de Gonneville which lies to the South of the Ile de France ' . Kerguelen in the Fortune and his second-in-command St-Allouarne in the Gros Ventre headed south from Mauritius in the early weeks of 1772 . After a voyage of almost exactly a month they sighted a small island , and a day later , on 13 February 1772 , Kerguelen 's lookout reported a high and very extensive coastline to the S ' . This coastline was clearly visible for five hours ; but as they attempted to close with it , it disappeared in fog . The ships hove to . Next morning , with the visibility a little improved , Kerguelen ordered the Gros Ventre , which had a shallower draught than his flagship , to attempt a landing , and after a good deal of difficulty St-Allouarne managed to struggle ashore in Sea Lion Bay . He gave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and calculated its latitude as being roughly that of Paris ? 49 40 ' . Before Kerguelen and St-Allouarne could confer , the fog closed in ; and the following day their vessels were separated by a violent storm . There is little doubt as to what Kerguelen should have done next ; he ought to have stayed in the vicinity of his landfall and attempted to make a more thorough survey . The weather , //however , proved too much for him ? tumultuous seas , hurricane winds and evershiftingbanks of fog ? and anxious to take home the news of his success , he lost patience and returned to France . Back in Paris he made a report that was altogether unjustified in its enthusiasm : The lands which I have had the happiness to discover appear to form the central mass of the Antarctic continent . . . . This land which I have called South France is so situated as to command the route to India , China and the South Seas . . . . The latitude in which it lies promises all the crops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood , minerals , diamonds , rubies and precious stones and marble will be found . . . . If men of a different species are not discovered at least there will be people living in a state of nature , knowing nothing of the artifices of civilized society . In short South France will furnish marvellous physical and moral spectacles . It was a case , if ever there was one , of beauty being in the eye of the beholder . Poor Kerguelen ! He was soon made to eat his words . He was given new ships and a new crew and told to explore the lands he had discovered with more diligence . . . . To establish a trading post thereon , and to explore the coastline to the east , making observations ' . But his second voyage was a fiasco . By the time he reached Mauritius his vessels were unseaworthy , having already been several times dismasted , and his crew so weak with scurvy they could scarce raise or lower sail ; he continued , however , to head doggedly south , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Australe . It was midsummer . But when he landed he found the terrain sterile and uninviting ; it rained continuously , the wind never dropped below a gale , and his crew were too debilitated to set up even a temporary camp ; there was no trace of wood or minerals , much less the hoped-for precious stones . Kerguelen renamed his discovery Land of Desolation . He must have known , as he gazed at the snow-capped hills , that he had found a country very different from the Land of Brazil Wood , Elephants and Gold ' of which he had dreamed . But his bitterest disillusion was still to come . Not till he returned to France did he learn that Cook , at the start of his great circumnavigation , had already sailed far to the south of the coast he had discovered , thus proving it not part of a new continent at all , but yet another cluster of islands : the last of the landfalls to be hailed with misplaced enthusiasm as the tip of Terra Australis . Kerguelen 's voyage was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Great Southern Continent . For his expedition was followed immediately by Cook's. 33//DEATH OF A LEGENDCOOK 'S CIRCUMNAVIGATION of Antarctica is considered by many practical seamen the greatest voyage ever made , and the question at once springs to mind ? what sort of man was this middle-aged sea captain that he was able in the one stupendous voyage not only to sail through vast reaches of a previously unknown ocean but also to solve a problem which had puzzled geographers for more than 2,000 years ? He was born at Marton in Yorkshire on 27 October 1728 , second child of a Scottish farm labourer . He may not even have set eyes on the sea before he was seventeen , when his parents took him to the fishing village of Staithes and apprenticed him to a grocer-cum-haberdasher . For eighteen months the tall , gangling young man sold potatoes and lengths of cloth in the village store ? a more unlikely training for an embryo explorer it would be hard to imagine . The North Sea , however , lay almost at his doorstep , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ port of Whitby . By the end of the year he was at sea : deckhand aboard the Freelove , a 450-ton brig carrying coal from Newcastle to London . It was now that Cook displayed the trait that was subsequently to take him to the farthest ends of the earth : determination . Having made up his mind that the sea was to be his calling , he set about mastering the many facets of seamanship with the zeal of a proselyte . There is no evidence that he had a particularly quick brain ; but he was industrious , single-minded , and gifted with God 's good common sense that is more than knowledge ; he taught himself pilotage , navigation and the rudiments of astronomy , and in nine years , to quote his own words , dragged myself up through all the Stations from Prentice Boy to Commander ' . In the spring of 1755 he was offered a vessel of his own , one of the latest Whitby coal snows in trade with the Baltic , and nothing seemed more certain than that another Yorkshireman was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But now , to his friends ' amazement , Cook made a decision that seemed at the time the height of folly . He enrolled as an able-bodied seaman in the Royal Navy . It appeared to everyone a step backward rather than forward ; for a master 's cabin in those days was a very different place from the 14 inches of deck space allotted to seamen in a ship of the line , and Cook 's initial impression of the Navy must have been one of unbelievable squalor . Here is Admiral Muir 's account of conditions aboard his first ship , the Eagle . The only ventilation was by way of the gun-ports and hatches , which had to be closed in bad weather . The ship leaked badly , the bilge water stank with a nauseating odour which permeated the whole vessel , whilst suffocation from falling into the well was a common accident . The sanitary arrangements consisted of an open space about the//heel of the bowsprit , where the men were exposed to showers of spray , and excrement stuck to the bows until washed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in home waters , was invariably accompanied by a shocking mortality . It is hardly surprising that at the end of Cook 's first voyage his captain 's report made tragic reading : Put ashore at the hospital 130 men , most of which are extremely ill ; buried the last month 22 . The surgeon and four men died yesterday . ' Yet conditionssuch as these were the rule rather than the exception in eighteenth-century vessels . Cook suffered them for years . And it is this , I think , that explains the almost fanatical measures he took , when he had a command of his own , to safeguard the health of his crew ? not many naval captains in his day had enjoyed ' first-hand experience of life on the lower deck . It soon became apparent to the Eagle 's officers that their new A.B . was several cuts above the usual press-ganged landlubber , and Cook 's promotions came rapidly : to petty officer , mate , and finally after no more than a couple of years to warrant officer . On 27 October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pembroke ; almost at once the Pembroke was ordered to the St Lawrence ; and it was here , on one of the trickiest waterways in the world , that Cook discovered his metier . Within a couple of years of his posting to Canada more than one admiral was referring to him as a genius ' , and the Royal Society had acknowledged him a man very expert in his particular business ' . And the business ' that brought him into the limelight was surveying . His first piece of survey work led to Wolfe 's capture of Quebec . The French defences of the city were based on the fact that part of the St Lawrence River known as the Traverse was thought to be impassable to shipping ; in the weeks before the assault on the Heights of Abraham , however , Cook surveyed , sounded and buoyed the Traverse to such good effect that on the night of 24 June the British fleet passed through it without the loss of a man . This brought Cook to the attention of those in high places , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressed with his work that he appointed him Master Surveyor to the North American fleet . For the next few years the not-so-young officer , now promoted to lieutenant , was occupied with mapping the St Lawrence and the coast of Newfoundland , which he did with a precision hitherto undreamed of ? indeed his charts today are still the basis for local pilotage . The excellence of his work in this sphere is the more surprising when we remember the disadvantages he had to contend with . Many of his contemporaries had attended either the Mathematical School at Christ 's Hospital ( for masters and pilots ) or the Naval Academy at Portsmouth ( for officers ) ; Cook on the other hand was entirely self-taught ? witness the report of his captain : During the winter of I758 Mr Cook first read Euclid and applied himself to the study of astronomy without any other assistance than what a few books and his own industry afforded him . ' It has been suggested that the high quality of his work was due in part to the instruments he had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that about the36 DEATH OF A LEGENDmiddle of the eighteenth century , surveying instruments did improve out of all recognition ? Hadley 's reflecting quadrant , Dr Knight 's azimuth compass and Harrison 's Number 4 chronometer , for example , were all capable of a precision which would have been considered miraculous in the early years of the century . Yet these instruments were available not only to Cook but also to his contemporaries ; he alone made use of them to achieve superlative results ; and the fairest assessment of his work is probably that of R. A. Skelton : ... although he invented nothing and originated nothing , Cook was a connoisseur of the instruments he used , and he used them with a meticulous accuracy which was in itself an innovation . ' One other aspect of his work in Canada is of particular significance . In I766 he observed an eclipse of the sun , and this enabled him to calculate with unusual precision the longitude of a certain headland on the Newfoundland coast . His observations on this occasion were original enough to be sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colville to the effect that from my experience of Mr Cook 's genius and capacity I think him well qualified for the ( surveying ) work he has performed , and for greater undertakings of the same kind ' . It was this note and these observations that led to his being put in command of the expedition which , in 1768 , set sail for the Pacific to observe the transit of Venus . The antecedents of this expedition have been set out in some detail because they pinpoint very clearly Cook 's two outstanding qualities : his unprecedented interest in the health of his crew , and his ability to survey and navigate with unparalleled precision . Cook 's expedition of 1768/9 added a great deal to knowledge of the Pacific ; it did , however , leave a number of major questions unanswered ? in particular that of the great southern continent . Cook was doubtful if such a landmass existed . But cartographers in general and the pugnacious and influential Dalrymple in particular were convinced that it did ; and Dalrymple had high hopes of being given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were now planning to settle once and for all the enigma of Terra Australis . The sea lords , however , had the perspicacity to distinguish between an able but unbalanced braggart ' and a rightheadedunaffected man ' ; and Cook had barely paid off from his first expedition than he was promoted Commander and told to prepare for his second . It is this second voyage , described by Alan Villiers as the greatest any man has ever made , which marks the dawn of exploration in the Antarctic . The objective of the expedition is stated quite clearly in Cook 's orders : you are to discover and take possession in the name of King George of convenient situations in the South Land ' . This implies two motives : to extend cartographical knowledge , and to prevent other nations and in particular the French from building up an empire in the unknown south . It is doubtless because of this political connotation that the expedition was fitted out with a lavishness and care unprecedented at the time and seldom equalled since . Cook was given a free hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing he asked for was denied him. //The choice of a suitable vessel was of paramount importance . Cook was offered a newly commissioned sixty-gun ship of the line , but this he turned down ; he had had a narrow escape on his previous voyage , when , sailing unaccompanied in the Endeavour , he had grounded on the Great Barrier Reef , and he was now determined to take two vessels rather than one . As to their type , he wrote : The ships must not be of great draught but of sufficient capacity to carry a proper quantity of provisions and stores for the crew , and of such construction that they will bear to take the ground , and of such size that they can be conveniently laid ashore if necessary for repairing any damage or defects . . . these qualities are to be found in North Country ships such as are built for the coal trade , and in none other . He had his way , and two Whitby-built colliers were duly purchased ; these vessels were initially rechristened the Drake and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names were later changed to Resolution and Adventure . The Resolution was Cook 's flagship . As we can see from Webber 's painting she was a full-rigged , three-masted snow , with a comfortable hull , a sweeping cutwater and a heavy , surprisingly ornate counter and stern . She was so clearly designed to carry well , sail adequately and run ashore if the need arose that she might have been built to Cook 's specification ? and indeed he describes her as the most proper ship for the service I ever saw ' . Her dimensions were : length 110 feet , beam 35 feet , depth of hold 13 feet , burthen 462 tons ; and her hull was sheathed not in copper , which tends to rub off in ice , but with a double skin of wood . The Adventure was 130 tons lighter : a stout nice-looking vessel , but not ? at least under her commander Tobias Furneaux ? a particularly good sailer . There was no difficulty in selecting a crew . Both officers and men volunteered in such numbers that Cook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had all the reason in the world to be satisfied with my officers . The second and third lieutenants , the lieutenant of marines , two of the Warrant Officers and several of the Petty Officers had been with me on my former voyage . The others were men of known abilities , and all of them on every occasion showed zeal for the service in which they were employed . Of the seamen , thirteen had served in the Endeavour ? an unprecedented number to sign on for a second voyage in days when the recruiting officer was usually hard pressed to scrape together a full ship 's company . Indeed the only people in his complement whom Cook had reason to be less than happy with were his supernumeraryscientists , John and George Forster , a gloomy and complaining pair foisted on him in place of his friend Joseph Banks , who had withdrawn at the last moment because he did not fancy the Resolution 's accommodation . Cook 's biographer , J. C. Beaglehole , is especially critical of the father , George Forster : Dogmatic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rheumatic , he was a problem from any angle . One hesitates , in fact , to lay out his40characteristics lest the portrait seem caricature . ' Historians over the last 200 years have given these scientists so much stick that it is pleasant to recall one small incident that reflects to their credit . At a time when Cook was desperately ill in the South Pacific , the Forsters owned the only fresh meat in either vessel , and this they gave willingly to be made into broth for their Commander who was thought to be dying ? their pet dog . A list of the Resolution 's stores is given in Cook 's journal . In addition to the usual items ? 59,531 lbs of biscuit , 7,637 pieces of salt beef , 14,214 pieces of salt pork , 1,900 lbs of suet , 19 tons of beer and 1,398 gallons of spirits ' ? we find an un- precedented quantity of vegetables : worts , robs , salops , Inspicated Juce of Beer , Sour Krout of Cabbage and Mermalade of Carrots ' , all of which were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's greatest achievement as an explorer that he succeeded , where all his predecessors had failed , in conquering scurvy . Before his three great expeditions this debilitating and lethal disease had for years been the bane of long voyages ; for ships ' companies who strayed from the quickest and easiest sea route died ? sometimes literally to the last man ? their health being unable to withstand the strain of spending month after month at sea without reprovisioning . It is now known that the principal cause of scurvy is a deficiency of vitamin C : in particular of ascorbic acid ; and some writers have suggested that Cook was able to keep the disease at bay because he carried with him an almost magical antidote ? sauerkraut . It is certainly true that the Resolution 's diet sheet was better balanced than that of any previous ship , and that in her hold were 8,000 lbs of cabbage cut fine and cured in brine ' , as well as a whole pharmacy of lemon and orange preserves ; it is also true that men who refused to eat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effectiveness of Cook 's revolutionary diet . First , he unwittingly nullified the value of his sauerkraut//by serving it boiled and diluted as soup , the boiling of course reducing its vitamin content . Second , owing to an error in the victualling yards ' nomenclature West Indian limes ( which contain little vitamin C ) were shipped in place of the intended lemons , rich in vitamin content ; the value of the Resolution 's wort and lemon conserve ' was therefore considerably lessened . In other words , Cook 's conquest of scurvy can not be wholly attributed to the vegetable diet he imposed on his crew ; of at least equal importance was the attention he paid to hygiene . The expedition sailed from Plymouth on 13 July 1772 , last aboard being the astronomers Wales and Bayley who had spent the preceding week in the naval dockyard making a precise calculation of longitude , so that at the start of the voyage Cmdr Cook 's watch machines ' might be accurately set . Among these watch machines , or astronomical clocks as they were sometimes called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich and keeping time every bit as accurately as it did 200 years ago . This was the first timepiece ever built that was impervious to heat , cold , damp , change of pressure or the motion of a ship , and it was to prove of the greatest value in pinpoint navigation . The first few weeks of the voyage were near-idyllic : fair winds , moderate seas and shore leave at Madeira and the Azores . At the latter , fresh fruit and vegetables , including one thousand string of antiscorbutic onions ' were taken aboard ; also fresh water , for it was found that the livestock drank almost as much as the ship 's company . These animals ? bullocks , sheep , pigs and poultry ? huddled in open pens on deck were carried partly to provide fresh meat and partly to provide the basis for herds which it was hoped to establish in the Great Southern Continent . Cook was in no hurry ; and the 109 days from Plymouth to the Cape were in the nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their new rules and regulations . These regulations were imposed with a strictness which has occasioned some of Cook 's biographers to depict him as a disciplinarian , stern and cold ' . The truth , however , is quite the reverse . Cook cared for his men : cared for them in a practical , unsentimental manner which was , at the time , unique in the annals of exploration . He was determined that no ship under his command should ever suffer the appalling incidence of sickness and death that had turned the Eagle into a charnelhouse . To ensure that his crew remained mentally and physically fit he insistedthey kept three watches instead of the usual two . He insisted that every man had at least one cold bath a day , even in the Antarctic . Hammocks , clothing and bedding were brought on deck every three days for airing . Once a week the Resolution was either cured with fires ' or smoked clean with a mixture of vinegar and gunpowder ' . The well was regularly fumigated . Coppers were scoured daily . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cook himself made frequent inspections of every part of his ship and every member of his crew . There was some discontent at first at so overpowering a routine ? every day is//Sunday i.e. a captain 's rounds day with Mr Cook ! ' one of the crew was heard to complain . But the precautions and inspections were to be justified by events . The Resolution and Adventure arrived off Cape Town on 30 October , having for the last three weeks endured heavy rains and violent storms . The crew were given shore leave , fresh provisions were taken aboard , and the chronometers were corrected ? it being found that Harrison 's alone was keeping accurate time . It was during this stay at the Cape that Cook heard for the first time of Kerguelen 's discoveries in the Indian Ocean . This gave him two tips of the Great Southern Continent ' to search for ? Bouvetoya and Kerguelen 's , La France Australe ; and on 23 November 1772 the Resolution and Adventure stood south into unknown seas . For the first time in history Antarctica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expedition led by a supremely competent seaman who was determined , in his own words , to go as far as it is possible for man to go ' . Cook was to spend three years searching for the Great Southern Continent . He did not of course spend the whole of this time in the Antarctic ; instead , he made three great probes to the southward ? termed by Beaglehole the three ice-edge cruises ' ? and in between times wintered in either New Zealand or among the islands of the South Pacific . His discoveries in the latter were extensive ; but it is the ice cruises we are concerned with : the Indian Ocean cruise of December 1772 ? March 1773 ; the Pacific cruise of November 1773 ? February 1774 ; and finally the Atlantic cruise of December 1774 ? February 1775 . A large number of books and articles have been written about these ice cruises . All are based on the journal which Cook kept in his cabin aboard the Resolution , writing up the events of each day in his angular script and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the journal 's merits and deficiencies . MONDAY 23rd . Winds NBW to NWBW . Course S 44 W. Distce sail 'd 56 miles . Latd in South 34 36 ' . Longd in East of Greenwich 170 34 ' . Longd made from the Cape of Good Hope o 49 ' W. First part moderate and Clowdy , remainder fresh gales and squally with rain . At 3 p.m. weighed and came to sail with the Adventure in Company . . . . Made several trips to get out of the Bay which we accomplished by 7 o'Clock at which time the Town bore SE . Distant 4 miles . Stood to the Westw 'd all night to get an offing having the Wind at NNW and NW blowing in Squalls with rain which obliged us to reef our Top-sails ; after having got clear of the land I directed my Course for Cape Circumcision . TUESDAY 24th . Winds NW , SW to SE . Course S12 E. Distce sail 'd 5o miles . Latd in South 350 25 ' , Longd in East of Greenwich 17 44 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moderate gales and Clowdy weather with a large swell from Southward . In the PM , judging that we should soon come into cold weather , I order 'd Slops to be served to such as were in want , and gave to each man a Fearnought Jacket and a pair of Trowers which were allowed by the Admiralty . Many Albatroses about the Ship , some of which we caught with Hook and line and were not thought dispiscable food even at a time when all hands were served fresh Mutton. 43The merit of these entries is self-evident : a wealth of facts set down without emotion in meticulous detail . If we want to know where the Resolution was on a given day , the set of her sails , what sort of sea was running and what sort of birds were in company , we have only to consult the journal . And Cook 's facts have never been faulted . He was too scrupulous to make a careless error and too honest to make a deliberate one . He is one of the very few explorers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to denigrate . The weakness of the journal could be said to stem from its strength : it is so factual , so detailed and so concerned with day-to-day trivia that its reader fails to get an overall impression of what conditions were really like ? a classic example of not being able to see the wood for the trees . For Cook was too reserved in character to indulge in even the occasional descriptive or purple passage ; also he was no stylist ; and it has to be admitted that the journal , taken in bulk , makes indigestible reading . On leaving Cape Town the two vessels stood south through heavy seas . The wind was strong and laced with sleet , and the barometer no higher than 28.5 " . The entry for Tuesday , 8 December gives a good idea of conditions in this early part of the voyage : Winds NW . Very hard gales and Hazey with rain . At : PM took in the Topsails and brought to under the Mizen Staysail , Struck Topgt mast and got the Spritsail yard in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay to on the other Tack , the gale something Moderater but the Sea still high , and this together with the Weather which is very cold , makes great distruction among our Hogs , Sheep and Poultry ; not a night passes without some dying . Cook was now approaching the estimated position of Bouvet 's Cape Circumcision . Lookouts were doubled . And indeed on 11 December the Adventure did report444land ? though as it turned out erroneously , her officer of the watch being , as far as we know , one of the first explorers to mistake a tabular iceberg for the coast- line of Antarctica . During the night the icebergs increased in number ; and next morning the two ships were brought up short by the barrier which was , time and again in the next three years , to bar their way south : the consolidated pack . This was in 510 37 ' S ( roughly the latitude of London ) , a fact which demonstrates very clearly the difference between the southern hemisphere and the northern . For in the northern hemisphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50th parallel but beyond the loth : that is to say a full 2,000 miles closer to the pole ; and when Cook was halted that morning in 510 S he was brought up short by the sort of conditions you would expect to find in Novaya Zemlya or the north coast of Baffin Island . The Resolution and Adventure skirted the edge of the ice , inching their way south whenever opportunity arose . But the ice in mid-December formed too compact a body to be breached . A month later Cook might perhaps have been able to force his way through to the Weddell Sea . As it was he had no option but to haul away to the east , and to start weaving his way through fog and floes along the perimeter of the ice pack . The problems of such a voyage can be gleaned from the journal . TUESDAY 15th DECEMBER . Winds NW , North , N.E. Distce sail 'd 23 miles . Steer 'd SE along the edge of the ice till One o'Clock when we came to a point round which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction . After running 4 Leagues upon this course ( always along the edge of the Ice ) we found ourselves in a manner surrounded by it , for it extended farther than the Eye could reach in one compact body , some few places excepted , where Water was to be seen like Ponds ; in other places narrow creeks ran in about a Mile or less ; high hills or rather Mountains of Ice were seen within this Field , and many Island of Ice without in the open sea , also Whales , Penguins and other Birds . At 5 o'Clock we hauld away in order to get clear of the Ice . We spent the night standing off under our Topsails it being so foggy that we could not see a ship 's length . Betwixt 12 at night and 7 in the Morn 4 inches of Snow fell on the Decks , the Thermometer five degrees below Freezing point , so that our Rigging and sails were all decorated with Icikles ... . It is difficult to visualize from these unemotional entries the full extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessels equipped with radar and echo sounders are loath to follow the edge of the Antarctic pack ; for the weather here is as consistently bad as anywhere on earth ? modern freighters have been known to accumulate so much ice on their decks they have turned turtle , merchantmen have been known to founder under the bludgeoning seas and warships to sink after being holed by the tabular icebergs . Even allowing for the fact that a wooden vessel is more ice-worthy than a metal one , it must in these conditions have been difficult for an eighteenth-century sailing ship to survive . The fact that the Resolution and Adventure not only survived but managed to follow the line of the pack ice week//after week , month after month , for the better part of 1o,000 miles is a tribute to the robustness of their construction , the determination of their commander , and the seamanship of their crews . For the rest of December and the early weeks of January the two vessels followed the edge of the pack . They were far to the south now of Bouvet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hoped-for continent . On 17 January 1773 , however , there occurred one of the great moments in the history of exploration , a moment described laconically by Cook : In the AM had hazey weather with Snow Showers . At about 4 past 11 o'Clock we cross 'd the AntarcticCircle 66 3o ' S. At noon we were by observation four Miles and a half South of it , and are undoubtedly the first and only Ship that ever cross 'd this line . ' By nightfall the Resolution and Adventure had pushed as far south as the 67th parallel . They were at the same latitude now as many parts of the coast of Antarctica ; indeed had they been able to stand a mere 8o miles to the east they would have sighted the mainland . But they were again brought up short by the consolidated pack which stretched away to the S and E without the least appearance of partition ' . Cook recognized the inevitable : that he could penetrate no further . For a couple of days the Resolution and Adventure beat to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flaw in the ice 's defences . But it was impenetrable ; even a twentieth-century icebreaker would have been halted ; the ships were in constant hazard from the enormous number of drifting floes ; and on 19 January Cook hauled away to the northwest . He had decided , in his own words , that it was no longer prudent for me to persevere in going south , and that I would be better employ 'd in a search for the land to W'ward Kerguelen Island recently discovered by the French ' . In the course of the next two months Cook crossed the Indian Ocean in a gigantic zigzag between the 5oth and 6oth parallels . He passed well to the south of Kerguelen 's France Australe , thus establishing the fact that it was not the tip of a continent . And nowhere did he come across the slightest indication of land . A negative discovery lacks the popular appeal of a positive one , but it may well be equally important ; and in this the longest and most arduous of his ice-edge cruises Cook succeeded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a third of the southern hemisphere . At the approach of winter the Resolution headed for New Zealand , which she sighted on 25 March , having sailed 11,000 miles in 117 days through seas that were entirely unknown . No previous vessel had ever made so long a voyage out of sight of land ? let alone in uncharted waters ? and the fact that Cook ended with a perfect landfall is evidence of his skill as a navigator ; the fact that he had only one man aboard that is ill of scurvy ' is evidence of the unprecedented care he took of his crew . The Resolution 's landfall was Dusky Sound , and the creek where she now nosed ashore must have seemed to her ship 's company a veritable Eden ? a setting of46superb scenic beauty , enhanced by an abundance of fresh water , timber and game . The forge and the sawpit were set up in a convenient clearing , the livestock which had survived were turned loose to pasture , and beer was brewed from the leaves of the local spruce trees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cook as being of the greatest value , since its skin made chafing gear for our rigging ; its fat could be render 'd into oil for our lamps , and its meat was tasty as beef steak ' : the seal ( Arctocephalus forsteri ) . It is a sad postscript to the idyll of Dusky Sound that as a consequence of Cook 's report , the New Zealand fur seal was soon hunted to extinction . After so arduous a voyage most commanders would have been happy to spend the summer careening and reprovisioning at leisure ; but within six weeks Cook was again at sea , embarking on the first of his forays into the Pacific which form a languorous divertissement to the harsher theme of the ice cruises . His exploits in Fiji , Tahiti and Tonga have little bearing on his search for Terra Australis ? except that the Adventure became parted from the Resolution in a storm , and since she failed also to keep the rendezvous which had been agreed in New Zealand , when it was time for Cook once again to head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left New Zealand on 27 November 1773 , his objective being to explore the southern rim of the Pacific Ocean as thoroughly as the year before he had explored the rim of the Indian . This second ice cruise was similar in many respects to the first ; for the Resolution was beset by the same perils ? high winds , heavy seas , fog and , above all , ice . It was ice that was the common denominator in all Cook 's tribulations . It fell from the sky , clinging to the Resolution 's sails and rigging and making her//difficult to handle ; it broke away in tabular bergs from the pack , threatening to hole her and sink her ; it formed into a vast impenetrable barrier which again and again barred her way south . Each of these three facets of the ice is described in Cook 's journal . THURSDAY 16th DECEMBER . Weather dark , gloomy and very cold ; our sails and rigging hung with ice and icicles these past two days . . . . SATURDAY 18th DECEMBER . Moderate breezes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rigging as it fell , so that every thing was cased with ice . . . . TUESDAY 21st DECEMBER . A strong gale attended with a thick fogg , sleet and rain which constitutes the worst of weather ; our Rigging so loaded with ice that we could scarce get our Top-sails down to double reef . . . FRIDAY 24th DECEMBER . Wind northerly , a strong gale attended with a thick fogg , sleet and Snow , which froze to the Rigging as it fell and decorated the whole Ship with Icicles . Our ropes were like wire , our sails like plates of metal and the sheaves froze fast in the blocks . . . . I have never seen so much ice . These conditions would be unpleasant for the crew of a twentieth-century freighter . They were a great deal more unpleasant for the crew of the Resolution , who had to be continually aloft working their ship . Alan Villiers , who is a practical seaman , describes the situation very clearly . Ships like the Resolution and Adventure , as square-rigged ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where all the sails ' gear led ) and in their exposed rigging . Their sails were planes , set and trimmed to catch the wind and convert its force to forward speed ; and to set them , reef them and hand ' them it was essential for men to go aloft , often in large numbers . The rigging froze , with snow and sleet coagulated into its fibres . The sails froze into stiffened statues touched to marble . It was as easy to hand ' them as to furl pressed steel . To touch the rigging was to risk frost burn which sears like flame ; and to fight the iron-hard sails aloft meant blooded hands , minced fingers and nails torn out by the roots . For this work could not be done in gloves ; a sailing-ship sailor must have his feel ' to work . In such conditions the Resolution might have been expected to lose a fair number of her crew . The fact that she did not lose one is a tribute to the seamanship of both her ship 's company and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Resolution 's rigging was the ice in the sea . Cook , as ever , underplays his hand when describing the tabular icebergs , merely remarkingthat great as the dangers from them are they are now become so familiar to us that our apprehensions are never of long duration and are compencated by the very Curious and Romantik Views these ice islands frequently exhibit ' . The truth is , however , that a collision with a tabular berg would almost certainly have been fatal ; and it was little short of miraculous that the Resolution was able to follow the edge of the pack , month after month , without being seriously damaged . But the most malign characteristic of the ice was its propensity to coagulate//into an impenetrable mass . Cook 's journal is full of descriptions of this pack or field ice , the most evocative , I think , being that of 30 January 1774 ? the day Cook both achieved his farthest south ' and wrote one of the earliest descriptions of the ice blink and the false land , two phenomena that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cause no little confusion among both sealers and explorers as they pushed south in search of the mainland . It was the day too on which he gives us an all too rare glimpse of his private thoughts . A gentle gale from the NE with clear pleasant Weather . . . . At ro o'Clock we pass 'd a very large Ice Island which was not less than 3 miles in circuit , and presently after were encompass 'd by a thick fog which made it unsafe to stand on , especially as we had seen more Ice Islands ahead . . . . At 4 o'Clock ( the fog having somewhat dissipated ) we perceived the Clouds over the Horizon in the South to be of an unusual Snow-white brightness , which we knew denounced our approach to field Ice ; soon after it was seen from the Topmast head , and by 8 o'Clock we were close to the edge of it . It extended east and west far beyond the reach of our sight , while the southern half of the horizon was illuminated by rays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable height . Ninety-seven Ice Hills were distinctly seen within this field , many of them very large and looking like a ridge of Mountains rising one above another till they were lost in the Clouds . The outer or Northern edge of this immense field was composed of loose or broken ice , packed together so that it was not possible for any thing to enter it ; this was about a mile broad ; and inside was solid ice in one continual compact body ; it was rather low and flat , but seemed to increase in height as you traced it to the south in which direction it extended beyound our sight . Such Mountains of Ice as these , were , I believe , never seen in the Greenland Seas . I will not say it was impossible anywhere to get farther to the South , but the attempting of it would have been a rash enterprise and one I believe no man in my situation would have thought of . It was indeed my opinion , as well as the opinion of most on board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps joins to some land to which it has been fixed since the creation . As we drew near the Ice some Penguins were heard but none seen , and there were few other birds nor any other thing that could induce us to think land was near . Indeed if there was land beyond this Ice , it could afford no better retreat for bird or animal than the Ice itself , with which it must be wholly covered . Even I who had Ambition not only to go farther than any one had done before but as far as it was possible for man to go , was not sorry at meeting this interruption since it shortened the hardships of our Navigation . Seeing therefore we could not proceed one Inch farther to the South , no other reason need be assigned for my Standing back to the North , being at this time in the Latitude of 71 to ' S , Longitude ro6 ' 54 ' W.Small wonder that by the end of this second summer in the Antarctic Cook was heartily sick of the Southern Ocean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now sailed for more than ao , 000 miles through seas in which no man had ever sailed before and had come across not the slightest indication of land . He had , however , made yet another major ( if negative ) contribution to geographical knowledge : he had eliminated Terra Australis from the Pacific. //Most men would have been content , after so arduous a voyage , to rest on their laurels . Cook , however , was loath to spend the coming winter in idleness , and almost at once he set out to survey the subtropical islands of the South Pacific . He completed this survey with precision and without the loss of a man ; and it is worth noting that wherever he went , from New Zealand to the Bering Strait and from Nootka Sound to Macao , he won not only the respect of the people whose lands he visited but their affection . When we remember the disputes and killings which had attended the landings of previous explorers ( and which indeed attended those of his second-in-command Tobias Furneaux ) we realize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his fellow men . He had few enemies but many friends - a fact which was to have some bearing on the pattern of subsequent exploration in the Antarctic . The last of the ice-edge cruises got under way in November 1774 , with the Resolution again heading east from New Zealand . It was Cook 's intention to cross the Pacific , to land at Cape Horn , and then to explore briefly the only segment of the Southern Ocean he had not yet ventured into : the southwest extremity of the Atlantic . The voyage from New Zealand to the Horn took a little over five weeks , and ended on 17 December with the Resolution sighting the west coast of Tierra del Fuego . It was a dull , uneventful ? but not unimportant ? voyage of which Cook wrote : Since this was the first run that had been made directly a cross this Ocean in so high a latitude , I have been particular in noteing every circumstance that appear 'd at all interesting ; but I must observe that I never was makeing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , I have now done with this SOUTHERN PACIFIC OCEAN , and flatter myself no one will think I have left it unexplor 'd . We have only to glance at Cook 's sailing tracks that cross and recross 15,000,000 square miles of hitherto uncharted sea , to appreciate that this boast was no idle one : that after his voyages of 1773 and 1774 no place was left in the Pacific in which a Great Southern Continent could possibly hide . The Resolution spent a fortnight off the coast of Tierra del Fuego . Cook was not impressed .. This ' , he wrote , is the most desolate coast I ever saw , intirely composed of Rocky Mountains which terminate in horroable precipices whose craggy summits spire up to a vast height ; nothing in Nature could have a more barren and savage aspect ' . He managed nonetheless to land , and to spend several days ashore in Christmas Sound , where he took aboard fresh water of great sweatness as well as wild celery as good as any I ever tasted ' . He also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whom he describes with a compassion which might be commonplace today but was rare in the eighteenth century . Of all the nations I have seen these people are the most wretched , doomed to live in//one of the most inhospitable climates in the world without having sagacity enough to provide themselves with such necessities as might render life convenient . ' It is interesting to note that this judgment of the Yaghans was endorsed a century later by Darwin . The Resolution left South America on 3 January 1775 and headed northeast into the Atlantic , it being Cook 's intention to search briefly for the legendary Gulph of St Sebastian ' ? which cartographers for generations had been placing on their charts off the coast of Argentina ? then head for home . His crew by now had been away from England for two and a half years : both they and Cook were exhausted and eager to return to their families . This is understandable , but ironic . Cook had surveyed five-sixths of the Southern Ocean with unprecedented thorough- ness , combing half the southern rim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indian Ocean and the entire southern rim of the Pacific Ocean , without finding the slightest trace of the land that everyone had told him would exist . Now in the last remaining sixth of the southern hemisphere , the southwest reaches of the Atlantic , he carried out little more than a cursory survey . Yet it was here , and here alone , that he might have discovered not only skein after skein of sub- Antarctic islands but the continent of Antarctica itself . If his exploration had started in the southwest Atlantic instead of finishing in it , Cook today would almost certainly be known as the man who discovered Antarctica . As it was , the Resolution stood not southeast from Cape Horn but northeast . The weather was appalling ? high winds , heavy seas , fog and the thermometer at zero . Everyone was looking forward to a quick passage home when , unexpectedly , they sighted land : the first indication Cook had had in two and a half years that Terra Australis might , albeit in a very truncated form , exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FRIDAY 13th JANUARY . Calm attended by a thick Fogg . In the afternoon Wind veered SE and blew fresh to gale . At 9 o'Clock we saw an Island of Ice , as we then thought , but by noon were doubtful wether it was Ice or Land . At this time it bore E 4S , 13 Leagues ; our Latitude was 53 ? 562 'S , Longitude 39 ' 24'W . Several Penguins , small divers , a snow Petrel and a vast number of Blue Petrels about the Ship . We had little wind all morning , and at 2 p.m. it fell calm . It was now no longer doubted but it was Land not Ice we had in sight , though it was wholly covered with snow . Cook 's first thought was that he might have stumbled at last on the Great Southern Continent . But he was soon disillusioned . He spent a week exploring , triangulating , and taking possession of his discovery , which turned out to be not the hoped-for mainland , but an island of no very great extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : South Georgia . He managed in three places to struggle ashore . The coast he describes as like the face of an ice isle , a perpendicular cliff of considerable height ' . The interior struck him as being ? if possible ? even more forbidding : a terrain savage and horroable , the Wild rocks raising their lofty summits till they were lost in the Clouds , the Vallies buried in everlasting Snow .. . 51not a tree nor a shrub was to be seen : no not even big enough to make a tooth-pick ' . And if this description strikes us as almost too grim to be true , we should remember that Cook was a man who set down the unadorned facts ; he did not exaggerate . On the day he left South Georgia Cook made an entry in the journal which is of particular interest : Who would have thought that an Island situated between 54 ' and 55 S i.e. the latitude of Northern England should in the very height of summer be wholly cover 'd many fathoms deep with frozen Snow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mountains cased with Ice , but the quantity which lies in the Vallies is incredible ... . Yet this island alone could not have produced the ten-thousandth part of the ice which we met with during the previous years of our voyage . THEREFORE THERE MUST IN THE FAR SOUTH BE MORE LAND , to which this vast quantity of ice adheres . We have here an observation that pinpoints the principal characteristic of the southern hemisphere , and a supposition which events were to prove correct . For there was indeed a landmass in the extreme south : Antarctica . And it is the ice cap of Antarctica which predetermines the climate of the southern hemisphere and is therefore responsible for the fact ( observed by Cook ) that polar conditions in the south extend some 2,000 miles closer to the equator than they do in the north . In the hope that South Georgia might prove an offshore island , Cook altered course to the southeast . For the better part of a week the Resolution pitched into the teeth of a succession of violent storms , the malevolence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to over roo knots , heavy falls of snow , and seas as wicked as any the ship had encountered ? three times she rolled to 43 , that is to say to within a hairsbreadth of turning turtle . But there was no sign of the hoped-for continent . And by the end of the month even Cook had had enough . His diary for 27 January reads : Had so thick a fogg we could not see the ship 's length . We were now in Latitude 6o , and farther I did not intend to go , for it would not have been prudent for me to spend my time trying to penetrate to the south when it was at least as possible that a large tract of land might be found near Cape Circumcision in the West . . . . Besides he adds , with an//honesty we can not help but sympathize with I was now tired of these Southern Latitudes where nothing was to be found but Ice and Fogg . The fact is that both ship and crew were by this time close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magellan 's Victoria had ever been so long continuouslyat sea , and no vessel had ever endured so prolonged a battering not only from wind and wave but also from snow and ice . Cook altered course to the north . Almost at once he sighted part of the South Sandwich archipelago . And the unbelievable desolation of this grim little skein of islands confirmed the opinion that had , for some time , been building up in his mind : namely that even if a landmass was to be found in the extreme south , it would turn out to be so desolate and icebound as to be of no practical value . Here is the first description ever written of the South Sandwich Islands from the diary of Cook 's Second Lieutenant , Charles Clerke . This land is as wretched a Country as Nature can possibly form . The shores consist of Icy Cliffs and precipices ? we 've not yet seen a Hole we could shove a Boat in . Here and there are indentations . . . which might form bays , but the intermediate spaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haze clears we can see Mountains of immense bulk and height Inland , but totally cover 'd with Snow , as is the whole of this wretched country throughout . An even more graphic description of these islands of the Southern Ocean is that of the nineteenth-century sealer Robert Fildes , who wrote of the South Shetlands : When She fashion 'd this place , methinks Madam Nature had been drinking too much ! ' Yet these , it is worth remembering , were only sub-Antarctic islands . Antarctica itself , as Cook suspected , was to prove even bleaker . On Monday , 6 February the Resolution hauled away from the ice for the last time and headed for home . It has sometimes been implied that Cook gave up the search for Antarctica because he doubted its existence . This is not so . The entry he made that night in his journal is quite explicit . We continued to the SE till noon at which time we were in Latitude 58 t5 'S , Longitude 21 ' 34'W , and seeing neither land nor sign of any I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sandwich Land ) was a group of islands . . . . Yet I firmly believe there IS a tract of land near the Pole , which is the source of all the ice spread over this vast Southern Ocean . It is , however , true that the greater part of such a continent ( if indeed it exists ) must lie within the Polar Circile , where the sea is so pestered with Ice that the land is inaccessible . The risk one runs in exploring a coast in these unknown and Icey Seas is so very great that I doubt if the land which lies to the South will ever be explored . Thick foggs , Snow storms , Intense Cold and every other thing that can render Navigation dangerous one has to encounter , and these difficulties are heightened by the enexpressable horrid aspect of the Country , a Country doomed//by Nature to lie buried under everlasting ice and snow . . . . It would have been rashness in me to have risked all which had been done in our Voyage , in finding and exploring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'd no end whatsoever . These reasons induced me to alter course to the north . By midsummer the Resolution was back in England . Her voyage had spanned 1,114 days and 67,500 miles . She had not lost a single man from scurvy . Cook had failed to find Terra Australis ; he had taken possession of no convenient situations in the South Land ' . Yet his voyage could not , by the wildest stretch of imagination , be dubbed a failure . It is true that it failed at the time to produce any great wave of popular enthusiasm , and it has failed subsequently to grip men 's imagination in the manner , say , of Columbus 's voyage , Vasco da Gama 's or Magellan 's . This is because it had no climax and because its discoveries and conclusions were negative rather than positive . Yet the contribution it made to our knowledge of the earth has not been surpassed by any voyage in history . Cook , who was nothing if not a realist , gives a very fair summing up of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern Ocean in a high Latitude and traversed it in such a manner as to leave not the least room for the Possibility of there being a continent , unless very near the Pole . Thus the Southern hemisphere has been explored and a final end put to the searching after that Great Southern Continent which had engrossed the attention of the Maritime Powers for the past two centuries and the Geographers of all ages . If Cook had been less highly thought of , his conclusions might have been challenged ; other explorers might have pushed south in the Resolution 's wake , and Antarctica might well have been sighted in the latter years of the eighteenth century . As it was , he was universally held in such esteem that the attitude of explorers of all nationalities might be summed up as : Cook says there 's nothing worth while discovering in the Antarctic so why go there ? ' Exploration shifted back to the northern hemisphere ? in particular to the search for a North West and a North East passage ? and the Southern Ocean reverted once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Resolution was , however , to have an unexpected aftermath : an aftermath involving the slaughter of wildlife on a larger scale than ever before . Cook 's journal is full of references to the mammals of the Southern Ocean : to the great number of whales disporting themselves about the ship ' and the multitude of seals observ 'd on the offshore rocks ' . These references were not lost on the British and American seamen whose traditional hunting grounds in the northern hemisphere were becoming depleted . In the early years of the nineteenth century a new type of vessel began to nose into the Southern Ocean : the sloops of the New England sealers and the brigs of the North Sea whaling fleets . Commercial rivalry was soon to provide an astringent spur to exploration. 54//SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? FROM TIME IMMEMORIAL man has hunted the seal . In the Arctic the ecology of a whole race , the Eskimos , was until recently largely dependent on this creature , whose flesh provided food , whose fur was made into clothing , whose blubber was rendered into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tools . In the Antarctic , however , where there is no indigenous population , sealing did not get under way until late in the eighteenth century . That it got under way at all was due to the industrial revolution . The vast and ever-growing army of machines needed oil for lubrication . Vegetable oils in the eighteenth century were expensive to process , and mineral oils were as yet untapped ; animal oil , on the other hand , could be readily obtained from the vast herds of mammals ( whales , seals , sea lions and walruses ) that roamed the northern reaches of the Atlantic and the Pacific . These creatures were defenceless ; they were hunted with merciless efficiency ; their numbers dwindled , and it was not long before the demand began to exceed the supply . This was especially true of the seal . For in the 176os a furrier in Canton perfected a method of separating these animals ' coarse outer fur from their smooth and valuable underfur . The result was the sealskin ? uniquely warm and perennially fashionable . A market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the price of a seal pelt rocketed from 50 cents to 5 dollars , and the sealing brigs descended like vultures on the rookeries ( or breeding grounds ) of the north . Within a decade the beaches of the Aleutian and Pribilof Islands were transformed from nursery to charnelhouse ; and by 178o the northern fur seal ( Callorhinos ursinus ) had been hunted to within a hairsbreadth of extermination . It was about this time that Cook returned from the Antarctic with stories of the great numbers of southern fur seals Arctocephalus observ 'd on the offshore rocks ' . It was obvious that here , for those with sufficient courage and endurance , was an alternate source of supply , and in the last years of the century a succession of expeditions headed south . Because America was at peace while Europe was deep in the Napoleonic Wars , the majority of these expeditions were launched initially from New England : from the ports of Boston , Nantucket , New Haven or Stonington . Hunter Christie describes the men who took part in them : These sealers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They followed a brutal calling in high latitudes , and soon became inured to the danger of navigation in ice-filled waters and among rocks veiled by mist and snow . Risking their lives in un charted seas , undergoing appalling hardships and working caked with grease and57SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? literally up to their waists in blood , it is no wonder they were hard . It can only be said to their credit that they were as careless of their own suffering as they were indifferent to the cruelties they inflicted on their victims . Some British historians have embroidered on the sealers ' toughness and have depicted them as soaked in rum and ever eager to pick a fight ' . But this is nonsense . The bulk of the New England seamen were God-fearing Puritans , men whose dogma encouraged them to combine commercial acumen with stern morality ; their ships were dry ' , their sole ambition was to load a full cargo , and they were far too busy fighting the elements to want to fight anyone else . In search of new breeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their fortunes in a single voyage ? their brigs pushed ever deeper into the icy periphery of the Antarctic . The quest for new hunting or fishing grounds has , throughout history , frequently led to geographical discovery . The sealers , however , were to prove coy and uncommonly reticent discoverers ; for they kept the whereabouts of any new lands they sighted to themselves . To understand why , we need to know something of the habits of their quarry , the seal . There are some thirty different species of seal , ranging from the ponderous 41-ton elephant bulls of South Georgia to the diminutive 6o-lb sea lions of the Galapagos . The New Englanders , however , were interested only in two ? the fur seal for its pelt and the elephant seal for its oil . The fur seal Arctocephalus is found throughout the Southern Ocean , as far north as the Cape of Good Hope and as far south as the coast of Antarctica . It is a harmless , gregarious creature spending some three-quarters of its life at sea and one-quarter on land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and well able to look after itself ; on land , however , while breeding , it is vulnerable . Each year towards the end of November the big bull seals haul up onto the shore of one of the lonely sub-Antarctic islands . Here , with much bellowing and tussling , they stake out their territory , the larger and more powerful achieving a strategic position at the water 's edge , while the weaker are driven inland or precluded altogether from the shore . They wait . And after they have waited a couple of weeks the cows come up from the sea . The cows are less than half the size of the bulls , a lissom four-foot-six , with glossy grey-green coats and a distinctive collar of white encircling their throat . They are herded into harems , nine or ten to each of the bulls ? and woe betide the flibbertigibbet who attempts to leave her master 's domain , or the marauding male who attempts to enter it ! Within three or four days of their arrival , the cows give birth , always to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beach is a close-packed bedlam , with birth , feeding and weaning being followed in rapid succession by mating and moulting . By mid-February the harem bulls are emaciated and exhausted , having had no food and very little rest for upwards of ten weeks . They abandon their territory and take to the sea , being followed four or five weeks later by the females59SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? and young . Nine months later they are back again , and the cycle of procreation begins anew . Recent research has confirmed that the same seal , obedient to a behaviour pattern followed for millennia , will return to the same breeding ground year after year . It is this which explains the sealers ' preoccupation with secrecy . For a captain who discovered a new island discovered as often as not a new breeding ground ; and , provided he kept his discovery to himself , he had every expectation of scooping an exceedingly rich pool . J. C. Furnas puts the case very clearly in his Anatomy of Paradise : Whalers could afford to swap information about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deserted shore ; and a newly discovered rookery was like a vein of precious metal , too easily exhausted to tell rivals about . ' It is not therefore surprising that the New England captains kept their own counsel , burned their records and made few entries in their logs . Nor is it surprising that we have today a great deal more information on the technique of sealing than we have on the precise whereabouts of individual sealers . Their technique was simple , brutal and effective . The ships they sailed in were small ( seldom more than 250 to 300 tons ) but meticulously coppered and caulked ; they were rigged as brigs , and usually carried on deck a shallop or small cutter which was useful for working in shallow water . The parent vessel would seek out a rookery , drop anchor offshore and use her shallop to land the better part of her crew ; she would then try to find a sheltered anchorage ( no easy job in the Southern Ocean ) where she could lie snugged down under a skeleton watch . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hunt as a massacre . The British captain , Robert Fildes , describes the beaches of the sub-Antarctic islands as fur lined : so close-packed it is impossible to haul up a boat without killing your way ashore . . . . And when one has landed , ' he adds , it is impossible to push through the creatures unless one has a weapon with which to clear a path . ' The sealers did not lack weapons ? 14-inch stabbing knives and long specially weighted clubs ? and with these they made short work of their victims . The seals made little effort to escape ; for centuries of immunity to any form of predator had atrophied their suspicions . A bull in his harem might occasionally rear up and bellow in defiance ; but the mild-eyed cows simply watched the slaughter with incurious passivity , lying and even mating among the carnage until it was their turn to be clubbed , stabbed and flayed to death . An expert , it was reckoned , could kill and skin fifty seals an hour ; at the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be literally knee-deep in blubber and blood . To start with , the sealers ' callousness was directed solely against their quarry . It was found that the bulls , in the early stages of the pogrom , were more useful alive than dead , for they prevented their harems from wandering off the rocks ; on the other hand they would sometimes make a nuisance of themselves by attempting clumsy and ineffectual charges at their assailants . To stop this they were blinded in one eye . It was laughable , ' writes Fildes , to see these old goats , planted at intervals along the beach , keeping their remaining peeper continually fixed on their seraglio61SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? of clapmatches cows while we went about our business on their blind side . ' It was not long before the same callousness was reflected in the men 's relations with one another . As their quarry grew scarcer they took to leaving parties ashore for weeks or even months at a stretch . Conditions were bleak ? rough stone huts , snow or mist on nine days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burning of blubber ? and to add to their troubles many of these shore parties were deliberately marooned . Captain Althearn of Nantucket is quite explicit about this : If , ' he wrote , I got out to a rookery early and found a great show of seals , I would get as many aboard as I could . I would then leave on the rocks all the men I thought might blab , go to the most convenient port and sell my skins . This way I should expect to have another season without company . ' One wonders how many potential blabbers died of exposure and starvation , waiting in vain on some desolate outcrop of rock for a skipper who valued his profits more highly than the lives of his crew . One wonders too just how many seals were killed . Estimates vary from 3 million to 51- million . Whichever figure is more accurate , the southern fur seal ? like its counterpart in the north ? was butchered to within a hairsbreadth of extinction . The harvest of the seas has been so effectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single seal was seen , although it is only a few years since countless multitudes covered these selfsame beaches . ' Williams , writing a generation later , was even more pessimistic . Our hunters gleaned every beach ' , he wrote , and searched every rock , but not a remnant of the species was found . Thus in wretched and wanton destructionhas gone for ever from the Southern Ocean a whole race of animals useful to man . ' Williams in fact was over-pessimistic . A small number of seals managed to survive ; these were rigorously protected , and there are signs today that their numbers are increasing steadily enough to save the species from extinction . The elephant seal , being less valuable , was not sought out with such rapaciousness at first ; but once the bearers of fur had been hunted to exhaustion , the predators turned their attention to the bearers of oil . The smooth-skinned Mirotunga leonina is a less attractive creature than its furcoatedcousin . Two hundred years ago the Swedish naturalist Linnaeus wrote the classic description of them : This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gross . ' The bulls indeed are not only gross but gigantic , averaging some 19 feet in length and 3 tons in weight . They have an inflatable proboscis , like a trunk , which normally hangs over their mouth but which can be erected in battle to act as both a cushion against attack and an amplifier for their ear-splitting roar . Their life cycle is similar to that of the fur seal , except that their battles for dominance are bloodier and their harems larger . They too were defenceless against the sealers . The huge creatures were herded as close as possible to the water 's edge , so as to save the labour of moving their carcasses , then stabbed or clubbed to death . Bulls reluctant to die were dispatched by a musket ball fired through their palate as they reared up ? but only one shot since powder is expensive ' . Their blubber was stripped off , hacked into horse-pieces ' and roughly minced ; the mince was thenSEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? boiled in a huge iron pot or try , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ casks . The trys were kept burning not with wood ? because there is none on most Antarctic islands ? but with fresh blubber and penguin skins . The stench , the fumes , the piled-up carcasses and the sea birds darting in and out of the carnage like a macabre corps de ballet of the air , combined to make the sealing beaches like some stage set for Dante 's Inferno . Sealing , in brief , was not for the squeamish ; and the brutality of the New Englanders precludes our affection . It should not , however , preclude our admiration . For their fortitude and endurance were truly heroic ; and when they had hunted the beaches of Chile and the Argentine to exhaustion they pushed doggedly south , working their way from island to island in conditions as hazardous as any on earth , until they came at last to the Terra Incognita which had eluded man for 2,000 years , the Great Southern Continent itself . Which of them sighted it first ? American historians champion the cause of Nathaniel B. Palmer , British historians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relate that the first-sighting claims of these two explorers have sparked off a bitter controversy . This controversy has been raging for 150 years , and has been conducted by armchair historians on either side of the Atlantic with an acerbity that would have horrified Palmer and Bransfield ? both of whom were reasonable men , devoid of jingoism . Words such as fake ' , forgery ' , liar ' and cheat ' have been used freely by writers who have never been within a thousand miles of the Antarctic , and whose dogmatic assertions prove only that they have little understanding of the problems involved . These problems are principally two : the weather , and the fragmentary nature of the sealers ' reports . Heavy seas , gale-force winds , snow squalls and mist are not the easiest conditions for accurately plotting the position of an unknown coast , and it is hardly surprising that many of the sealers ' fixes were subsequently proved to be inaccurate . Nor is it surprising that when icefields were sighted fleetingly through mist and snow , the beholders had little means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice . As for written reports , even if a captain succeeded in making an accurate landfall , there was no reason why he should record the fact in his log , since he was far more concerned with preserving the secret of new breeding grounds than with adding to cartographical knowledge . There is also the point that although the sealers were magnificent practical seamen , many of them were far from literate , and their logs are often none too easy to interpret . The truth about the first sighting of the mainland may therefore be difficult to arrive at . But we shall , I think , get close to it if we chronicle the sealers ' progress south in the manner in which they made it : year by storm-encompassed year , degree by hesitating degree . The first Antarctic sealing vessel whose voyage is recorded in detail is the States of Boston , an enormous t , 000-ton brig which visited the Falkland Islands in t78465SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? and loaded a cargo of 13,000 sea otters ' . The following year a smaller vessel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captain wrote , the seals are so numerous I declare that if many thousand were killed overnight their loss would not be noticed in the morning ' . By the turn of the century New England sealers had visited not only the principal offshore islands ( the Falklands , South Georgia and Juan Fernandez ) but also most of the mainland beaches from Buenos Aires to Valparaiso . Their depredations invariably followed the same pattern : elation at finding a new rookery , three or four seasons of indiscriminate slaughter , naive surprise that our quarry seem to have deserted their former haunts ' , and finally the brigs again standing south in search of new hunting grounds . The number of fur seals killed was astronomic , and so were the profits . One brig alone , the Betsy , working one island , Mas Afuera , killed in a single season more than 1oo,000 seals ; sold in New York their pelts fetched 68o,000 dollars . By the early years of the nineteenth century the sealers found themselves obliged to extend the range of their operations ; for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New breeding grounds were found in Bass Strait ( between Tasmania and South Australia ) , off the Cape of Good Hope and off the southwest tip of New Zealand . Then came a spate of discoveries in the extreme south of the Pacific : the Antipodes Islands in ' Soo , the Auckland Islands in 18o6 , Campbell and Macquarie Islands in 181o . All these were a cornucopia to the sealers ? but for a few years only . What happened on Macquarie Island was typical : a tragedy repeated many times on many isolated outcrops of rock throughout the Southern Ocean . The first ships to drop anchor there found the beaches crowded with seals . Some 90,000 were butchered the first season , 6o,000 the second and 20,000 the third ; in the fourth season only a handful of seals were sighted ' , and within the decade a rare and beautiful subspecies had been butchered to extinction . All that remains of them today are a couple of skulls in a museum , and a handful of paintings made by a seaman aboard the Perseverance ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plight of the seals became even more desperate . For with the end of the Napoleonic War a large number of seamen , discharged from men o ' war , made their way south , intent on finding in trade the fortune which as likely as not had eluded them in war . In 1813 there had been no more than a couple of British vessels in the Southern Ocean ; by 1819 there were over a hundred . Most of the sub-Antarctic islands , by this time , had been worked out ; and both the established New Englanders and the newly arrived Europeans found themselves obliged to seek new rookeries in the extreme south , along the very perimeter of the Antarctic pack . It was not long before rumours of huge snow-capped mountains seen dimly before dawn ' began to reach South American ports . We are on the threshold now of a moment unique in recorded history : man 's first sighting of a virgin continent . It is certainly not impossible that an unknown sealing brig , driven south into the Ross or Weddell Sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if this is so her log has not been found and her achievement will probably never be66SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? recognized . By far the most likely time for a first sighting is the summer of 1819/20 , and by far the most likely place the Antarctic peninsula ? the thin finger of icecladmountains reaching towards South America , between the 6oth and loth meridians . The sequence of events seems to have been this . In February 1819 the brig Williams was rounding Cape Horn on a routine trading voyage when she was blown far to the south by a succession of storms . On 19 February she sighted land . Here is the report of her captain , William Smith : On the 19th aforesaid at 7 a.m . Land or Ice was discovered bearing South-east by south ? strong gales from the Southwest accompanied with Snow or Sleet . At lo a.m. more moderate and clear , made sail for the land . At 11 rounded a large Ice Berg . At noon fine and pleasant weather ? Latitude by Observation 62 01 ' West . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , distance about to miles , hove to , and having satisfied ourselves of land , headed to Westward and made sail on our voyage to Valparaiso . This is a straightforward , unambiguous report . The log of the Williams is available for inspection , and the latitude given by Smith pinpoints his landfall as almost exactly in the middle of the South Shetlands , a cluster of ice-coated islands on the very threshold of the continent . Arriving in Valparaiso , Smith made his discovery known . He was offered considerable sums of money by a group of New England sealers , who , anxious to find new breeding grounds , pressed him to divulge the position of his landfall ; but he refused , having , in his own words , the good of my country at heart ' . The advent of winter precluded further exploration for the time being , but as soon as the weather improved Smith was again at sea , and on 16 October he sighted the South Shetlands a second time . He landed at Shirreff 's Cove on Livingston Island , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name of His Majesty George the Third ' . There is no reason to doubt the validity of Smith 's reports . Yet he was not , I think , the first man to set foot on the islands . Early in September 1819 the Spanish warships San Telmo and Primerosa Mariana were rounding Cape Horn . The San Telmo was crowded with troops ? reinforcements for the Viceroy of Peru ; she was a big vessel , a seventy-four-gun ship of the line ; but in a series of violent storms she was dismasted , her rudder was wrenched off , and she fell helplessly away to the south . The Mariana tried unsuccessfully first to take her in tow , then to rescue her crew but she too was dismasted , and on 4 September in latitude 62 South , longitude uncertain ' the luckless San Telmo was left to her fate . When Smith landed six weeks later in Shirreff 's Cove , he found her anchor stocks together with a great pile of splintered timbers ; and the chances are , I think , that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the rocks only to die of cold , exposure and starvation on one of the most desolate shorelines on earth . Smith , who seems to have been a somewhat lugubrious character , took the San Telmo ' s anchor back to England and had it made into his coffin ! After this second sighting by Smith the British authorities woke up to the fact67SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? that he had made a discovery of some importance ; and the Williams was loaned to the Royal Navy , given a naval complement and put under the command of Edward Bransfield . Bransfield 's orders were comprehensive : To chart and survey whatsoever coasts you may encounter , taking soundings , reporting on anchorages etc . . . . To ascertain whether there is indeed an uncommon abundance of whales , otters and seals in these waters . . . . To report on the natural resources of the land for supporting a colony , and to observe the character , habits and customs of the inhabitants , to whom you will display every friendly disposition . ' These orders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they look both backward to the past and forward to the future : that is to say although they obviously have their roots in the Ancients ' concept of a rich and populated Southern Continent awaiting exploitation , they also contain a hint of the twentieth-century concept of Antarctica as a place to be studied , a storehouse , as it were , of information . The quest for wealth was being gradually superseded by the quest for knowledge . It would be wrong , however , to give Bransfield 's expedition too laudatory a gloss ? especially in view of its embarrassing anticlimax . For when , late in 1820 , Bransfield submitted an account of his discoveries to the Admiralty , his report was promptly lost . It arrived in London , was marked for early attention ' , and has never been seen or heard of since ! American historians have tended to read something sinister into this ; they have viewed Bransfield with suspicion ? some have even expressed the opinion that his voyage never took place ? and one can sympathize with their mistrust . Two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And though the Admiralty deserve condemnation for a quite appalling piece of incompetence , there is no reason for us to extend our condemnation to Bransfield . His reputation should remain untarnished , since even without an official report enough material is available from which to reconstruct his voyage . For the charts of the Williams are extant ; so also are eye-witness accounts from her surgeon Dr Young and her midshipman Thomas Bone . We learn from the latter that the expedition left Valparaiso on 19 December 1819 . They arrived in the South Shetlands on 16 January 1820 , and spent the next ten days surveying and sounding , much hampered by fog . A landing was made on one of the larger islands , and the usual rigmarole of raising flags and burying coins was observed : also observed was the quite fantastic number of seals , stowed in bulk the length of the beaches ' . On 27 January the Williams headed southwest into unknown waters , and early next morning sighted the volcanic horseshoe of DeceptionIsland . The fog was troublesome , and Bransfield seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the next 48 hours the track of the brig is tantalizingly conjectural , but she appears to have tried to stand south through a sea encompassed by fog and sown with icebergs and reefs . Then comes the passage which has led to so much controversy . It first appeared in the London Literary Gazette in November 1821 , and was written by Midshipman Bone , in the third person and under a pseudonym . This may sound devious ; but Bone in fact was simply68SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? complying with the naval regulations of his day which forbade serving officers to publish accounts of their exploits . The inference is , I think , that the Admiralty were thoroughly embarrassed at having lost Bransfield 's report and were prepared to turn a blind eye to the publication of Bone 's , provided this was done discreetly . Here is what the midshipman tells us : January 3oth . They the Williams now steered southward , and seemed to be running from the land i.e. heading away from the South Shetlands and Deception Island ; but at three o'clock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three immenseicebergs , the haze clearing , they very unexpectedly saw land to the S.W. and at four o'clock were encompassed by islands spreading from NE to E. The whole of these formed a prospect the most gloomy that can be imagined , and the only cheer the sight afforded was in the idea that this might be the long-sought Southern Continent , as land was undoubtedly seen in latitude 64 and trending to the eastward . In this bay or gulph there was a multitude of whales , and a quantity of seaweed apparently fresh from the rocks . A round island was named Tower Island , and the land Trinity Land . There are two diametrically opposed interpretations of this : one that it is a pack of lies , the other that the Williams deserves to go down in history with Columbus 's Santa Maria , for without any question her crew that afternoon were the first to sight an unknown continent . ' The truth lies half way in between . On 30 January the Williams was undoubtedly somewhere in the reach of water now known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visibility was far from perfect . To the westward , it looks from Bransfield 's charts as though the strait must have been choked by ice , and this he mistook for land . To the southward , Trinity Island and Tower Island ( now Hoseason ) are delineated accurately enough , and they must therefore have been sighted . I do not , however , subscribe to the view held by most British historians that if the fog had cleared sufficiently for Bransfield to see Trinity Island he could hardly have avoided seeing the much larger extent of land behind it . For although Trinity Island looks an insignificant speck on the map , it is in fact nearly too miles in circumference and over 3,000 feet in height ; it is divided from the mainland by ten miles of sea ( Orleans Strait ) ; and it strikes me as quite possible that Bransfield saw Trinity Island but that the land ' he plotted behind it was in fact a jumble of icebergs caught up in the Orleans Strait . This part of his claim I would therefore regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Bone , closed in on the evening of 30 January , and the Williams stood northeast . A couple of days later , however , in a momentary clearance , Bransfield again sighted land to the south : two high mountains covered with snow ' . He took bearings and estimated the mountains ' position as approximately 63 40 ' S , 59 50 W ; he then inked them in on his chart , and connected them to his Trinity Land by a dotted line which he marked supposed Land , Lost in fog ' . This was a lucky guess ; for Bransfield 's line of dots coincides closely with the actual coastline of Antarctica . What is more , his mountains coincide even more closely with the actual peaks Jacquinot ( i , 600 feet ) and Bransfield ( 2,500 feet ) on the tip of the69Antarctic peninsula . There are no other mountains in this area , and there are no offshore islands which contain anything remotely resembling a high mountain covered with snow ' . On this occasion , therefore , the crew of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we can only marvel that so much controversy has surrounded the Trinity sighting of 30 January when an indisputable sighting took place only a few miles to the north on r February ! Bransfield was no Cook nor even a Bellingshausen ( one can not imagine either of these great explorers sighting a virgin continent and not making determined efforts to land on it ) ; he headed for the South Shetlands , and by mid-April was back in Valparaiso . If today his praise is seldom sung and his name little remembered , this is partly because of his failure to follow up his sighting by a landing , partly because of the loss of his reports , and partly because his discovery proved of little commercial value . He remains a shadowy , vaguely unheroic figure : a man who had greatness thrust upon him but lacked the calibre to grasp it . This , however , should not blind us to the fact that he did make a genuine discovery and was the first man to chart a portion of the Antarctic mainland . The voyages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theme of exploration by New England sealers . And it was the latter who now transformed Bransfield 's half-discovered coastline into the last great killing ground of the fur seals . The most famous of these New Englanders was Palmer of the70Hero ; the most deserving of fame was a character probably few people today have heard of , Davis of the Cecilia ( who will be discussed in a later chapter ) . Nathaniel Palmer is in some ways as shadowy a figure as Bransfield . Not as a man . As a man he leaps boldly from the pages of history : a fearless navigator , a born leader , a brilliant shipwright and a successful and respected businessman . As an explorer , however , he remains an enigma ; for it is hard to know which of his exploits are fact and which fiction . This is because contemporary United States historians ( Fanning in particular ) went out of their way to build him up into a national hero . England and America , it should be remembered , had in 1819 just stopped fighting each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although Palmer himself was no flag-waving fanatic ( he went on several voyages with British sealers ? the most famous being that of 1821 ? 2 when with George Powell he discovered the South Orkney Islands ? and remained all his life on the best of terms with them ) , the same can not be said of his biographers . He first came to the Antarctic in the summer of 1819 ? 20 , having , according to some reports , tailed the Williams to the South Shetlands . The ship he was in took 9,000 seals in fifteen days ? we could have had 90,000 but were lacking salt ' . Not surprisingly the following season a veritable armada of New Englanders sailed south for the Shetlands , among them Palmer , aged barely twenty-one but already with a command of his own . His command was the Hero : a diminutive sloop ? length71SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? 47 feet , beam 17 feet , one mast , one deck and a displacement of little more than 40 tons ? and he must have been a magnificent seaman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on earth . Exactly where he did take her is a matter of controversy ; for fact now becomes interwoven with fancy . According to Fanning , While the fleet lay at anchor in Yankee Harbour , DeceptionIsland , during the season 1820 and 21 . . . during a very clear day Captain Pendleton sighted mountains ( one a volcano in operation ) in the South . To examine the newly discovered land Captain N. B. Palmer in the sloop Hero was despatched . ' And it was , Fanning would have us believe , during this voyage that Palmer discoveredAntarctica . The trouble is that the New England fleet did not in fact lie at anchor off Deception Island during the season of 1820/21 . It lay at anchor off Livingston Island , some twenty miles to the north . This is confirmed not only by the logs of the other sealing brigs concerned , but also by Fanning 's own remark that one of the mountains sighted was a volcano in operation . For the sole volcano within 500 miles of the South Shetlands is Deception Island itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ egg in , and is sporadically active . It is therefore beyond dispute that Captain Pendleton must have stood on Livingston Island , looked south , sighted Deception in eruption , and ordered the Hero to investigate . Here is Palmer 's own account of his investigation . Nov. 15th . These 24 hours commences with Thick weather Light breese from N.W. at 2 P.M. clearing off got Underway on a cruise for Deception course East for the North head wind Light at N by W. at 8 Being close in with the Land tacked to the Northw 'd . Middle part thick snow storm . . . . Reffd the mainsail Tacked to the E'wd at 5 made the Land stood along and Examined it but were Disappointed . stood along to the southward saw an Opening stood in found it to be a spacious harbour with very deep Water 5o to 6o fathoms . got out the boat to sound , found anchorage about a mile from the mouth . at 11 we came too in fifteen fathoms off the mouth of a lagoon went on shore and got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commences with fresh Breese from SWest and Pleasant at 8 P.M. got over under the Land found the sea filled with immense Ice Bergs ? at 12 hove too under the Jib Laid off and on until morning . at 4 a.m. made sail in shore and Discovered-a-strait ? Tending SSW and NNE it was literaly filled with Ice and the shore inaccessible thought it not Prudent to Venture in we Bore away to the Northw 'd and saw 2 small Islands and the shore every where Perpendicular . we stood across toward Freseland Livingston Island course NNW . For many years American historians held the view that these entries described a passage from Deception Island to the continent , and on this assumption they hailed Palmer as the man who discovered Antarctica . However , it has recently been suggested by Edouard Stackpole ( Curator of the Marine Historical Association of Mystic ) that what the entries in fact describe is a passage from Livingston Island to Deception Island . Bearing in mind the Hero 's point of departure , this makes sense ; 72SEEN DIMLY BEFORE DAWN ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to a chart , the evidence is overwhelming . Palmer 's spacious harbour ' with its southfacingentrance was obviously the flooded crater of Deception Island ( an anchorage used the following season by both the British and American fleets ) , and his perpendicular shore ' the southeast face of Livingston Island ( a coast subsequently described by Bellingshausen as rocky and sheer ' ) . The claim that Palmer sighted Antarctica in November 182o is , to say the least , not proved . Not that the question of who , by a few days , caught sight of the mainland first is all that important . What is important is that within a decade the New Englanders had worked the last retreat of the fur seals to exhaustion ; more than a million were slaughtered , and by 1829 on the rocks which only a few years ago had teemed with life not a creature was to be seen ' . Many of these sealers undoubtedly sighted the continent ; some landed on it ? the first , in my opinion , being Davis of New Haven . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and in 1822 one of them , James Weddell , embarked on one of the greatest of all Antarctic voyages . In the brig Jane and the diminutive cutter Beazcfoy , he pushed south into the sea now bearing his name and in remarkably ice-free conditions managed to struggle to 74 15 ' S ? more than 200 miles closer to the Pole than Cook . His voyage was part-commercial , part-scientific and wholly arduous . As L. P. Kirwan puts it , a whaleboat overboard ; a rudder frozen into immobility ; bulwarks , decks and rigging so heavily encrusted with ice that the ship could scarcely rise to the sea ? such experiences were common in the brigs of the Antarctic sealers . ' As for Palmer , the next incident in his career is even more dramatic and controversial than his passage to Deception . We are told that while the Hero was returning from the mainland ? presumably on about 18/19 November 1820 ? she became enveloped in thick fog . Palmer , it seems , was on watch himself that night , and when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I could not credit my ears ' , he wrote later . I thought I must be dreaming . ' He told himself that the echo must be a trick of the fog ; but when an hour later he struck two bells , exactly the same thing happened ! Each hour , we are led to believe , when Palmer tolled the bell , there came a ghostlike toll in answer out of the night . At dawn , as the light gained in intensity , we can picture the crew of the Hero peering with some apprehension into the gradually dispersing mist . Vague shapes began to materialize : first tall masts ( more than double the height of the Hero 's ) , then a strange castellated hull with gun ports , and at last , as the sun rose palely over the horizon , Palmer realized that he was lying becalmed midway between a frigate and a ship of the line . Unable to identify their nationality , he hoisted the American flag . And the ships he had shared the night with ran up their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world that Palmer could have expected , the double-headed eagle of Imperial Russia. 73//THE FIRST SIGHTINGTHE FRIGATE AND THE SHIP OF THE LINE had not arrived off the coast of Antarctica by chance ; they were there with a mission . Russia at the end of the eighteenth century consisted of two widely separated communities ? the old or European kingdom centred around Moscow , St Petersburg and Kiev , and the new or Asiatic kingdom centred around Alaska , Kamchatka and the Bering Strait . These communities were divided by 4,500 miles of barren , largely uninhabited steppe ; and communication between them by land was difficult . If a trapper in Cordova needed a musket or a seaman in Okhotsk an anchor , it had to be transported by wagon and packhorse , across great forests , swamps , rivers and plains for nearly twice the width of the Atlantic ; and the same applied , of course , to bringing the wealth of the Pacific settlements ( fur , timber , minerals and fish ) to Europe . It is hardly surprising that the Russians soon looked into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , however , a problem . For a thousand years Russia 's energies and interests had been orientated to the land ; not till the eighteenth century did she even gain access to the sea ? first to the Baltic , then to the Black Sea and finally to the Pacific ? and in ' Soo she had few ships , and fewer deepwater seamen . In 1803 , however , von Kruzenstern , the father of the Russian Navy , circumnavigated the world in a remarkable three-year voyage ; and the success of this circumnavigation ( during which not a single man succumbed to scurvy ) attracted the attention of the authorities in general and the Tsar in particular . Tsar Alexander I was probably the most progressive and liberal-minded of the rulers of pre-Soviet Russia , and he was quick to see in the emergent Russian Navy a potential instrument of expansion . He proposed two expeditions : one to search for a North West Passage in the Arctic , and one to search for staging posts in the Antarctic . Both these expeditions were given a scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? but both in fact were basically commercial , their objective being to facilitate the flow of trade between Russia-in-Europe and Russiain-the-Pacific . Their sailing orders show this : You are to make special endeavours to discover good harbours ... which might be used to promote communication by sea and would be useful for the repair of ships . ' And if routing goods from Kamchatka to Moscow via the Antarctic sounds an inordinately long way round , the fact is that by ' Soo the other nations of Europe had appropriated virtually every coastline and island in the world except for those in the extreme north and the extreme south . Russia 's late arrival in the field of maritime expansion gave her no option but to set her sights immediately on the farthest ends of the earth . The success or otherwise of this sort of leap in the dark depends very largely75on its leader , and the Tsar 's choice fell on Thaddeus von Bellingshausen , a 39-year-old naval officer who had been Kruzenstern 's fifth-lieutenant during his circumnavigation of the world . Today there are probably not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bellingshausen or could identify the sea to which he has given his name . It is high time this ignorance was dispelled and due recognition accorded ; for in the galaxy of great explorers this little-known Russian deserves to rank with Amundsen , da Gama and Columbus . He was born in I779 into the petty nobility of Estonia . The Navy was just becoming a fashionable career , and at an early age Bellingshausen was sent to the naval college in St Petersburg . Between 1803 and 18o6 he served aboard the Nadezhda during her circumnavigation , being described by Kruzenstern as a skilful and well-informed officer ' ; then came a spell in the Black Sea in command of a frigate . His frigate was engaged in survey work , and it was in this field that Bellingshausen , like Cook , first made a name for himself ; for his charts were models of painstaking accuracy . In April 1819 he was given command of the Tsar 's much-heralded expedition to the Antarctic , with orders to approach as close as possible to the South Pole and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the orders add to abandon this undertaking in the face of insurmountable obstacles . ' We know little about the personality of the man who was given this formidable assignment ; but in this respect again he seems to have resembled Cook , being reserved , formal , humane and supremely efficient . He also shared ? unfortunately perhaps ? another of Cook 's traits : a reluctance to indulge in his diary in even the occasional purple passage or personal aside . His narrative therefore is by no means light reading , though this may be due in part to the fact that before publication it was heavily and incompetently cut . THE FIRST SIGHTINGBellingshausen arrived in Kronshtadt at the end of April . He was to spend the next three months supervising the preparing of his ships , the assembling of his crew and his stores , and the clarifying of his instructions . His ships were the Vostok and Mirnyi . The former was a pinewood sloop of a little over 450 tons : length 130 feet , beam 33 feet and draught 9 feet 7 inches . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her hull was sheathed in copper and strengthened with a network of iron stanchions , and her rudder , bulkheads and cathead were refashioned in oak ; to quote Bellingshausen so great was the interest of the officers in this work that not a nail or a piece of timber was passed untested ' . The Mirnyi ( or Peace ) was smaller and older . A frigate of 230 tons , length 120 feet and beam 30 feet , she too was given a thorough overhaul ; but no amount of refurbishing could disguise the fact that she was a sluggish sailer , and her captain , Mikhail Lazarev , was hard pressed in the months to come to keep pace with his faster and more seaworthy consort . The complement of the Vostok was 117 , that of the Mirnyi 72 . Both officers and men were hand picked . Among them were three surgeons , an artist ( Paul Mikhailov of the Academy of Fine Arts ) and an astronomer ( Ivan Simanov , regius professor at Kazan University ) ; there was , however , no naturalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Tsar withdrew at the last moment . In anticipation of the hardships to come and the long duration of the voyage , the crew were guaranteed eight times their normal pay . They were also fitted out most generously with clothing ? four uniforms per man , with twelve spare trousers , four spare coats , eighteen shirts and eight pairs of thick woollen stockings . We have , unfortunately , no detailed list of their provisions , though we know they included salted beef stowed in good oak barrels . . . wheat and rye biscuits . . . sauerkraut which had been slightly oversalted to ensure preservation . . . and beef tea in the form of tablets . ' Here again we can trace the influence of Cook , whom the Russian Admiralty held in high esteem . As well as these provisions and the usual items of spare equipment the Vostok also carried a curious variety of gifts for the natives ? hussar jackets , tambourines , hunting horns , knitting needles , kaleidoscopes and bronze medallions of the Tsar . As for Bellingshausen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embraced objectives that were both traditional and forward looking : that is to say he was expected to report not only on fisheries , harbours and new lands to be exploited , he was expected also to report on geodesy , astronomy , magnetic variation , tides , meteorology , the aurora australis or Southern Lights , oceanography , ice formation , mineralogy and anthropology : a truly Herculean assignment . There is one other point worth noting about the Russians ' instructions : Whenever you land in inhabited country the natives are to be treated with kindness and humanity . You must avoid giving offence or displeasure ; on the contrary , you must make every effort to win their friendship by gentleness . You shall never resort to severe measures . ... ' Bellingshausen observed these orders. 77His expedition left Kronshtadt on 16 July 1819 . ( Bellingshausen gives the date as 4 July ? by the Julian calendar , which remained in use in Russia throughout the nineteenth century and was twelve days behind the Gregorian . ) Their first port of call was Copenhagen ; their second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronometers , together with a selection of soup and vegetable preserves ' as a preventive against scurvy . They were obliged to spend longer than they anticipated in England , partly because of the difficulty of obtaining good navigational equipment , and partly because the local workmen they had employed in Portsmouth dockyard to alter the Vostok 's portholes staged a go-slow . We made the mistake ' , Bellingshausen writes , of hiring and paying these men by the day , and in order to line their own pockets they deliberately slowed down the rate of work . ' By early September , however , the Russians were again at sea ? equipment , stores and portholes to their satisfaction ; by the middle of the month they were standing handsomely into the Atlantic . As soon as his expedition was in blue water , Bellingshausen initiated a daily routine that was Spartan in its rigour . His crew were organized into three watches instead of the customary two ; his ships were scrubbed down twice a week at sea and every day in port ; linen was washed twice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not approve of fumigating between decks ; instead , whenever the weather was suitable , he ordered stoves to be lit in the messes ; these dried and purified the atmosphere and left neither smuts nor grease ' . Dinner each day was served punctually at 12 and supper at 6 ; and in the evenings the crew were encouraged to indulge in popular pastimes on deck , such as singing , story-telling , 78THE FIRST SIGHTING. dancing and leap-frog ' . Diet was strictly supervised , the daily ration of beef being hung each morning over the bowsprit till it was thoroughly impregnated with brine . And if some of these regulations seem to border on the pernickety , we should bear in mind that the dividing line between a clean bill of health and a crippling rate of mortality was razor fine . On voyages far less arduous than the Vostok 's , a 50 per cent death rate from scurvy was nothing unusual ? Anson , for example , started his voyage round the world with 961 men ; before he was halfway across the Pacific 62o had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The slovenly were flogged . His ships had an easy run from Portsmouth to the Southern Ocean , calling only at Tenerife and Rio . By mid-December they were approaching the Antarctic Convergence ; the temperature dropped , special clothing was issued , and aboard the Vostok stoves were kept permanently alight and hatches permanently battened down . On 23 December they caught their first glimpse of petrel and albatross ; and a couple of days later the island of South Georgia appeared over the horizon , its mountains dark with cloud and its shoreline white with snow . It was a desolate , uninhabited land , but the sea surrounding it was vibrant with life : whales spouted , blue and white petrels circled the ships , and crested penguins , with cries of alarm , dived off the patches of floating ice . The Vostok and Mirnyi dropped anchor in Queen Maud Bay . They were met by two British sealing vessels , the Indispensable and the Mary-Ann , whose crew gave Bellingshausen a description of their trade : They told us they had been in South Georgia for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their work takes them onto all the beaches where it is possible to put ashore . At night , as a shelter , they turn their boats upsidedown and light fires beneath them . For melting the seals ' blubber they use penguin skins as fuel . . . . I ordered our guests to be given grog , sugar and butter . The Russians spent a mere three days in the vicinity of South Georgia . In this short time , however , Bellingshausen completed a survey of the south coast and its adjacent shoals : a masterly piece of work , which was subsequently incorporated into British Admiralty charts , and has only been superseded within the last twenty years . On the last day of 1819 the Vostok and Mirnyi hauled off from South Georgia and sailed deeper into the Antarctic in search of Cook 's Sandwich Land ' . They were on the threshold now of the unknown , approaching a cluster of islands that had been sighted but never surveyed . Cook had thought Sandwich Land to be either a group of islands or else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter theory . For three days his vessels stood east-southeast from South Georgia . The weather was bad : heavy seas , high winds , and violent squalls of snow which cut visibility to 20 yards . They passed an iceberg 11 miles in length and 18o feet in height . Then , on 3 January , //they sighted land . Bellingshausen has frequently been dubbed a dull writer , but the following description strikes me as decidedly evocative : January 3rd . We had strong winds that night which knocked up a high sea . The moon was bright , and the thermometer a little below zero . In the small hours of the morning we were brought up short by a line of drift ice , which stretched northeast by southwest in gargantuan floes . At dawn we had a fall of snow , and the thick weather forced us to turn into wind . This snow continued intermittently throughout the morning ; but at II a.m. , during a brief clearance , we sighted an unknown island about 13 miles to the north . We crowded on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... . This was Lyeskov Island , a mountain rising so sheer out of the water that no landing on it has ever been made . Next morning a second island was sighted . Thick black clouds were observed to the north ; these seemed to remain in the same position , which led me to believe that there might be more land in the vicinity . Indeed after a couple of hours sailing we sighted an island from which a mushroom of evilsmellingvapour was continually rising ? like smoke from the funnel of a steamer , only of much greater volume and density ... . This was Zavadovski Islnd , a volcano which is periodically active . For more than a fortnight the Vostok and her consort picked their way through a skein of unknown and indescribably barren islands . The weather was appalling , and the ships , on several occasions , were within an ace of running aground ; this is Bellingshausen 's entry for 11 January : The snow continued all morning . We knew there were icebergs in the vicinity , and the crew were stationed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound of surf . A little after 5 p.m. we heard to leeward the sound of heavy breakers , and the officer of the watch expressed the opinion that we were closing with a shore on which the surf was breaking . The snow at this moment was falling so thickly that we could see no more than 30 yards ahead . I therefore turned onto another tack , the Mirnyi following , and we headed north-northwest . I hoped on this new course to draw clear of the ice and land , but at 10 p.m. we were brought up short by an impenetrable barrier of brash ice . This forced us to turn again . For the rest of the night we remained under topsails only , in order to reduce speed . But so heavy was the snow that the topsails became unmanageable , and we had to keep turning the ships sharply into wind to shake the snow off ; while on deck it collected so thickly that the crew were hard pressed to shovel it away . . . . In the small hours the snow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ echoing and re-echoing on all sides . A little after 5 a.m. we saw a line of icebergs . . . . Each time we turned into wind , icicles and frozen snow fell from the rigging ; the ropes froze , and looked as though they were threaded through glass beads a full half-inch in diameter . . . . In spite of these appalling conditions Bellingshausen managed to explore the whole of Sandwich Land ' . He found that it consisted of two adjoining archipelagos . TheTHE FIRST SIGHTINGmore northerly he christened the Marquis de Traversey Islands ( in honour of the Russian Minister of Marine ) ? a name subsequently corrupted on British charts to The Traverse Islands ; the more southerly he christened the South Sandwich Group , because , in his own words , Cook saw these islands first and therefore the name which he gave them should remain unchanged . ' Each island was not only placed accurately on the map , it was surveyed with care , and the artist Mikhailov made precise and elegant sketches of the coastal profiles ? sketches which today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a major achievement . Bellingshausen , however , must have been disappointed by the utter desolation of the islands and their lack of harbours , and in the hope of more promising discoveries he headed east . For a week the Vostok and Mirnyi skirted the pack in typical Antarctic weather : strong winds , high seas and a kaleidoscope of mist and snow . The ice was troublesome ; and both vessels had to be steered by their officer of the watch , who stationed himself on the fo'c's'le and shouted orders to the helm . The last few days of the month witnessed two important events . Here is Bellingshausen 's account for 26 January : We proceeded on a course of south by west . . . . A little after midday we passed three icebergs ; we were then in Lat. 66 ? 53 ' 42 " S , Long . 3 03 ' 54 " W. Thick weather , with snow and a high northwesterly wind continued for the rest of the day and well into the night . ' The importance of this lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January , Bellingshausen crossed the Antarctic Circle ? being preceded in this only by Cook . He must have known what he had done ; yet he did not apparently rate the event worth even a mention . Which brings us to a key point in Bellingshausen 's character : he was diffident to a fault . All the indications are that he was a delightful man : efficient , humane , courteous and ever happy to acknowledge the feats of his fellow explorers ; the sort of man who was likely not to boast of his discoveries but to play them down . And this has a very definite bearing on how we should interpret the events of the next few days . Here is the entry in Bellingshausen 's diary for 27 January . At 4 a.m. we saw a grey , smoke-coloured albatross . At 7 a.m. the wind shifted , the snow momentarily ceased and we had a fleeting glimpse of the sun . The snow , however , obviously soon returned . We proceeded south . . . . At midday in Lat. 69 " 21 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " W we encountered icebergs which loomed up through the falling snow looking for all the world like white clouds . There was a moderate northeast wind and a heavy northwest swell at the time , and because of the snow we could see only a short distance . We had just hauled close to the wind on a course of south by east , when we observed in front of us a solid stretch of ice , running from east to west . Our course was taking us directly onto this icefield , which seemed to be covered with small hillocks . The barometer had recently fallen from 29.5 to 29 , a warning of bad weather , and I therefore turned away to the northwest , hoping that in this direction we should find no ice . A few days later ( on I February ) he sighted this icefield again. //Towards the south it grew lighter hour by hour . At 1 a.m. we saw ice ahead , and at 2 a.m. found ourselves virtually encompassed by it . Away to the south we could see some 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surveyed the extent of this icefield we were unable to see its limits ; but I judged it to be an extension of the field we had seen on the 27th but had been unable to examine properly ... . For 150 years the generally accepted interpretation of these entries has been that of Frank Debenham ( Professor Emeritus of Geography at Cambridge ) ? This day ( January 27th ) must be accounted an unfortunate one for the Russians for we now know that they must have been within a few miles , not more than 20 at the most , of Princess Martha Land , discovered in 1929/30 by the Norvegia expedition . A few hours of clear weather on this particular day would have antedated the discovery of this stretch of coast by more than a century . . . . And again ( on February 1st ) the Russian vessels must have been within 25 miles of the continent without apparently sighting it . But the truth is , I think , that they did sight it . Soviet scholars ( in particular M. I. Belov of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently pointed out that Bellingshausen 's passage about the icefield ' is in fact an extremely accurate description of this particular stretch of the coast . If we bear this in mind , if we pinpoint the known position of the ships , and if we take into account Bellingshausen 's subsequent references to an icy continent ' ( materik l'da ) it seems beyond dispute that on 27 January 1820 the crews of the Vostok and Mirnyi became the first men in the world to set eyes on the mainland of Antarctica . This was a major discovery ; and one wonders why it has not , up to now , been universally recognized . The reason , I suggest , is twofold . In the first place I doubt if Bellingshausen himself , at the time of his sighting , appreciated the full significance of what he had seen ; it was only gradually , as he circumnavigated the Antarctic and saw the same phenomenon again and again , that his idea of a continent of ice ' took gradual shape ; he was too honest to rephrase his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this entry is in consequence utterly devoid of dramatic impact or the sense of occasion which one normally expects to associate with a historic discovery . In the second place when Bellingshausen returned to Russia it was many years before even an expurgated version of his diary was published ; his concept of an ice continent was neither liked nor understood by the Ministry of Marine who seem to have deleted almost every reference to it in the text . In other words it is only during the last decade that the Russians themselves have fully appreciated Bellingshausen 's stature . In comparison with the momentous events of these first few weeks the rest of his voyage was ? as regards discovery ? something of an anticlimax . On 17/18 February he sighted land for the third time . His position was 69 ? 66 S , 15 ? 51 E : only a few miles off King Leopold and Queen Astrid Coast//and not far from the site of the present Soviet base at Novolazarevskaya . His diary on this occasion is explicit . At 9 a.m. a dazzling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to field ice . The weather was fine but cloudy , with neither mist nor snow . A little before midday ice was observed from the look-out . . . . by 3 p.m. we were passing through it , the waves abated , and as we proceeded the ice thickened . At about 3.15 p.m. we observed ahead of us a number of high flat-topped icebergs frozen into the field . The edge of the field was perpendicular and formed into little coves ; its surface sloped upward towards the south , and even from our masthead we could see no end to it . . . . At 6 a.m. on 18 February the broken ice became so thick that it was quite impossible to force a way farther to the south . In the far- distance we saw ice-covered mountains rising to a great height . There are two points of particular interest here : the description of the edge of the ice being formed into little coves ' , which is in fact a formation peculiar to the King Leopold and Queen Astrid Coast ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sor-Rondane range ( one of the highest in Antarctica ) . On this occasion therefore we can not only say that Bellingshausen sighted the continent , we can pinpoint his landfall with some precision . For the next six weeks the Vostok and Mirnyi continued their circumnavigation , first skirting the edge of the pack ice , then , as the brief Antarctic summer drew to its close , slanting gradually away from the continent as they set course for Australia . This part of their voyage was similar to Cook 's : the same wicked near perpendicular ' seas , the same bludgeoning winds , the same blizzards , the same mists and the same hair-raising encounters with the ice : indeed a good deal of Bellingshausen 's diary could be transposed to Cook 's and vice versa . In mid-March , however , the Russians encountered a phenomenon about which their British predecessors had said little . The thermometer that night 15 March stood at 27 F. The officers of the watch had just changed over when we noticed an intermittent flashing light , the cause of which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a.m. , however , the clouds lifted , and we beheld one of nature 's most beautiful and spectacular displays . There appeared in the south two columns of blue-white , like phosphorescent fire ; these flashed across the horizon , from cloud to cloud , with the speed of rockets . Each column was about three times the width of the sun . The columns multiplied , until eventually the whole sky , from horizon to zenith , was covered with these bright pulsating pillars . The light was so strong that shadows were distinct , and we could read even quite small print without difficulty . . . . Next evening . . . the southern aurora appeared again in all its magnificence and brightness , though in a guise quite different from the night before . This time the whole vault of the heavens ? except for some 12 to 15 degrees above the horizon ? was covered with bands of rainbow hue , which , with the rapidity of lightning , traversed the sky in sinuous waves from south to north , shading off from colour to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us from disaster . For as the sea was lit up by the aurora we saw we were heading straight for a large iceberg which//we might well , in darkness , have run into . . . . Many of the seamen were much moved by the magnificence of the aurora . One fell to his knees : The sky is on fire ! ' he shouted . Heaven is coming down to earth ! ' Four weeks later the Vostok and Mirnyi dropped anchor in Sydney harbour . They had in the last three months sailed for more than 5,000 miles wholly within the Antarctic Convergence ; and even the unemotional Bellingshausen was moved to joy at the sight of green trees and the warmth of the sun . As for his crew , they set up a steam bath ashore and sweated and stewed to their hearts ' content ' ; they also , on their captain 's orders , ate an abundance of citrus fruit and fresh green vegetables ; for in spite of their well-balanced diet and meticulous hygiene several were showing symptoms of scurvy . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter in repair and recuperation . Like Cook , however , he seemed happier afloat than ashore , and after only six weeks embarked on a cruise in the waters northeast of New Zealand . He doubtless hoped , during this part of his voyage , to discover the good harbours ' whose importance had been stressed in his orders . But he was out of luck . He sighted seventeen new islands and a number of atolls ; but none of them large enough to be used as a staging post for trade . In the scramble for oceanic bases the Russians had arrived half a century too late . Bellingshausen 's Pacific cruise was , however , successful on another level . His contacts with the Polynesians were invariably friendly . In all his meetings with the South Sea Islanders not a shot was fired in anger ? a happy contrast to the massacres of the previous century . September and October were spent in Sydney , repairing , recaulking and reprovisioningthe ships . Bellingshausen seems to have got on well with the Australians . Our stay ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly invited out to dinners and social gatherings , and parties and dances were often specially arranged for us . . . . We were treated with nothing but kindness . ' It was as well for the Russians that they had this near-idyllic interlude at the halfway stage of their circumnavigation ; for by mid-November they were back once more in the bludgeoning winds and juggernaut seas that guard the approaches to Antarctica . On 29 November they hove to off Macquarie Island , an isolated outcrop of rock in the same latitude as South Georgia . They expected the island ( like their previous landfalls at this latitude ) to be covered with ice and snow ; instead they found it beautifully green , with a wealth of tussock grass , moss and wild cabbage ' ; the climate , however , left much to be desired , for they had rain and mist on every single day of their visit and the wind never dropped below a gale . They were met by a party of sealers , and Bellingshausen went ashore to visit their huts . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet , lined on the outside with turf and on the inside with sealskins ; a fire and a lamp were kept continually burning , and the interior was so dark and smoke filled that the Russians , their eyes unaccustomed to the gloom , had to be led by the hand . Bellingshausen gives one of the fullest descriptions extant of these men 's macabre and lonely calling ? one of them//apparently had spent ten consecutive years on the island ? and he ends with the words , the abundance of fur seals at one time caused many vessels to come to this island , but the unbounded greed of the sealers quickly exterminated their quarry , and today not one of the creatures is to be seen ' . The Vostok and Mirnyi left Macquarie Island in early December , and a few days later were brought up short by the inevitable ice . On 9 December they crossed the 6oth degree of latitude , and started ( to quote Hunter Christie ) a voyage which is without parallel in the history of exploration . For two months and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longitude , the two vessels remained to the south of the 6oth parallel and within sight of the Antarctic pack-ice . ' Their track was well to the south of Cook 's , through some of the most tempestuous and ice-choked sea lanes on earth ; and Bellingshausen 's log becomes almost monotonous in its description of hazards faced and obstacles overcome . Once , in a violent storm , the Vostok 's topsails , mizzensails and staysails suddenly and simultaneously split , and the vessel broached to under bare poles at the mercy of wind and wave . The seas ' , Bellingshausen wrote , were an extraordinary height , and appeared to mingle with the air . In order to try and keep our head into wind , I ordered the men to hoist hammocks into the shrouds . ' On another occasion the vessels were trapped in fog in a moving icefield . They were unable to see the bergs , but could hear the waves pounding their sides and could judge their proximity by the sudden chill in the air and the droop of the Vostok 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bellingshausen ordered his crew to lower themselvesfrom ropes and ladders all round the ship ? for the lower one is the more easily the white of the bergs is picked up and the more easily the sound of waves is heard , because the fog is thinnest at sea level . . . . Many times ' , he tells us , the roar of great breakers was terrifyingly close , and we thought our last moment had come . ' It was an achievement for any vessel to survive two months in this latitude ; for a seriously damaged vessel to survive was little short of a miracle ; and it is perhaps the most amazing feature of Bellingshausen 's voyage that for the last half of the circumnavigation the Vostok leaked like a sieve . For a week out of Sydney water had begun to pour in through her stem . It poured in with such force ' , we are told , that its gurgling could be heard all over the ship , and the leak was in so awkward a position it was impossible to bung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armaments were moved hurriedly aft ; but for the rest of the voyage the pumps had to be continually manned and the Vostok was never able to carry full sail . This disability makes the latter part of her voyage an epic . By the New Year the Russians were eighteen months out of Kronshtadt , and they could have been forgiven had they begun to lose heart . For they had circumnavigated five-sixths of the Southern Ocean and sighted nothing but cliffs of ice and desolate outcrops of rock . On 22 January , however , when they least expected it , their perseverance was rewarded. //They had no premonition of discovery . There were no circling landbirds or drifting patches of kelp . But on the evening of 21 January a brilliant white reflection appeared on the southern horizon , and the air became suddenly colder . Next afternoon , at 3 p.m. , a black patch ' appeared briefly through the haze to the northeast . Bellingshausen got a good look at it through his telescope before the haze closed in and felt certain it was land ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their doubts were dispelled . The sun came out from behind the clouds and so lit up the scene that we could see quite clearly that our discovery was land covered with snow ; the rocks and cliffs too steep for the ice to cling to showed up jet-black against the contrasting mantle of white . Words can not describe our delight as the cry ' Land ! Land ! ' echoed from all parts of the ship . Nor was our joy surprising after so long , monotonous and dangerous a voyage . Rum punch was served to all hands ; a toast was drunk to the Emperor , and the Vostok and Mirnyi headed for the shore . They got to within 14 miles of the land , and were able to survey it with some precision before being brought up short by solid ice . They found , to their disappointment , that their discovery was not part of a continent but an island ; they named it Peter I , and headed north in the hope of falling in with further land . And indeed a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sighted to starboard . The weather , for once , was kind : a gentle breeze , no cloud and perfect visibility . Though the vessels were prevented from closing with the land because of ice , they were again able to survey it with reasonable accuracy . I named our discovery Alexander Land ' , Bellingshausen wrote , in memory of the Emperor . Monuments of stone erected to great men may in time be erased from the face of the earth , but the names Peter I and Alexander Land are indestructible monuments which will perpetuate the memory of our Emperors till the end of time . ' Alexander Land has since been proved an island , some 300 miles in length , divided from the continent by a 4o-mile-wide strait ; but this in no way diminishes the importance of Bellingshausen 's discovery . A segment of land of continental proportion lying well within the Antarctic Circle had been clearly sighted and surveyed , and Bellingshausen himself obviously felt that he had achieved a major breakthrough ? that he had penetrated at last to the shore of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery as land ' , he wrote , because its southern extent was beyond the range of our vision . The shore was deep in snow , but there was no snow on either the cliffs or the mountain faces . The change in colour of the sea led us to believe that the land is extensive , and does not consist of only the part we could see . ' If the weather had stayed fine the Vostok and Mirnyi would almost certainly have held course to the northeast , hugging the coast ; they would then have sighted the extensive chain of islands off the Antarctic peninsula and the mainland itself . The weather , however , deteriorated . On 30 January a violent blizzard swept down from the north , and this was succeeded by dense banks of fog that cut visibility to//30 yards . Fearing he might become embayed on a lee shore , Bellingshausen set course for the South Shetlands ? he had heard of Smith 's discovery while refitting in Australia , and was anxious to find out if the land sighted by the Williams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he himself had just sighted . After a week of groping blind through mist and snow , there was a sudden cry from the Vostok 's masthead : ' Land ! Land above the clouds ! ' And the 6,000-foot cliffs of Smith Island loomed out of the mist , like a great black pedestal . holding up the sky ' . In the course of the next six days Bellingshausen surveyed the whole of the South Shetland group with his usual precision , thus proving that none of the islands was connected to the continent . The names he gave ? Smolensk , Beresina , Polotsk and Waterloo ? have been superseded today ; but the work of his expedition lives on in the sketches of Paul Mikhailov . It was during this survey that there occurred one of the most controversial episodes in the history of exploration : Bellingshausen 's meeting with Palmer . The fact is that the account of this meeting given by Bellingshausen is very different from that given by Palmer 's biographer Fanning . Here is Bellingshausen 's account . February 5th 1821 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British and American vessels at anchor . . . . At to o'clock we entered the strait between Smolensk and Teille i.e. between Livingston Island and Deception Island and sighted a small American sealing vessel . The Vostok lay to , and I lowered a boat to invite the American captain aboard . The lead did not touch bottom at 115 fathoms . Soon after Mr Palmer the American captain arrived aboard . He told us he had been here for four months , engaged in killing and skinning the seals whose numbers were perceptibly diminishing ... . According to Mr Palmer the bay in which we saw the 8 vessels lying at anchor is protected from all winds and has a depth of 18 fathoms in thin mud ? though because of the peculiar nature of the bottom the vessels frequently drag their anchors . . . . Mr Palmer soon returned to his ship , and we proceeded along the shore . At noon we were in Lat 62 ' 49 ' 32 " S , Long 6o ' 18 " W.Here is Fanning 's account . The date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eleven weeks earlier than Bellingshausen ) , and the place not far from the coast of Antarctica ( some 40 miles further to the south ) . Palmer found the vessels between which he had anchored for the night were two discovery ships sent out by the Emperor Alexander of Russia , on a voyage round the world . To the commodore 's interrogatory if he had any knowledge of those islands then in sight , and what they were , Captain P replied he was well acquainted with them , and they were the South Shetlands , at the same time making a tender of his services to pilot the ships into a good harbour at Deception Island . . . . The commodore thanked him kindly : but previous to our being enveloped in the fog ' , said he , we had sight of those islands , and concluded we had made a discovery ; but behold , when the fog lifts , to my great surprise , here is an American vessel , apparently//in as fine order as if it were but yesterday she had left the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ready to pilot my vessels into port ; we must surrender the palm to you Americans ' . . . . His astonishment was yet more increased when Captain Palmer informed him of the existence of an immense extent of land to the south , whose mountains might be seen from the masthead when the fog cleared . . . . Captain Palmer , while on hoard the frigate , was entertained in the most friendly manner , and the commodore was so forcibly struck with the circumstances of the case , that he named the coast then to the south Palmer 's Land . When these descriptions are considered side by side , it is clear that the latter ? to put it mildly ? has flaws . Leaving for a moment the question of time and place , Deception Island was not used by American sealers in November 18ao , so it is unlikely that Palmer would have offered to pilot the Russians there ; Bellingshausen would never have said we concluded we had made a discovery ' of the South Shetland islands when he knew very well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before ; as for his astonishment ' at Palmer having sighted an immense extent of land to the south ' , this is clearly apocryphal ; for if Palmer had indeed mentioned land , Bellingshausen would surely have noted the fact in his diary and gone to look for it ? he had after all sailed literally the length and breadth of the world in the hope of making just such a landfall ! It is also worth noting that in Bellingshausen 's account their meeting is convincingly dated and located ? the time and position he gives tying in exactly with Palmer 's voyage from Livingston to Deception Island . The same can not be said of Fanning 's account which , even allowing for the vagaries of time and translation , is short of verifiable facts . American sealers played a major role in the unveiling of Antarctica . It is unfortunate that one of the greatest of them , Nathaniel Palmer , should have been ill served by his biographers , and that exaggerated claims should have been put forward on his behalf . A couple of days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for home . Bellingshausen had found none of the good harbours ' which , it had been hoped , would promote Russia 's trade , and because of this his report when he landed in Kronshtadt was received with little enthusiasm . He had , however , been successful on two counts . By circumnavigating Antarctica on a track well to the south of Cook 's , he enabled cartographers to limit still further the size of the continent ; and by bringing back a mass of carefully observed facts he had added enormously to knowledge of the Antarctic . Some of his findings were relatively trivial ? his observation , for example , that in daylight the pupils of a penguin 's eyes are square but that as darkness falls they gradually become round ' ; some were conjectural ? his theory , for example , now proven , that the South Sandwich Islands were part of a chain of drowned volcanoes forming an extension of the Andes ' ; some led to important discoveries by others ? notably his data on magnetic//variation which enabled Gauss , a generation later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he did himself make one outstanding contribution to man 's understanding of the world : he put forward the suggestion , hinted at by Cook but now stated categorically from first-hand experience , that Antarctica would prove to be ledyanoy materik , a continent of ice . Bellingshausen and Lazarev both use this phrase icy continent ' in their letters ; and on 24 January 1821 the former wrote in his diary : On several occasions we saw compressed and continuous formations of ice stretching for more than 30o miles from east to west . Assuming that these stretched for the same distance from north to south , then the centre of the continent must be entirely firm , a sheet of ice , added to by falling snow and hail , and frozen into a solid block . . . . The massive formations of ice , which , as they approach the Pole become sloping hills , I would describe as continental materyr i ; for even on the warmest day our thermometer recorded 4 of frost , and this obviously does not diminish as one progresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheet of ice stretches across the Pole , passing in some places over shallow areas and in other places over Islands like Peter I.This is a not unreasonable description of Antarctica . The idea of an icy continent ' was , however , too far ahead of its time to be comprehended by the hierarchy at the Russian Ministry of Marine . Bellingshausen 's report was filed away , and when it eventually appeared in print more than a decade later it had been heavily expurgated . The rest of his career was in a minor key compared to the heroic events of his circumnavigation ; and his last post was that of Governor of Kronshtadt where he died in 1852 . It has been said that each explorer who ventures into the Antarctic takes with him his own particular world . Bellingshausen 's world was one of diffidence ; and as a result , his achievements have been underrated . It is pleasant to record that he is at last being recognized as one of the company of great explorers : the man who was not only first to sight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its structure. 90//THE FIRST LANDINGTHE QUESTION OF WHO FIRST SET FOOT on the mainland of Antarctica is almost as controversial as that of who was first to sight it . The usual claimants are the cultured Dumont D'Urville , an admiral of the French Navy ; the turbulent Charles Wilkes , a lieutenant of the United States Navy ; and the dedicated James Clark Ross , a captain of the Royal Navy . None of these , however , has so convincing a claim as the little-known sealer John Davis of Connecticut . If we look at the question dispassionately , the first person to set foot on Antarctica is very likely to have been a sealer ; for these were men whose business took them year after year to the very threshold of the continent , and once the South Shetland Islands had been discovered it was bound to be only a matter of time//before a sealing brig made the 6o-mile crossing to the mainland . The first brig to do this that we know of was the Cecilia . Her log is extant , and her voyage is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a glut of sealing vessels in the South Shetlands . First to arrive were those of the Stonington fleet ; they established themselves in the flooded crater of Deception Island and enjoyed a profitable season ; by mid-January their holds were packed tight with pelts ? the last golden harvest of the unfortunate fur seal . Next to arrive was a British contingent from Botany Bay ; its members landed on Livingston Island and warned off their rivals with Guns , Pistoles &; Swords ' . Last to arrive were the New Haven men ; they found the best beaches either worked out or occupied , and were forced to look farther afield . Captain Davis of the Cecilia sums up their predicament : Concluded it best to go on a cruse to find new lands , as the seal is done for here . ' And on Tuesday , 30 January 1821 Davis sailed southwest from Deception Island into the ice-choked waters that guard the Antarctic peninsula . Next afternoon he sighted a low new-discovered island ' to the west-southwest , and after a good deal of difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boat ashore on the north coast . The sun made a brief but welcome appearance the following morning and Davis took a midday sight which enabled him to fix his latitude ? 63 25 ' S ; this places him , beyond doubt , on Low or Jameson Island . In the course of the next few days Jameson Island was systematically plundered , the better part of a thousand seals being clubbed to death . Then , on 6 February the Cecilia again headed into the unknown . For that evening , as the clouds rolled clear of a dying sun , more land was sighted to the southeast . This can only have been Hoseason Island , which is less than 30 miles from Jameson ? less than 30 miles also from the mainland of Antarctica . Throughout the night the Cecilia held course to the southeast , and at dawn she might have been expected to be close under Hoseason . Davis 's log , however ? albeit in a very matter-of-fact manner  --  records something far more spectacular : Wednesday 7th February 1821Commences with open Cloudy Weather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Land in that direction S.E. At lo A.M. close in with it , out Boat and Sent her on Shore to look for Seal . At 11 A.M. the Boat returned but had found no Seal . At noon our latitude was 64 01 South . Stood up a Large Bay , the Land high and covered intirely with snow . . . . I think this Southern Land to be a continent . This is an authentic extract from an authentic logbook ; and bearing in mind that the Cecilia 's starting point is known to have been Jameson Island and that her course is known to have been southeast , there can be little doubt as to what the entry describes : a vessel standing into Hughes Bay ( at the mouth of the Gerlache Strait ) and landing a boat on the mainland of Antarctica in the vicinity of Cape Charles . What must have happened was this . The Cecilia must have sailed past92Hoseason during the night , and at dawn have been brought up short by the mainland itself . This is confirmed both by Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hoseason and within a couple of miles of the Antarctica coast , and also by his description of a large continental mass of land , high and covered entirely with snow ? a description which he would never have made of the diminutive Hoseason . There seems little doubt therefore that the honour of being first to set foot on the mainland belongs not to D'Urville , Wilkes or Ross , but to the little-known Davis of New Haven . It has nonetheless been the big , nationally sponsored expeditions which have caught the attention of posterity . Nor is this surprising . For there is a world of difference between a secret landing of which no report is published for more than a century , and a great **28;30;TOOLONG voyage of discovery , attended by a fanfare of publicity and followed by a spate of controversy . Of the three such expeditions which in the mid-nineteenth century headed for Antarctica , the first to get under way was the French . Early in September 1837 a pair of unconverted corvettes , the Astrolabe and the Zelee , set sail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not auspicious . The two vessels were ill equipped ? they were not even copper sheathed ; the expedition was divided in its objective ? for its patron Louis Philippe was anxious to surpass Cook 's farthest south , whereas its commander Dumont D'Urville was anxious to carry out a magnetic survey ; and D'Urville himself was past middle age and in poor health ? ' Ala ! ce bonhomme-la ne nous menera pas loin ! ' a seaman was heard to mutter as the admiral , who was plagued by gout , hobbled aboard . In fact D'Urville was to take his expedition a great deal farther than anyone had a right to expect , and at the end of his voyage was to produce one of the most beautiful and erudite books of exploration that has ever been published. //Jules Sebastien Cesar Dumont D'Urville is an entertaining character . It has been said ? and said rightly ? that he was brusque , intolerant and born to trouble as surely as sparks fly upward ' ; but on the reverse side of the coin he had courage , determination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explorers ? he was , in the classical sense of the word , a deeply cultured man . Indeed he is probably best remembered today as the discoverer of the Venus de Milo ; for it was he who first recognized the statue when it was unearthed on Melos , and it is almost entirely due to his efforts that it stands today in the Louvre . His expedition crossed the Antarctic Convergence in December 1837 and headed into the Weddell Sea , where a decade earlier British vessels had penetrated as far as 74 ? S. The ice , however , was more solid that summer and the weather a great deal worse ; the Astrolabe and the Zelee were not strong enough to survive the buffeting of the Antarctic pack , and D'Urville found himself unable to penetrate to 64 ? S let alone to 740 . He spent a frustrating three months hovering between the South Orkneys and the South Shetlands , collecting data on ice formation and magnetism , and rediscovering , remapping and renaming a number of drab little islands ; then , early in March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pacific . His voyage so far had been pedestrian , the only flash of inspiration being provided by his artist , the young but dying Goupil , whose sketches of icebergs and floes ( like those of Edward Wilson ) combine authenticity with very real artistic merit . The Astrolabe and the Zelee spent two years in the South Pacific , engaged in ethnological research ; then in the summer of 1839/40 D'Urville again headed south . According to his diary his purpose was to advance the science of terrestrial magnetism ' ; but his departure was undoubtedly hastened by his knowledge that both Wilkes and Ross were about to take expeditions to the unknown face ' of Antarctica ( i.e. , the face which lay on the opposite side of the world to the Antarctic peninsula where the majority of sightings had been made to date ) ; for here , according to persistent but unconfirmed reports by the sealers , a great south-reaching gulf lay astride the 18oth meridian . D'Urville sailed from Tasmania on New Year 's Day 184o , a few hours after the death of Goupil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicated artist had been with him to depict the remarkable discoveries to come . For unexpectedly , less than three weeks out from Hobart , D'Urville sighted land . On the evening of 19 January 1841 his ships ' companies were just preparing to welcome Father Antarctica aboard as they crossed the Circle , when they saw to the south a distinct appearance of mountains ' . Next morning the weather was magnificent ? no wind , no cloud and the sea a rich Mediterranean blue ? and the land was clearly visible : a featureless unbroken coastline running from west-northwest to east-southeast as far as the eye could see . The shore appeared to consist of a sheer cliff of ice , some two hundred feet in height ; and so clear was the atmosphere that the snow on the receding slopes was seen to be piled up into huge symmetrical drifts , //like the dunes formed by wind in a desert . The Astrolabe and the Zelee picked their way through a network of icebergs towards the shore and at midday on 21 January D'Urville was able to fix @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 21 ' E ? which places him only a couple of miles from the continent . His compasses were swinging wildly ; no two were reading alike ; and this convinced him that the South Magnetic Pole lay only a short distance inland . He was right . And indeed his estimate of the Pole 's position ? 72 ? 00 ' S , 136 ? 45 ' E ? was remarkably accurate . For several days the Astrolabe and the Zelee followed the coast to the west , much hampered by icebergs . It was a voyage of awesome beauty ; and D'Urville paints an evocative picture of his vessels sailing through the tortuous fairways as if they were threading their way through narrow streets between tall buildings , of the officers ' orders echoing and re-echoing from the vertical walls of ice , of the sea rushing in and out of the ice caves and setting up dangerous whirlpools , and of the heat of the sun melting the snow on the flat-topped bergs so that water was continually streaming in great cataracts down their sides . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rocky island about a hundred yards offshore . The Tricolour was unfurled , rock samples were duly collected , a bottle of Bordeaux wine was ceremoni ously drunk , and then , to quote D'Urville. following the ancient custom kept up by the English we took possession of the island in the name of France and also of the adjacent coast ' . It was one of the great moments in the history of exploration . For the first time a major expedition had sighted , surveyed and landed on what was undoubtedly part of the Great Southern Continent . It could be argued too that D'Urville has another claim to fame : that of being the first man to recognize Antarctica for what it actually is . For his conception of the continent is both more accurate and more sophisticated than Bellingshausen 's , witness the entry in his diary : the continent appears to consist of a formidable layer of ice , rather like an envelope , which forms the crust over a base of rock ' ? a descrip tion which , in basic essentials , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a major scale , But the weather now brought D'Urville 's exploits to a premature end . The coast of Adelie Land ? D'Urville had named his discovery after his wife ? is the most desolate and windswept on earth ; the sun frequently is not seen for weeks at a stretch , and the wind day after day is a battering 6o knots . Ever since D'Urville 's sighting the weather had been uncharacteristically benign ; but now it showed its hand . On 24 January the Astrolabe and the Zelee were struck by a violent blizzard ; they became separated ; their canvas was ripped to shreds , and in six hours they suffered more damage than in the previous six months . Next day they managed to rejoin company ; but in the weeks that followed , as snowstorm and hurricane-force winds alternated with dense banks of rolling fog , they were too preoccupied with survival to spare more than a passing thought for exploration . By the end of the month D'Urville had had enough . His ships were leaking , his crew were suffering96 THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to head for home when a strange vessel , flying the American flag , loomed unexpectedly out of the fog . D'Urville made more sail and attempted to close with her with a view to exchanging information ; but she turned sharply away and vanished as suddenly as she had appeared into the spindrift and fog . Both commanders were subsequently to give a tart account of this encounter , and historians ever since have added fuel to the flames . But what happened was patently a misunderstanding ; and the major cause of the ships failing to make contact was the appalling weather . Nine months later the Astrolabe and Zelee were back in France , and D'Urville turned to the welcome task of preparing his report . As Hunter Christie puts it : he was particularly suited to work of this nature and the ten volumes in which his report finally appeared are illuminated , not only by illustrations of outstanding merit ( published separately in a two-volume Atlas pittoresque ) but also by descrip tive passages of the greatest beauty , well worthy of the pen that first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' In spite of the importance of his discoveries and the magnificent manner in which he presented them , D'Urville 's exploits , outside his native France , have seldom been accorded the recognition they deserve  --  his report for example , has never been translated into English . It can only be hoped that his reputation will in time become commensurate with his achievement . The vessel which had appeared and disappeared so precipitously into the fog was , as D'Urville had guessed , one of the United States Exploring Expedition under the command of Charles Wilkes . American expeditions today are characterized by the excellence of their equip ment and the rapport among their personnel ; it therefore comes as a distinct surprise to hear Wilkes 's expedition condemned as the most ill-prepared , the most contro versial and probably the most United States expedition had a traumatic birth from which it never recovered . It was conceived as early as 1821 when the House of Representatives resolved it expedient that one of our public vessels be sent South , to examine the coasts , islands , harbours , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' . America , however , had many other calls on her resources ; she had not yet tapped the wealth of her own territory ; and when she did feel the need for maritime expansion , the Pacific and the Caribbean held more obvious attractions than the Antarctic . It was therefore fifteen years before an Act of Congress to authorize the expedition was passed . There followed an incredible period of confusion : of personal feud , political intrigue , corruption , larceny and fraud . The ships selected were unsuitable , the budget was inadequate , the equip ment was not up to standard , and the personnel did nothing but bicker , resign and desert . Indeed the whole project might well have come to nothing if , in March 1838 , the command of it had not been offered to Charles Wilkes . Wilkes 's ancestry and portrait give the clue to his character . He was a descendantIOITHE FIRST LANDINGof John Wilkes , that champion of the peoples ' rights who was such a thorn in the flesh of eighteenth-century Tories ; his portrait depicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stubborn jaw and sad disillusioned eyes ; he was a born leader of lost causes . His appointment ( he was only a junior lieutenant at the time ) led to a further round of recrimination , but it was in fact a sound one ; for although Wilkes was impetuous and domineering he was also a man of great driving power , tenacity and courage and it was largely due to his efforts that on 18 August 1838 the expedition at last got under way . As Wilkes headed south that evening out of Hampton Roads he knew very well that his five ships were ill found and ill provisioned , and that his 345 men were ill tempered and ill equipped . Indeed he admitted in his diary that he felt like one doomed to destruction ' . He was determined nonetheless to push farther to the south than man had ever pushed before . His fleet arrived off Tierra del Fuego in March 1839 , and he at once dispatched the Porpoise and Sea Gull to the South Shetland Islands and the Peacock and Flying Fish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessels had a most difficult time . The ice was especially thick and far to the north that season ; the weather was even worse than usual , and conditions aboard the Porpoise and Sea Gull were miserable in the extreme . The former was a sloop of the line ; her quarters were cramped , her timbers were rotten and her gunports open to the sea . The latter was an ancient New York pilot boat that leaked like a sieve . For six weeks this ill-assorted pair beat to and fro off the tip of the Antarctic peninsula , their crews becoming progressively weaker from exposure , malnutrition and exhaustion . Then came the last straw : an outbreak of scurvy ; and in some difficulty and much distress the Porpoise and Sea Gull limped back to Tierra del Fuego . They had achieved nothing . The Peacock and Flying Fish meanwhile had been exploring some thousand miles farther to the west . They were as ill suited to polar voyaging as their consorts ; yet the cockleshell Flying Fish came close to achieving the impossible . Somehow and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Too tons managed to force her way through near-solid ice as far as 7o S ? almost to within sight of the inaccessible Marie Byrd Land . This was a truly heroic feat of endurance . It was , however , Wilkes 's only achievement during his first Antarctic summer ; and at the end of April his squadron stood north . All five vessels were in bad shape ; their canvas was in shreds and their decks were stove in ; the Sea Gull indeed was so battered that a couple of days out from Valparaiso she foundered with the loss of her entire company . As for the crews ; half-frozen , half-starved and wholly exhausted , they were as sorely tried as their ships . Small wonder that on reaching Sydney a full quarter of them deserted . Wilkes used the southern winter to patch up his battered fleet , though no amount of refurbishing could make good its basic deficiencies : poor ships and a lack of specialized equipment . Visitors to the vessels were quick to spot their lack of heating and watertight compartments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be froze to death ' . Wilkes , however , was a determined man , and by the end of December he was again heading south , his destination the little-known sea lanes south of Australia , an area which D'Urville was also about to enter . The events of the next few months are usually described as controversial ' ; and historians have pointed out that several of Wilkes 's dates are questionable , and at least one of his sighting reports erroneous . This is so . Yet without doubt Wilkes made a major contribution to the unveiling of Antarctica . For between mid-January and mid-February 1840 he sighted and closely followed a large section of the continent which was previously unknown . His first sighting took place on 16 January . It is typical of the controversy be- devilling Wilkes 's career that his denigrators have accused him of deliberately pre- dating this sighting from the 20th to the 16th so as to gain the kudos which would otherwise have belonged to D'Urville ? the Frenchman , it will be remembered , had first reported land on 19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's earlier date being correct and to the land in question being the Balleny Islands . A couple of days later a more substantial landmass was reported : It had the appearance ' , Wilkes wrote , of being 300 feet in height , forming a sort of amphitheatre , grey and dark , and divided into two distinct ridges or elevations throughout its extent . ' This , almost certainly , was the mainland of Antarctica some 400 miles to the east of Terre Adelie , where the coast has many bare strata of rocks which would tie in with Wilkes 's description . This was a major discovery , and the prelude to a quite remarkable feat of exploration . For more than a month Wilkes 's cockleshell armada followed the coastline west , the vessels seldom out of sight of land . They skirted Terre Adelie , then made their way along the ice-encompassed shore of the territory which now bears Wilkes 's name . It was a voyage of appalling hazard . One vessel , the Peacock , became ensnared//in the ice . Her rudder was torn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she lay at the mercy of a rising sea , being smashed again and again against the jagged ice floes . Her longboat was crushed , her quarter was stove in , and her booms and davits were carried away . Mill gives a vivid description of the fight to save her . For several days the ship remained in the direst peril . . . . Her rudder was brought aboard . Mr Dibble , the carpenter , was on the sick list , but he rose from his bunk and toiled with the crew for four and twenty hours without intermission to accomplish the herculean task of repairing the rudder . Eventually , though in a very unsatisfactory state , it was hung , and the ship was able to struggle out of the bay in which she had so nearly perished . She was still , however , in imminent danger of foundering , and it was obvious her only chance of survival lay in retreat . It says much for the fine seamanship of her captain , Lieutenant Hudson , that a month later the Peacock limped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line of the continent . Snow , fog , high winds and heavy seas were his companions as he pushed steadily west , catching glimpses from time to time of snow-covered mountains . His crew suffered terribly from cold , exposure , malnutrition and exhaustion . Many were confined to their bunks ; and early in February the surgeons took the almost unprecedented step of petitioning their commander that illness was so reducing their number as to hazard the safety of the ships and the lives of those aboard ' . Wilkes , however , was adamant . I considered it was my duty ' , he wrote , to proceed and not to give up the cruise until the ship was totally disabled , or it should be evident to all that it was impossible to persist any longer . ' He was particularly keen to set foot on the mainland , which was clearly visible day after day . The approaches , however , were everywhere blocked by ice too solid to penetrate ; and Wilkes ? like D'Urville before him and Ross after ? had to be content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on 14 February , not far from the tooth meridian ; his ship 's company going through the inevitable ritual of raising flags and collecting speci- wens . A few days later , much to the relief of his crew , Wilkes hauled away to the north , having followed the coast of Antarctica from close inshore for the better part of 2,000 miles ? an achievement which , in his ill-found ships , can only be described as magnificent . A month later he dropped anchor beside the Peacock . The aftermath of the United States Exploring Expedition was , unhappily , as tempestuous and fraught with drama as the voyage itself . In Europe Wilkes 's achievements were recognized and applauded , and he was awarded the gold medal of the Royal Geographical Society ? the ne plus ultra of exploration . In his own country , however , he was first hauled in front of a court-martial and charged with oppression , injustice , administering illegal punishments , falsehood and scandalous conduct ' , and then denied funds for the publication of his report ? as late as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that is the best thing ! ' It could be argued that Wilkes brought many of his troubles on himself ; for without//doubt he was impetuous , arrogant and quarrelsome ; he seems also to have had a masochistic streak that made him positively revel in the suffering and injustice he was forced to endure . On the other hand it could be argued that he was more sinned against than sinning , and that the root cause of all his troubles was the failure of the United States administration to provide him with adequate tools for the job they expected him to do . Whichever view one holds , there can be no denying that he was a great explorer : a man of rare courage , tenacity and resource who discovered a large section of Antarctica . Wilkes was a loner . The man who followed him into the Antarctic was the exact opposite : the chosen child of the Establishment , an explorer backed to the hilt by the resources of the greatest seafaring nation of the day . James Clark Ross was born , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He had everything : wealth , influence , ability and good looks ? he was said to be the handsomest man in the Navy ' , a compliment which his portrait appears to endorse . He went to sea at the age of twelve , and was to spend the rest of his active life in the service of three gods : his country , the Royal Navy and polar exploration . Between the age of eighteen and thirty-eight he spent seventeen years in the Arctic , in search of the elusive North West Passage ; and at the end of this time what he did not know about handling ships in the ice was not worth knowing . His career seemed to reach its climax in 1831 , when he became the first man to set foot on the North Magnetic Pole ; a few years later , however , he was offered a change of locale : the command of an expedition bound not for the Arctic but for the little-known Antarctic . Ross 's preparations were as smooth and efficient as Wilkes 's had been contentious and inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Erebus and Terror . The former , like most British vessels used for polar exploration in the nineteenth century , was a bomb-boat : length 105 feet , beam 28 feet , draught 11 feet and displacement370 tons ; she rolled badly and was a clumsy sailer , but she had two great assets ? her hold was enormous ( having been designed for storing mortar shells and mines ) and she was stoutly built and could stand a fantastic amount of punishment . The Terror , a veteran of many Arctic winters , was almost identical . Ross had both vessels strengthened still further . Their decks were taken up and replaced by two thicknesses of special planking with waterproof cloth in between ; their bow and stern sections were scientifically shored up with interlacing beams of oak ; all protuberances were smoothed from their hulls , which were then encased in a new outer skin , and their keels were not only sheathed in copper but double sheathed . At the end of this reconstruction neither ship had the grace and beauty of line usually associated with the swan-song @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pack ice they could not be bettered . When it came to choosing provisions and stores , Ross was given a free hand . He took with him a great deal of specialized equipment ( treble-strength canvas , ice saws , a portable forge , etc. ) , and sufficient food for three years ( including a vastI07THE FIRST LANDINGquantity of antiscorbutics ? 2,618 pints of vegetable soup , 2,398 lbs of pickled cabbage and 10,782 lbs of carrots ' ) ; while to quote his own words , warm clothing of the best quality was furnished to both ship 's companies , and every arrangement was made in the interior fittings that could contribute to health and comfort ' . His crews were hand picked . His orders were flexible . It would , in short , be hard to imagine a better-found expedition than that which sailed from the Medway in the autumn of 1839 . It was , however , an expedition with a limited objective ; for its aim was not so much to explore as to establish weather stations and to study magnetic variation . Throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leisurely course to the south , little dreaming that while they busied themselves with routine observations on temperature , humidity and magnetic dip , French and American expeditions were making their first groping contact with a new continent . They spent two months on Kerguelen Island where they built an observatory ? on this most dreary and disagreeable place it snowed or sleeted on 61 days out of 63 ' ; they ran into a hurricane ? It was indeed an unusual sight ' , wrote the matter-offactRoss , to see the crests of the great waves driven completely over us in solid sheets ' . Not till they arrived in Hobart was their expedition stimulated by the spur of urgency . For unwelcome news was waiting for them : not only had the French and Americans discovered land in the far south , they had discovered it in the very area where Ross had hoped to search for the magnetic pole . His reaction was typically forthright : Fortunately , he wrote in my instructions much had been left to my judgement in unforeseen circumstances ; and impressed with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the southern as well as the northern regions . I considered it would have been inconsistent with the pre-eminence she had ever maintained , if we were to follow in the footsteps of any other nation . I therefore resolved to avoid all interference with their discoveries , and selected a much more easterly meridian on which to endeavour to penetrate south . His choice of route is interesting . In the Arctic , Ross had often taken his lead from men who knew local conditions ? the Eskimos and the whalers . Now , in the Antarctic , he did the same . He acted on the advice of the sealers , who told him how the pack ice fell away round the 18oth meridian ; he listened to their stories of how sealing vessels had sighted a lagoon-like expanse of open water ' beyond the consolidated pack , and it occurred to him that with his specially strengthened vessels he might be able ? for the first time in history ? to penetrate the ice and force his way through to the virgin continent beyond . His expedition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Terror sailed south from Hobart on 12 November 1840 , and that night the flagship 's doctor Robert McCormick made an entry in his diary which epitomizes their new-found sense of expectation : Our future promises to be full of interest , for we may soon make great discoveries in a region of our globe freshio8 THE FIRST LANDINGand new as at creation 's first dawn . ' On 26 December they sighted their first iceberg . On New Year 's Eve they crossed the Antarctic Circle . On 2 January they were brought up short by the consolidated pack . It stretched away in front of them as far as the eye could see : a damask of white , solid at the edge but , much to Ross 's satisfaction , with occasional leads of open water inside . The ships ran parallel to it for several miles , searching for a place to enter ; but there seemed no flaw in its defences . Ross took a chance . He ran full-tilt at the edge of the pack . Again and again his bow smashed into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the Erebus , with her double skin and shored-up bow , was relatively unhurt . Strength alone , however , would never have forced the vessels through . It needs fine seamanship to run a sailing ship 's bow again and again into the same place at the same velocity . This seamanship Ross took as a matter of course , and his account of breaking into the pack is prosaic and unemotional : After about an hour 's hard thumping , we forced our way into some small holes of water , connected by narrow lanes . We found the ice lighter and more scattered than it appeared , and by no means as formidable as we had been led to expect .... At noon we were in latitude 65- 55 ' S , and the sea was no longer discernible from the masthead as we pursued our way through the pack , choosing the clearest leads ' and forcing the interposing barriers , at times sustaining violent shocks which nothing but ships so strengthened could have endured . By nightfall they had penetrated 50 miles into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have dared to hope . Antarctica , however , was not to yield her secrets without a fight . During the night of 5/6 January the ice closed up and thickened , and dawn found the Erebus and Terror twisting anxiously this way and that to avoid being frozen in . But to no avail . At noon they were forced to heave to in a tiny circle of water out of which there was no escape . To start with Ross was not unduly worried ; but the weather that evening took a turn for the worse . The barometer dropped . Storm clouds came rolling out of the west . By dawn on 7 January it was snowing hard , the wind had increased to a full hurricane and the swell had widened and steepened . It widened and steepened to such an extent that soon , to Ross 's consternation , the pack began to split up , and great waves alive with solid blocks of ice came sweeping down on the imprisoned ships . Ross was to learn that day why no ship had ever ventured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the storm raged with such violence that there seemed no hope of survival . They tried to moor in the lee of a floe , but their hawsers parted . They tried to run with the wind , but their canvas was ripped to shreds . They rigged staysails , and alternatively backing and filling did their best to avoid the heavier conglomerationsof ice . But they could not avoid them all . Again and again great blocks as hard as adamant and many tons in weight , crashed into the labouring vessels . TheyI I Isuffered terrible damage . The Erebus 's rudder was twisted and split , and the copper sheathing ripped from her hull ; the Terror 's rudder was wrenched clean away , so that the luckless vessel broached to in the trough of the swell . And still the waves increased in fury , till they towered high over the yardarms . Even the phlegmatic Ross thought their last moment had come . Our ships , he wrote rolled and groaned amidst the fragments of bergs , over which the ocean rolled its mountainous waves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneath its foaming waters . . . Each of us could only secure a hold , waiting the issue with resignation to the will of Him who alone could bring us through such extreme danger ; watching with breathless anxiety the effect of each collision and the vibrations of the tottering masts , expecting every moment to see them give way . But the storm was too violent to last for long . That night the wind dropped , the waves gradually lost their malevolence , and the vessels were able to limp for shelter behind a line of massive bergs . They had survived partly because of their special strengthening , and partly because of their fine seamanship . I must express my admiration ' , wrote Ross with typical understatement , of the conduct of the crew on this trying occasion : throughout a period of twenty-eight hours , during any one of which there appeared to be little hope that we should live to see another , the coolness , steady obedience and untiring exertions of each individual were in every way worthy of British seamen . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ praise . For two days the Erebus and Terror lay in the lee of a chain of icebergs , effecting repairs . Then , once again , they got under way . They made good progress , for the storm had broken up the pack , and on the evening of 8 January open water wasII2sighted to the south . Next morning the vessels broke free of the ice . The barrier that had remained inviolate since its creation had at last been breached , and the way to the continent lay open . Ross 's hopes were divided . The prospect of discovering new lands was alluring ; but below in his cabin was the Union Jack that he had unfurled ten years pre- viously , at the North Magnetic Pole , and to raise the same flag at the South Magnetic Pole was his most cherished dream . By the evening of io January the angle of magnetic dip had increased to 85 ? , and they realized the pole must be near . But even as they were calculating its position , an ice blink was sighted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would discover first , new lands or the pole . The question was resolved that night : Monday , January i ith , McCormick wrote . At 2.30 a.m. land was reported from the crow 's nest . . . . It appeared at first indistinctly , through haze and a few light clouds , skirting the horizon on the port bow . I could just trace the outline of a mountain , with a steep escarpment streaked with snow . After about an hour this became so inter- mingled with the haze as to give rise to doubts about it being land at all . But by 9 a.m. the coast had become sufficiently well defined for me to get a sketch . It extended from S.E. to S.W. ; very high , h and was enveloped in snow . The whole of the upper y g peer part this vast mountain range appeared to be a glaciation , relieved at intervals by the apex of some dark hummock or peak . . . . And it soon became clear that we had discovered a new land of so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the appellation of a Great New Southern Continent . It was indeed a land of continental proportion which now unfolded peak by peak in front of Ross 's eyes . All day he stood towards it , marvelling at the grandeur of the mountains , the dazzling white of the snow , the brilliance of the light and the silence that hung like a benediction over his advancing ships ; and next morning he made a landing . It must have been an incongruous ceremony : the officers in their gold braid and wing collars , the seamen in their red frocks and Welsh wigs , the penguins which fought ' the landing party , the ceremonial raising of the Union Jack and the three hearty cheers as Ross took possession of the newly discovered lands in the name of our Most Gracious Sovereign , Queen Victoria ' . It was an occasion reminiscent of Wilkes 's and D'Urville 's landings , especially as it too took place on an offshore island . In one respect , however , Ross 's landing was very different from his predecessors ' : it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LANDINGFor several days the Erebus and Terror followed the land from a distance of no more than five or six hundred yards . It was this ability to stand close inshore which was the hallmark of Ross 's expedition . Other explorers had seen Antarctica only from a distance , from beyond the consolidated pack . Ross had penetrated the pack ; and in the lagoonlike belt of water between ice and land the wonders which his predecessors had seen only as through a glass darkly , he was now able to appreciate face to face . On 15 January , rounding a cape , he was greeted by a scene of the utmost grandeur : a great chain of mountains , over 1o,000 feet in height , stretching to the south in a single unbroken sweep from sea to sky . Ross named them after various sea lords about whom we know little and care less ; not till he had been more than a week off the coast of Antarctica did he name a landfall after his fiancee ? Cape Anne ? his gallantry in this respect falling far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Terror followed the coastline , surveying the mountains , taking samples from the sea bed and marvelling at the great herds of whales , which , as Ross remarked with sad clairvoyance , had hitherto enjoyed a life of tranquillity beyond the reach of their persecutors , but would soon be made to contribute to the wealth of our country ' . By 23 January they were in latitude 74 23 ' , farther south than man had ever penetrated before . That night they drank to farther south still ' , and , since the coastline seemed to bear away to the southwest , to the discovery of the magnetic pole ' . But it was something far more bizarre than the pole Which they discovered . Thursday , January 28th , wrote McCormick . We were this morning startled by the most unexpected discovery in this region of glaciation : a stupendous volcanic mountain in a high state of activity . At to a.m. , upon going on deck , my attention was arrested by what appeared to be a fine snowdrift , driving from the summit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , this apparent snowdrift resolved itself into a dense column of smoke , intermingled with flashes of red flame , emerging from a magnificent volcanic vent , in the very centre of a mountain range encased in eternal ice and snow . The peak itself , which rises to an altitude of 12,400 feet was named after our ship , Mount Erebus . Adjacent to it , and separated by only a saddle of ice , arose a sister mountain to the height of 10,900 feet , but now extinct . This received the name of Mount Terror . It was a sensational discovery . But in the afternoon they were brought up short by something even more sensational . For to the east of Mount Erebus they found their way blocked not by a coastline , but by a vast barrier of solid ice , smooth as onyx and treble the height of their mast . Ross 's diary gives a vivid picture , both of the ice barrier and of his feelings at finding it blocked the way south . As we approached the land , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as far as the eye could discern . It presented an extraordinary appearance , //gradually increasing in height as we got nearer to it , and proving at length to be a perpendicular cliff of ice , between one hundred and fifty and two hundred feet above the level of the sea , perfectly flat at the top and without any fissures or promontories on its seaward face . What was beyond it we could not imagine , but it was an obstruction of such a character as to leave no doubt upon my mind as to our future proceedings ; for we might as well try to sail through the cliffs of Dover as penetrate such a mass . This was a great disappointment to us all . . . . At 4 p.m. ( just as we were hauling round to follow the barrier east ) Mount Erebus was observed to emit smoke and flame in unusual quantities , producing a most grand spectacle . A volume of dense smoke was projected at each successive jet with great force . . . and as the smoke cleared away the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . That evening , favoured by a fresh north-westerly breeze , we made good progress along the lofty cliffs of the ice barrier . It would be impossible to conceive a more solid-looking structure ; not the smallest appearance of a vent or fissure could we discover throughout its whole extent . But many small fragments lay at the foot of the cliffs , broken away by the force of the waves , which dashed their spray high up the face of them . For two weeks and 25o miles the Erebus and Terror skirted the ice barrier , which , as they followed it east , grew steadily loftier and mote intransigent . But the short Antarctic exploring season was now drawing to its close ; young ice , the harbinger of winter , was already forming on the water between cliffs and pack ; and in midFebruaryRoss was forced to haul away to the north to prevent his ships being frozen in . He spent several days searching in vain for an anchorage where it might be possible to winter . Then he stood north into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diary to this second crossing of the ice , and historians have tended simply to quote his comment that the passage was made without undue difficulty ' . One entry , however , is significant : March 7th . We found ourselves embayed in a deep bight of the pack , stretching across our bows . Much hampered by fields of pancake ice , we tried to haul to the wind . But at noon it fell quite calm , and the heavy easterly swell began to drive us onto a line of large bergs ? from the mast-head we counted 84 large ones and some too of smaller dimension . . . . After a while we found we were fast closing this chain of bergs , so closely packed together that we could distinguish no opening through which the ships could pass ; the waves breaking violently against them , dashed huge masses of pack ice against the precipitous faces of the bergs , now lifting them nearly to their summit , now forcing them again far beneath their waterline , and sometimes rending them into a multitude of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For eight hours we drifted slowly towards what to human eyes appeared inevitable destruction ; the high waves and deep rolling of our ships rendered towing with the boats impossible , and our situation was the more painful and embarrassing from our inability to make any effort to avoid the dreadful calamity that seemed to await us . . . . Soon we were within half a mile of the range of bergs . The roar of the surf . . . and the crashing of ice , fell upon the ear with fearful distinctness , whilst the frequently averted eyes as immediately returned to contemplate the awful destruction that threatened in one shortItsTHE FIRST LANDINGhour to close the world and all its hopes and joys and sorrows upon us for ever . In this our deep distress we called upon the Lord , and He heard our voices . A gentle wind filled our sails . Hope was revived : and the greatest activity prevailed to make the best use of the feeble breeze . As it gradually freshened , our heavy ships began to feel its influence , slowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark we found ourselves far removed from danger . If this was voyaging without difficulty ' the mind boggles at what perils must have beset Ross in the more eventful moments of his ice cruise ! By mid-March the Erebus and Terror had fought free of the pack , and under a full moon and brilliant coruscations from the aurora , were standing north for Hobart . They arrived on 6 April , after a voyage within the Antarctic Convergence of 145 days . Ross 's ships were in excellent condition . Every one of the crew was in perfect health ; and seldom on a major voyage of discovery can so many things have gone right and so few wrong . Ross spent two more seasons in the Antarctic , his ships being frozen solid in the pack , coming into violent collision , and all but foundering in the lee of an iceberg whose walls literally scraped their rigging . His achievements on these voyages were far from negligible , but they did not break new ground ; they simply extended his previous discoveries . Not till the autumn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after a commission of four years and five months , one of the longest in naval history . Ross , on his homecoming , was showered with every kind of honour . He was knighted and awarded the gold medal of a host of societies , and a distinguished future seemed to be his for the taking . In fact , with the exception of one short voyage , he never went to sea again . He retired , married and settled quietly in Aylesbury ? which in English terms is a long way from salt water . It would be no exaggeration to say that he had worn himself out , both physically and mentally , in the service of his three gods . Within the space of eighteen months three great national expeditions had seen and landed on Antarctica . There had also been a number of important voyages made under the auspices of Enderby and Sons , oil merchants of London , the greatest being that of John Biscoe who in 1830-2 circumnavigated the continent from close inshore , discovering Enderby Land , Adelaide Island and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found they did not like . It was clear from the reports they brought back that the new-found land was useless for colonization ; scientists had for the time being more information than they could digest ; and so we now enter what Mill has termed The Age of Averted Interest ' . For half a century Antarctica was ignored . About the only people to go there were whalers , drawn to the Southern Ocean ? like the sealers a century before them ? by explorers ' reports of the valuable harvest that could be wrung from the ice-cold waters of the south. 116//THE RICH GREEN PASTURES OF THE SOUTHWHALING IS A CONTROVERSIAL SUBJECT . It iS hard to be dispassionate about a creature as sentient and in many ways as noble as a horse , plunging in agony at the end of a towline until it is stabbed to death . A fair summing up of the industry has , however , been made by F. D. Ommanney who for several years was whaling inspector aboard an Antarctic factory ship : The story of whaling , he writes is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few centuries and repeating the same pattern . Each begins with discovery and hopeful enterprise , passes through a phase of fierce competition and ruthless exploitation , and ends in diminishing resources , exhaustion and failure . In his pursuit of the whale man has been both blind and ignorant . To understand the most recent , and in some ways the most tragic , of these chapters , whaling in the Antarctic , we need to know something of its antecedents. //Whales have been hunted for longer than history has been recorded , for their bones together with Stone Age harpoonheads have been found in middens dating back to 3000 B.C. Modern whaling , however , begins with the Basques . Even today the carcasses of right whales are sometimes found stranded on the beaches of the Golfe de Gascogne ; and if it seems curious that so powerful a swimmer should come to so ignominious an end , the fact is that whales are unable to go astern ' , so that once aground they are left high and dry by a receding tide . The Basques used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil and eat their flesh . The next step was predictable : fishermen took to going after the whales in boats , initially to try and drive them onto the beaches and subsequently to kill them and tow their bodies to the shore . By 1200 the Basques had perfected a technique of whaling which was to be followed for 700 years , and which indeed is still followed in many parts of the world today . A chaloupe ( or shallow-draught whaling boat ) would be rowed as stealthily as possible and as close as possible to its quarry ; the harpooner would then fling his weapon into the shining cliff of the whale 's body ' , his objective being not to kill the creature but to make it fast . The injured whale would then either run or dive , taking with it the harpoon line , which was often whipped out so fast over the chaloupe 's bow that it smoked and had to be dowsed with water . Once the first panic-stricken rush had slackened , the rope would be pulled taut and the whale played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? sometimes in minutes , usually in hours , but occasionally not for days ? when the terrified and exhausted creature could be hauled alongside and stabbed to death . When the steersman was ready writes Ommanney he sent his lances home , three or four if possible , aimed at the heart . Now the boat had to back away quickly , for the whale , mortally wounded , would begin its terrible and pathetic death agony , thrashing the water with its tail in fear and pain , snapping its jaws and wallowing in a smother of foam , crimsoned with blood . If the boat did not pull away fast enough it was liable to be struck by the tail or snapped by the jaws . . . . Sometimes the whale had to be approached and attacked a second or even a third time .... Then began the long and arduous task of towing the carcass back . One is torn between admiration of the whalers ' courage , and pity for their huge but defenceless quarry . Throughout the Middle Ages the Basques enjoyed a monopoly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , there began a chain of events which was to be repeated many times in many oceans . The whales grew scarce , for the simple reason that they were being hunted to near extinction ; by 1550 there was hardly a right whale left in the central reaches of the Atlantic ; the industry collapsed , and with it the Basques ' prosperity . Not until a new subspecies ( the Greenland right ) was discovered on the periphery of the Arctic did the industry revive . And this revival , when it eventually came about in the early seventeenth century , benefited not the Basques , but the rich seafaring nations who had **27;60;TOOLONG , that the review had simply indicated that , dependingon how the Family Hour developed , " it was possible that some of the program matter that they had delved into during the past season might have to be altered . " Lear remembers Wood 's remarks very differently . " All right , let me put it to you this way , " Lear remembers Wood finally saying . " You made twenty-three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now in rerun . We had some of our people look through all of those episodes . If you were making these same shows next year , under the Family Hour concept we would not allow you to make two of them at all , and you would be required to make considerable changes in twenty of the others . " Lear was incredulous . " That leaves me with one show that gets a clean Family Hour bill of health , " he said , almost to himself . It was hardly a question . Wood answered anyway . " That 's what my people tell me . " What people ? " Lear asked . His voice was surprisingly even . " Why do n't you leave it to the public ? You have the endorsement of the American viewer . If you consider the channel selector a vote , they voted it the number-one familyshow , at eight o'clock on Saturday night , for all those years . So you 've got the public with you . Just keep it there . " During the conversation Frances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listeningwhile looking at a newspaper , scribbling a postcard , preparing to get dressed for the evening . But something in her husband 's tone now made her take special notice . He was n't shouting or cursing . His voice had n't even risen ; it was quiet and had a tone of almost exaggerated rationality . But she knew he was furious . She had heard him use that exaggeratedly rational tone only a few times before . And only when he was very angry . Lear suddenly wondered what the impact of the Family Hour would be on his other shows . Maude was on at 9:00//P.M. , and therefore free of the Family Hour , and Wood had nothing to do with Sanford and Son , which was on NBC . But Lear did have two other programs that were on in the 8:0040-9:00 time period . " What about Good Times and The Jefferson ? " he asked . " Do n't worry about them , " Wood responded , " it 's not the same thing . " " Why not ? " Lear asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pregnancy , a husband and wife who bed each other regularly and like it and allude to it . And we use a fair amount of street language on Good Times . " " It does n't matter as much with Good Times and The Jefferson , " Wood said . Perhaps he was thinking of the way in which All in the Family , as television 's most popu- lar show , had become a kind of test case for the other networks . But to Lear , who knew nothing about the inter- network battles that were going on backstage , it seemed more than coincidental that both shows were primarily black . Now Wood changed his tack . " I wish you could spend some time on my side of the desk and get my phone calls and open my mail , " he almost pleaded . It was n't the first time Wood had said something like that to Lear , but somehow he never explained just whom he was talking about . " I wish you could see the kind of pressure we 're getting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are winds blow- ing in the nation ... " " What winds ? " " Norman , I 'm not talking about crank calls and letter- writing campaigns . You would be impressed by the peo- ple who are phoning in and complaining about All in the Family . " " Like who ? " " The point is that we just ca n't let you do the same kind of show at eight o'clock next year . " " You know I ca n't just change Archie , " Lear said . " He's//a fifty-year-old man . Fifty-year-old men do n't change like that . " " I 'm not arguing with you , " Wood broke in , " but those are great performers , and you can do great shows , and he does n't have to say hell ' and damn ' so often . " " Hell ' and damn ' are not the essence of Archie Bunker , but after five years , the character ca n't exist without them now and again . And the characters and themes in All in the Family stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is known for those themes and characters , and peopletune in expecting to see them . If twenty of the shows we did this year were unsuitable for the Family Hour , we would have to change the shows in ways that would be unfair to our viewers and ourselves . " Lear thought of the show 's communication with the American public for the last five years , the give and take , telling stories to a public that wrote back and said " Thank you , " that wrote back and said , " You know what happened at 8:3o last night ? We got so caught up in that story that we found it was ii o'clock and we were still thinking about it " ; that wrote to tell him that " the next morning our family was still arguing about last night 's show . " As he put it later , Lear thought about how all that communicating , " which was done in sunshine and with open doors , was now declared to be something naughty , unsuitable for families , which ought to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finally the conversation began to draw to a close . Since Lear would not change Archie , Wood insisted that there was only one thing to do . " Well , we felt that this was a conversation that had to take place , " Wood explained . " I had to ask you about it . If there is nothing that can be done with the show , we want to move you to Monday night at nine P.M. You should be happy with the change . It is historically the best time period on television . More sets are turned on at that hour of the night than at any other time during the week. // " Lucille Ball lived there for a long time and did very well , " Wood concluded . " The show should be as popular as ever . There was no point in continuing to argue with Robert Wood , Lear concluded . CBS was obviously going to move All in the Family to 9:00 P.M. The battle over the Family Hour would have to be waged in another forum . That evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambiance of the restaurant at which they chose to dine . In fact , as they later remembered it , they might as well have been eating in Los Angeles at a cafeteriaor a McDonald 's . For the more he thought about it the angrier he became . Something he loved was about to be declared indecent ; his prime vehicle of communication with the American people was about to be given a differenthome . And it was even possible that the financial value of his most precious program would thereby be lessened . At dinner he tried to determine what it all meant . All in the Family was , in his phrase , being thrown to the wolves ? but why ? What were the " winds blowing in the nation " ? Were there forces that did n't want entertainment programming dealing with political issues , provoking debate on the economy and race and social mores ? And who were the people sending letters to Wood or calling him on the phone ? Were they people in government or the advertising industry or the National Rifle Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Californiawith at least four half-hour prime-time shows each week , all of which were frequently in the top ten , presentinghis own views on American society ? In past years Wood had asked Lear to back off a little . You did a show about rape , a show about cancer , a show about privacy , Wood would say . Now , for crying out loud , ca n't you cool it for a while and have some fun ? And Lear//would say that those shows were entertainment , that everyone who saw them thought they were funny . And Wood would tell Lear again about the calls and letters . But he would never say whom they were from . This time Lear was determined to try to find out. 2Censorship PastPUT into the perspective of the history of popular media in America , the efforts to censor television were not new and should not have been surprising . The pressures for censorship become most pronounced when art becomes most controversial , and the unique intensity of the attacks on television in the early 1970 's simply reflected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the medium was for the first time using material and discussing topics that could be offensive . Some forty years earlier , similar pressures had led the movie industry to set up self-regulatory machinery . Outragedby such gangster films as Little Caesar , Scarf ace and Public Enemy , and by explicit sexual references in movies featuring Mae West and Jean Harlow , the CatholicChurch in 1934 helped establish the Legion of Decencyto review and rate films . When the Church threatened to urge its members to boycott all movies if the industry did n't improve the moral tone of its films , and the Federal Council of Churches told movie moguls that they//would seek federal censorship unless the industry enforceda tough movie code , the leading film companies took decisive action . Since five companies produced most of the movies and controlled 70 percent of the first-run theaters in major cities , they were able to create an effectiveProduction Code Administration ( PCA ) , under the direction of former Postmaster General Will Hays , and to prevent distribution of films that did n't earn the PCA 's seal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " prohibited the production of films dealing directly with topics such as adultery , venereal disease , narcotics , and miscegenation , specifically banned the use of such words and phrases as " tart , " " whore , " and " S.O.B. , " said no to the sound of a " raspberry " or a " Bronx cheer , " and forbade " traveling salesmenand farmer 's daughter jokes " as well as " toilet gags . " The words " hell " and " damn " were only allowed in a historicor biblical context . One of the most celebrated events of the era involved the last line of Gone with the Wind , in which Clark Gable tells Vivien Leigh , " Frankly my dear , I do n't give a damn . " Though MGM ultimately got that line approved , the censors did succeed in eliminatinga sequence of the movie in which Rhett told Scarlett , " May your mean little soul burn in hell for eternity , " and Scarlett reacted by making the sign of the cross . The movie censors ' total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure , but it also reflected a widespread belief that movies were not fully protected by the First Amendment of the Constitution . The U.S. SupremeCourt had affirmed the right of states and municipalitiesto censor objectionable films . Movies are " not to be regarded . . . as part of the press of the country , " the Court held , and can be regulated , because they are " capable of evil and have the power for it . " As a result , beginning with Birth of a Nation , which was successfully banned in some areas because of its treatment of race relations and Reconstruction , courts permitted state and//local censorship boards to block a wide variety of films , including those that featured sexual immorality , excessive " gun-play , " and " Communist propaganda . " Since such government censorship was always a real possibility , self- censorship by the PCA seemed a prudent alternative . Though many great movies were produced during the thirties and forties , the studios ' general requirement that movies end happily also tended to hamper art and creativ- ity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hollywood ending " became a term of derision symbolizing the on-screen fan- tasy world , which seemed matched in real life only by the fan-magazine version of the life of the Hollywood stars . One went to the movies to escape and be entertained , seldom to be challenged or educated . The political content that did exist was further stifled in the Cold War era , when , following congressional allega- tions that left-leaning writers were inserting communist propaganda into their films , scores of writers were black- listed and all potentially controversial material was steri- lized . An industry watchword became , " If you want to send a message , use Western Union . " But while anticommunist congressmen such as Richard Nixon and J. Parnell Thomas were urging new forms of censorship , the other branches of government were knock- ing the foundations out from under the movie censors ' power . In a unanimous 1952 decision written by Mr. Jus- tice Tom C. Clark , the Supreme Court reversed itself and held that " if there be capacity for evil it may be relevant in determining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not authorize substantially unbridled censorship . " During the next three years the Court struck down a series of decisions by local censors involving mov- ies that were considered too violent , sacrilegious , or ra- cially provocative . Within a decade the number of state censorship boards had been cut from twenty-seven to four . The movie industry was , almost simultaneously , under- going a profound structural change . As the result of an//antitrust case brought by the Justice Department , and pursued by Attorney General Tom Clark before his appointment to the Supreme Court , the major studios were forced to sell their theater chains . Without control over the exhibitors , the oligopolistic power of the major studios was eroded , and in the middle fifties producer-director Otto Preminger demonstrated that the PCA had become a paper tiger . When the PCA in 1953 refused to give a seal of approval to The Moon Is Blue , a rather innocuous comedy that dealt with the taboo subject of adultery , Preminger released the movie anyway ; three years later he did the same thing with The Mart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seal because of its treatment of drug addiction . Both movies , as well as European films such as Brigitte Bardot 's And God Created Women and Ingmar Bergman 's The Virgin Spring , which were also successfully distributed without a seal , confounded and helped destroy the censors by making a healthy profit . The willingness of movie theaters to defy the code was necessitated in part by the advent of television in the fifties as a medium that could deliver " free " family entertainment into every home . Movies had to provide something different , something that appealed to a special audience or offered viewers material that they could n't find on television , such as sex , violence , and rough language . By the middle sixties the code had become ineffectual and financially counterproductive , but church and civic groups , along with government officials , continued to demand restraint . In late 1968 the motion picture industry switched from censorship to classification , allowing all films to be distributed as long as movie theaters gave their assurance that risque films would be seen only by mature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art form had come of age . The same thing could not be said of television . When Robert Wood became president of CBS-TV in early 1969 , television was , if anything , even less controversial and//more heavily censored than the movie industry had ever been . Like movies , television shows were perceived as " family entertainment , " and television had an added fillip ? it entered the home directly and could be watched by people of all ages . Some authorities argued that television 's capacity for evil surpassed that of the cinema , because it was so pervasive and , as American families left their sets on for six or seven hours a day , omnipresent . Broadcasters enjoyed less than full First Amendment protection . Since television stations , unlike newspapers or movie theaters , are licensed by the government , their owners had good reason to avoid offending powerful constituents , particularly those with political clout . Each licenselasts for only three years , at the end of which the broadcaster must ask the Federal Communications Commissionfor a new one . The licensing process puts great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominatesFCC members , and of Congress , which must decide whether to confirm FCC nominees and which has the authority to write legislation affecting the stability and profitability of the industry . As President Nixon told some of his aides when the Washington Post kept pursuing the Watergate scandal : " The Post is going to have damnable , damnable problems . They own three television stations , you know . " Moreover , television , unlike movies , is exclusively supported by advertising , and sponsors , who generally like to have their products advertised in a pleasant and **27;89;TOOLONG , provide an additional reason for the industry to engage in self-censorship . By the late sixties the industry had changed a great deal since the days when each advertiser enforced the blacklist to preventa boycott of its products , and when each show was sponsored and controlled by a single company ? which could plead for special interests of its own , as the AmericanGas Company did when it insisted that all references to " gas ovens " be removed from Judgment at Nuremberg. //But broadcasters still were reluctant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry therefore established its own code of good practices under the aegis of the industrywidebut network-dominated National Association of Broadcasters . Adherence to the NAB Code , like conformityto the PCA Code before the divestiture of the movie theaters , was made enforceable by the oligopolistic structure of the television industry . The three television networks exercise almost complete control of program production . Since the vast majority of television stations with strong signals are owned by or affiliated with one of the three networks , it is exceedingly difficult , if not impossible , to produce a high-quality comedic or dramatic programwithout their support . With the exception of news and public-affairs programming , the networks produce relatively few shows of their own , but they effectively control the essential elements of everything they broadcast : from program concept to the choice of writers , directorsand actors , to the script , and the final print . Havingthe power to control and distribute programming , the networks , particularly when acting in concert with the NAB , also have the power to censor . Although entertainment television had great moments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materialthat was explosive or controversial . Political issues , religion , sex , indeed the real world , rarely appeared . Althougheach network had an " editorial " or " censorship " department , called Program Practices at CBS and BroadcastStandards at NBC , they and the NAB had little of significance to censor on entertainment television , since the networks ' programming departments seldom scheduledshows with potential problems . Programs such as Ozzie and Harriet , Petticoat Junction , and Gunsmoke were usually trouble-free , though from time to time there were intense protests about the level of violence in action shows like The Untouchables . All of that began to change in the late sixties , however , //and Bob Wood was very much a part of the transformation . As the country 's political consciousness intensified , and movies and popular music began to deal with pressingsocial themes and matters of public policy , it became impossible for entertainment television to remain in a cocoon , particularly as the real world exploded on the evening news shows . Audiences began to demand more " relevant " programming , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in it . NBC 's Laugh-In was the most popular show of the era , and advertisers were prepared to pay premium prices to reach the kind of young , urban , money-spending audiencesthat were responding to contemporary programming . When Bob Wood became CBS-TV president in early 1969 he decided to change the face of the network : from The Beverly Hillbillies and Ed Sullivan to All in the Family and Mary Tyler Moore . But while he earned a reputation for encouraging topicalentertainment programming , Wood also became known as the enforcer of CBS policies that the creative community considered censorship . Many network executiveswere known for elegant obfuscation and willingness to pass the buck , but Wood took personal responsibility for unpopular decisions . A Los Angeles Times profile that appeared in the spring of 1975 , two weeks before his transatlantic argument with Lear , had described him as " a tough-minded no-nonsense type who could easily be cast as a Marine Colonel in a war movie . " It was the kind of description Wood liked . He even claimed to enjoy the battles . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversial , " he once explained . Wood had begun to earn his spurs as a bullet-biting censor almost six years before the Family Hour was invented . When Wood became CBS-TV president in February 1969 the network 's most contemporary and controversial show was The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour . The//show , which ranked a respectable if unspectacular twenty-fourth in audience ratings , had been involved in a running battle with CBS censors over references to " sex " ( they were n't allowed to use the words " sex education " or the expression " let it all hang out " ) , drugs , religion , politics , and the war in Vietnam . ( CBS allowed Joan Baez to dedicate a song to her husband , David Harris , who was about to go to jail , but they refused to let her explain that he was being imprisoned for resisting the draft . ) If such material now seems tame , it serves to illustrate just how bland television was ? and how determined some network officials were to keep it that way . Although he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 , Wood did not like the brothers ' disrespectful attitude toward CBS , and he knew that any number of top executives would be delighted to see them fired . The final confrontation occurred less than three weeks later , when the Smothers brothers developed a show for airing on April 6 , 1969 ? Easter Sunday . As written , the program 's format contained several controversialsegments , including a four-minute " sermonette " by comedian David Steinberg , whose previous irreverent monologue " on the well known personality of Moses " had stirred heated opposition and had led CBS to promise that no more Steinberg sermonettes would be aired . On Wednesday , April 2 , CBS 's Program Practices Departmentdecided that Steinberg 's sermonette could not be broadcast . The monologue , which was never broadcast , went in part as follows : Will the congregation please be seated for this evening 's sermon . Tonight 's sermon deals with the exciting personalities of Solomon , Lot and Jonah , all of whom had a wonderful rapport with God , whom I 'm sure you 'll all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jonah , " Go on to the King of Nineveh and tell him that he has sinned . " Jonah said , " I have a feeling he knows . " And Jonah ran away from the face of God . . . He got into a ship that was com- mandeered by 23 Gentiles . A bad move on Jonah 's part . And the Gentiles , as is their wont from time to time , threw the Jew overboard . Now , here there are two concepts that we must deal with . There is the New Testament concept and the Old Testament concept . The Old Testament scholars say that Jonah was in fact swallowed by a whale . The Gentiles , the New Testament scholars , say , " Hold it , Jews ? Jonah could not have been swallowed by a whale , because whales have tiny gullets and can not swallow whole prophets . " Therefore they offer their own theory that Jonah was in fact swallowed by a gigantic guppy . And to this day the New Testament does n't sell .. . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegram canceling the show . Wood 's telegram stated that by failing to deliver " an acceptable broadcast tape " by that Wednesday the Smothers brothers had breached their contract with CBS . The program as it stood , Wood 's telegram asserted , would not be " accept- able , " because " at the very least it contains a monologue which , in our opinion , would be considered to be irrever- ent and offensive by a large segment of our audience and therefore unacceptable even if this were not the week of the Eisenhower funeral rites and even if Sunday were not Easter Sunday . " There was immediate widespread speculation about CBS 's real motives in canceling the show and firing Tommy Smothers . Most speculation centered on Wash- ington . President Richard Nixon , with his professedly moralistic attitudes and his admitted contempt for the media , had been inaugurated only ten weeks earlier . More//important , a crusade to achieve morality in the media had recently been launched by Rhode Island Senator John Pastore . To broadcasters , Pastore was a uniquely important official . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over all broadcaster-related legislation , and some of the legislation then in front of his committee was worth literally hundreds of millions of dollarsto the broadcasting industry . In addition , Senator Pastore'scommittee had to pass on all proposed presidential appointees to the Federal Communications Commission , which is responsible for renewing , or refusing to renew , all broadcasting licenses . As if that were n't power enough , Pastore also served as chairman of the Senate **26;118;TOOLONG that controlled the FCC 's budget . It would be difficult to overstate his importance to the networks . As CBS President Arthur Taylor once remarked , " What Senator Pastore does and will do , was and is a question of daily conversation here . " What Senator Pastore was doing during the first months of 1969 was trying to devise methods of reducing televisedviolence and sex . Although originally concerned with violence , Pastore was reported to be increasingly concerned with political and religious satire on such programsas Laugh-In and The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour , and with material that was sexually suggestive . Pastore 's concern apparently had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Swedish woman implores a shaving actor to " take it off .. . take it all off , " and it was said , perhaps apocryphally , that Pastore was worried about the ad 's possible impact on a young grandchild . In early 1969 Pastore devised a plan to take such materialoff television . Since , in his view , the networks were not doing an adequate job of policing themselves , Pastore proposed that entertainment programs be precleared by the Code Authority of the National Association of BroadCENSORSHIPPAST 55casters . He indicated that if the broadcasters would take this self-regulatory step , he would press for legislation to assure the security and stability of broadcast licenses , a measure that would be invaluable to an industry whose members had nightmares that the FCC might not renew their licenses . During hearings into televised sex and violencein mid-March , Pastore asked the three television networks to promise to cooperate . He told them that he wanted to have their responses on hand by Monday , March 24 , when he was scheduled to deliver the keynote speech to the opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being held in Washington . In his address to the NAB , Pastore announced the networks ' reactions . " During the recent hearing , I prodded the network officials to reconsider this proposal , " he stated . " I can report to you today that NBC and ABC ? putting aside their private misgivings and in a spirit of cooperation ? have agreed to this proposal . " But Pastore also had to announce that the networks ' acquiescence was not unanimous . CBS had refused to go along . CBS 's response was contained in a letter from CBS President Frank Stanton , which was hand-delivered to Pastore at 5:00 P.M. 011 the Saturday before his speech . It was the kind of document that had earned Stanton , during the thirty years prior to his retirement in 1973 , a reputation as a staunch defender of the First Amendment right of broadcasters to be free from government interference . It stated : The expeditious course for CBS ? certainly the more cautious course ? would be to accommodate your view and accede to your proposal . I say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full knowledge of the many difficulties which the industry presently faces . But in the final analysis , we have decided that we can not ? andin the public interest should not ? accede to a proposal which would make the NAB Television//Code Authority the single final arbiter of network television entertainment that the American people would be permitted to see .. . Were CBS to share the responsibility for its programdecisions with the National Association of Broadcasters , it would only be a matter of time before the government would go to the Code Authority about our performance ? initially to inquire , then to urge . This would spell the beginning of the end of our independence . With what may have seemed like a touch of irony , Stantonexplained to Pastore that " ultimately , a member of the FCC ? or a Committee Chairman less restrained than you ? would insist " on certain censorship decisions . Coming less than two weeks after Stanton 's letter , the firing of the Smothers brothers seemed inconsistent , at the least , to many observers . Even The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blasted Wood 's decision . In an editorial entitled " Will the Real CBS Stand Up ? " The Times called Wood 's decision " the latest example of how the networks profess their right to freedom of expression , but fail to exercise it in defense of their own programs . " Noting that " the networks are in the midst of Congressional hearings into violence and sex , " the editorial stated that " the networks are not inclined to encourage the ridicule of established institutions in Washingtonor elsewhere . Some expendable lambs can be sacrificedon the altar of Congress in order to save the golden calf . " Since the Smothers brothers ' Easter show was never broadcast , viewers never had a chance to examine the content of the program that CBS had decided not to run . Had they seen the show , viewers would have heard , in addition to Steinberg 's controversial sermonette , an exchangebetween Tommy Smothers and Laugh-In 's Dan Rowan in which Smothers proposed that Senator Pastore//be awarded " The Fickle Finger of Fate , " Laugh-In 's mock award presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have " really done a disservice to the county " Y ? A bit skeptical , Rowan asks what Pastore has done to deserve it . " He 's handling those TV hearings , " Smothers explains . " He says everything is filth and gore on tele- vision .... Senator Pastore says he was watching a Mery Griffin show and he saw an actress , a French actress , in a low-cut gown . He said ? this is the truth ? he said that she should n't be allowed on television . " " Well , now , come on , " Rowan responds . " He may have been frightened as a young boy by a girl in a low-cut gown . You ca n't give it to him for a thing like that . " But Smothers persists , and Rowan agrees to check it out with his friends in Washington . During the course of the program Rowan keeps at- tempting to get somebody on the phone who can tell him more about Senator Pastore . Finally , as the show is clos- ing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have been calling for an hour and I ca n't seem to find anybody in Washington who really knows the real Senator Pastore , but from what I have heard he certainly sounds as if he may be an eligible nominee for our little golden finger . And so Senator Pastore , whoever you are , wherever you are , keep up the good work , and if no one claims this little beauty within the next thirty days , it 's all yours . " In a little-noticed passage in his letter refusing to go along with the NAB prescreening Frank Stanton had promised Senator Pastore that " we will intensify our efforts to improve the program standards of the CBS tele- vision network and we will be responsive to the issues you have raised . " By canceling The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour , CBS appeared to make good on that promise . For Wood the Smothers brothers ' firing probably served as an initiation into a process that became almost routine. //He took responsibility for , but evidently was only marginallyinvolved in , decisions that were based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't work the Washington scene , " he once explained . " My plate is very full doing what I do . CBS has very competent people who handle those kinds of affairs . When you get to Washington , I must draw a blank . That is not my table . " Nevertheless Wood took full responsibility , or blame , for the decision to cancel The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour . He even wrote a pugnacious letter to the editor of The New York Times . " We wonder how long The Times would tolerate a contributor , however distinguished , " he asked , " who delivered ultimatums to The Times in which he threatened not to deliver the material at all unless he received from The Times blind clearance of certain items . " This was the kind of rhetorical combat Wood thrived on . It did n't much matter that the question implieda degree of intransigence on the part of the Smothersbrothers which the facts did n't support . At least it did n't much matter until the fall of 1973 , when a jury ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who had broken the contract . The court awarded the Smothers brothers $916,300 in damages . During the next few years Wood engaged in frequent combat over the content of CBS programs . When Abbie Hoffman appeared on the late night Mery Griffin Show wearing a shirt that appeared to be made out of an Americanflag , CBS blanked out his body and face but broadcastthe oral portion of the interview . Far from avoiding responsibility , Wood appeared on CBS before and after the show to explain that he had made the decision to avert possible legal problems under antiflag-desecration statutes and to avoid affronting those viewers who might find Hoffman'sattire offensive . Wood later incurred writer-actor Carl Reiner 's wrath and resignation by vetoing a segment of The New Dick Van Dyke Show that had already been//taped , in which a young girl walked in on her parents in their bedroom while they were making love . Once Wood even turned down a planned episode of The Waltons because the script described Mary Ellen Walton 's confused reaction to her first menstrual period . The most celebrated incident during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancel the broadcast of Sticks and Bones , the bitter Tony Award-winning play about a blind Vietnam veteran 's homecoming to a family which rejects and ultimately helps destroy him . The play was scheduled for CBS network broadcast on Friday , March 9 , 1973 ? in time , some CBS executives hoped , to be eligible for Emmy Award consideration . The advance review in Time called it " harrowing . . . strong stuff for commercial TV . . . savage satire , " and Newsweek 's Cyclops said it " will drive a nail into your forehead .. . The final image on the TV screen is so perfect , and so perfectly appalling , that your mind will want to throw up . Unfortunately , the scheduled air date also came in the midst of the period when prisoners of war were returning daily from North Vietnam . The air date had been chosen , of course , long before the release of the POWs had begun , but under the circumstances many people , including advertisers and the owners or managers of some 70 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if not the program itself , in terrible taste . Three days before Sticks and Bones was to go on the air Robert Wood sent a telegram to all CBS affiliate stations announcing that the program had been indefinitely postponedbecause it " might be unnecessarily abrasive to the feelings of millions of Americans whose lives or attention are at the moment emotionally dominated by the returningPOW 's and other veterans who have suffered the ravages of war . " Part of Wood 's job was to give the news to Sticks and Bones producer Joseph Papp , the exceptionally talented//theatrical producer and creator of New York City 's " Shakespeare in the Park , " whom CBS had recently brought back to television with a four-year , **27;146;TOOLONG . Papp was furious . Wood asked him to " consider our corporate position " and assured him that CBS would broadcast the play later , at a less emotional moment . Papp , whose contract called for him to produce eleven more plays for CBS , told Wood that if the show did n't go on as scheduled he did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Wood tried to end the conversation by telling Papp how much he respected Papp 's work , the producer replied , " I have no respect for yours . " Nor did Papp keep that conversation private . Press accounts quoted him as saying , " I told Bob Wood that even if every affiliate defected , he had an obligation to put the show on the air . Who is Bob Wood ? Who is CBS to decide the mood of the country ? " Bob Wood publicly took the blame for the decision to cancel Sticks and Bones . But later reports indicated that William S. Paley , chairman of the board of the Columbia Broadcasting System , and not Wood , actually had made the decision . Indeed , it seemed possible that Wood wanted the play broadcast as scheduled . Asked why he took responsibility for the decision , Wood said , " Someone finally had to bite the bullet . . . . the decision properly went out over my name and I stand by it . " But by the spring of 1975 Wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been CBS network presidentlonger than any of his predecessors , and the job was often a thankless one . CBS had been the top-rated networkfor nineteen years , and Wood 's superiors expected no less . Even when you had nine of the ten most popular programs , Board Chairman William Paley did n't thank you ; he wanted to know why you let NBC keep CBS from getting a clean sweep . The network was making staggeringprofits , but profits were expected to grow almost geometrically each year. //Nor did the creative community seem to appreciate the kind of rear-guard battles Wood was consistently fighting on its behalf . During the spring and summer of 1973 the press had focused on Wood 's decision to postpone Sticks and Bones . How many people had complimented him during those same months for refusing to cancel the Maude abortion show or for lecturing the Nashville Better Business Bureau about the importance of free and diverse television ? And during the past year the pressure had become far more intense . While Norman Lear was winning awards from groups concerned with civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calls and letters from irate citizens and government officials . Even some of his own affiliates had become his most severe critics . Somehow , for at least a few affiliates , it was Wood , not Lear , who had become the problem . Perhaps the most extreme Wood-baiter was Charles Crutchfield , president of Jefferson Pilot Broadcasting , which owned a group of stations in the middle South affiliated with CBS . On September 26 and 27 , 1974 , Crutchfield 's station WBTV in Charlotte , North Carolina , broadcast an editorialthat all but attacked Wood directly . " Profanity and vile language have not only become incidental features of many network shows , but , in too many cases , a principaltheme , " the editorial observed . The WBTV managementurged viewers to send the station letters complaining about programs that " offend your sense of decency and taste , " and promised that " your comments , reinforced by others , will be promptly relayed to the networks . Eventually , " the editorial concluded , the networks " must be convinced that Americans want wholesome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station did n't wait for letters to start arriving beforecommunicating its sentiments to Robert Wood . The management immediately sent Wood a copy of the edi62SEE NO EVILtorial with the request that he respond . Wood was asked to present the other , presumably pro-profanity , side of the issue . On Saturday , October 1 , Crutchfield sent a copy of the editorial to Federal Communications Commission ChairmanRichard E. Wiley , along with the notation that an " invitation to respond has been sent to CBS-TV President Bob Wood . " " I really do n't know what , if anything , the Commission can do about this so-called liberalization ' of television fare , " Crutchfield wrote , " but if the networks and the stations ca n't correct it , and if the Commission 's hands are tied , I , for one , am convinced that sooner or later Congress is going to be forced ( by the public ) to retaliate with complete and absolute censorship , which , in my humble opinion , will at that time be justly deserved . " That same weekend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board in San Antonio , Texas . One of the nine board members was Wallace Jorgenson , general manager of Crutchfield 's WBTV . During the course of the meeting Jorgenson addressed his colleagues , including the representatives from each of the networks , and expressed his grave concern over the proliferation of profanity and the use of sexual innuendo . Making good on the promise to viewers who responded to WBTV 's editorial , he then dramatically dumped a briefcase full of mail in the middle of the meeting table . Tom Swafford , the CBS Program Practices vice-president , described the letters . " They were not written in pencil on ruled paper , " he said . " They were reasonable letters , intelligent letters . " But impressed as Swafford and the other network representatives may have been , they did not indicate a willingness to censor themselves more rigorously . After the Code Board meeting Jorgenson sent a note to Crutchfield . " Somebody is going to have to get to the Bob Woods , Jack Schneiders , Arthur Taylors , et cetera , at all//three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do that , we will only be treating the problem cosmetically . " By the time Wood placed his call to Lear in Paris , peoplemore influential than Crutchfield had gotten to Wood , Schneider , and Taylor , and Crutchfield had cause to rejoice. 3Arthur Taylor andTelevision ViolenceWHEN people spoke of the Family Viewing Policy in the Spring of 1975 they usually gave Arthur Robert Taylorwhat Hollywood calls a " possessory credit . " The possessorycredit customarily goes to a movie 's producer , director , or , occasionally , writer ? the person with the most clout or the most responsibility for bringing together the elements that make the project a success . Movie marqueesin April 1975 publicized Irwin Allen 's The ToweringInferno , John Cassavetes ' A Woman Under the Influenceand Mel Brooks ' Young Frankenstein . Trade press headline writers and industry officials spoke descriptively , boastingly , or acidly , of Arthur Taylor 's Family Hour . Arthur Taylor was a new phenomenon in the broadcastingworld . Most industry leaders had spent their careers in broadcasting as salesmen , station managers , or division chiefs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CBS for almost forty years . Before becoming presidentof the American Broadcasting Company , Elton Rule had been an ABC-TV station manager in Los Angeles and//president of the ABC television network , and Taylor 's counterpart at NBC , Herbert Schlosser , had been an NBC talent director and corporate executive since 1957 . Taylor , by contrast , was a financial whiz , a former investment banker with the First Boston Corporation , who , when CBS found him in 1972 , was the chief financial officer of the International Paper Company . CBS did n't want Taylor because of his brief undergraduateexperience as an interviewer with the Brown University radio station or his philosophy on the role of media in modern civilization . The company was looking for a top-flight corporate manager , an executive capable of presiding over the diversification of CBS as it moved from a broadcasting company into a wide-ranging conglomerate . The huge profits from the broadcasting and record divisions had given the company the resources to make major acquisitions . By April 1975 , CBS was sitting on $zoo million in cash , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million . But the company'sattempts at diversification had been a disaster . It had lost at least $40 million in an effort to make color television sets , and had paid vastly inflated prices for such prestigious but only moderately profitable companies as Creative Playthings and Holt , Rinehart &; Winston . The company 's most widely publicized fiasco was the purchase of the New York Yankees , which went through a series of disastrous seasons during its years under CBS management . To find the perfect blend of executive skills , CBS retainedthe services of Heidrick &; Struggles , a leading " head hunter , " or executive search firm . The first candidate Heidrick &; Struggles brought was Charles Ireland , a former Allegheny Corporation employee , who was a seniorvice-president at the International Telephone and Telegraph Company . CBS hired Ireland as the new presidentin 1971 , but Ireland died eight months later after suffering two heart attacks . Heidrick &; Struggles then re66SEE NO EVILsumed their search , and this time they came up with Arthur Taylor . When Taylor 's appointment was announced in July of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most extraordinary things that ever happened to me in my entirelife . " He received what seemed like thousands of lettersfrom people he had known throughout the years , including " classmates from kindergarten and secondgradeteachers . " The letters carried a single theme : they asked him to do something about the problems and opportunitiesof American television . Plainly the new president was going to become involved in CBS broadcasting . To Taylor the most serious problem with American television , the one that most concerned him as a citizen before joining the company , was televised violence . Taylorwas a relatively young man , thirty-seven ( the same age that Stanton had been when he became CBS presidentin 1946 ) , and he was the father of three young children , all girls . His friends in Mountainside , New Jersey , were also the parents of young children , and the violent programming to which their children were exposed was a topic that he and his friends would occasionally discuss . Moreover , on a personal level he found violence distastefuland brutality upsetting . If he had only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before joining CBS , Taylor became vastly more knowledgeable about it during the months after he joined the company . Since Frank Stanton remained as vice-chairman of the CBS board until the spring of 1973 , Taylor had nearly eight months in which to study all aspects of the company 's operations , as well as the social and political environment in which it operated . During those months Stanton told him repeatedly that televised violence " is one of the things , Arthur , that you 'll have to face in the next ten to fifteen years , if you live that long . " Taylor wound up facing it in the fall of 1974 , partly//because of NBC 's broadcast of Born Innocent , a made-fortelevisionmovie , which he found alarming . On its surface there was much to commend the program , both as drama and as social commentary . Written by Gerald DiPego and starring fifteen-year-old Linda Blair of The Exorcist , the show exposed the savage conditions in girls ' reform schools which too frequently turn confused children into depraved criminals . The story was based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most of the episodes were true . The program was produced by Tomorrow Entertainment , perhaps the best production company in the business , whose credits included The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman , the movie that Taylorconsidered CBS 's proudest achievement during his years there . The subject matter was so intrinsically difficult that NBC 's director of Broadcast Standards , Hermino Traviesas , originally vetoed the project because he did not believe it could be made into an acceptable film . He changed his mind , however , after a telephone conversation with the producers . They pointed out that they had made The Glass House , a tasteful award-winning movie on a similar subject , which had been broadcast on CBS . After screeningThe Glass House , Traviesas concluded that he was dealing with sensitive producers who could handle the subject matter appropriately . But Born Innocent was developed and scheduled in a way that , to some , seemed deliberately exploitative . In an effort to portray the reform school 's brutalizing effect , the drama depicted a shower-room scene in which Linda Blair ? happy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? is jarringly assaulted by a group of young inmates who proceed to destroy her innocence as they pull her out of the shower , throw her to the ground , force her legs apart , and " rape " her with the long wooden handle of a Jonny mop . The scene was filmed in graphic detail . As the wooden handle goes in and out of the girl , Linda Blair 's anguish and screams are fully recorded in a//performance that matches her most dramatic moments in The Exorcist . The scene makes its point vividly and artistically ; it leaves a branding-iron burn on the viewer 's memory . Although the scene is dramatically appropriate , it is also tougher than almost anything ever seen on primetimetelevision . By some accounts , the program 's producersexpected NBC 's censors to insist that it be edited for television , especially in view of Traviesas ' original veto . Instead , the NBC executives who , in midsummer , watched a rough-cut version of the shower-room scene , appeared to love every minute of it . During one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiastic that he audibly proclaimed , " This is great stuff . " NBC 's censors considered Born Innocent an excellentproduction and approved it with only the most minutealterations . The network 's executives liked it so much , in fact , that NBC made Born Innocent the centerpiece of the first week of their 1974 fall schedule . And to the surprise of many people in the industry , NBC scheduled the show for 8:oo P.M. on a Tuesday night ? rather than at g:00 P.M. , as might have been expected . Though one can only speculateabout NBC 's reasons , network executives could not have been unmindful of the fact that their fifteen-year-old star would appeal to younger audiences , many of whom would be less likely to watch a show beginning at a later hour . The show was heavily promoted with newspaper advertisements featuring Ms. Blair , " the sensational young star of The Exorcist . She 's a woman in prison . She 's fourteen years old . She 's learning fast what you have to learn to survive there . " NBC 's director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's appeal to youngsters . " We put it on as a documentary , " he said later , " for kids to see what happens if you goof off . " The show was broadcast at 8:oo P.M. on Tuesday , September 10 , 1974 . It was watched by tens of millions of//viewers . At 8:17 P.M. they watched Ms. Blair being raped by the Jonny Mop . The reaction was immediate . Although the show had been preceded by a warning ( " Some of the scenes are realistic and forthright " ) , switchboards of NBC affiliates throughout the country immediately lit up with calls from angry viewers . In Nashville there were 7o irate calls duringthe first hour of the show . NBC headquarters in New York , Washington , Chicago , and Los Angeles received over 3,000 calls and letters . They ran zo to i against the movie . Nor , apparently , was the reaction confined to angry phone calls . A few days later , on September 14 , nine-yearoldOlivia Niemi and a seven-year-old girl friend were playing in the sand on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to play on the beach . Their parents believed they were safe there ; the girls knew better than to play in the water without an adult present . That evening the San Francisco police arrested a 15-year-old boy and three teenage girls and charged them with assault . While playing on the beach , Olivia and her friend had been " raped " by teenagers wielding a beer bottle . When questioned by the police , one of the youngsters claimed that they had gotten the idea from a television show they had seen a few nights earlier . Although Arthur Taylor obviously could not foresee the incident on Baker 's Beach , he was outraged by the broadcastof Born Innocent . He thought of the letters he had received from school friends and teachers and the discussionswith his friends in Mountainside , New Jersey , about the depravity of prime-time programming . He had hoped that as president of CBS he would be able to restore some morality to the airwaves . Born Innocent , in his view , was brutal . Moreover , he thought it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worried him too ? but because he was afraid that it would get the kind of blockbuster ratings that would lead to imitation . Taylor 's training program at CBS had taught him that//network programmers are in the business of imitation : if one quiz show works , a dozen crop up ; if one Western is a success , everyone starts Westerns ; if All in the Family gets high ratings , network chiefs look for realistic shouting-match comedies . He was afraid that Born Innocent ( which became the fourth-highest-rated show of the week ) would give birth to a violent litter . Such violent programs apparently could do substantial damage . The episode on Baker 's Beach was but the latest in a series of well publicized crimes that appeared inspired by a particular television program . Perhaps the first widely imitated television crime was portrayed in The Doomsday Flight , a filmed drama written by Rod Serling and broadcast by NBC on December 13 , 1966 . In the film a bomb is placed on a transcontinental plane by a derangedman who keeps teasing officials with information about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pilot lands the plane at an altitude above that at which the bomb is triggered to explode . Before the film was broadcast , the Air Line Pilots Associationurged NBC to cancel it . The pilots warned that the drama might produce an act of sabotage . They sent telegrams to top network officials noting that " the mentallyunstable are highly responsive to , and easily provokedby , suggestion , " but NBC decided to go ahead with the broadcast as scheduled . While The Doomsday Flight was still on the air , one airline received a bomb threat , which turned out to be a hoax . Within the next twenty-four hours there were four more threats , and by the end of the next week various airlines , including American , TWA , Pan American and Eastern , had received a total of at least eight hoax calls . Since none of the callers was ever apprehended , it is impossible to know whether The Doomsday Flight was to blame , but the film 's author , Rod Serling , later said that he held himself responsible and regretted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crimes occurred in Boston on October 2 , 1973 , after the ABC televisionnetwork broadcast the movie Fuzz . In the movie a group of teenagers killed a derelict by dousing him with gasoline and setting him on fire . Two nights later **25;175;TOOLONG Wagler 's car ran out of gas in the Roxbury section of Boston . As she was returning from the gas station with a full can of gasoline she was stopped by a gang of youths who apparently forced her to give them the gasoline can , poured its contents over her head , and lit a match , turning the woman into a human torch . AlthoughMs . Wagler 's murderers were never apprehended , law-enforcement authorities charged that Fuzz and televisedviolence were to blame . There were literally dozens of Doomsday Flight or Fuzz type episodes in which , in the opinion of an increasingnumber of government officials and scientists , life had found a macabre way of imitating art . These episodes were only the most sensational manifestations of a deeply troubling social phenomenon : the apparent nexus between television violence and antisocial conduct . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty years a succession of United States senators had made repeated attempts to examinethe links between television and crime . The first important hearings were held in 1954 by Senator Estes Kefauver , chairman of the Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency . The next senator to challenge television violenceaggressively was Senator Thomas Dodd , who , as chairman of Kefauver 's old committee , held a succession of hearings between 1961 and 1964 . His efforts were followed by those of Senator Pastore , who , starting in 1969 , held hearings on the subject at least once a year . During that twenty-year span the broadcasters ' responseseldom varied . As summarized by the authors of Mass Media and Violence , a 1969 staff report to the NationalCommission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence , the industry 's consistent answers were as follows : // " First , they have asserted that there is no conclusive evidence that violence on television causes viewers to behave violently . . . . The second principal response has been that the industry itself will sponsor the research to determine the relationship between viewing violence and violentbehavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry over the years has been that they are going to reduce the amount of violence . " In reviewing the experience of the preceding fifteen years , the report to the Violence Commission concluded that each of these arguments was either in error or disingenuous . The staff found that " the amount of research sponsored by the industry on this issue was so small as to be insignificant " ; that during those years the amount of violence on television had never declined significantly , but had , rather , continued to increase for the most part , and that in 1968 , 81.4 percent of all network programs contained threats or acts of violence . The full commission found , moreover , that the evidence linking television violence with real violence was substantial . In their report they stated that " violence on televisionencourages violent forms of behavior and fosters moral and social values about violence in daily life which are unacceptable in a civilized society . " The staff and members of the Violence Commission were not the only people who by 1969 had concluded that industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , during the same months when he became the Smothers brothers ' candidate for the Flying Fickle Finger of Fate , Senator Pastore persuaded the Department of Health , Education and Welfare to initiate a special program under the auspices of the United States Surgeon General . HEW impaneled a special Scientific Advisory Committee on Television and Social Behavior to make an extensive study of the relationship between televised violence and the attitude and behavior of children. //Three years later , in January 1972 , the Surgeon General'scommittee released its report . It based its findings on some forty scientific reports , prepared by more than fifty scientists , at a total cost of more than $1.8 million . The committee released all of the research documents , contained in five huge volumes , along with the report itself . For reasons that soon became apparent the findings of the 150-page report were significant , but to many readers inconclusive . As the report stated , the committee had found1. a preliminary and tentative conclusion of a causal relationship between viewing violence and televisionand aggressive behavior ; 2. an indication that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are predisposed to be aggressive ) ; and3. an indication that it operates only in some environmentalcontexts . The report 's language sounded so tentative that Jack Gould of The New York Times , the highly respected journalist who first broke the story , erroneously reported that the committee had found no link between television and violent behavior . As the reasons for the report 's tentative-sounding languagebegan to emerge and its contents were studied carefully , the committee 's findings seemed more and more conclusive . In part , the cautious wording represented an effort by social scientists of diverse perspectives to reach a consensus . But the cautiousness was also due to somethingelse . In assembling the membership for the twelvememberpanel , HEW had included employees of CBS and NBC and , in addition , had given the networks the power , which they exercised , to veto proposed members of whom//they disapproved . As a result the committee was anything but hostile to the networks ' perspective . Nevertheless the advisory committee 's study soon becamegenerally accepted as impressive proof of the link between television and antisocial behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read the five supporting volumes , they found abundant evidence of such a link . More important , perhaps , the Surgeon General , Dr. Jesse Steinfeld , refused to go along with the committee 's obfuscation . During hearings by Senator Pastore in the spring of 1972 , Dr. Steinfeld explainedthat " while the Committee report is carefully phrased and qualified in language acceptable to social scientists , it is clear to me that the causal relationship between televised violence and anti-social behavior is sufficient to warrant appropriate and immediate action . " Thus by the fall of 1974 it was widely agreed that the Surgeon General had concluded that television violence may be dangerous to your health . All of the data about television violence troubled ArthurTaylor ; it troubled him in a way that was unique among broadcasting company executives . Probably the depth of his concern can not be attributed to any single characteristic . He was a man of considerable taste , who played clarinet in the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra , conducted the orchestra at Rahway High School , and studied Renaissance history and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brown University . Certainly action shows were not his favorite art form . But he was no better educated than Frank Stanton , who had a Ph.D . in statistics and had once taught at the University of Pennsylvania , nor any more refined than William Paley , who took great pride in his reputation as a gourmet and who served as chairman of the board of the Museum of Modern Art . It was difficult to imagine either Paley or Stanton as regular viewers of Mannix or Hawaii Five-O. //The outpouring of criticism from affiliates and from Congress troubled Taylor deeply , as it must have concernedeveryone in the industry . But Taylor , unlike his colleagues at CBS or his counterparts at the other companies , was a young man who was being exposed very quickly to a lot of troubling data that others had had years to absorb . He was a man of considerable ambition and personal achievement , who had what some considered a messianic desire to impose his own morality on the industry . His language was remarkably tame ; he seldom drank ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his CBS office . He was a man of deep religious conviction , who was haunted by the thought that his company 's entertainment programmingmight be damaging society . In addition , Taylor had a corporate philosophy that was the product of his generation of corporate officials . He believed in what some call corporate social responsibility . In part this means that a corporation has a responsibility to improve rather than damage society , and in part it means that a corporation should act to put its own house in order before the government intervenes in some clumsy and damaging way . This philosophy had been appropriate at the International Paper Company between 1970 and 1972 , when environmentalists had cited paper mills as among the worst corporate polluters . Industry intransigence had led to the imposition of strict environmentalcontrol laws which were far more costly and burdensome than self-regulation would have been . So as Arthur Taylor surveyed the social and political landscape in the fall of 1974 , the view he saw was quite different from the one that was seen by others in the industry . He saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscenity than ever before . The outpouring of complaints from citizens and affiliates seemed unprecedented . On the morning after Born Innocent was broadcast//Taylor arrived at his office determined to take action . He prided himself on the analysis that he had made of the changes in public tastes throughout the history of networkbroadcasting . He had found that there were periods in which the most violent programs were also the most commercial , desirable , and popular . He was afraid that television , already heavily violent , was slipping into such a period . But when he talked with his associates at CBS , there seemed little he could do . In the first place , very few , if any , of his colleagues shared his total abhorrence of violence . They had lived in the television industry long enough , seen audiences react favorably enough , heard the same kind of congressional criticisms frequently enough , and been exposed to their own propaganda consistently enough to have become jaded . Most of them doubted that much could be , or needed to be , done . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the industry no longer could claim that television violence had no harmful effect . But CBS for the previous three years had only paid lip service to the issue , assuring Congress that it was deeply concerned about the problem and was acting to cure it on its own . In March 1972 , during Senator Pastore 's hearing followingthe release of the report , CBS Broadcast Group PresidentJohn Schneider gave the following assurance : " We pledge that as a result of the findings of the Advisory Committee Report the concerns of that report will play ? and have already played ? a significant decisional role in the number , scheduling , and creative treatment of actionadventurematerial on CBS . " Schneider also promised to seek out additional " pro-social " programming material . Two years later , again testifying before Pastore 's committee , Schneider reported on a CBS study showing that the network had already reduced the level of violent programming , and he promised to continue the reduction . He also cited the development of two pro-social programs on CBS , The Waltons and Apple 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CBS executivesknew that these assurances of corporate improvementwould have a hollow ring . On August 28 , 1974 , in the large screening room on the twenty-second floor of CBS , Dr. George Gerbner had given all three networks a preview screening of his latest study of levels of television violence . Dr. Gerbner , dean of the Annenberg School of Communications at the University of Pennsylvania , had become the foremost student of television violence , and , at Senator Pastore 's prompting , the National Institute of Mental Health financed his annual " Violence Index . " SenatorPastore had always used Dr. Gerbner 's Violence Index , which provided an evaluation of the level of violenceon each network , as the centerpiece of his hearings . The results of the screening tended to discredit Schneider'stestimony . An internal CBS memo dated August 30 , 1974 , reported that the " Violence Index shows CBS going up in violence from 1972 to 1973 , ABC and NBC going down . CBS winds up as the most violent in 1973 . " But all of the networks had large doses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Taylor doubted that it could take any significant action unilaterally . His doubts were stimulated in part by the fact that violence was an industry problem . If CBS acted on its own , the social damage would still be done by programming on the other networks , and the threat of clumsy congressional action would remain . More important , by reducing violence on their network alone , CBS officials would risk putting CBS at a competitivedisadvantage . For many years CBS had been the ratingsand revenue leader in children 's television , more successful than the other two networks combined . Then in 1973 , in response to criticism by citizens ' groups and governmentofficials about the programming and advertisementson children 's television , CBS made what Taylor considered significant changes in its Saturday-morning schedule . To Taylor 's horror , he found that the programmingthat CBS had eliminated was now being broadcast//by other stations and that the young audience had gone to the other stations with it . Taylor was convinced that CBS 's effort at self-reform had damaged the network and had not helped the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Taylor was at a loss for a solution . He asked his associatesto gather some fresh statistics and to talk to the CBS affiliates . But these were just routine steps . He had no new ideas . Unknown to Taylor , he was about to receive help from people whose concerns were of a rather different kind . On October zi , Charles Crutchfield , the CBS affiliate televisionstation owner from Charlotte , North Carolina , who had written to FCC Chairman Richard Wiley on the first of the month , sent Wiley a follow-up letter . Crutchfield did not express any particular concern about television violence . The letter , instead , again complained about " the daring trends and filthy language which is fast becoming a staple of network programs , " and pointed out that " televisionsurvived and prospered quite well for more than a quarter century without training the cameras on the outhousewalls and graphically depicting rape-by-broomhandle . " But this time Crutchfield noted that there might be a ray of hope . The special ( if by no means unique ) quality of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those concerned about violence and those concerned about sex . It made allies , at least momentarily , of Taylor and Crutchfield , and after talking to the new CBS president , Crutchfield was convinced that he had found someone of importance in the industry who shared his views . " The problem seems to be at the networklevel , " he pointed out , but the attitude of network executives such as Wood was not necessarily shared by their corporate superiors . " In talking with Arthur Taylor ( CBS , Inc . ) , " Crutchfield reported , " I am convinced that he is aware of the problem but has n't yet figured out exactlyhow to go about correcting it . " //Taylor might be the man to produce the solution , but someone else was going to have to help provide him with the script . Crutchfield had a suggestion on that score too . " I am convinced , " he told the FCC chairman , " that it is going to take the very real threat of controls and censorshipto convince certain producers and network @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and put them on quickly . " As ABC 's Alfred Schneider later noted , there was a world of difference between those who were concerned about violence and those concerned about sex . " Intellectuals : sex ? yes , violence ? no , " Schneider jotted on a pad during one of the NAB 's deliberations over the proposedFamily Hour , and " Fundamentalists : violence ? yes , sex ? no . " Neither group by itself had enough power to force the networks to eliminate the programming it found offensive . But together they formed an exceptionallypowerful coalition. 4Richard Wiley andthe Power of the FCCWHEN Arthur Taylor first learned that the FCC chairmanwanted to talk with him about televised sex and violence he was indignant . It was early November 1974 , and CBS had just lived through the Nixon era . Taylor remembered Spiro Agnew 's assaults on network news ; the charge by President Nixon 's top media aide , Clay Whitehead , that network newscasters engaged in " ideological plugola " ; and congressional efforts to hold CBS in contempt of Congress for refusing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He remembered the call Frank Stanton had received from White House aide Charles Colson ? who did n't like the way CBS covered Watergate during the 1972 presidential campaign ? announcing that " we 'll break your network . " Although Nixon had resigned three months earlier , Taylor could n't be certain what Nixon appointee Richard E. Wiley had in mind . The man who told Taylor about FCC Chairman Wiley 's invitation was Richard Jencks , the CBS vice-president who served as the company 's top Washington lobbyist . RICHARD WILEY AND THE POWER OF THE FCC HIJencks had just returned from a small meeting that Wiley had convened in his FCC office . At the meeting Wiley had reminded Jencks and his counterparts from ABC and NBC that he was getting intensepressure from Congress to do something about violence and " sexually oriented " programming . Three congressionalcommittees had directed him to come up with some proposals by December 31 or face possible " punitiveaction . " Now Wiley was directing that pressure at the networks . As Jencks described the meeting to Taylor , Wiley had made two primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beginning of programs that were " not suitable for all viewers , " and that the networksagree not to schedule such programs prior to 9:00 P.M. local time . " Chairman Wiley asked for an early meeting with the heads of the three networks to discuss these two proposals , " Jencks told Taylor , " and left the clear impression that , if the networks were unable to agree on an approach along those general lines , he would urge the Commission to take alternative action . " According to his account of the scene , Taylor was furious . Whether Wiley intended it or not , this sounded like the kind of threat CBS had been hearing during the Nixon era . Taylor considered Wiley an " activist Commissioner , " a doer , a man who was anxious to get things accomplished , a hard driver who kept his staff working late at night and on weekends . He was the kind of man who , under pressure from Congress , might overstep the bounds of propriety , might say or do something that could be construed as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , any action that the networks might take on their own would be construed by the press as the product of governmentcoercion . " That 's a lot of crap , spelled c-r-a-p , " Taylor remembers telling Jencks . " When you talk to Wiley you can tell him that . Tell him I 'm bristling . That 's the kind of statement//we used to hear from Haldeman and Ehrlichman and Colson . " Jencks cautioned Taylor that based on the ominous tone of the meeting , CBS had to consider the possibility that Wiley would believe that the FCC could adopt some rule or take some other action to reduce the level of sex and violence . As a former CBS general counsel , Jencks warned Taylor that this was an exceedingly difficult area of the law . He suggested that Taylor ask his attorneys to try to determine whether there was anything that the commission could properly do . " Well , when you talk to him again you be sure to tell him CBS ca n't be intimidated , " Taylor continued . " There 's no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CBS ca n't possibly be intimidated . " Jencks asked Taylor about the meeting Wiley had requested . Should Jencks tell Wiley he would attend ? " Tell him I do n't like the idea of the meeting , " Taylor answered . " I 'm hoping we can do something on our own . But if he gets all three networks down there , it 's going to get a big play in the press , and anything we do after that will look like we were pressured into it . After what we 've been through with Nixon , none of us needs that . But if he insists on holding the meeting , of course we 'll be there . You can tell him that we 'll come as a matter of courtesy . " The meeting between Wiley and the corporate presidentswas scheduled for November zz . Richard E. Wiley did not fancy himself a man who could frighten network executives . He was a middle-oftheroad , midwestern business-oriented Republican . A former high school ballplayer and lay Methodist Sunday school teacher from the North Shore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambitious values of small-town Norman Rockwell America . He was an attorney who had set up a small generalpracticelaw firm after spending several years as an assistantcorporation counsel of Bell and Howell , the photoRICHARD//graphic equipment company whose graduates included U.S. Senator Charles Percy and former Commerce SecretaryPete Peterson . Long active in Illinois Republican politics , Wiley had served as director of Illinois political organizations in Nixon 's 1968 Presidential campaign . He had just been appointed to the Illinois Small Claims Court when then-FCC Chairman Dean Burch interviewed him at the suggestion of the White House , and asked him to become the FCC 's general counsel . Wiley proved a tirelessworker ? bright , energetic , a man willing to assume any responsibility . He had a style that exuded friendliness and earnestness and that earned him the admiration and affection of his colleagues . He attended industry meetings and made a point of getting to know a remarkably large number of the people in the broadcasting industry , the trade press , and the FCC bar . He even found time to participate actively in a wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of two American Bar Association committees . He was liked in Congress and in the White House and was elevated to the post of an FCC Commissioner in 1971 and to FCC chairman in 1974 . Everyone , even his adversariesin the public-interest movement , called him Dick . He stood out in sharp relief against the backdrop of his predecessor , Dean Burch , the former **26;202;TOOLONG of the Republican National Committee , who , to the surprise of many , was one of the best chairmen in FCC history . Whereas Burch was a man of personal strength , raw intelligence , conviction , fairness , and easy self-confidence , many lawyers who regularly practiced before the FCC considered Wiley insecure , book-educated , malleable , and overanxious to please . He seemed to have a passionate need to be liked by everyone . While Wiley had proved a loyal and hard-working aidede-camp , he was not a man whom Burch particularly respected . One day , shortly before leaving the FCC to become a special counselor in the beleaguered Watergate//White House , Burch described Wiley to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is the ultimate Rotarian . " Wiley became chairman of the FCC on Friday , March 8 , 1974 . He had been on the job for two working days when he had his first congressional grilling on sex and violence . The occasion was the annual House Appropriations Committee hearing on the FCC 's budget . When the committee convened on Tuesday morning , March 12 , some of its members were in an angry mood . Since 1971 they had been asking the FCC to take action to reduce the level of obscenity and violence on television . Each year the FCC had promised to act . After congratulating Wiley on his selection as chairman and reviewing a variety of issues relating to the commission'sbudget , the committee members turned their attention to televised violence . Citing an article in that morning'snewspaper that stated it was difficult to find any TV station at night that broadcast anything but violent gunplay , Representative Robert Tiernan of Rhode Island asked , " Are you concerned about that article ? " " This is of concern to every American , " Wiley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FCC . " Wiley then explained that no matter how much he might personally object to such programming , his hands were tied . " We have certain limitations from the statutory standpoint , " Wiley pointed out , " and also , to some extent , from the constitutional standpoint . " When the members of the committee started to press him about the FCC 's inaction , Wiley pointed out that while some actions could be taken , there were statutory limits on his power . " I am not so confident that we can simply affect the content of programming as you and I might like to , " Wiley repeated , " because I do not think it is consistent with the Federal Communications Act , nor with my understanding of the role of government . " He//referred to Section 326 of the act , which specifically proscribes censorship of programming content . Noting that Wiley was in general agreement with their concerns , several members of the committee urged him to take some action , even if it might be reversed by the courts . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to act , they said , then they would try to change it . " I think the time has come for us to seize the issue and for the Commission to get some definitive rulings , if necessary , from the Supreme Court , " Representative JosephMcDade ( Republican , Pennsylvania ) emphasized . " If we need legislative changes , let 's hear about them . " When Wiley continued to resist , citing the statutory limitations on the FCC 's power , the exchange became more heated . MR . WILEY : While I share all of the concerns you state , and I think they are entirely appropriate , I implore you also to consider the legal issues and , indeed , the constitutional issues involved in this matter . MR . MCDADE : You are a fine lawyer . How do you resolve a constitutional issue ? MR . WILEY : We can not go to the Supreme Court for an advisory opinion . I think it is resolvedMR . MCDADE : You make a case . You have authority , do you not , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that not inherent in your authority ? MR . WILEY : Yes . At the same time , I think it would be highly questionable , from the constitutional or legal standpoint , for the Commission to set up standards which are specifically proscribed under one section of the act , as a criterion for renewal under another provision of the act . I feel that we have to move cautiously , but I agree , whatever we do in this area , we should move ahead . MR . MCDADE : There are 4 years of language in these//reports to the FCC , and we are still talking about moving cautiously . MR . WILEY : I put it to you . There is a variety , I suppose a whole scale of gradations of violence that may occur on television . Exactly what kind of rule would you see as appropriate ? I think if you were to attempt to answer that as we have , you would findMR . MCDADE : Where have you attempted to answer it ? MR . WILEY : I think we have considered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MR . MCDADE : When you were general counsel ? MR . WILEY : Yes . MR . MCDADE : What kind of recommendations or conclusionsdid you come up with ? MR . WILEY : I had not heard , until I heard about Dr. Gerbner 's Violence Index , of a promising new idea in this area that might have some credibility . I think there are continuing studies as to whether it has viability or not . Again , the Commission is not made up of people who can judge the effects of violence on children . We do not have social scientists . We do not have that kind of expertise . We are an engineering , legal , and processing agency . I hope we can expand our scope so we can consider some of the sociological aspects of television . MR . MCDADE : If that is your hope , how much money have you requested for sociological studies of violence in this budget ? MR . WILEY : I have to say again to you that I think the Commission has done some studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has done studies on children'stelevision . Representative Robert Giaimo ( Democrat , Connecticut ) pursued the same theme . He refused to believe that//the FCC could not examine the level of violence on a station when deciding whether to renew its license . MR . GIAIMO : Let me return to what Mr. McDade was talking about . You have one prime function above all else , and that is the granting of licenses or the failure to renew licenses . You determine that based on " public interest , convenience and necessity " underthe law . MR . WILEY : There is no doubt about that . MR . GIAIMO : That compels you to evaluate a station as to what it is doing in its broadcasts . I assume in order to do that you have to look at content , do you not , if not directly at least indirectly ? MR . WILEY : That raises the issue of how much we have to look at content and how much we should look at content . MR . GIAIMO : It seems to me if content is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of some concern to the Commission as to whether or not a license is granted . MR . WILEY : I agree it should be of some concern . MR . GIAIMO : At least it should be enough to take some steps , some action and corrections , and then let the court determine once and for all . Then if the court determines it , perhaps we will get some new legislation . At least we would get some movement and direction . MR . WILEY : I do not disagree with anything you are saying . To broadcasting lobbyists like Richard Jencks , who made it their business to examine the contents of such hearings in minute detail , this exchange was scarcely heartening . Whatever reservations Wiley might have about interfering with network programming content , he seemed to have agreed that there was some action that the FCC could take , and even that the level of violent or//obscene programming might be an appropriate matter to consider in a license-renewal proceeding . Moreover , Wiley had indicated that a principal roadblock was Section326 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cross-section of Republicans and Democrats on the committee seemed to be willing and even anxious to amend the Communications Act to removeany such statutory obstacles from the FCC 's path . As for Wiley , he knew that he had a gun to his head . Representative McDade had made the point most forcefully . " Mr. Chairman , I realize you are new , " he had stated . " But if I do not let you know how strongly I feel about it , and I think the other members of this committee pretty generally feel the same about this , we are just going to have a plain shootout . " In case Wiley had missed the full import of his statement , Representative McDade later underlined his meaning . " If we are going to see the whole thing come apart every time a new Commissioner comes in , we will be doing this ad infinitum , " he told Wiley . " Maybe we ought not to appropriate any money and tell the Commission we will set up some new kind of organization . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know what the committee had in mind when , in issuing its report on June 21 , it threatened to take " punitive action " if the FCC did n't supply it with a report of its own by December 31 , 1974 , " outlining specific positive actions taken or planned by the Commission to protect children from excessive programming of violence and obscenity . " Wiley was faced with an apparently insoluble dilemma . As he had stated time and time again to the members of the Appropriations Committee , he fully shared their abhorrenceof televised violence , and recognized that it was a matter of great concern to the American public . His mail confirmed the breadth of opposition to much of what was shown on television . A letter from Bing Crosby criticized " the alarming increase by network TV in the use of sex , //nudity , amoral philosophy and conduct . . . . the explicit love scenes , the permissiveness , the contempt for marriage or family institutions ? all of this portrayed by people who make it appear to be the chic or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the barriers and have now gone the full route , " Crosby wrote , " and TV is following the same pattern . But a parent can stop his children from going to the movies , while such control is impossible when it comes into the home . " But much as he agreed with that critique , Wiley seriously doubted that there was any positive action that the FCC could take to protect children from such programming . During the summer and early fall an FCC staff task force , working at Wiley 's request , aggressively tried to come up with some meaningful proposal that would not exceed the commission 's authority . By the early fall they had developed several alternative ideas for administrative action , including the issuance of a Notice of Rulemaking or a Notice of Inquiry , or the adoption of an FCC policy statement . Any one of the regulatory tools would enable the commission to determine whether some forms of programmingare so damaging to children that , by broadcastingthem while significant numbers of children are in the audience , a station would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aired such material would then know that the FCC might refuse to renew its license . In essence , this was the approach that had been suggested by Representatives McDade and Giaimo . The task force presented its report to Wiley at a midafternoonmeeting on October 4 . Although Wiley was attentivethroughout the meeting , and said he would take the ideas under advisement , his closest aides knew that he was less than enthusiastic about what he was hearing . The staff had put in a lot of work , but , as he had feared , most of the staff 's proposals seemed either unconstitutional or illegal . For the most part , he did n't think the FCC could implement them , since they would involve the governmenttoo deeply in programming judgments ? and those//which were constitutional could not be put into effect by the time the report to congress was due . Although he was discouraged by what he had heard at the October 4 meeting , Wiley was still determined to do something . The pressure from the public and Congress was increasing , partly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter that he had just received from Charles Crutchfield demonstrated that there was even dissatisfaction among station owners . Moreover , he now had less than three months in which to deliver his report to Congress . Shortly after the October 4 meeting Wiley confided his feelings to one of his top aides . " We 've got to do something quicker and more dramatic , " Wiley said . The quickest , most dramatic route available was to convince the networks to engage in self-regulation . In general , the broadcasting industry agrees to **25;230;TOOLONG only when its leaders are convinced that the government will act if they do n't . Since joining the commission Wiley had twice seen the way the FCC , by threatening action of its own , could persuade the industryto clean up its own house . In 1973 , not long after Wiley was named a commissioner , the FCC was besieged by complaints , including some from members of Congress , about what became known as " topless radio , " the radio call-in discussion programs dealing with sexual behavior . Rather than adopting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then-Chairman Dean Burch that the best course of action would be for him to present a tough speech urging industry self-regulation . Burch delivered his speech to the annual convention of the NAB on March 28 , 1973 . Within the next week virtually all of the stations carrying " topless radio " programs announced that they intended to drop the shows or totally revise their format . Wiley 's second experience with FCC-inspired selfRICHARD//regulation involved commercials on children 's television . Since 1970 a remarkably persistent and effective group of mothers , who were outraged by the low level of intellectualcontent and high level of violence in programs aimed at their children , had been demanding that the FCC take steps to improve children 's television . Their organization , called Action for Children 's Television , or ACT , based in Newton , Massachusetts , had attracted a widespread group of supporters around the country , includingseveral influential members of Congress . In a petition to the FCC ACT asked , in essence , that each Station be required to carry fourteen hours of commercial-free , child-oriented programs each week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of telling points that impressed the FCC . Most dramatic was ACT 's charge that the broadcasters were exploiting children by allowing up to sixteen minutesof advertising in Saturday-morning programs ( children'sprime time , ACT called it ) , whereas only a maximumof nine and a half minutes of advertising were allowed during evening hours ( or adult 's prime time ) . While the FCC was extremely reluctant to establish formal limits on the number of minutes of advertising per hour , by early 1974 the commission , now chaired by Wiley , was determined to do something . In a series of initiatives , including a speech in Atlanta on May 23 , 1974 , and a meeting with the network **25;257;TOOLONG the next week , Wiley indicated that if the broadcasters did n't place their own limits on the volume of advertisements on children 's television , the FCC would . Thereupon , on June 15 , the NAB Code adopted a rule putting a ceiling of nine and a half minutes per hour on children 's advertisements . Four months later the FCC issued a Children 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had decided not to adopt a rule , since " the standards adopted by the NAB are comparable to the standards which we//would have considered adopting by rule in the absence of industry reform . " There are certain psychological strategies that anyone engaging in the government-induced self-regulatory game knows through intuition or experience . The game itself somewhat resembles the well known FBI technique ? sometimes called the " Mutt and Jeff " or " Mr. Nice Agent/ Mr. Mean Agent " routine ? for persuading criminal suspectsto cooperate with the investigation . One FBI agent , the mean one , will threaten the suspect , telling him that the government will throw the book at him , describing what life will be like in jail . From time to time Mr. Nice Agent will interrupt , trying to befriend the suspect , arguingthat they can still make a deal if only he will cooperate . It is a softening-up process which often works . But in order to work , the threats must be credible . The suspect must believe that if he does n't cooperate with the nice agent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . Two agents can employ the strategy perfectly , since each personifies a polarized point of view . The dilemma for Wiley in cajoling the industry into selfregulationwas that he really was Mr. Nice Agent ; he was genuinely convinced that the FCC had no business influencingprogram content . His reading of the U.S. Constitutionand the Communications Act and his deep-seated belief in a free market economy led him to oppose FCC interference . He once boasted to his staff that he might be able to succeed where others could n't since he was a Republican , and " they know I 'm not a regulation man . " Equally important , Wiley , with his desire to be liked by everyone , was congenitally nice . Nevertheless the strategy could work only if the broadcastersbelieved that both Congress and , yes , Wiley , whether he wanted to or not , might be forced to act . While expressing his dislike regarding programmingrelatedrules , and his skepticism about their legality , Wiley never disavowed them entirely . After the October 4//meeting his staff continued its work , preparing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was probably inevitable , industry periodicals , read by everyone in the broadcasting world , soon carried stories that a task force was preparing a Notice of Rulemaking and a Notice of Inquiry on violence and sex . On October io , less than a week after deciding that there was nothing that the FCC could do properly and quickly , Wiley gave a speech in Chicago to the Illinois Broadcasters Association . " There are still some dark clouds on the horizon , and chief among these is the question of violence and obscenity on television , " he told his audience . " If self-regulation does not work , governmental ' action to protect the public may be required ? whether you like it or whether I like it . " In the speech he specificallycalled for " intelligent scheduling , appropriate warningsand , " in a proposal that was later dropped , " perhaps even some kind of industry-administered rating program similar to that employed by the motion pictures . " That speech , however , was only the beginning . A good deal more pressure was going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go along . Wiley had told the Illinois broadcasters that " the issue is on the front-burner of a rather well-heated ' Chairman 's desk at the FCC . " Less than a month later Wiley called Jencks and the other network vice-presidents to the meeting in his office , where they felt some of the heat . The FCC staff called the November 7 session a " mini-summit " meeting . Such meetings were rare , but not unique . And the heat from the chairman 's burners could really be felt two weeks later when Arthur Taylor and the other corporatepresidents assembled in Wiley 's office for an unprecedentedmeeting at the " summit . " The meeting was scheduled for four-thirty on a Friday afternoon . For most of the participants it was the last meeting of the week , and all of the network officials had//flown down to Washington specially for the meeting . NBC President Herbert Schlosser and Vice-Chairman David Adams had traveled on NBC 's jet . Since ABC did n't have a corporate plane , Taylor and Jack Schneider had invited ABC President Elton Rule and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None of the network executives was enthusiastic about attending the meeting . It troubled them to be summoned to Washington by the chairman of the FCC . On the plane the representatives from ABC and CBS agreed to emphasizethat they thought the meeting was inappropriate and that they were already fully aware of the problem of violenceand other inappropriate programming material . Apart from that , they decided they should just listen to Wiley . They concluded that it would be improper for them to take any action or even to express any opinion as to actions proposed by the FCC . Wiley , by contrast , had a fairly clear idea of what he hoped would come out of the meeting . He had spent the previous two or three hours developing proposals and preparing a game plan with his staff . " The ideal thing , " Wiley told his staff , " would be if all three networks were to jointly say , We understand the concern in this area , and we are going to do our best to program accordingly . " Although his staff thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wiley hoped the networks would issue a joint policy statement announcing that , with rare exceptions , programming prior to nine o'clock would be suitable for children , and that difficult programmingafter that hour would be preceded by a warningannouncement . Their strategy session had not been without humor . In discussing what form the network warnings should take , the staff suggested that suitable programs be preceded by a picture of the chairman smilingor flashing a V-for-victory sign , and that difficult shows be preceded by a picture of the chairman frowning or with thumbs down. //As the executives assembled in the chairman 's office , it seemed that the room outside was jammed with journalists , all clamoring for interviews , the very thing Taylor had feared . At Wiley 's request , his staff had arranged the office chairs in two semicircles . The chairman was seated behind his desk , with two staff members on either side . Chairs for the six network people were arranged in a semicircle facing him in front of his desk . Wiley opened the meeting with an attempt at humor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to immortalize this gathering , and thanking the six executives for coming to Washington to meet him so late on a Friday afternoon . He introduced the members of his staff and presented a careful description of the increasing amount of public and governmental concernabout violence and other objectionable material . He described the mail he was receiving , the requests for actionfrom Congress and from network affiliates , the input from people in the medical and academic worlds , and his own personal views as the father of three children . Wiley then proceeded to repeat some of the suggestions that he had made to the Washington vice-presidents , including the use of viewer warnings and the scheduling of sensitive programs after 9:0o P.M. After explaining that the commission was reluctant , for legal and policy reasons , to try to lay down specific program rules , but that something had to be done , he asked whether the networks saw it as a problem , and , if so , what they were doing about it . Responding first , David Adams of NBC , sitting at Wiley 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a potential problem , it was something that they were already handling pretty well . He noted that NBC tended to schedule action shows later in the evening , and that for difficult programs , such as Born Innocent and The Godfather , NBC was already using the kind of advisory warningsthat Wiley had proposed . Continuing around the//semicircle from left to right , NBC 's Herb Schlosser essen tially seconded Adams ' comments , and then Elton Rule from ABC started to speak . He began by saying that NBC had expressed ABC 's general position as well : to the ex- tent that there was a problem , ABC already had a pro- gram to deal with it . " Gentlemen , " Wiley broke in , " are you basically saying that there is not a real problem here ? " Throughout the meeting Taylor had been jotting down some thoughts on a lined yellow pad . Reading from his notes , he now spoke up , expressing his views for the first time . " Well , Dick , speaking for CBS , " Taylor replied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem here . We think some- thing has to be done , and we are considering a number of solutions to the problem . " Delighted at last to find an ally in the room , Wiley asked Taylor to elaborate . Since CBS really had no plan in progress , Taylor was , to some extent , forced to improvise . As he and the ABC executives had agreed on the plane coming down , it was probably inappropriate to be too specific in such a meet ing , so Taylor said that he was n't in any position to give Wiley the details of the CBS plan . Wiley used the opportunity to suggest that since CBS and , he hoped , the other networks agreed that there was a problem , perhaps they would be willing to issue a state ment , jointly or individually , describing their networks ' policies . When the networks agreed that it might be pos sible for them to release their policies separately , Wiley continued , " Let 's see whether or not there might be any- thing else you might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then suggested that the networks consider implement ing the various scheduling and warning ideas that he and his staff had discussed earlier that afternoon . Toward the end of the afternoon , as the discussion of the FCC 's proposals was drawing to a close , Taylor//brought up the problem that kept recurring whenever CBS discussed violence . " Now , Dick , " Taylor said , " these suggestions are quite interesting . But , you know , even if the three networks sitting here were to agree that these are things that we really should think about and implement , there are a lot of other stations that are not sitting here . The networks are only part , and in some cases only a small part , of the problem of violence and tasteless material . There are times when CBS rejects a program only to find it turning up on other stations , to our competitive disadvantage . It seems pointless for the FCC to direct its attention to the networks alone while nonnetwork independent stations play very violent , syndicated programs such as The Untouchablesin the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include the independents in any solution , Taylor said , had been highlighted for him the previous Saturday afternoon , at a CBS Affiliate Advisory Board meeting at the La Costa Hotel in Carlsbad , California . Sometime in the early evening Taylor and some top CBS executives had turned on a television set and switched to KGTV ( an NBC affiliate , which Taylor mistakenly thought was an independent television station ) , where , to their surprise , they saw The St. Valentine 's Day Massacre , starring Jason Robards and George Segal , which Taylor characterized as " one of the most violent pictures ever made . " " It seems to us , " Taylor told Wiley , " that if we want to do something effective and responsible , those independent stations should also be covered . " " Well , if you think that these are useful suggestions and you might be interested in following them , " Wiley said , " I would n't be averse to calling in the leaders of the NAB and the Independent Television Stations Association and suggesting the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just the commercial stations , " David Adams broke in . " As the public reaction to the nudity//in Steambath demonstrated , there are also problems on Public Broadcasting . " " Well , I would expect that I will talk with the Public Broadcasting people as well , " Wiley said . Then Wiley made a comment that sent a chill through the meeting . " The other way of dealing with the separatestationproblem , " Wiley said , " would be to put a new question on the license-renewal form asking each station to tell us what its policy is on accepting and scheduling programs containing violence and sex . " Throughout the discussion the representatives from ABC and NBC had felt somewhat uncomfortable , but to David Adams of NBC the renewal-form suggestion went too far . It was , he wrote later , a " not very veiled threat . " If used at all , it would mean that the FCC , in deciding every three years whether to renew each station 's license , would consider whether that station was doing a sufficiently good job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frankly , I ca n't understand what you are saying , " Adams later remembered saying . " What in the world would the commission do with that information , since you are dedicated not to intrude on programming ? " " Maybe that would get us too deeply into programming , " Wiley said , retreating slightly . " The commission could also consider issuing a general policy statement outliningwhat we expect of licensees in guarding against sex and violence , particularly when there are large numbers of children in the audience . " For some time it had been dark outside . The meeting had been long and often wandering . Taylor considered it " one of the most confused , disorganized meetings I have ever attended . " It was nearly 6:3o P.M. on a Friday night , and the participants were tired and perhaps a little irritable . " Do you sense a kind of fog coming across the table ? " Taylor asked Wiley , helping to bring the meeting to a close. //As the session ended , the network officials agreed to cooperate with Wiley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by visiting with his staff representatives in New York . But the most important aspect of the meeting was that Wiley and Taylorhad discovered that they were on the same wavelength . Even though it was early evening , several reporters , mostly from the trade press , were in Wiley 's outer office . None of the network representatives wanted to be interviewed . Jokingly perhaps , one of the executives asked if there was a back exit . Someone from the FCC said there was such an exit , through a storeroom . Ultimately the executives left through the front door . When asked for an interview , Taylor said that any commentshould come from their host . When they got back on the CBS plane later that eveningthere was n't much conversation . Taylor was very tired . He slept most of the way back to New York. 5Birth of the Family HourFOR the next five months Arthur Taylor was obsessed by the effort to reduce the amount of violence on television . Though he had been brought to CBS primarily as a financialexpert , Taylor felt a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the broadcasting industry , and he had a deep moral commitment to improve television . So he found himself continually discussing the problem with his associates , his family , with everyone he met . He discussed it constantly , day in and day out , in virtually every conversation he had . It became the highestpriorityitem in his mind . But getting CBS , much less the rest of the industry , to do something about violence was an uphill battle . Taylor 's statement in Washington that CBS was already consideringseveral solutions to the problem was , to put it gently , an overstatement . By no means did everyone at CBS agree that there was a problem , and probably no one in the company was prepared to let CBS take any unilateral actionthat might put the network at a competitive disadvantage . Nor could CBS keep its commitment to send//the FCC a statement of principles regarding the editing of violence and sex . Although ABC sent its statement to the FCC on November 25 , and NBC sent its statement a week later , CBS , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , as Taylor shortly learned , Tom Swafford , the CBS vice-president who would have had to draft and enforceany written standards , was adamantly opposed to the codification of the network 's editorial policies . Guidelines , Swafford explained , tend to become an end in themselves . They are an obstacle course for the creative community , and editors tend to cling to them instead of using some imagination . The maximum quickly becomes the minimum , and in no time the guidelines are obsolete . So when Wiley 's legal assistant , Larry Secrest , called CBS to make arrangements for the staff-level meeting that everyone had agreed to in Washington , CBS was placed in what looked like an impossible quandary . Obviously the company could n't refuse to participate , but it was n't clear what they had to talk ' about . The decision finally was made to go ahead with the meeting and to make an oral presentation of the principles the network 's Program Practices division was applying day by day . The meeting , as it developed , provided less information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on within CBS management . When the FCC staff members arrived in New York for what some peoplelater referred to as the " foothill " meetings , they expectedthat , in view of Taylor 's comments at the summit meeting , CBS would be the most supportive of the networks . Then , when subjected to public and private pressure , NBC and ultimately ABC would fall in line , the FCC aides predicted , like a row of dominoes . They had scheduled the CBS meeting for 2:0o P.M. on December 1o , immediately after their meeting with NBC , and as they entered the thirty-fourth-floor CBS conference room they were in an optimistic mood. //The euphoria did n't last long . " I 'd like to say at the outset that I feel uncomfortable being here , " Gene Mater said shortly after the meeting began . Mater was the senior corporate official in the room , a vice-president and special assistant to CBS Broadcast Group President Jack Schneider . " I really do n't think that we should be meeting with the FCC discussing programming suggestions . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CBS general counsel for governmental affairs . Goldberg emphasizedthat the meeting was questionable legally as well as philosophically . It came perilously close to the kind of censorship prohibited by the First Amendment and the Communications Act . The other two CBS officials , Tom Swafford and his deputy , Richard Kirschner , neither supported nor challenged the Mater-Goldberg view . If the FCC staff was surprised by Mater 's opening comment , they were even more puzzled by his next remarks . Mater argued that television violence was not as serious a problem as some people seemed to think . Neitherthe Surgeon General 's report nor the research since then , he said , had conclusively demonstrated that televisionviolence has any effect . Mater 's observations seemed diametrically opposite to the position that Taylor had taken in Washington . After listening to Mater talk for a while Larry Secrest concludedthat there must be a deep split within the company , and perhaps even among the people in the room . Finally Secrest , who was the principal FCC spokesman , decided to try to put the meeting back on track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this thing , " Secrest said pointedly . " At the meeting in Washington he specifically indicated that he thought there was a problem . " That sharp reminder apparently was sufficient , since the meeting thereupon immediately turned to matters of substance . But the colloquy was instructive for the FCC//staff . As they were leaving the CBS building two hours later someone said to Secrest , " Your remark that Taylor sure thinks there 's a problem ' certainly changed the direction of the conversation . " " Obviously not everyone at CBS agrees with Mr. Taylor , " Secrest observed . " It will be interesting to see how this gets resolved . " But there were certain things on which the people insideCBS were in general agreement . Whatever CBS did , no one wanted the company to lose rating points to the other networks , or even to independent stations that might put on violent programs . At the summit meeting Taylor had spoken of the importance of devising a plan that would protect children from violent shows on all stations , including independents . Toward the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point , but he phrased it in terms that sounded less public-spirited and altruistic . " Under no circumstances , " Mater said , " could we agree to anything that might put us at a competitive disadvantage . " ( Someone from the FCC jotted a quick note to himself : " From the high First Amendment argumentsto the gutter . " ) The best way to harmonize the views that had been expressed by Taylor and Mater was of course to search for a way to reduce violence without costing CBS a penny ; to do good , and maybe even get the credit for doing good , without going out on a limb . The best way to do that , it was soon concluded , was to seek some kind of amendment to the NAB Television Code . The NAB Television Code is the principal self-regulatorydocument used by commercial broadcasters . Written and enforced by the Television Code Review Board , the TV Code provides a listing of fairly specific standards for stations to apply to programming and to advertising . Althoughsome standards have been relaxed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one " specialprogram standard " states that " program material pertaining to fortune-telling , occultism , astrology , phrenol104SEE NO EVILogy , palm-reading , numerology , mind-reading , characterreading , and the like is unacceptable if it encourages people to regard such fields as providing commonly acceptedappraisals of life . " More than two-thirds of the 730 commercial television stations in the United States belong to the NAB , and all NAB members must adhere to the NAB Code . For memberstations the NAB offers certain advantages , including an effective industry lobby in Washington and a certain degree of insulation from FCC scrutiny . The only outwardevidence of NAB membership is the ability to displaythe NAB seal , accompanied by a statement such as " This seal is your assurance that the station you are watching observes the high standards of programming and advertising set forth in the NAB Code . " On most NAB stations the seal is shown at the opening and close of each broadcast day ? right after the station plays the nationalanthem in the morning and immediately before it plays the national anthem in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watch television before the day 's programmingbegins or after it ends , the NAB seal is not exactly a household symbol . In considering the use of the NAB Code to achieve an industry-wide change , CBS was hardly breaking new ground . Many practices that the public may assume the government requires are actually " self-regulatory " policies contained in the NAB Code . The most widely recognized of these standards involve advertising . Advertisements for hard liquor and for some other products , including contraceptives , for example , are banned by the NAB Code , not by the FCC . Commercial spots for other products , ranging from toilet paper to Preparation H to feminine hygiene sprays , were prohibited for a time by the NAB Code , which considered them in bad taste , but were later allowed on the air as public tastes changed or broadcasters ' economic necessity demanded . On occasion the NAB Code has failed to act in areas in//which action might have seemed prudent . The most famous illustration of the failure of industry self-regulationprobably involved cigarette advertising . During the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the U.S. Surgeon General ? provided evidence that cigarettesmoking causes a number of life-threatening diseases , a variety of government officials , public-health and public-interest groups called on the NAB to act decisively to regulate cigarette advertising . The NAB Code , however , failed to take effective action , largely because advertisementsfor cigarettes accounted for some io percent of the total revenue of American broadcasting . The NAB 's inaction led to widespread criticism of the code , and , worse from the industry 's standpoint , legislation totally banning all cigarette advertising from the broadcast media . To those people at CBS who wanted to do something significant at no competitive cost , an NAB Code amendmentseemed a promising and proper first step . While it would not apply to all the independent stations , many of which are not members of the NAB , it would apply to the three networks , since they all subscribe to the NAB Code . Moreover , the NAB has an independent staff , which , actingon its own initiative or pursuant to a complaint , could review specific programs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same way and were complyingwith it . While revocation of the right to display the NAB seal is the Code Board 's only direct sanction , no network wanted to risk violating a code that helped insulateit from government and public criticism and that served as the programming standard by which most networkaffiliates operated . As Swafford wrote in his memo to Wood on the move of All in the Family , " Would we ? could we , really ? ignore the Code ? I think that one answersitself . " Tom Swafford was preparing to take a flight examinationfor an airplane pilot 's license when he first learned//that his superiors at CBS planned to propose an amendmentto the NAB Code . He was flying in an airplane somewhere over Scottsdale , Arizona , when someone in the Phoenix airport tower called to tell him that he had an urgent call back at the field . When he got back to Phoenix , Swafford found that the call was from Everard K. ( " Kidder " ) Meade , the CBS Vice-President for Corporate Affairs , who reported directly to Arthur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was a resourceful and creative ally in Taylor 's efforts to find something useful for CBS to do to reduce violence . It was December 19 , almost Christmas . Meade told Swafford that the executive suites at CBS were practically empty . He and Taylor had come up with an idea , but they had n't been able to reach Wood , who was on vacation in California , or Schneider , who was on the island of Eleuthera , in the Caribbean . Meade wanted somebody to talk to . " How does this grab you ? " Meade began . " Suppose Arthur Taylor writes to the chairman of the code and asks for a special meeting of the Code Board where CBS can submit its proposal . Our idea is to set aside the first hour of prime time for family viewing . " Although it was the first time he had ever heard the phrase " family viewing , " Swafford did n't have to think about the proposal for long . As the man on the firing line at NAB Code Board meetings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence , which , while coming from different sources , was equally intense . He was not personally offended by , and indeed often enjoyed the new forms of sophisticated comedies , but Swafford had long served as the buffer between Norman Lear and those stationowners who considered Lear 's shows literally " obscene . " While aware that Taylor 's major concern was with violence , Swafford knew what he thought the phrase would mean to the NAB. // " Kidder , " Swafford answered enthusiastically , " if what we are prepared to do is go to the creative community and say , Look , we are going to set aside an hour during which we will not resolve everything by either having people shoot each other or jump into bed , ' if we are talking about a different creative approach , if we are going to set aside this time for that part of the audience that is turned off by Maude and by All in the Family , then , yes , I think that this is something that I could get excited about . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jencks , the Washington lobbyist , to fly to San Antonio , Texas , to act as CBS 's ambassadors to Wayne Kearl , chairman of the NAB Television Code . Swafford and Jencks would hand-carry a letter from Taylor and would be there to try to answer Kearl 's initial questions as he read it . Swafford of course said he would be happy to perform that role . Later that same day Meade sent Taylor a memorandum reporting on his conversation with Swafford and attaching a draft of the letter to Kearl . " You will be interested to know that Mr. Swafford was almost ecstatic about this draft , " Meade wrote . " In his opinion he will have no difficulty in enlisting not only the concurrence but also the active support of Wayne Kearl in this matter . He believes that the best tactic would be for him and Mr. Jencks to carry the draft to San Antonio Monday , December 30 . " Meade 's memo did not , however , pass along Swafford 's assumption that the Family Hour would not only affect action shows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Maude and All in the Family . At last Taylor felt things were moving . " THIS IS FINE , " he wrote back to Meade in large block letters the next day . " LET 'S GET EVERYTHING READY TO ROLL . " It was a Friday , and though Taylor would probably have liked to have everything set that same day , he had to wait until the following Monday afternoon to get//final approval for his plan . Most important , he had to run the idea past the chairman of the board , William S. Paley . At the Monday meeting , which was scheduled for Paley 's benefit , Taylor was joined by Meade , Schneider , Richard Jencks , and a public-relations specialist from Washington . Taylor and the Washington representative reviewed the background of the proposal for Paley , includingthe severe questioning of Wiley by congressional committees , the demand that he submit a report to Congressby December 31 , and the Wiley-initiated meetings with and proposals to the networks . They concluded by explaining to Paley that in view of these developments , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Congress , and the FCC that CBS was being a good citizen . There was very little discussion . After listening to the presentation , reviewing the draft letter , and briefly inquiringas to how the NAB Code amendment would be implemented , Paley indicated that he had no objection to the proposal . Following the meeting Paley went off for the Christmas holiday , leaving Taylor with his proxy . For Taylor it was a lonely but exhilarating period . Becauseof the holiday , no one was left at CBS for him to consult . He had reservations about going ahead with the proposal : it was risky ; it might look as if it were the product of government pressure ; it might not get any support in the industry . If the NAB did n't support the proposal , CBS would be put either in the embarrassing position of having to back away from its own proposal or in the economically risky posture of implementing it **27;284;TOOLONG the possible competitive disadvantage . But in the end Taylor decided to send the letter . He believed it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the other networks was riding on doing something ; and , in some intangible way , he was affected by the holiday spirit . It would , he felt , be the right way to start//the new year . In addition , there were the dynamics of internal CBS politics . Powerful as Taylor might seem to outsiders , he always needed to have the approval of the chairman , and , where broadcasting issues were involved , the support of the people in the Broadcast Group . For once , since it was the holiday season and he had collected everyone 's proxy , Taylor had the authority to act on his own . And so Taylor , after informing Wiley and the other networks of his plans , directed Swafford and Jencks to take his letter to the chairman of the NAB Code Review Board . Swafford and Jencks were natural emissaries to Kearl . Since Swafford was CBS 's representative on the Code Board , he had worked closely with Kearl and knew him well . Jencks knew Kearl less well , but since Jencks was CBS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the Code Board is ultimately responsible , his name had a special currency . Coincidentally , Kearl 's San Antonio television station was a CBS affiliate and Kearl was a member of the CBS AffiliatesBoard , as a result of which he also had at least a nodding acquaintance with the other top CBS executives . At the time Kearl was experiencing precisely the kinds of pressures that the leaders of government and the industryhad begun to feel . San Antonio had an abundance of viewers who objected to CBS shows , particularly those with sexually suggestive material . On a previous visit to San Antonio , Swafford had learned about the local opposition to the Maude episodes dealing with abortions and vasectomies , the antiwar play Sticks and Bones , Archie Bunker 's use of the phrase " God damn it , " and programs dealing with homosexuality . If Kearl was more troubled by those themes than by violence , at least he was fully aware of a set of concerns that might be satisfied by the adoption of Taylor 's proposed Family Viewing Policy . Kearl read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restaurant in San Antonio . It said : //Dear Wayne : The purpose of this letter is to recommend to the NAB Television Code Review Board certain changes in the existing Code , and to set out our reasons for believing that these changes are important to the public interest . Our recommendations result from continuing review of the principles which govern CBS television programming content and scheduling . They were developed after consultation with many of our affiliates , although we make no representation that our affiliates endorse these principles , in whole or in part . In consideration of any Code matter , there is always one critical test that must be applied : whether a proposedprovision could have a stifling effect on the creative processes of the medium . If the answer is affirmative , or even in doubt , then the provision , in CBS 's view , is contrary to the public interest . It is CBS 's strong and abiding conviction that the public interest can be served only when the creative potentialof broadcasting is nurtured and encouraged , and when it is allowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and constitutionally , all other media . The essential fact about broadcasting in this country is that , due to the freedom in which it has so far been able to flourish , the American people ? ofall ages ? are far better informed and more knowledgeable about the world around them than any other people in the history of mankind . This freedommust never be compromised ? and must in fact be constantly reaffirmed . Because of varying tastes , interests , opinions and ages , no program " code " could ever , in its entirety , satisfy even a large percentage of American television viewers . The best and most respected literary works in the world , for instance , contain incidents which some segments of our society would consider inapproBIRTH//priate for portrayal on television . We are wholly convinced that , if the intellectual and cultural quality of our nation is to advance , broadcasters must remain free to exercise their best judgment on the way in which they serve the tastes of their various audience groups . They must also avoid permitting the tastes of one age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Insofar as children are concerned , we must not lose sight of the fact that there simply is no substitute ? nor should there be ? for discriminating parental supervision of television viewing within each family 's home and according to each family 's judgmentas to what is appropriate material for its younger members . All this is not to deny but to confirm strongly that we assume full responsibility for the quality of CBS programs which go into the home , particularly for family viewing . And we most certainly recognize the need for arriving at self-imposed standards in that connection . For this reason , CBS has long been a subscriber and adherent to the NAB Television Code . Sections I , II and IV of the Code provide guidelines governing program content , responsibility toward children and special standards . We believe these provisions ought to be improved ? and that they can be ? without sacrificing any of the precepts we hold absolutely essential to the steady enlargement of the capacity of television to serve all the people . First , CBS believes the programming in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for family viewing . Increasingly conscious of its responsibility to younger viewers , CBS has made substantive changes in recent years in early evening programming , as well as in programming designed specifically for viewing by children , such as that which appears on Saturday morning . This is part of our continuing process of review. //Second , on the rare occasions when a CBS " special " within the first hour of primetime programming representsan exception to the **39;313;TOOLONG , a notice making this fact clear will be broadcast to facilitate parental guidance , and publishersof television program schedules will be notifiedin advance of air date . Third , in other viewing hours , CBS will continue its policy of providing prior notice , including on-air announcements , when material which might be disturbingto a significant portion of the adult audience is being presented . Recommendation . CBS recommends that the NAB Television Code Review Board expand the present Code to embody the three general principles reflected in the above . To this end , the CBS representative on the Board , Tom Swafford , is prepared to discuss these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So am I , and so are John A. Schneider , President of the CBS/Broadcast Group and Robert D. Wood , President of the CBS Television Network . With all good wishes , Sincerely , Arthur R. TaylorThe proposal did not require much amplification . During lunch , and later driving his visitors back to the airport in his car , Kearl asked for clarification on a few points , and he described for his visitors the kind of " flak " that he had been getting in his own community from citizens groups , church people , and concerned viewers . Before Swafford and Jencks boarded the airplane Kearl had agreed to convenea special meeting of the NAB Television Code ReviewBoard on January 7 , 1975 , to consider the CBS proposal . Arthur Taylor 's Family Viewing proposal had been formally launched , and based on that initiative Wiley//persuaded the congressional committees to grant him an extension on the report which was due at the end of the year . For the next three months , as it wound its intricate way through the NAB , the Family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top agenda item for American broadcasting . The other networks did n't much like it , but the FCC staff 's " domino theory " quickly proved to be politically astute as NBC and finally ABC felt compelled to endorse Taylor 's plan . After Wiley held a second summit meeting in his office on January g ? this time adding top NAB officials to his august guest list ? the Family Viewing Policy was assured of virtually unanimousindustry backing . On February 4 the NAB TelevisionCode Review Board adopted the substance of Taylor 's proposal , with a few modifications . The new amendment , besides calling for warnings on certain kinds of programs , stated that between the hours of 7:00 and 9:00 P.M. ( or 6:oo and 8:oo P.M. in the Central Time Zone ) " entertainment programming inappropriate for viewing by a general family audience should not be broadcast . " The amendment was not precisely what Wiley had wanted . It spoke of " general family " viewing rather than of protecting children , but at the January 9 meeting all the networks assured him that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule . It allowed " inappropriate " shows to go on the air at 8:oo P.M. in the Central Time Zone , but the networks explained that any other system would require people in the Middle West to change their viewing patterns and would require " prohibitively expensive " separate program transmissions to each time zone . Wiley also worried that the hours after 9:oo P.M. might be more violent and risque than ever , but the networks promised him that this would not be the case . Relying on these assurances , Wiley agreed to try to get similar self-regulatory policies adopted for non-NAB members through the Public BroadcastingSystem , and through the Association of Indepen114SEE NO EVILdent Television Stations , to which most independent stations belonged . This would prevent independent commercialstations from putting on such a show as The Untouchables at 7:oo P.M. and would keep PBS from airingSteambath at an early hour . By February ig Wiley was sufficiently pleased with the success of self-regulation to send a triumphant report to Congress . The report mentioned his meetings with the networks , his proposals , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wiley 's intention to try to procure a similar self-regulatory scheme from the Association of Independent Television Stations and PBS . " The Family Hour goes a long way toward establishing appropriate protections for children from violent and sexuallyorientedmaterial , " he wrote , and " suggests that the broadcasting industry is prepared to regulate itself in a fashion that will obviate any need for government regulationin this sensitive area . " There were some people , including William Paley , who did n't really want Taylor or CBS to take the credit for the NAB Code amendment . In mid-February , Paley let Taylorknow that " prominent CBS identification with its originswill lead ABC and NBC , out of pique , to torpedo the application of the Code next fall and to seize upon anythingCTN the CBS Television Network did which they could exploit as a transgression . " Taylor was told to disclaimcredit wherever possible , " with the press , producers , talent , government and elsewhere . " But for Taylor that request was like asking Henry Kissinger to let William Rogers share the credit for PresidentNixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the most significant achievement in the television industry in twenty-five years , and he was proud of his role in bringing it about . He had received a congratulatory telegram from Charles Crutchfield predicting that " the American people will applaud the imaginative pioneering of CBS , " calling it the kind of " intelligent , thoughtful piBIRTH//oneering we have learned to expect from CBS . " A separate telegram from Charles Brakefield , chairman of the board of the CBS Television Network Affiliates Association , said the association " applauds " Taylor 's action and called it " another illustration of a long history of industry leadershipand concern for the public interest . " Taylor felt he was earning the right to assume Frank Stanton 's mantle as the industry 's chief spokesman . A major Forbes magazine article in early May , entitled " Arthur in Paley-land , " reported that " lately Taylor has been dipping his toes into CBS 's broadcast policy , once the preserve of Frank Stanton and later of broadcasting head Jack Schneider . Taylor apparently sold Paley and then the industry on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' " When Wiley told a congressional committee that the NAB Code amendment was " a result of " his own efforts , Kidder Meade fired a one-line note to Taylor callingWiley 's testimony " an outrageous assumption of credit for family viewing . ' " So by late spring of 1975 , when the Family Hour at last became a reality , Taylor , like the press , the public , and the creative community , thought that the name of the Family Hour was " Taylor , " and that it would lead to the reduction of violence on television. 6Censorship SummerA FTER the Family Hour was formally adopted , programexecutives at all three networks frantically tried to arrange acceptable and winning schedules for the followingseason , the Fall of 1975 . Confronting the problems one at a time , none of them was aware of the devastating effect the Family Hour Policy would have on that year 's television viewing . Notwithstanding Arthur Taylor 's moralistic concerns and well-intentioned pronouncements , network programmingchiefs were not willing to drop hard action shows in favor of " pro-social " programming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertising dollars flow to stations with the highest ratings , particularly those having eighteen to forty-nine year old urban audiences . As Taylor was all too aware , violence-filled programming is popular , and it is particularly popular with viewers in that target group . No network was about to sacrifice financialsuccess on the altar of social responsibility . Faced with the conflict between principle and popularity , they concluded , for the most part , that the safest course was to//keep their hard-action shows ( and to add some new ones ) , but to put them on after 9:00 P.M.The result was what one writer called " wall-to-wall violence " and Variety labeled " gore as before . " The Sunday-night post-9:oo P.M. lineup , for example , consisted of The Sunday Mystery Movie ( Columbo , McCloud , McMillan and Wife ) on NBC , Ko/ak and the new detective show , Bronk , on CBS , and the frequently actionfilledSunday Night Movie on ABC . The only quasi-action shows that remained in the 7:00-9:00 P.M. time period were those whose violence was arguably more fantasy than real , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hour was disquieting for those who producedand worked on action shows because it potentially reduced the prime-time market for their products from three hours to two hours a night and , more important , because it reduced the syndication value of their programs . The producers of The Rookies , for example , had expected to recoup huge profits from a sale to independent , nonnetwork stations that might have aired the programat , say , 7:30 in the evening . When the Family Hour kept stations from broadcasting The Rookies until after 9:00 P.M. , the program became a far less valuable property . But notwithstanding these economic effects , the number of action shows purchased by the networks and the number of incidents of violence on each show remainedunaffected . Nor was it clear that by rearranging rather than reducingthe amount of prime-time violence , the Family Hour would satisfy any of the legitimate concerns of critics of televised violence . Behavioral studies had shown that certainyoungsters when exposed to television violence act more aggressively and antisocially than they otherwise would , and perhaps are more likely to commit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think that the kind of teenagers who would rape a seven-year-old girl with a beer bottle would be neatly tucked in bed by nine o'clock ? //Indeed , by some standards it was arguable that many children ( and adults ) were actually likely to watch more violence as a result of the new policy . Since there was virtually wall-to-wall action programming in the postFamilyViewing period , children who were still watching television after 9:oo P.M. often had no nonviolent entertainmentalternative . Although instinctively one might assume this to be a small group , the Nielsen ratings report that nationally more than 25 percent of children aged six to eleven are still watching television at io:oo P.M. The situation was even more dramatic in the Central Time Zone , where the Family Hour ended ( and the networks lifted what Variety called " the gore curtain " ) at 8:0o P.M. , especially since statistics indicate that children in the Central Time Zone actually continue to watch television later than youngsters in the rest of the country . But if the Family Hour had little effect on violent programming , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of television comedy . When the post-9:00 P.M. period became what a Los Angeles Times critic called a " crime ghetto , " the Family Hour became a comedy ghetto . The post-9:o0 P.M. hours being filled with action shows , there was nowhere else for comedy , no matter how sophisticated , to go . With the exception of All in the Family and a few other programs that had escaped the Family Hour , television comedy quickly was subjected to a level of scrutiny that Arthur Taylor and Richard Wiley had never intended or anticipated . Taylor had of course been concerned about " tasteless " material , but " tasteless " to him did not mean Norman Lear 's programs ; it meant profanity , the double entendre , the kind of back-room humor used by Las Vegas nightclub performers . When he thought of " sex " as a problem , he had in mind a movie such as The Damned , which he felt should be scheduled at later hours . He was not thinking of Mike and Gloria 's debate about whether or not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its implementationwas up to each network 's " editors , " and they , rudderless , acting without standards , managed to find problems everywhere . In a sense they were right to do so . Though Taylor tended to forget it , the NAB 's Family Hour had been produced by a coalition that included people who were just as concerned about the social and sexual themes on Lear 's shows as Taylor was about violence ; and the actual wording of the new rule , which prohibited programmingdeemed inappropriate for general family viewing , was designed to be sufficiently vague so that all members of the coalition would expect it to apply to the kind of programming they personally considered " inappropriate . " No one knew that better than Tom Swafford , who had from the first argued that the impact of the Family Hour would require major changes in All in the Family just as it would on The Rookies . CBS 's editors , therefore , worried about Cher , which they felt presented " massive problems , " M ? A ? S ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were virtually no shows that did n't seem to present problems to Swafford 's Program Practices staff . Programming whiz Fred Silverman , who was in charge of assembling CBS 's new schedule , reported that " according to Tom Swafford we would probably have to go dark until 9 o'clock . " Virtually every comedy show quickly felt the impact of the Family Hour , but those that felt it most were the creators of the shows with the greatest social relevance , the most bite , shows such as M ? A ? S ? H and Rhoda at CBS , Fay , Lee Grant 's sophisticated new comedy at NBC , and ABC 's Barney Miller . As the Family Hour was actuallyimplemented during the following year , it might seem that the fears of these writers were overblown , almost paranoid , but their reactions can be understood only in context . For most of the history of television , what appeared in entertainment programming was bland , escapist fare. //Comedies like I Love Lucy dealt with the burning of the pot roast on the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with controversy only when it was safely insulated by history . When people gave television credit for helping to develop opposition to the war in Vietnam , they were referring to news and public affairs . In televisiondrama in the 196os the war in Vietnam did n't exist . It was too controversial for entertainment television . Television was vapid , not because writers had nothing to say but because , in deference to the perceived prejudicesof viewers as well as the stated preferences of some station owners , advertisers , citizens groups , and governmentofficials , the networks would n't let them say it . The creators ' dilemma was best stated by one of the most talented writers in Hollywood , David W. Rintels , testifyingin February 1972 before Senator Sam Ervin 's Subcommitteeon Constitutional Rights . Rintels charged that " within the area of entertainment programming , which is a vast source of what American citizens know and how they think about the world , the networks have deliberatelyand almost totally shut off the flow of ideas and information . " After reporting that a poll of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have experienced network censorship , and 8i percent believe that entertainment television presents " a distorted picture of what is happening in this country today ? politically , economically and racially , " Rintels provided several examplesof the way in which network executives refuse to let writers present an honest or accurate portrait of modernsociety . My collaborator and I interested a producer in doing a script about a magazine photographer in Vietnam who was shooting a picture essay on i8-yearoldsgoing into their first combat . The photographer , a man who likes to incite action as much as to observe it , follows one especially cocky boy until he comes//face-to-face with a guerrilla and then takes a picture showing terror in the boy 's eyes . The boy acts bravely ; he just looks afraid . On the next patrol the boy , who has been shown the pictures of himself by the photographer , with the result that he now begins to question his own bravery , anxiously looks around to see where the photographer is and whether he is taking more damning photos . He turns once too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well enough ? a characterstudy that would allow us to say something about truth and bravery , he kindly called it ? to forwardit to the network for its required approval . The network liked the story , too . They wanted only one change , because Vietnam , you know , is controversial in television . My collaborator , wise in the ways of television , felt his heart sink . If they wanted the story moved to Korea , or Germany during World War II , the usual gambits , we were prepared to make a fight of it . No , not at all . Keep the story fresh and contemporary , by all means . Keep it in the present . Just change the locale to Spain , make it a bullfight instead of a war , and make the soldier into a matador . That way , then , the bull charges , the matador can look to see whether the photographer is taking more pictures and ... I was asked to write another episode of the series The FBI on a subject of my choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the four little black girls were killed by the bomb in the Birmingham church . It had been announced that the FBI was involving itself in the case and I told the producer I wanted to write a fictional account of it . He checked with the sponsor , the Ford Motor Co. , and with the FBI ? every proposed episode is cleared sequentially through the producingcompany , QM ; the Federal Bureau of Investiga122SEE NO EVILtion ; the network , ABC ; and the sponsor , Ford ; and any of the four can veto any show for any reason , which it need not disclose ? and reported back that they would be delighted to have me write about a church bombing , subject only to 3 stipulations . The church must be in the north , there could be no Ne- groes involved , and the bombing could have nothing at all to do with civil rights . After I said I would n't write that program , I asked if I could do a show on police brutality , also in the news at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as long as the charge was trumped up , the policeman vindicated , and the man who brought the specious charge prosecuted . Another example : Robert Collins , an established writer , was asked to write for The Senator , deservedly called the boldest and best dramatic series on recent television . Collins writes : The theme of the first story I submitted was the question of possible amnesty for draft evaders . The producer refused the story on the ground that advocacyof amnesty was not the consensus of the country and was therefore unacceptable . The second show I proposed concerned itself with the question of whether a homosexual in government was , by the fact of his homosexuality , a possible security risk . The producer was willing in this case ? but because the treatment of the homosexual in my story was sympathetic and he was portrayed as neither nance nor psychopath , and I refused to treat him as such , the network refused the story . Writers by the dozens report that they have written characters who are black and have seen them changed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Gentiles ; they have proposed shows about South African apartheid , Vietnam , old folks , mental disease , politics , business , labor , students and minorities ; and they have been chased out of studios . This year , one year after The Senator was canceled , ABC and Universal Studios did a show starring AnthonyQuinn called The Man and the City . Producer Stanley Rubin says : Although the format cried out for relevancy we were flatly forbidden to make a relevant show . On a series about a contemporary Mexican-American Mayor of a southwestern city , no stories about the poor , about the old , radicals , Chicanos , Blacks ; the whole field of urban life was expressly and by fiat forbidden . The writer has no more freedom in any series in television . Take the omnipresent medical shows as agroup ? Marcus Welby , M.D. on ABC ; Medical Centeron CBS ; " The Doctors " segment of the Bold Ones on NBC . Anybody who watches these programs must of necessity believe the following about American medicine : No patient is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is available . No doctor ever charges for his services ; no hospital ever bills a patient ; no one ever has to go on charity , or do without care . Almost every doctor cures almost every patient ? if only the patient will let him . Occasionally someone dies , more likely out of boredom or pique than because of the medical profession 's inability to cure him . He is usually 107 when he goes . The American Medical Association does n't exist and , of course , does n't lobby . There is no need for it , to be sure , because no one on television ever sug124SEE NO EVILgests that we need more and better doctors , more and better hospitals , and more and better medical schools , lower-cost health care or , heaven help us , national health insurance . At the time Rintels spoke , conditions were beginning to change , if not for dramatic writers , at least for writers of television comedy . Starting with Laugh-In and The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour , the real world occasionallymade an appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense battles with network executives . The major breakthrough came with Norman Lear 's shows , which at last treated bigotry , war , sexual problems , and the economy on prime-time TV . Though Lear doubted that his shows actually changed society , they were important enough to bring requests for the treatment of contemporary issues from people ranging from the AMA ( which encouraged Lear to treat problems of hypertension on Good Times ) to President Gerald Ford ( whose White House staff asked Lear to help publicize Ford 's anti-inflation " WIN " campaign ) . Lear 's programs proved that realistic comedy was popular ( and popular with groups that had the proper demographics ) and that , as he put it , " no state seceded from the Union " when such material was broadcast . His success became a kind of Magna Charta for socially relevantcomedy , freeing writers to write it and networks to air it . Indeed , though he supported Rintels ' congressional testimony , Lear felt obliged to tell Senator Ervin 's committee , " I am not censored . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to treat themes that were still restricted in drama , perhaps because laughter served as an effective disclaimer . No regularly scheduled dramatic program dealt with major social issues . Though President Ford 's favorite shows were Police Woman and Kojak , it was hard to imagine his staff asking that Telly Savalas or Angie//Dickinson wear a " WIN " button . What made the Family Hour so frightening was that it appeared to herald a re- turn to the restraints of the pre-Lear era in comedy . Writers of television comedy learned about the Family Hour from network " editors " ( or censors ) who had a job to perform but no standards to guide them . The conversa tions between the " editors " and writers became case studies in censorship as " editors " expressed concern about material that need n't have worried them to writers who , in turn , often heard the worst and began to censor them- selves . A typical , and shattering , experience involved Larry Gelbart , writer and coproducer of M*A ? S ? H. On May 8 he received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to M ? A ? S ? H informing him that she had just made a review of the ten story ideas that he already had in devel opment for the next season . The themes had been ap proved by CBS earlier in the year , and Gelbart had already hired writers to turn the ideas into scripts . But that had been before the NAB formally adopted the Fam ily Hour . Under the new policy , she told Gelbart , she was worried about four of the proposals . When she listed the four , Gelbart felt that her com ments confirmed his worst fears about the Family Hour . They dealt with the kind of significant topics that had made M ? A ? S ? H an important as well as popular pro- gram . The " editor " was troubled about " Hey Doc , " which dealt with venereal disease ; " Some 38 Parallels , " which concerned impotence ; " Of Moose and Men , " involving adultery ; and " Corporal Jesus H. Christ , " about a bom bardier with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inappropriate because of the sexual issues they addressed . The fourth , she felt , might be considered sacrilegious . These were not prurient or salacious topics , in Gelbart 's view , but rather matters of serious concern to the military//and to the country . Venereal disease was a national problem ; medical authorities felt it had reached epidemic proportions , and it was especially widespread in the service . Impotence , a once-taboo topic , was a subject much investigated by military psychiatrists ; a recent study had found a huge increase in in-service impotence , which , the report 's authors speculated , was connected with the sexualliberation of women . While not a medical problem , adultery was of special concern in the military , where , it was soon revealed , even General Eisenhower had had a paramour . And the psychological problems and motivationsof men at war are of continuing interest and significance . These were themes that Gelbart knew M ? A ? S ? H could handle with dignity . Indeed , it was hard to imagine that they would be treated nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows that now all but monopolized the time periodduring which such topics presumably would be permitted . The " editor 's " call deeply disturbed Gelbart , partly becausethe scripts had already been commissioned and his employer , Twentieth Century-Fox , would have to pay for them , but mostly because he felt that his artistic integrity had been challenged . An extremely talented writer of theatricalcomedy , Gelbart had started at age sixteen as aradio gag writer for the Fanny Brice Show and Du ff y 's Tavern , and had spent years writing television material for Bob Hope and Sid Caesar before joining forces with Burt Shevelove in 1962 to transform Plautus into the classicalmusical comedy A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum . When his hit musical moved to Londonin 1963 , Gelbart and his family went with it , and they stayed in England for nine years . What brought him back to Hollywood and to television in 1972 was the chance to write and produce the television version of M ? A ? S ? H for CBS in the new , freer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was widely loved and respected by his peers ? Lear considered him the wittiest//man he knew ? and having Gelbart back in television somehow enhanced the status of the industry in the eyes of his fellow writers . He had helped to make M ? A ? S ? H an award-winning program , one of the most poignant and popular shows on television . During its two years on the air M ? A ? S ? H had often dealt with sensitive areas of human behavior , always with taste , and ? with the exception of an episode about a gay soldier , which produced 4,000 telephone calls ? always with apparently near-unanimous public approval . Gelbart resented the suggestion that he and his staff would have to establish their artistic credentials all over again . If this was a foretaste of life under the Family Hour , Gelbart decided , he was n't interested in continuing to write for television . Gelbart , like Lear when he started All in the Family , had no need to stay in television . He could always write for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " editor " continued to haunt and infuriate him throughout that evening . Though not by nature as contentiousas Lear , he decided to let the top CBS executives know how he felt . The next day he sent a letter to the CBS-TV West Coast vice-president , Perry Lafferty , an old friend and coworker , politely threatening to resign . After describing his telephoneconversation with CBS 's " editor , " Gelbart wrote : " If our 8:3o position makes us vulnerable under the new rules , whatever they may be , I must repeat my earlier concern about M ? A ? S ? H maintaining its flavor and integrity . . . . I am insisting on a new clause in my contract that will allow me to leave M ? A ? S ? H should all these new fears and requirements alter the spirit of the series . " Gelbart was the central creative force of a popular program . He got a quick response to his letter . Lafferty called to reassure him that no one intended to tamper with the spirit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had always been done with taste. //Even Robert Wood called to say that CBS was proud of M ? A ? S ? H and that the previous season would serve as a model for the new one . " We are not trying to make M ? A ? S " H into Bambi , " Wood promised . But Gelbart was still concerned . He knew that each network had two divisions , the Program Development Department and the Program Practices Department . They often gave a writer conflicting signals , deliberately or by chance . The programming people encouraged controversy , sex , and violence , while the Program Practices " editors " stood by with a heavy blue pencil , ready to draw a line through the parts of the script the program developershad requested or praised . Norman Lear used the analogy of the old Milton Berle routine in which the comedian puts up one hand to signal the audience to stop its applause while the other hand frantically waves the audience on . The right hand of CBS was telling Gelbart to proceed as usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in place , what would the left hand say ? Part of the problem during those early months of the Family Viewing Policy was that CBS 's " editors , " the company'sleft hand , had no idea what rules they were supposedto enforce . The " editor " assigned to M ? A ? S ? H , for example , was responsible for reviewing countless story ideas and scripts to make sure that they measured up to CBS 's standards . Since CBS had no written standards she was forced , in Tom Swafford 's phrase , to use her " imagination . " But how does one apply imagination and judgment in a field at once so sensitive and amorphous ? CBS does not require any particular educational background for its " editors , " nor does it provide a structured training program of its own . " The first and most important piece of material he is given is the NAB Code , " according to West Coast Program Practices Chief Richard Kirschner . Then he is assigned to a program in which he gets occasionalsupervision from the senior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you learn by doing , " Kirschner explained. //Learning to " edit " on the job was a difficult chore even in the best of times . It is n't easy to say no to talented and often highly volatile producers and writers , such as those in Norman Lear 's company , yet no editor wants to risk letting something go on the air that might offend network executives , affiliates , church groups , or , God forbid , governmentofficials . It is impossible to satisfy everyone . If it was difficult to be a new editor in a typical year , it was almost impossible in the year of the Family Hour . The CBS editors knew that Arthur Taylor would be looking at their work closely , since the Family Hour was his project ; they knew that the FCC , members of Congress , and top TV journalists and critics would be watching what happened ; and they knew that the other networks and the NAB would always be looking over their shoulders . Yet they had no standard to guide them . The NAB rule simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " And about the only indication of what the CBS top brass considered " inappropriate " was Swafford 's mid-April memo on the themes and language used in All in the Family , in which Mike 's suggestion that he does n't want to have children and his atheistic response to Archie 's " miracle " were listed as possibly inappropriatetopics for treatment in the Family Hour . The atmosphere of uncertainty and confusion also engulfedAllan Burns , a top writer on both Rhoda and The Mary Tyler Moore Show . He first learned about the FamilyHour from Grant Tinker , the president of MTM , Inc. ( the Mary Tyler Moore Company ) , which produced Rhoda as well as The Mari Tyler Moore Show . A handsomeand diplomatic former advertising and network executive , Tinker 's relationship with top CBS executives like Robert Wood was as sweet as Norman Lear 's was salty . Though he was exceptionally thoughtful and committed to quality , he had much in common with Wood . They were both executives rather than writers ; as a former NBC programming director , Tinker had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elegant New England Protestant , Dartmouth , Madison Avenue , tennisplayingcredentials of a character in a Louis Auchincloss novel . Talented as he was in his own right , he was also married to the woman who was CBS 's most prized performer , the chairman of MTM , Inc . Tinker called Burns in late April , a few days before CBS released its fall schedule , to tell him that Rhoda had been moved from 9:30 to 8:oo P.M. for the new season . Burns ' first reaction to the change was positive . " I guess that 's good , " Burns said tentatively . " Well , it might not be as good as you think , " Tinker cautioned . " That puts us in the Family Hour . " Burns had been a television script writer for about fifteen years , starting with work on cartoon programs such as Bullwinkle and The Munsters , but quickly moving to comedies with more artistic range , such as Love American Style and Room 222 . By 197o he and his partner , Jim Brooks , had emerged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teams by creating and then serving as executive producers for The Mary Tyler Moore Show and , starting in 1974 , Rhoda . For many people The Mary Tyler Moore Show and Rhoda were symbols for what was best in television comedy . They were more gentle in tone and humor than Norman Lear 's pace-setting programs and they tended to deal with personal rather than political issues . Themes seemed to develop in an incubator of love rather than conflict . Yet in terms of human relationships and changing social mores , from Women 's Liberation to sexual freedom , Mary Tyler Moore and Rhoda were as real , innovative , and poignant as anything on television . As Tinker gave Burns a short briefing on the Family Hour , Burns became alarmed . Since The Mary Tyler Moore Show was on at 9:oo P.M. , presumably it was safe , but Burns wondered what changes he might have to make in Rhoda . A couple of days later he got a preliminary answer . He//learned that the CBS Program Practices Department had had a discussion about how to edit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was told , was that several of the topics that they had treated in the past , possibly includingthe discussion of birth control , for which they had been nominated for the Population Institute 's award , might be a problem . Burns began to wonder what kind of series he was supposedto be making . The program , as he conceived it , was about two people in their early thirties who had just gottenmarried . He wanted to deal openly and frankly with their problems of adjustment . Would that be possible under the new policy ? Burns did n't want to go back to writing Bullwinkle and The Munsters under the title of Rhoda . When he shared his concerns with Tinker , they agreed to tell the people at CBS about their misgivings . They hoped to persuade CBS to move the program out of the Family Hour , or at least to get a clarification of the new policy . The meeting was held at CBS in early May . CBS was represented by its top programming people , including Fred Silverman and Perry Lafferty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burns , and several of their MTM colleagues were there on behalf of Rhoda . At first there seemed to be some confusion as the meetingopened , since the people from CBS assumed that they had suggested the meeting to discuss the direction the program would take in the next year . When the MTM group brought up the Family Hour and said they expectedit to be a problem , Silverman seemed genuinely surprised . " Why should it be ? " he asked . " I want you to do as good a show as you did last year ? if not better . " " Well , this Family Hour thing has us concerned that we 're not going to be able to get into the subject matter that we got into last year , " Burns persisted . " I do n't think that should be a problem , " Silverman//said . " You 've been on the air long enough for the audience to be accustomed to Rhoda 's habits or idiosyncrasies . They 're used to her outspokenness , her earthiness , and the themes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them is n't going to shock anybody . They 'll expect it . " " Yeah , " one of Silverman 's CBS colleagues chimed in . " Is n't it a little late for Rhoda to become a virgin ? " Although Burns found himself relaxing a little , he still was n't satisfied . " I do n't like not having any guidelines , " he said . " How do we know what to write ? " At that point Kirschner spoke up for the first time , presentingthe Program Practices perspective . " We do n't know what the Family Hour is yet , " Kirschner reported , " but as Tom Swafford says , I guess we 'll know it when we see it . ' " Burns heard the CBS people laughing , but he felt himself turning white . " That 's hardly guidelines , " Burns fumed . " Do you mean to tell me that you only know what you do n't want , not what you do want ? " " For now , that 's right . " " Well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued . " How are we supposed to write scripts guessing what you will want two months from now ? " Sensing where the meeting was heading , Silverman interceded . " Listen , guys , " he said , " Just tell me what you have in mind . Just off the top of your head , can you tell us what kind of stories you are going to do that might be potential problems ? " Burns and his colleagues bad come prepared for this kind of discussion . They had brought with them a selectionof scripts from the previous year which dealt with difficult themes . They had marked some of the rougher passages . They turned over the bundle of scripts with the request that CBS read through them to see what material , if any , would n't be allowed during the Family Hour . Then Burns described some of the stories that they had//in mind for the upcoming season . One was about Rhoda 's mother , Ida , played by Nancy Walker , and the relationshipshe was developing with a doctor . Though their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affair , " and probably had as much difficulty dealing with it as she would have had with a sexual affair . No one at the meeting thought that the story would present any problemsas long as the " affair " was transparently innocent and was treated in a funny rather than a serious fashion . The second story Rhoda 's creators described was more difficult . It was about Myrna , a business associate of Rhoda 's in the window-dressing business , who , it becomes increasingly clear , is getting clients by sleeping with certaincustomers . One of the people from CBS called this " potentially problematic , " but said it would depend on how the material was handled . Finally Silverman gave Burns the reassurance he wanted . " I think you are going to be able to do the same show you did last year , " Silverman concluded , " but if this thing creates any problems for you , let me know and we 'll talk about putting you in a later time slot . " If the meeting ended on an encouraging note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A couple of days later he received a telephone call from Jim Revard , the CBS editor assigned to Rhoda , who had just finished reading the first few scripts for the new season . " There are a few things in here that are going to give us some problems , " Revard said . Revard had helped steer Rhoda through some controversies in the past . Burns liked him and had specifically asked to have him assigned to the show . " What problems ? " Burns asked . As they talked , Burns was surprised to find that most of Revard 's concerns involved ideas or snatches of dialogue that they had been allowed to use the year before . " Why is that a problem ? " he inquired at one point . " We did something just like it last year . " // " That 's last year , " Revard said . " You were n't in the Family Hour last year . " " But I thought we just had all this out with Fred Silverman , " Burns said , somewhat exasperated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do anything different from last year . " Well that was the Program Department talking , " Revard explained . " Now you 're talking to Program Practices . He was just giving you the usual program departmenthype , telling you what you wanted to hear . " It was the Milton Berle routine . " We have been given a different assignment , " Revard continued . " No matter what the ProgramDepartment told you , you ca n't get away with everything you did last year . We have been tossed this baby by the East Coast and told to make something of it . They do n't care how we do it , but we have to do somethingmeaningful . " Although some people in the creative community began to assume that CBS 's editors had a list of words and themes that were deemed " inappropriate for general familyviewing , " no such list existed . In fact , it was hard to find two people within the CBS hierarchy who could agree on what the NAB rule was supposed to mean . It was n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Helffrich tried to establish guidelines for the new rule , he sent CBS 's Tom Swafford and the other Code Board members a questionnaire designed to clarify the rule 's meaning . Swafford in turn circulated the questionnaireto his superiors along with a memo dated June zo . " Before I fill this thing out , I 'd welcome your guidance , " Swafford 's memo said . " Possibly there 's a consensus ; also possibly there is n't . Which will only underscore the imprecisionwith which we deal as we lurch and fumble in the Vineyard . " Swafford received only two written responses . The first was from Broadcast Group President Jack Schneider , who answered fewer than two-thirds of the questions , explainCENSORSHIP//ing , " Do n't know enough background to mark those I have left blank . " Schneider did , however , express the opinion that " mature theme and dialogue " would be " inappropriate " under the new rule . As for language , Schneider commented that " an occasional Hell or Damn " would be acceptable , " but in context ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Swafford 's memo was far more extensive and in some respects far more important . It was written by Dick Kirschner . As CBS 's West Coast Program Practices chief , he supervised Jim Revard and the other editors , and , while his decisions could be appealed , on a day-to-day basis he was the executive responsible for the rule 's enforcement . Kirschner attached a cover note to his copy of the questionnaire . When it came to light months later , some writers asked themselves , only half in jest , whether the note lived up to CBS 's standards of taste . It said : FROM : Dick Kirschner ( CTN-H ) TO : MR . THOMAS J. SWAFFORD //Tom ? I 've taken the liberty of scribbling some notes on Stockton 's questionnaire . If you disagree with any of them please advise . If you disagree with all of them I will take my body to the mount where I will don sackcloth and ashes , eat nothing but tacos and prunes , and meditate for a year . By that time the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions expressed on the attached form are mine and may not necessarily be those of the management . I wish they were ! Scribbled on the questionnaire was Kirschner 's view that " abortion ? the pill ? prostitution " were all too sensitive or controversial to be discussed during the Family Hour//and even " a vague discussion of pregnancy " might be " too difficult for young viewers . " Indeed , he wrote , the rule should exclude " any material which may be considered as inappropriate ( and offensive ) by a significant portion of the viewing audience . " The only acceptable references to sex , lie said , should be ones that children ca n't understand . " Blatant and overt sexual material should be avoided in the Family Hour , " he wrote . " However , vague references may be acceptable depending upon the situation . The youthful audience will accept Rhoda 's tirade at Myrna for dating ' prospective clients as just that ? dating . The older audience can read between the lines and get the true significance . " It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management , but as long as management refused to clarify its views , Kirschner , as the network 's West Coast editor , frequently spoke for CBS , and he was confident that he would know unacceptable material when he saw it . While CBS executives were still frantically trying to reach a consensus about the meaning of the Family Hour , Kirschner and a group of MTM executives , including Allan Burns , engaged in what became the most widely known and potentially most explosive confrontation betweeneditors and writers . The CBS-MTM encounter was especially significant because it involved the genteel and generally cooperative employees of the Mary Tyler Moore Company rather than the volatile and adversarial people in Norman Lear 's organization . The subject of the fight was the lead-off episode of a new MTM series called Phyllis , starring Academy Award winner Cloris Leachman and built around a character who had appeared regularly for a number of years on The Mary Tyler Moore Show . The episode was to be called " Bess , Is You a Woman Now ? " It dealt with the relationshipbetween Phyllis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daughter Bess . In the program//Bess has gone off on a ski weekend with a group of other teenagers , and while the girl is away Phyllis begins to worry about what may be happening at night between her daughter and one of the young men in the group . The program shows Phyllis grappling with the problem and trying to find a way of asking her daughter what happened . As the episode was written , Phyllis does finally ask her daughter what happened , and Bess tells her that she has not had sex with the boy . In the last scene Phyllis is picturedgleefully jumping in the air saying , " Nothing happened ! " The picture freezes for an instant ... until she does a double take and adds , " Unless she 's a terrific liar . " Kirschner 's staff told the team of writers and producers who worked on Phyllis that the script was unacceptable . They were not proposing that the script be rewritten or that a few scenes be changed . The subject matter , they said , was simply unacceptable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the writers and producers of Phyllis , Kirschner 's position was intolerable . They were so angry about the rejection of the episode that they persuaded Grant Tinker to convene a highly unusual meeting with CBS officials in his office . They also suggested that Allan Burns be invited since he owned a percentage of the show ( having helped to create the character Phyllis when she was on The Mary Tyler Moore Show ) and , more important , was a member of a committee recently formed by the Writers Guild of America to combat the Family Hour . Tinker 's own original attitude toward the Family Hour had been benign . Not knowing how it would impinge on comedy , he had been quoted as a supporter of the concept ( " It takes as much creative talent to write The Waltons as another cop show " ) . His temperament , his experience as a network executive , and his close personal relationship with men like Bob Wood also led him to believe that the Family Hour would work out all right and need not be//opposed aggressively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste and inner strength . Since his success largely depended upon the work of his writers , whom he respected , when they were unhappy so was he . The Phyllis episode demonstrated that something had to be done , and the meeting in his office seemed a good , congenial place to start . But the session only further exacerbated the tension betweenCBS and the creators of Phyllis . Of the five CBS officials in the room , only one , Paul King , was from the CBS Programming Department . King made it clear that he thought that the show was perfectly acceptable and repeatedly suggested that some compromise be worked out . But Kirschner and his Program Practices staff were adamant , and it appeared that they , rather than King , had the final word . They were not there to negotiate . Under no circumstances , they insisted , could the program be made acceptable . The tension built when the CBS editors , rather than referring to the episode by the title the writers had chosen , characterized it as " Did Bess Get Laid ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all ! " the show 's producer , Ed Weinberger , shot back . " I do n't think that 's the theme of it . I think it is a highly moral show about a mother 's efforts to find ways of communicating with her daughter . It belongs in the Family Hour , where parents and childrencan watch it together . By ruling the show out you are depriving the audience of the chance to see an importantissue . " When Kirschner remained adamant , Weinberger said , " Well , if we ca n't do this kind of show , I do n't know what kind of show we can do . We have no guidelines . I mean , what 's in your mind when you read a script to decide whether or not it 's proper for this time period ? " " What we 're trying to do , " Kirschner responded , glancing at the other editors in the room , " is not to offend the most uptight parent that we can imagine watching with his children . " //Everyone from MTM was astonished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's judgment , and they assumed the critical decisions were being made in corporate headquarters in New York , or maybe even in the government . But " the most uptight parent imaginable " was a standard that exceeded their worst fears . " How can you say an outrageous thing like that and expectus to live with it ? " Weinberger exploded . " That 's off the record , " Kirschner said . " No , it 's not off the record , " Allan Burns replied . " You ca n't say something like that off the record , because it 's obviously something that is in your mind . I 'm going to tell everybody I know that that 's the way CBS views this thing . " Before the meeting the three MTM executives with dayto-dayresponsibility for producing Phyllis had decided that if CBS proved intransigent , they would refuse to work on the show . They knew that such a position would have an impact on CBS , not only because CBS expected Phyllis to be a big success but also because MTM was supplying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men were central to the success of several of those other shows as well . Weinberger decided it was time to play their trump . " I ca n't imagine who this person is we 're trying to imagine sitting in front of a television set with his children , " Weinberger said , " and I certainly do n't know how to write for him . If that 's whom you expect me to write for , I ca n't do the series . I do n't know how to write it and I do n't know how to produce it . " His colleagues , Stan Daniels and Michael Leeson , said that under those conditions they did n't know how to perform their writing and producingfunctions either . The three men then announced that they were resigning as producers and executive producersof the show , and they left the room . Grant Tinker and Allan Burns took over the meeting . Weinberger , Daniels , and Leeson had created Phyllis , and if they could n't produce the show , Tinker said , he didn't140 sEE NO EVILknow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call Bob Wood , " he said , " and tell him that if these guys ca n't do the show , then I ca n't deliver it to you , and you 're going to have a big hole in your schedule on Monday nights at eightthirty . " The CBS editors listened but did n't respond . They knew that Tinker was not accustomed to making threats , that he did not engage in the kind of nuclear blackmail for which Norman Lear was famous . They also knew that he was on excellent terms with the top CBS executives and that his programs were of incalculable importance to the network . But the editors were not there to negotiate . They had a message to deliver and they had delivered it . Word of the Phyllis debate spread like a shock wave through the industry . Within a few days people throughout the creative community knew that CBS was taking the position that a program involving a discussion of premaritalsex was thematically inappropriate for the 7:00 ? 9:00 time period . The episode soon became a test case for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached a compromise arrangement . The program could be filmed , Wood said , but he insisted that MTM agree to a few changes , including the deletion of the last line with its suggestion that perhapsBess had lied to her mother . " I and everybody else at CBS thought it was a lot better to make clear that the act of intercourse had not taken place , " Wood explained later . " I did n't think it compromised the integrity of the programto take it out . " The show 's creators did n't agree . They had intended to write a show about the difficulty of intergenerational communication about sex and about the possibility that in some circumstances parents may , consciously or subconsciously , prefer to be shielded from the truth . At one point in the program one of her friends suggests that Phyllis talk openly about the weekend with Bess since , whichever way the conversation went , Phyllis would feel better. //Phyllis asks , " What do you mean ? " And the friend responds , " Well , if she 's naive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And if she 's sophisticated , she will lie and tell you that nothing happened . " Weinberger hoped that some viewers would remember that colloquy when Phyllis joyfully exclaims that " nothing happened . " But for those who did n't , for whom Wood 's deletion succeeded in making it clear that the act of intercourse had not taken place , CBS had , as one writer later put it , converted a complex story about parent-child communication into a morality play with the theme " Nice girls still do n't do it . " The over-all results of the struggle were mixed . As a test case , it seemed to prove that CBS would permit some discussion of premarital sex , but perhaps only if a few key writers threatened to resign and , even then , only if there really was n't any sex after all . Furthermore , as Allan Burns , testifying alongside Grant Tinker , later told a congressional committee , the meeting " had a very intimidatingeffect and a very chilling effect on the creative people in our company . " Nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers soon learned the story , wanted to have to go through that kind of battle again . The Network CensorsCollideTHE fall television season started officially on Monday , September 8 , 1975 . Network programming officials on both coasts always greet the new season with a mixture of excitement and apprehension , carefully studying the contentand ratings of each new show to see which will be winners and which will bomb . With each rating point worth an estimated $z5 million , the stakes are high , the battle intense . But this new season was unique . For the first time editorsas well as programming executives were studying the competition . It was the editors ' first chance to see how the other networks were enforcing the Family Hour . To some outside observers , industry implementation of the Family Hour had become almost as important and interesting as the new season 's programming . Newsweek 's September 8 cover featured a full-page color photograph of Cloris Leachman as Phyllis ; the story was " TV 's Fall Season . " While the article described all of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of editorial changes that the Family Hour had effected . " As it is curTHE//rently being implemented , " Newsweek concluded , " the new policy is akin to separating the dross from the gold ? and then throwing away the gold . " Though the season was under way , the editors themselveswere still groping , hoping to find some useful bench marks or standards . They were n't getting much help from their corporate superiors . At CBS , Swafford received no further written responses to the NAB questionnaire . On September ig he finally tired of waiting and sent his own answers to the NAB . " I 'm terribly embarrassed about this , " he told Code Director Helffrich in a cover note . " I 've been trying to get some kind of commitment from somebodyother than Program Practices as to just what we had in mind with Family Viewing . My efforts have been fruitless ; my persistence unproductive . Well , what the hell . . . " But Swafford knew that the final arbiters of the meaning of Family Viewing were his colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CBS . He knew , too , that the NAB Code was intensely competitive and political . His counterparts at the other networks would be watchingCBS with special care , only too happy to show that the network that had proposed the Family Hour was its greatest transgressor . Before the season was a week old the top editors at ABC and NBC were on the phone to NAB Code Director Helffrich complaining about themes and language that they had seen on CBS . They wanted to know how CBS could justify Cher 's revealing apparel , the profanity on M ? A ? S ? H and Good Times , and the sex-related themes on Phyllis and Rhoda . Helffrich informed Swafford of the calls , and while he assured him that the calls were " informational , really in the nature of questions " rather than official complaints , Swafford began to feel uneasy . He worried that questions would surface at the next NAB Code Board meeting , and if that happened , there was no forecasting the consequences . It was unlikely that CBS would be formally//censured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ugly . The CBS editors began to take immediate precautions . According to ABC and NBC , CBS had allowed too many " hells " and " damns " during the first week . Tough as the CBS editors felt they had been during the summer , they now took a fresh look at shows that were already approved , in the can , and scheduled for airing . Where possiblethey tried to eliminate the few challengeable words that they had allowed to slip through . In an episode of M ? A ? S ? H scheduled for broadcast in the second or third week of the season , for example , CBS 's editors fixed on a piece of dialogue in which a character says , " my wife usually takes care of these damn things . " An editor called Larry Gelbart and asked him if the print could be dubbed and the line could be changed to " these darn things . " Gelbart felt that " darn " was too obvious an edit , but when the editor explained that ABC and NBC complaints to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damn " to " dumb . " Swafford also told his staff to monitor ABC and NBC , looking for guidelines , in part , but also looking for ammunitionthat Swafford could use , if necessary , in selfdefense . Watching the other networks , Swafford found enough to criticize , but it quickly became apparent that the standards used to edit comedy on ABC and NBC were at least as strict as CBS 's ? and probably stricter . Finally , on September 25 , three weeks into the new season , Swafford felt that the bickering had gone far enough . He told Helffrich that there were plenty of complaints that he could make about shows on ABC and NBC , but that he felt that such a discussion should take place in private rather than at a full meeting of the NAB Code Board . Swafford and Helffrich agreed to arrange an informalluncheon meeting the following week at CBS under the aegis of the NAB Code . The programs of his competitors which Swafford conTHE//sidered most vulnerable were Fay on NBC and Barney Miller on ABC . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the greatest problems for the editors at those networks . Barney Miller , a police satire set in an unpretentious precinct house in New York City , had been a headache for ABC Standards and Practices Chief Al Schneider since its debut in February 1975 . Writer-producer Danny Arnold , who thinks comedy is funniest when dealing with the paranoia and contrasts inherent in contemporary society , wanted the show to do for the police what M*A ? S ? H had done for ( or to ) the army , and he planned to fill his programwith the full range of characters who could make life in a big-city police department bizarre . But some of his programs necessarily involved themes that were implicitlysexual or violent and characters whose occupationsor life styles were out of the middle-American mainstream . Two of Arnold 's favorite characters presented problems for ABC . One , a gay friend of Barney 's named Marty who had unsuccessfully tried to join the police force ( " Why should n't there be gay cops , " he asked , " there are gay crooks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and led to fierce battles between Arnold and Schneider even before the advent of the Family Hour . The other , a sweet and humorous young prostitute who forms a lovely , unlikely , and emotionally unsettling relationship with a moralistic , farm-bred 4-H Club detective named Wojechowicz , presentedproblems less because of any fundamental ABC opposition to prostitution than because the network had recently presented Hustling , a docu-drama on prostitution , and had two prostitutes appearing regularly on Norman Lear 's Hot L Baltimore . Enough is enough , the editors argued . But Arnold is a man of great raw power and determination , and after doing battle with Schneider inside ABC and in the press ( " Censors have no sense of humor , " he told Daily Variety , and " they do not recognize//the realities of contemporary life " ) , he won the right to show the programs . That was all before the Family Hour . The **27;354;TOOLONG had seemed rough but balanced before the NAB rule was adopted , since Arnold had been able to appeal to higher authorities at ABC . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed . As Arnoldperceived it , Schneider had become far more powerful and assertive ; he had heard rumors that Schneider 's editors were scared to death of him and that Schneider was insisting on supercensorship . While Schneider was an extremely bright Harvard Law School graduate who tried to bring a touch of idealism to a thankless job , it also was probably true that his standardswere more rigid than Swafford 's . When Schneider visited Arnold at his Hollywood offices in late May to explain the new policy , their exchange was barely civil . " Number one , no hells ' and damns , ' " Schneider said . " If that 's number one , I do n't want to hear number two , " Arnold replied . But Schneider did get to number two . He told Arnold that no shows with gays or prostitutes would be allowed that year . His concern this time was not that the gay would be a caricature or that prostitution would be the staple of ABC programming . Rather , both were unacceptablebecause they necessarily involved " adult themes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted during the Family Hour . , With that , Arnold brought the meeting to an abrupt halt . " It 's going to be a bitter battle week to week , " Arnoldconcluded . " That 's exactly what it 's going to be , " Schneider said . Neither man could predict just how bitter and uncivil it would soon become . During the next several weeks Schneider 's editors cut countless words and snatches of dialogue from scripts in ways that Arnold considered petty , nit-picking . Since the editors explained that they were only following orders , //Arnold increasingly perceived Schneider as a distant antagonist . Then one day in midsummer , as the cast and crew were preparing to shoot the first episode of Barney Miller , Al Schneider appeared on the stage , unannounced , with his Standards and Practices entourage and asked Arnold how things were going . Arnold later provided a vivid description of the scene . " I think you know how things are going , " Arnold rememberedsaying . " They 're tough . " " You make things tough on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't make things tough on myself . I do shows the way I think they should be done . You and your staff are making it very tough on me . " Schneider bristled . " I 'm out here to make sure that the Family Hour concept is carried out , " he said , " so , Danny , I 'm not going to take any shit from you . " Arnold looked around him . This was n't the kind of colloquy he wanted to have in front of his cast and crew . He had a fierce temper of his own , but he tried to control it . " Al , you want to talk about this privately ? " he asked . " Do you want to go somewhere to discuss it ? " " No , " Schneider answered , " there is nothing that I have to say to you that I ca n't say in front of my staff or in front of anybody else . " " Okay , " Arnold finally exploded . " If that 's your attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't gon na discuss it with you , and you can do whatever you please . " " I 'll pull my staff off the show , " Schneider shot back somewhat irrationally . " Do whatever you want , " Arnold responded . " This is my show . This is my company . If you want to talk to me like a gentleman , I 'll talk to you . If not , go screw off . " And Arnold walked away . It was Arnold 's last conversation with Schneider . ABC programming executives tried to patch things up . They even tried to arrange a breakfast meeting between Arnold and Schneider the following morning at the Beverly Hil148SEE NO EVILton Hotel . But Arnold was intransigent . He would talk to Schneider , he said , only if Schneider apologized for the way he had behaved on the Barney Miller set . Schneider did n't apologize . So Arnold and Schneider stopped speaking to each other . For the remainder of the year all conversationsabout the Family Hour and Barney Miller were conducted through Schneider 's subordinates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editors over words and snatches of dialogue as well as about characters and themes , but Schneider remainedadamant , and he generally won . Even when Arnoldwas able to point to instances in which editors at CBS and NBC had allowed a similar word or phrase to pass scrutiny , word came back that Schneider made the rules at ABC . Arnold generally had to back down , because Schneider had the power to say no , to veto an episode which , if the show had already been taped , could cost Arnold 's companyas much as $1oo,000 . For the first show of the season Arnold planned an episode called " Doomsday " in which William Windom played a man who , frustrated by his powerlessness , came into the police station with a belt of dynamite strapped around his waist . He was prepared to blow himself up as a political statement . Finally the Chicano detective , infuriated by the man 's attitude , shouted , " You know , you 've got one hell of a nerve . " After the show was taped ABC 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the air unless " hell " was changed to " heck . " Arnold felt that , in context , " heck " would grate on the senses and lack credibility . But he had no choice , and after waging a losing fight , he agreed to dub the line . Arnold even gave up on the prostitute . Though he wanted to explore the relationship between the cop and the prostitute , played by Nancy Dussault , and had even considered developing a spin-off series about a police officermarried to a former prostitute , he did n't have the time , energy , or clout to fight that battle . He finally told//Dussault and her agent that he would not be able to use her again . But Arnold refused to let Marty die . He felt that homosexualitywas too important a theme to ignore in a police show , he had a particular story that he wanted to tell , and , in addition , he had developed an important ally , Dr. Newt Dieter , of the Gay Media Task Force . Since that was the group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he thought that , with Dieter 's support , the struggle was worth the effort . Arnold described the story line to Schneider 's West Coast surrogates . It involved a phenomenon called the " fruit hustle , " in which a policeman , or someone impersonatinga policeman , goes into a gay bar and extorts money by threatening to arrest the patrons . Though ABC 's editors said that that theme , like any other show dealing with homosexuals , would be unacceptable , Arnold prepared a script . He went to the editors with the script in hand and with Dr. Dieter 's support , but the editors explained that the show was still unacceptable without the approval of " New York , " and that " New York " would not approve it . Nevertheless Arnold decided to take a $ioo , 000 gamble . On September 26 , without New York 's prior assent , he went ahead and taped the show . The next day the show went to New York . When the network 's top editors met at CBS on September 30 , Schneider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of the editors ' meeting , NBC 's problems with Lee Grant 's Fay had , in a certain sense , been resolved . After three episodes the program had been canceled . Originally conceived as the sexiest , most sophisticated show on television , Fay was about a divorced woman , played by Lee Grant , whose social attitudes and life style seemed certain to raise eyebrows in Oklahoma City and//Duluth . After all , building a series around a divorced woman was still somewhat venturesome for a medium that , only a few years earlier , had flatly told the creators of The Mary Tyler Moore Show that their star could not portray a divorcee . When they saw the pilot , which was filmed in mid-February , NBC 's top programming executivesloved it . They told the show 's creators , Susan Harris and Paul Witt , that they considered Fay NBC 's best new show . But as the full impact of the Family Viewing Policy began to sink in during the spring of 1975 , it became increasingly clear that the show would have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , NBC Broadcast Standards Chief Hermino Traviesas doubted that Fay could be placed in the Family Hour at all . He told networkprogram executives that before he could agree to let Fay be scheduled between 8:oo and 9 : oo P.M. they would have to provide him with evidence that the series could and would be developed in an acceptable fashion . In mid-April , NBC Programming Vice-President John McMahon invited Susan Harris and Paul Witt to have breakfast with him at the Dorset Hotel in New York . Though Harris and Witt lived in California , they were in New York for the spring selling season . Before the meetingMcMahon cautioned them that Fay was in trouble , that people did n't think it could be made less sophisticatedand still remain funny . He told them he needed ammunition to take back to the people at the network to prove that the show could be funny even if Fay did n't sleep with her young boss or have an affair with her exhusband . By the time they arrived at the breakfast Harris and Witt had done their homework . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had submitted earlier could be toned down but still remain funny . " We would have done anything at that time short of lying to John to show him how to sell the show , " Witt recalled. //They even showed McMahon how to change the pilot , which had alarmed Broadcast Standards because it made it clear that Fay had spent a weekend with a man named Al and that he had later spent the night in her apartment . Reluctantly Harris and Witt discussed the ways in which the pilot could be edited without having to be refilmed . For example , it proved possible to edit out all references to the weekend , and to have Lee Grant dub a voice-over telling Fay 's ex-husband , " I think it 's serious , " instead of " I 'm having an affair . " To prevent people from thinking that Al had spent the night at Fay 's apartment , Ms. Grant could dub a new line at the beginning of the breakfast scene , " So glad you could drop by , " and those parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tie and jacket could simply be cut out . A few other lines would have to be changed . In a speech about marriage , as filmed , Al said , " In my day it was different . In my day you kissed a girl with your mouth open and the next day you were picking rice out of your hair . " That could be edited so that Al would say , " In my day you kissed a girl with your eyes closed . . . " Of course , since the pilot was not to be refilmed , the final product would look a little choppy and the lips would occasionally be out of sync , but at least it would be acceptable for general family viewing . The breakfast meeting worked . McMahon took his new ammunition to Traviesas , and , basing his judgment on the rewritten story outlines and the suggestions for editing the pilot , Traviesas decided that Fay could play in the Family Hour . It was placed on the NBC fall schedule at 8:30 Thursday night . Even as edited , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ episodes that followed it . As one highly respected television critic said in praising the program 's pilot , " I crmmend this particular episode to you if only because its like may never turn up again in the series . " Having been slotted in the midst of the Family Hour , he wrote , " Chances are that for the rest of the seasonits saltiness will turn to powdered sugar . " //What NBC did with the next two episodes may well have ruined the chances of Fay 's success . In order to build up an audience for Fay , the creators wanted NBC to air their strongest programs first . After the pilot they thought NBC should put on " Jack 's Heart Attack , " in which Fay 's former husband thinks he is dying and , in one brief segment , tells her that he philandered while they were married . " Not With My Husband You Do n't , " the show that they felt should be put on next , dealt with a business trip to Washington by one of the lawyers for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him , but his wife , fearing that he might be seduced , strenuously objects . NBC did n't allow either episode on the air early in the season . On August 15 a network executive assigned to the program sent producer Paul Witt a letter explaining NBC 's apprehensions . It stated : Dear Paul : I am writing this to pass on to you a major concern that the network and I share regarding the direction of " Fay . " In looking over the approved stories , I found that 8 out of the 14 deal , in one form or another , with sex . While no one is questioning the excellent taste all of you have exhibited in handling this delicate area , the fact still remains that " Fay " is in the family hour . This is a fact of life that we have to accept , acknowledge and adjust to . Although " Not With My Husband You Do n't " was previously set as the third on-air episode , the network now feels that it should be dropped down in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the pilot and " Jack 's Heart Attack " have strong sexual themes . It is , therefore , imperative that shows 3 , 4 , and 5 deal with themes of a non-sexual nature . . . I urge you to go through the remaining scripts and//stories and tone down the sexual elements as much as possible . If " Fay " is to succeed at 8:3o , it must be acceptable for total family viewing . This can be done only by searching diligently for all the problems a divorced woman faces today , not just the physical ones : economic dependence , a development in awarenessof one 's own worth , loneliness , a restructuring of values and priorities . . . These are all relevant and can be done sans sexuality . Paul , I can not emphasize enough the importance of this issue . It makes no sense at all to put the most sophisticated , sexy comedy in T.V. history on the air if families are going to be afraid to watch it . So for the time being , we will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in T.V. history . So " Not With My Husband You Do n't " was removed from the early-season schedule , and shortly thereafter NBC informed Witt that " Jack 's Heart Attack " was also too sexually daring to be shown during the first few weeks . As a result , when NBC decided to cancel Fay , none of the shows that the producers liked best ( with the exception of the toned-down pilot ) had been broadcast . By the kind of coincidence that helps to demonstrate that the networks do not operate as all-knowing monoliths , Lee Grant appeared on NBC 's Johnny Carson show less than an hour after NBC informed Fay 's cast and crew that the show was about to be canceled . With a compellingblend of humor and indignation she told her story to Johnny Carson , David Steinberg ( whose memories of network censorship were vivid from his Smothers Brothers ' experience ) , and eight and a half million viewers . The role of the tough but vulnerable victim of injustice happens to be one that Lee Grant has played more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1952 , shortly after she was nominated for an Academy Award for her supporting role in Detective Story , she was blacklisted//because her husband was on the blacklist and because she had spoken at the memorial service of a blacklisted actor . During the next twelve years she seldom found work , though a government committee offered to clear her if she would name her husband and others as Communists , and she became active in and , reluctantly , a symbol for the antiblacklist movement . After reminiscing with Carson for a few minutes about the so-called Golden Age of television ( in which , as she recalled , corpses would accidentally be shown crawling off the set , because everything was broadcast live ) , she showed an unexpurgated clip from an episode of Fay that was scheduled to be aired the next night . In the film clip the fiance of Fay 's best friend makes a sustained and increasinglyunsubtle pass at her , first expressing concern over a scar on her neck ( " Well , it happened over thirty-six years ago , so I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then trying to touch her by explaining that his European family are all very touching , caressing people . ( " That sounds like fun , " Fay protests , " but my family are icebergs . I embraced my mother just once that I can remember , and it was a humiliating experience for both of us . " ) Finally taking the direct route , he asks Fay to stop talking and kiss him , to which she responds , " Stop right now or I will do something unpleasant , in which case you will have to take up a whole new hobby . " As the clip ended and the lights on stage went back up , Lee Grant explained that the Family Hour censors had cut the last line , or rather had insisted that Fay say instead , " . . . in which case I will do something physical and unpleasant . " After Johnny Carson pointed out that the substitute seemed far more graphic than the original , Lee Grant went on to describe the final Family Hour ignominy , the cancellation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life and death on television in the Family Hour , folks , " she concluded , " and I just want you to know it because I left twelve crying actors . " //The show 's cancellation , she said , was the fault of NBC 's programming chief , a man she called the Mad Programmer , who , besides condoning the cuts in the show 's fiber , scheduled it against The Waltons , which , she said , " is a national shrine . . . So viewers practically have to go to Eighty-third Street to get to us . " " There is one thing I would really love , " she told the audience . " It 's just a fantasy of mine , but if you can fulfill my fantasy ? " " That depends , " Johnny Carson broke in . " If you 're going to do anything physical or unpleasant that will make the network executives take up a new hobby ? then , no . Devilishly , Lee Grant continued . " I would love to get the Mad Programmer this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program , even switch from their old favoritesjust for the next couple of weeks , and let the numbersgo up radically . Then the Mad Programmer will come up to me and say , I was wrong . Will you please stay ? ' And I 'll say , Maybe ... ' " But while there was still a chance that the network would change its mind , NBC 's chief censor , Hermino Traviesas , came to the editors ' summit meeting with the fairly certain knowledge that his biggest problem show would be part of the NBC lineup only for a few more weeks . To some outside observers Fay demonstrated that censorship on NBC seemed to be stricter than on CBS . " I think it is reasonable to believe that the Family Hour killed Fay , " a top television critic wrote on September 29 . " However , I see no inhibiting forces at work on either Phyllis or Rhoda . " The top editors from the three networks met at CBS at around 12:30 on September 30 for the luncheon meeting that Stockton Helffrich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people present were NAB Code Authority Director Helffrich and his assistant , Jerome Landsner. //These men knew each other well . They saw each other regularly at NAB Code meetings and industry functions and they had worked closely together on dozens of projects . In addition , they felt the closeness and curiosity of men in a unique and embattled profession which few outsiders really understood . They were competitive yet collegial . But as the editors sat down to lunch each man had a sheaf of monitoring notes at his side . They were prepared for a fight . Schneider started off the discussion in the tone that Swafford had expected . He criticized CBS for airing the episode of Phyllis called " Bess , Is You a Woman Now ? " " That whole thing was one thirty-minute fuck joke , " Schneider said . Swafford was prepared to fight back . He had seen an episode of Barney Miller in which Fish , one of the detectives , is chain-drinking coffee and has to keep excusing himself to go to the toilet . " And I saw a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he shot back at Schneider . After waiting a moment for that to sink in , Swafford continued , " Look , if we 're going to start out like this , we might as well forget about trying to reconcile anything , and let 's just go down to Washington and have a fist fight and roll around on the floor in front of the other Code Board members . " Schneider softened a bit . " Okay , look , " he said , " I 'm not being critical . I do n't know what the hell we 're doing . I have tried to get every hell ' and damn ' out of every show , and then you 've got the hells ' and damns ' on Good Times . And you 've got this thing on Rhoda where the question is whether or not the salesgirl was sleeping with the customers . " As the mood started to change , Swafford thought he saw the chance for a productive exchange . " Alfie , " he said affectionately , " at no time in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Viewing was going to be//so sanitized that it would be absolutely sterile . We 've repeatedly said that Family Viewing was not designed as a shield to protect children from reality . " Schneider thought for a moment . " Maybe I have n't understood it , " he said . " Maybe I 've been too tough . " Two days later ABC informed Danny Arnold that " New York had approved the Barney Miller episode involving gays and the " fruit hustle . " 8The Writers Fight BackA policy directed against sex and violence has in practice turned out to be something very different , a crusade against ideas . Not one of the people on this dais is unfamiliar personallywith the chilling effect that this rule has had on all of us .... The words were filling the fresh white sheet in the typewriter as fast as David Rintels could pound the keys . It was 9:30 A.M. , October 30 , the day the Hollywood creative community had chosen to announce that it was fighting back . Rintels was sitting at a desk in one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where , in less than an hour , a press conference would be starting , featuring such superstars as Alan Alda of M ? A ? S ? H , CarrollO'Connor of All in the Family , Lee Grant and Mary Tyler Moore , along with some of the best writers ( Danny Arnold , Allan Burns , Larry Gelbart , and Norman Lear among them ) and best directors ever to work in the medium . They were going to announce the filing of a lawTHE//suit challenging the Family Viewing Hour Policy and Rintels was to make the opening statement . Out of his rich commitment to civil liberties , Rintels had written great and impassioned speeches for actors portraying lawyers , including George C. Scott as Louis Nizer in Fear on Trial and Henry Fonda in the one-man play , Clarence Darrow . But Rintels was entering a less familiar realm in composing an opening statement for his own delivery . We are the first victims when scripts are censored . The ultimate victims are the American public . Televisionis a medium of communication , like books and movies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if you reduce the level of acceptable ideas to the level of ideas which the networks determinewill offend no single family in America , then you are reducing content to zero . Rintels liked what he had written , but there was something else he had to add . The network publicists , joined by the FCC and Senator Pastore , had done their best to equate the Family Hour with motherhood , decency , and the American flag . Rintels hoped to combat that by relabelingit , early in his speech , the Prime-Time CensorshipRule . But more was needed . He knew that as soon as the press conference was over , the creative community would , unfairly , become the lightning rod for those who wanted to attribute blame for excessive violence , sex , and indecent language , both on television and in society generally . Rintels knew , that the principal proponents of violence and titillation tended to be the networks ' programmingofficials , and that it was unfair to blame the creators , but he felt the need to add a clear disclaimer to his openingstatement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's opinions , we have a keen sense of responsibility about//what goes out over television . Many of us are parents too , and we are all members of a responsible community . But government censorship is never the answer . We are prepared to meet with anyone ? Congress , FCC , networks , the public , anyone ? to discuss how to improve the content of television . We would welcome more opportunities to communicate honestly with our audience . We would be responsive to any solution which brought more and better drama , music , literature , art , history , comedy to the screen . Any solution but one , and that is government censorship . It was almost ten o'clock . Rintels rolled the statement out of the typewriter , made a few corrections while rereadingit , and walked into the Writers Guild board room , where the press and participants had started to gather . The decision to fight back had been made in the same board room some five months earlier when Rintels , in his first meeting as President of the Writers Guild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Family Hour . There was significance in the composition of the committee : five highly respected comedy writers ? Danny Arnold , Allan Burns , Larry Gelbart , NormanLear , and Chairman Richard Powell ? and one actionadventurewriter , Howard Rodman , who used violence sparingly . It was a group of outspoken men , who had alreadyexperienced the pernicious impact of the Family Viewing Policy ; all were concerned with the censorship of ideas , not the perpetuation of televised mayhem . The committee first considered launching a publicrelationscampaign designed to expose the policy as a ridiculous fraud . How could a policy genuinely designed to protect children from excessive sex and violence exemptmidafternoon soap-opera incest and allow kids in cities such as Chicago and Detroit ? which were n't exactlyviolence-free ? to view The Rookies and Baretta at//8:oo P.M. ? Lear even thought out loud about making the Family Hour the butt of one of his programs ? that is , assuming the subject was suitable for family viewing . But everyone agreed that public relations was n't enough . There had to be an organized counterattack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and potentially precedent-setting legal action , created by two UCLA communications-law experts whose ideas Rintels had solicited , it quickly recommended that the Guild throw its full resources into a court fight . Interestingly , the proposed lawsuit was premised on facts that the committee members at first found hard to accept . Reading from a two-page chronology of events that had been reported primarily in broadcasting industry trade magazines , one of the UCLA lawyers documented Richard Wiley 's role as the instigator and perhaps inventorof the Family Viewing Policy . This startled the members of the committee . Like most people in Hollywood , they paid little attention to events in Congress and at the FCC , and they were under the impression that the policy was Arthur Taylor 's unassisted invention . Their perspectivewas nicely summarized in a lengthy Los Angeles Times article on June 5 , 1975 , the same day the committee first heard the UCLA experts ' presentation . Calling Taylor " the man who invented television 's upcoming Family Hour , " and the policy " Taylor 's brainchild , " the article explained simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year casually suggested that the early hours of the evening ? 7 to 9 P.M. on weekdays ? be reserved for family viewing , and hardly anyone was heard to disagree . ? What the article did not mention , and the committee members did not know , was that there were congressional threats of " punitive action " if the FCC did n't come up with a plan . It also did not mention Chairman Wiley 's midOctoberspeech proposing voluntary network action , includingscheduling and cautionary admonitions ; the series//of meetings in Wiley 's office at which the FCC suggested a nine o'clock rule ; the FCC staff members ' meetings with network officials in New York to discuss the effect of a nine o'clock rule on each network 's programs ; or ChairmanWiley 's telephone calls to network officials and oneto-onemeeting with Arthur Taylor in mid-December  --  all of which preceded " Taylor 's brainchild . " So the suggestion that Richard Wiley deserved at least equal credit ? that the child was not immaculately conceived ? sounded almost heretical , but it was a heresy to which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to subscribe . As it happened , the entire proposed lawsuit depended on the precise nature of Wiley 's role in the procreation of the Family Viewing Policy . The UCLA lawyers ' theory was that the policy violated both the First Amendment ? which prohibits government-imposed censorship ? and the Administrative Procedure Act ( APA ) ? which requiresthat before taking any formal action , agencies like the FCC must adhere to certain procedures , including offering an opportunity for full public participation . But since the First Amendment and the APA apply only to " state action , " not private action , it was essential to prove that Wiley had had an indispensable role which converted what the industry was calling self-regulation into what a court , after examining all of the facts , would consider in substance to be government regulation . The theory was , to put it mildly , speculative . Since neitherthe UCLA lawyers nor the Writers Guild members had any way of knowing precisely how the policy had been adopted , they had to hope that the facts that emerged during the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Furthermore , even if Wiley had played the role that they alleged he had played , there was no guarantee that any court would find that his activities had converted the Family Hour into " state action . " Indeed , most people with whom they disTHE//cussed the lawsuit found it intellectually plausible but politically naive . What judge would be willing , on the basis of a novel legal theory , to invalidate a policy that had the sound of motherhood , was , according to a TV Guide poll , supported by 8z percent of the American public , and had the full support of the three television networks , the NAB , and the FCC ? Nevertheless the Writers Guild decided to bring the suit , with the full knowledge that they would probably lose . They did so for symbolic as well as practical reasons . After thirty years of caution on free-speech issues , this case would at last place the writers squarely on the side of free speech in America . The Guild 's reputation for caution had its roots in the Cold War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blacklisting , and free speech tore all of the talent guilds asunder . The Writers Guild , then called the Screen Writers Guild , was especially hard hit . Some of its members unfairly claimed that the Guild was under Communist domination , and the chairman of the House Un-American Activities Committee told the press that the Guild was " lousy with Communists . " In late October 1947 , HUAC held a highly sensationalizedset of hearings designed in part to investigate " the extent of Communist infiltration in the Screen Writers Guild . " Many of the top filmmakers in Hollywood were called to Washington to testify , and ten who refused to cooperate with the committee were held in contempt of Congress . Eight of these men , who became known as the Unfriendly Ten and then the Hollywood Ten , were writers . Several had been active in Guild affairs ( John HowardLawson had been the Guild 's first president in 1933 and Dalton Trumbo had edited the Guild 's newsletter ) , and some were held in contempt for refusing to answer the question , " Are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as the standard , " Are you now , or have you ever been , a member of the Communist party ? " //In late November , less than a month after the hearings ended , the top studio executives , after two days of meetingsat the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , announced that they would no longer employ the Hollywood Ten or other " subversive and disloyal elements . " Shortly thereafter the Screen Writers Guild held a meeting to decide whether to ignore , fight , or cooperate with the blacklist . The industry'sposition was presented by Dore Schary , a liberal studio executive who had opposed the majority 's decision at the Waldorf meeting but who nonetheless advocated Guild cooperation with the blacklist as a prudent , selfregulatorystep that entailed the least risk to civil liberties . The position of the Ten was presented by Dalton Trumbo . Schary 's view prevailed ( though the Guild later filed ? and ultimately dropped ? a lawsuit designed to restrain studios from blacklisting employees on political grounds ) . In his semiofficial biography of Dalton Trumbo , author Bruce Cook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the blacklist could not have been instituted , nor could it have been enforced , without the assistance of the Screen Writers Guild and the other Hollywood talent guilds . " Having been badly split between those members who urged the Guild to cooperate with the blacklist and those who advocated opposition , the Guild was ultimately taken over by a third faction , which said that the Guild should stay clear of politics . Under their regime and most of the regimes that followed , the Writers Guild became a breadand-butterunion , concerned principally about wages and credits and seldom about artistic freedom . It stayed out of politics altogether . Writers outraged by the Family Hour originally thought that there was little chance that the Guild would do much to combat it . When a mid-May 1975 conference on " Comedy as a Social Force " quickly turned to the new NAB policy , several experienced Guild members emphaTHE//sized the impotence of their organization . " The Guild has never taken a position , " former Guild President Nate Monaster stated . " It has n't taken a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has not taken a position on a writer in Nigeria who went to jail for two years , because we did n't want to offend anybody . It did n't take a position during the McCarthy era , when Dore Schary came to us and said , Give me one human being and I promise you we will never shoot anyone else at Hollywood and Vine . ' Right ? They gave it to him . That is my statement for the Guild , and I have been a member of it for a long time . " But when David Rintels became president of the Guild ( the election results were announced , coincidentally , the day after the " Comedy as a Social Force " seminar ) he was determined to make a break with the past that Monaster had decried . Although the Guild 's primary role was to work successfully on bread-and-butter issues , in his campaignRintels had promised to help lead a fight for writers ' souls as well as their pocketbooks . In fact , he had been advocating involvement in free speech issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Censorship Committee and as a member , usually a dissenting member , of the Guild 's board . Occasionally the struggles had been personally embarrassing . In 1972 the Censorship Committee members voted to offer ? as individuals ? to write speeches or speak out on behalf of reporter Bill Farr in his struggle over the protection of his news sources . Since the Censorship Committee members had been acting as individuals , Rintelswas startled when , at the start of a board meeting , without any prior warning , Guild President Ranald MacDougallpointed a finger at him and accused him of involvingthe Guild in the Farr case without the board 's permission . Rintels was stunned , but he tried to remain calm . He explained that the committee had not acted in the name of the Guild and that it was not seeking the Guild 's endorsement . Though the colloquy ended quickly , //Rintels felt that MacDougall had tried to humiliate him by exposing him as a disruptive force . On another occasion the Censorship Committee unsuccessfullytried to come to the aid of the broadcast journalistswho were under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drafted an advertisementand brought it to the board for Guild endorsement . But members of the board raised a number of objections to the proposal , and the ad never materialized . The most important and widely publicized episode , however , involved Rintels ' February 1972 testimony beforeSenator Sam Ervin 's Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights , in which Rintels charged that television presented a distorted , saccharine-coated picture of American life . Although to the outside world Rintels ' testimony , which was reprinted in the entertainment section of The New York Times , appeared to represent the Guild 's conscience , he did not have the wholehearted support of his colleagueson the Guild 's board . Before he left for Washingtonthe board engaged in a bitter debate about whether he could speak for the Guild , for the Censorship Committee , or as a private citizen . Ultimately Rintels was allowed only to tell the committee that he was speaking as an individual writer . Indeed , Guild President Ranald MacDougall , who later sent the committee an ambiguously supportive note , warned Rintels , for his own good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You 'll never work again in this business , " MacDougall cautioned . " You 're cutting your own throat . " Now that Rintels and a new wave of writers were in charge of the Guild , they and the Guild 's aggressive and resourceful executive director , Michael Franklin , were determined to change all that . The battle over the Family Viewing Hour Policy presented a splendid place to begin . When the board decided on June 23 to pursue the lawsuit , its members knew there were dozens of imponderablesthat might prevent the suit from being filed , and the most important of these was money . This was the kind of//proceeding that would , at a minimum , cost $150,000 , and that could conceivably cost close to a million . There was no way the Writers Guild could provide more than a small fraction of the required financing without help from others . But who would help ? Would it be possible to get the support of major independent producers ? When some of the angry writers at the mid-May conference on " Comedy as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fight ( since they were sure that the Guild would n't ) , he had resisted , partly because he disagreed with their specificproposal , a program boycott , but partly , too , because he could n't believe that other leading producers would join him in a challenge to the new policy . " I think you owe it to us to fight the Family Hour , " one of Lear 's sometime writers stated . " I do n't see where I owe it to anybody , " Lear responded . He explained that he would be fighting the censors every week on Good Times and The Jefferson , and that that was his way of resisting the new policy . " Besides , " Lear added a moment later , " everyone does n't agree with me . If anybody would be with me in the kind of boycott effort you 're suggesting , it 's Grant Tinker , but Grant has been quoted as saying that he likes the Family Hour concept and that it 's just as difficult to come up with The Waltons as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what do you think would happen if you and Grant Tinker and whoever else has the muscle got together and said to the networks ? " " How can we do it when you ca n't get the Writers Guild to do it ? " Lear shot back . " Why should we be able to do it ? Why are we so different from the writers ? " " Because , Norm , we do n't have the shows they want . You do . If all of you got together ? " " But you ca n't get them all to do it , " Lear patiently repeated . " Suppose you could ? " // " But you ca n't , " Lear insisted , exasperated . " Look , can I settle one thing about all of this ? Trying to muster all the humility I can , I 'm really satisfied with the way I dischargemy responsibility in this area . I mean I 'm happy with it . I 'm sorry you 're not . There are three shows this year that I said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you do n't want to make them . ' I fight these battles every seasonover the content of my shows . That 's what I care about fighting about . The other thing is fighting over scheduling . That 's their bananas . " Nevertheless most of the top independent producers , led by Lear , joined in support of the lawsuit , as did such top syndicators as Viacom ? which provided invaluable early support ? and WorldVision . Some did so publicly , some anonymously . Lear got involved partly because the lawsuit was a far more respectable and responsible approachthan a product boycott and others joined him partly because Lear and the Writers Guild led the way . More important , the enforcement of the Family Hour seemed to confirm the fears of its most paranoid critics . Even a man as politic as Grant Tinker , and as friendly with top network executives , could n't resist the lawsuit after CBS 's effort to censor the first episode of Phyllis . It was n't clear at the outset whether the Writers Guild would be joined by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though their individual concern for First Amendment freedoms ran deep . They , too , had been influenced by the politics of the late forties ( when Ronald Reagan had served as SAG 's anticommunist president ) , and the three guilds had never formed a united front to fight censorship . At a meeting called to garner support for a legal challenge to the shutdown by police of the musical Hair a few years earlier , for example , Charlton Heston , who was at that time SAG 's president , had said that he could n't support the case , because while he believed in the First Amendment , he thought the performers ' conduct was obscene and the musical a piece of trash. //But the actors and directors did join the new cause , quickly and enthusiastically . As it happened , the leader- ship of both guilds had changed too , and both were now led by activists . The outgoing president of SAG , Dennis Weaver ( who starred in McCloud , a show that NBC had decided was inappropriate for family viewing ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported Cesar Chavez 's farmworkers ' union and the McGovern campaign , for example , and could n't abide censorship . Weaver 's suc- cessor , Kathleen Nolan , long a feisty leader of the move- ment to achieve more and better roles for women , felt that actors , some of whom networks rejected for jobs because of their over-all approval , or " Q Rating , " were often the most helpless victims of network censorship , and had a responsibility to join in the case . Her new counterpart at the Directors Guild was Robert Aldrich , often described as a " muscular director " ( despite his substantial paunch ) , whose credits included such less than sedate movies as The Longest Yard , The Dirty Dozen , and The Killing of Sister George . If there was anything he enjoyed more than directing a good fight , it was joining in one . And this one promised to be a humdinger . Partly because of the possibility of economic losses , some of the Writers Guild 's natural allies felt compelled to keep quiet or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hour more than the owners and oper- ators of independent ( nonnetwork ) television stations . Many of them had been having spectacular success in recent years , partly because of the Prime Time Access Rule , which put a succession of animals and game shows on network affiliated stations between 7:30 and 8:oo P.M. ( 6:30-7:00 P.M. Central Time ) . During the hours when these predictably ineffectual programs were aired by the network affiliates , the independent stations showed such syndicated action-adventures as The Untouchables , Perry Mason , and Mod Squad , often gaining excellent ratings and financial success . The Family Hour promised to end//all that by barring action-adventure shows from 7:0o to9:00 P.M.Independent stations , which regarded the Family Hour as a cynical network plot to undermine their ratings , would have loved to join the Writers Guild 's case , but they could n't . Their livelihood depended on the easy renewalof their licenses by the FCC . If they incurred the wrath of FCC Chairman Wiley , there was a risk that they would have problems with the FCC ; so , wishing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit . The major movie studios ? Columbia Pictures , MGM , Paramount , Twentieth Century-Fox , Universal International , and Warner Brothers ? were only slightly less concerned about possible retaliation if they joined the case . While all of the major studios except United Artists had a substantial financial stake in programs designed for television , they were anything but sanguine about the prospects of any lawsuit against the networks . During the past several years they had financed a huge and largely unproductive antitrust case against the networks at an estimated cost of more than $z million . Why , they wondered , would this be any different ? In addition , they were desperately fighting a rear-guard lobbying campaign in Washington to prevent Congress from cutting off tax loopholes that benefited the movie industry . One of the most insistent arguments of the " reformers " was that the tax breaks were used to finance pornographic films . While largely unfair , the argument was difficult to rebut . It did n't take much imagination to guess how movie industrysupport of the Writers Guild 's case would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They agreed to become quiet partners , to provide a large share of advice and financing while minimizing their public identification with the case ( later they also filed an amicus , or " friend of the court , " brief ) . In making their decision to take at least some risk , they derived some soTHE//lace from knowing that the United States Catholic Conference , not renowned as smut purveyors , had attacked the hypocrisy of the Family Hour and that Action for Children 's Television was also supporting the challenge with an amicus brief . It was , in Hollywood 's terms , an awesome coalition , particularly since the quest seemed so quixotic . On one side , as the lines were drawn , was virtually the entire creative community ? the writers , actors , directors and producers ; on the other side were the entities that generallyhad all of the political power ? the three networks , the NAB , and the FCC . Win or lose , the challengers hoped that the creative coalition would be a force to reckon with in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the first people he greeted and joked with were the lawyers who had put the case together . The case was being handledby the aggressive young law firm of Munger , Tolles and Rickershauser ( with support from the UCLA **25;383;TOOLONG who had been working with the Guild from the outset ) . Munger , Tolles had a reputation for attracting lawyers of academic excellence ( they probably had more former U.S. Supreme Court clerks per capita than any other large firm in the country ) , political savvy ( three former partners were with the Ford administration : Carla Hills , the secretary of Housing and Urban Development ; her husband , Rodrick Hills , chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission ; and Peter Taft , assistant attorney general in charge of the Lands Division ) , and personal breadth ( they were the first major law firm to institute a sabbatical system ) . But the Writers Guild , following the instincts of Norman Lear , chose the firm less for its reputation than for the personal appeal of Ron Olson , the man who became the plaintiff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an all-American : tall , //blond , athletic , fresh , and handsome . Although he is a tough-minded and experienced litigator and a liberal Democrat , who studied at Oxford , prosecuted civil rights cases for the Justice Department , and served as general counsel for the California Democratic party , Olson 's appearance and manner projected the corn-fed rural values of his Iowa roots . Lear is a genius at casting , and in Ron Olson he found a man whose constitutional convictions came from the same kind of small-town community that the Family Hour was supposedly designed to protect . Capable as the lawyers were at their craft , they were all a bit star-struck . Olson had represented any number of corporate tycoons , but television stars were something else ; along with the presence of television cameras and reporters and the significance of the constitutional issues involved , the stars helped provide the lawyers with that intangible elation that comes with a Big Case , maybe even the kind of case of which movies or television shows are made . When Rintels left them after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with whom he would be sharing the dais , the lawyers allowed themselves to indulgefor a moment in a half-humorous private fantasy . A few nights earlier CBS had broadcast Fear on Trial , Rintels ' docu-drama about the blacklisting of CBS 's own radio personality John Henry Faulk . The centerpiece of the drama was Faulk 's libel suit against Aware , Inc. , the group that had had him blacklisted , and Faulk 's lawyer , Louis Nizer , was skillfully portrayed by George C. Scott . Rintels ' own lawyers had all seen the show and they started to joke about whom each would choose to play himself in a dramatized version of The Writers Guild v. FCC . Olson 's choice was easy and , in terms of physical appearance , not altogether implausible : he nominated Robert Redford . His colleague Harvey Saferstein , more intense and devilishly combative , proposed George Segal . Not wishing to sound as if he took himself too seriously , //one of the UCLA professors threw out the name of Elliott Gould . The lawyers were all in a playful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They had no way of knowing how their clients would respond to tough questioning about the factual and legal premises of the case . By now the lawyers knew the writers pretty well and respected them greatly , but they had never met Alan Alda , Carroll O'Connor , or Mary Tyler Moore . Did these people really know what the case was all about ? How well did they understand censorship ? Olson and crew were as excited and apprehensiveas parents at their child 's first recital . They were worried about the case too . As they stood there , one of their colleagues was downtown at the U.S. District Courthouse filing the basic documents in their lawsuit ? a 3o-page complaint and a 150-page memorandumof points and authorities . Although they felt secureabout the intellectual quality of their basic legal theory and documents , the case was more than just precedent-setting : it was a procedural crap-shoot . The chances of success in any case with novel factual and legal issues depends in large measure on the judge who tries it . Some judges are known for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be conservative , unwilling to challenge eitherthe legal or economic status quo . Some judges view the First Amendment primarily in terms of the rights of the public and the creators ; others are more concerned about the freedom of broadcasters ; and still others do n't care much about the First Amendment at all . In choosing to file their case in Los Angeles , the Guild 's lawyers had taken a gamble that to some seemed foolhardy . There were three places where the suit could logicallyhave been filed : New York , home of the networks ; Washington , home of the FCC ; and Los Angeles , home of the creative community . The lawyers chose Los Angeles because in some significant ways it was their home court. //They feared that in New York or Washington their clients might be stereotypically perceived by the court and the press , treated as alien agitators in sunglasses . In Los Angeles , which was geographically far more convenient for most of the clients , they were respected members of a large local industry whose views were more likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court . But this analysis was about as helpful as astrology . In the end the crucial question was : What judge would they get , with what attitudes ? Some lawyers felt that it was possible to help answer that question by the use of computersand statistics . One corporate supporter of the lawsuit , before deciding where to file a previous lawsuit , had spent $25,000 on a statistical comparison of the decisions of judges in New York and Washington , D.C. Though no such study was prepared in the Writers Guild case , the lawyers all knew what the result would be . The jurisdictionwith the smallest percentage of liberal or independent-mindedjudges was unquestionably Los Angeles . As the plaintiffs ' press conference started , it seemed that the lawyers ' perceptions had been 18o degrees off target . For all the support and sympathy they got from the press they might as well have been in Pittsburgh . But the comments by the men and women on the dais , particularlythe actors , were breathtaking . Not surprisingly , perhaps , there was n't a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably the first gathering of so many box-office names outside of an awards ceremony . David Sheehan , the media reporter from CBS 's Los Angeles station , did show up , but he arrivedabout forty-five minutes late . All that was less troubling to the writers , though , given the gist of the event , than the tone of the questions from the men and women who regularly cover the industry . They were not particularly interested in the basic thrust of the lawsuit ( the facts allegedly proving that the//Family Hour had been created by the government rather than the industry ) , and instead kept asking for new and different examples of themes , scenes , and words that the censors had ordered deleted . In some respects the reporters ' questions were perfectly valid : specific censored items make good copy . But in another sense their questions seemed misplaced ; to those concerned about free speech the process of censorship is often of greater significance than what is actually censored , since , once approved and in place , the machinery can be used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deals realistically with a contemporary subject , some material will inevitably be offensive to someone . That is why the First Amendment says that the government " shall make no law ... abridging freedom of speech or of the press " and why Mr. Justice Harlan once explained that the government ca n't constitutionallyremove the word " fuck " from the public vocabulary , since " one man 's vulgarity is another 's lyric . " The reporters ' efforts to get examples of censorship also troubled the writers for another reason . The most dramaticexamples from the previous summer , including the problems with Phyllis , Fay , and Barney Miller , were alreadywell known and did n't really bear repeating . Moreover , the writers had won most of those struggles . " Bess , Is You a Woman Now ? " had been broadcast , albeit with a new ending ; Larry Gelbart had been allowed to treat all four subjects the censors had red-flagged the previous May , though he had felt compelled to relegate the subject of venereal disease to a subplot ; and Danny Arnold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ featuringthe gay character Marty and " the fruit hustle " ? indeed , it was to be broadcast that very evening . The writers seemed to be winning many of their battles , and while it was possible that their success was due to the legal and public-relations challenge that they had already started to mount , they did n't have many fresh examples of censorship to describe . But the Family Hour was having an effect , and the//process of censorship had taken its toll . Every writer on the dais had been worn down by the battles , and none of them had the strength , time , or resources to fight over every blue pencil mark from week to week . While it might be argued that the nature of the process simply forced them to decide which artistic or social issues they cared about most deeply ? ensuring a kind of **27;410;TOOLONG ? from the writers ' perspective it caused a kind of self-censorship that was artistically debilitating . Danny Arnold won the right to get Marty on the air , but he had to give up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of importance that interested the writers of Phyllis , after the fight over " Bess , Is You a Woman Now ? " they abandoned their plans for a show in which Phyllis would debate whether to have an affair . In mid-September , when listening to a description of the ways in which other writers were censoring themselves , Norman Lear suddenly realized that he had discarded a proposed two-part Good Times program on venereal disease . Infuriated by the way that even he was letting the process affect him , Lear decided to go ahead and do the show ( after taking the , for him , unusual precaution of clearing the idea with Tom Swafford ) . But while self-censorship was a matter of great concern to the writers , it was n't something that they could communicatevery well to the reporters . After Rintels ' opening statement someone asked for specific examples of censorship , and Lear explained that " writers all over town find that they 'll wake up one morning with an idea that they realize they had three weeks ago and never even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought it would n't be suitable . " Asked for examples of the way the decision-making process worked in practice , Danny Arnold described his shows dealing with prostitution and homosexuality and told how he had finally taken a $ioo , 000 gamble and , over ABC 's opposition , had taped the show featuring Marty. // " Did you get the show done that you gambled on ? " a reporter asked . " Yes , I did . " " So there was no censorship in that instance ? " " Well , the censorship was applied . The fact that I chose to gamble and fight it through is only , I think , an example of what we have to go through ? " " But you can deal with those themes . " " You can if you want to play that game . But if the show does n't go on the air , the economic impact is enormous . I just happen to be a gambler . " As the reporters pressed for more and more specific examples , the discussion became increasingly petty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to do with sex . " Sex is an enormous subject , " Larry Gelbart tried to explain at one point , " and the act seems to be the least of it . There are inevitable offshoots ? pregnancy , abortion , vasectomy . Those areas are out . So that , in these times , when we know how much is at stake , in terms of knowing our world , we can not discuss our world from eight to nine . " At that point a reporter interrupted . " Were you given a list of words ? is that what you said ? " " No , " Gelbart explained once again . " I do n't want to trivialize this by saying we ca n't say hell ' or damn : Situationcomedies have become the theater of ideas , and those ideas have been very , very restricted . " " I think television today has a function , " Danny Arnold said later , trying to elaborate . " It did when I was a kid . I learned about life from the movies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went out on my first date I was armed with what I learned from Clark Gable . That 's where I learned how to kiss . I do n't mean kissing your aunt , I mean really kissing . You learn from the movies . " " I learned from my aunt , " Norman Lear joked . Arnold continued : " One of the problems is that my generation spent an awful amount of time on the couch , //because when we got out into the real world , we found out that it is not what we had learned in the movies . And all those girls thought that when the guy kissed them they would turn into Debbie Reynolds and found out they still had pimples and braces when it was all over , and they were terribly crushed by that knowledge . And I think we 're doing a tremendous disservice to the American people , to kids , if we keep telling them that life is The Brady Bunch . It 's really our job to tell them that life has to do with issues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sex , has to do with a lot of things that they 're going to come into contact with when they get out into the world . " The whole thing , as far as I 'm concerned , was put into perspective for me , from the vantage point of the viewer , by a page at ABC . When we were shooting the show that 's on tonight , we got to talking about this thing , and she said , The whole problem is going to arise when some kid turns to his parents and says , " Mommy , what is gay ? " and , ' she said , what better place to have that question asked than in the home and what better person to ask than a parent ? ' " But the reporters continued to ask for examples of censorshipand for episodes unrelated to sex . At one point Susan Harris tried to explain about self-censorship , about ideas that the creators never presented to the network , and about the way in which the network absurdly began to read sex into everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporter asked . " No . There was a line in a show where Fay 's boss is telling her why his girl friend stood him up . He says , She met a guy in the health-food store . It was love at first sight , and now he 's sharing her wheat germ . ' It was a battle getting that line in . I mean , there were sexual implications , they said , in sharing her wheat germ . ' We won , but it takes a lot of time . It 's a waste of time and creative energy to have those battles . " " Anything beyond sex ? " // " Well , I consider wheat germ beyond sex . " Finally Carroll O'Connor , who had been listening to this kind of exchange for an hour , had had enough . In a voice that had the intonations of Archie Bunker but the sentiments of Mike Stivic he delivered a lecture that his on-screen character would never have agreed with , much less understood . " I have to criticize the questions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumption underlying all these questions , asking for details and specifics , that the governmentmight be right . And you all want to know what 's being forbidden so that you can make a judgment there as to whether the government is right . They 're wrong . Congresshas no right whatsoever to interfere in the content of the media , whether it 's our medium or your medium . And you guys and gals out there ought to be very conscious of that . But I think maybe you 're not as conscious as you should be . Maybe you 'd all cave in if the government came down on the newspapers . " By this time the lawyers were silently cheering in the back row , behind the press , where they were seated togetherwatching the show . This was the kind of stuff Hugo Black used to serve up in his famous dissents . " So do n't bother about the hells ' and damns ' and the specific things , " O'Connor continued . By now even the local CBS station 's cameras were rolling . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interfering with the freedom of communication in this country , for whatever reason ? maybe because of little pressure groups here and there in the Bible Belt , and the letters coming in . But instead of taking responsibility , of going back to their constituents and explaining the way this country should run , and explaining the freedom that we should have , congressmen find it much easier just to put pressure on the FCC , and the FCC turns around and puts the pressure on the networks . " It might have been a good place to stop , but Carroll@@1101.txt al and ethical values . More satirical in style are his Colloques and the still popular Praise of Folly , in which he effectively drew attention to the ignorance , folly , and corruption of men , particularly the churchmen . I n the Enchiridian Erasmus pleaded with people to be concerned with the meaning of religious devotion , and to practice their beliefs instead of ' merely professing them . " What point in being sprinkled with holy oil unless you were to wage unremitting war upon your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What point is there in your being showered with holy water if you do not wipe away the inward pollution from your heart ? You veneratethe saints and delight in touching their relics , but you despise the best one they left behind , the example of a holy life . " Erasmus advocated the reading of scripture and promoted scriptural scholarship by his own translationand critical edition of the New Testament ( published in 1516 ) . Ile also edited and made available many of the early Church Fathers . The religious concerns of Erasmus and the other Christian humanists were reflected in many ways in early sixteenth century Europe . They published widely , promoted and influenced elementary school education , and occasionally occupied chairs of literature , language , and classical studiesin the universities ( although the theological faculties generally remained conservatively scholastic ) . Johann Reuchlin , for example , taught Greek at Tubingen University . Mutianus Rufus was leader of the humanist circle at Erfurt . Juan Luis Vives was for a time professor of belles-lettres at the University of Louvain and subsequently fellow of Corpus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new University of ; Alcala , established in 1509 by Cardinal Ximenez de Cisneros . Similarly , John Colet founded St. Paul 's School in Westminster and directed its course toward the New Learning . Others could be mentioned : Lefevre d'Etaples at Paris , Martin Cordier at Nevers and Bordeaux , and Hernan Nurser al Salamanca . Parallel to this spreading humanism among the upper and middle classes was a growing devotionalism and desire for genuine spiritual expressionamong the masses . This yearning for devotional piety may have been caused in part by the aloofness and neglect of the clergy , but it was certainly intensified by the prevailing eschatology of the time . Belief in the imminent second coming of the Savior , in power and glory to annihilate the wicked and establish his kingdom , drove many believing souls to frenzied searching for spiritual expression through religious exercises and devotionalrituals . Thus , the tensions of religious uncertainty were mounting at the same time that political disorders , economic and social strains , and ecclesiastical contradictions and abuses were reaching a peak . Germany in the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drop a match .   Martin Luther and the Upheaval in GermanyIn 1483 Martin Luther was born at Eisleben in Upper Thuringia , son of sturdy peasant stock . His father had become a fairly successful miner during the years just prior to Luther 's birth and was therefore able to provide his son with some of the educational advantages he himself had not acquired . Luther 's first fourteen years were spent in nearby Mansfeld , and his education was continued at Magdeburg and Eisenach . At seventeen , young Luther entered the nearby University of Erfurt where he moved quickly through the bachelor 's and master 's degrees in liberal arts . He had no sooner begun his subsequent study of law , when he abruptly abandoned the university and entered the Black Cloister of the AugustinianEremites . Luther 's sudden decision to become a monk puzzled his companions , enraged his father , and has confused historians ever since . Luther was a very devout boy and tried hard to please God as best he could . But to no avail . The older he became the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world he was unable to satisfy the demands of a just and all-knowing God . He experienced in extreme the fear of Christ 's coming and the quick judgment that provoked his contemporaries to frenzied devotions and worship . He entered the monastery for safety 's sake , but even within the quiet serenity of the cloister walls Luther could not find peace . He was tormented by the image of almighty God judging his sins and punishing him for them . Eventually he returned to the university , this time to become a doctor of theology , but still the agony persisted . He even reached the point of confessing his hatred of God before he finally discovered an answer to his dilemma which satisfied him and convinced him ultimately that the church , misled by false doctrines and evil men , had abandoned the word of God . Luther 's solution was a simple reinterpretation of the meaning of " justice of God , " which he now came to view in an Augustinian manner not as punitive or retributive justice , in which sin and righteousness are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which God bestows faith on weak and fallen man through the divine grace of Jesus Christ . Thus , salvation is not something merited or even earned by man through good works , but rather a free gift from God , bestowed upon whom he will for his own purposes . This " discovery " of divine grace was the turning point in Luther 's life and the nucleus of the Protestantism to which it gave birth . Because , if this interpretation of scripture is true , there is no need for treasuries of merit , indulgences , sacraments , priests , nor popes . The next four or five years of Luther 's life was the time of developing , testing , defending , and proclaiming his doctrines . In so doing he clashed head-on with the clergy ( especially the Dominicans ) , the scholars of the universities , the pope , and finally the emperor . This conflict was punctuated by several landmarks and would-be turning points : indulgence sales and the Ninety-Five Theses , violently worded exchanges , disputations and interviews culminating in the Leipzig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by both sides . All of these led irrevocably to a final confrontationat the Diet of Worms between Luther and the Holy Roman Emperor . The result of that face-to-face confrontation was the dissolusion of CatholicChristendom . At Worms Luther held stubbornly to his written words , refusing to retract or retreat in the least , unless he were convinced by scripture , reason , and conscience that he was in error . Upon these three principles he was prepared to defy anyone . For it was plain to him now that the word of God was explicit , authoritative , and unmistakable . On the other hand , the young emperor , Charles V , king of Castile and Aragon , archduke of Austria , duke of Burgundy as well as monarch of the New World and the " Islands of the Ocean Seas , " although he had no great regard for the Roman pontiff , had no intention of resigning his position as secular guardianof the faith . He answered Luther 's stand with an equally dogmatic declaration against all writings of the heretic professor . This Edict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but to little avail . The condemnation was too sweeping and extreme to be enforceable even if the emperor had not been sucked into a protracted war with France , a chronic rivaly with the pope , and a dangerous and immediate threat from the Ottoman Turks . After 1521 the cleft in Christendom soon widened into a permanent chasm . ? The Protestant Revolt DeepensIn the meantime , while the emperor 's forces were diverted and divided into sundry campaigns to protect Christendom from the Turks and the dynasty from the French , Lutheranism itself entered a period of crisis and trial . Christian humanists had already pointed the way to the Protestant revolt , or as contemporaries put it , " Erasmus laid the egg that Luther hatched . " Luther 's reformation , however , was quite a different reformationthan the one the humanists had in mind . They had hoped to bring reason , justice , unity , and peace into the existing church . It was the abuses and malpractices that they opposed not the theology nor organization of the church . But Luther had gone much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority . To him peace was not the paramount consideration , but rather truth ? God 's word . The parting of the waysp 203captionbetween humanists and Lutherans is vividly illustrated in the mounting disagreement between Luther and Erasmus , culminating in their sharp exchangeson the issue of human will . But what appears radical from one point of view may be moderate or even conservative when viewed from another . As Luther returned to Wittenburg after a year 's exile at Wartburg Castle in Thuringia ( during which he completed his popular German translation of the New Testa/ment ) , he found that many of his followers and associates had gone far beyond his own intentions in " reforming " the church . Andreas Karlstadt , who with Philipp Melanchthon had long been Luther 's closest Wittenberg associate , and was his aide at the Leipzig Debate , was already caught up in a more radical revolt . Like the so-called Zwickau prophets , and others with whom he was associated , Karlstadt believed in the supremacy of the spirit over the letter , and determined to follow it " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pursue Luther 's criterion of reason further than Luther himself was . The resulting disorders and destruction of images and property in Wittenberg forced Luther to part company with these evangelicalpuritans and take up a middle ground somewhere between the cautious humanists and the spiritual and social activists . ? The Peasants ' RevoltThe revolution that followed soon became the most serious threat to the integrity of Luther 's revolt and precipitated a new crisis in the empire . The German peasants had much cause for despair in the conditions and hardships of their life . Some of their problems grew worse with the decline of feudal protectionism and the rise of commerce and money economy . The peasants were hard-pressed to survive without the use of the common lands and woods , and some of them struck out in sporadic uprisings against the landowners and princes . In some parts of Germany they banded together into revolutionary organizations using the emblem of the peasant boot , the Bundschuh , as their symbol . Increasingly these peasants came to associate Luther 's message of salvation by faith and the priesthood of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his defiance of the pope and emperor as a call to resist authority , assuming ( incorrectly ) that they were acting according to Luther 's gospel and that he would be their spiritual leader . In 1524 , beginningin the Black Forest region of southwestern Germany , peasant uprisingsspread rapidly into Swabia , Wurttemberg and Baden . Their demands were moderate enough at first , but as the movement spread northward it became more radical and more violent . This metamorphosis was acceleratedin Saxony and Thuringia with the arousing of religious fanaticism by zealot reformers like Thomas Muntzer . At Alstedt and Mulhausen , Muntzer had already stirred the peasants to acts of violence and revolution with his inflamed oratory . Preaching the apocalyptic destruction of the wicked and the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth , he now led them in a holy crusade against the ungodly . The Peasants ' War of 1524-25 brought terror and destruction top205much of the empire ; it also wrought a profound change in the direction and affiliation of Lutheranism . Deeply disturbed by the disorder of the peasant upheaval , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the name of divine justice . In an unnecessarily violent tract , Against the Murderous and Thieving Hordes of Peasants , Luther called upon the princes to strike down the rebellious insurgents before it was too late . " Let everyone who can , smite , slay , and stab , secretly or openly , remembering that nothing can be more poisonous , hurtful , or devilish than a rebel . " But the princes needed no such encouragement . The war was brought to its inevitable conclusion in a veritable blood-bath . Over five thousand peasants were butchered at Frankenhausen , including Muntzer himself , and in all some 100,000 are estimated to have been killed in the first violent months of 1525 . ? Lutheranism as a State ReligionLuther was never again as popular as he had been between 1517 and 1525 . Many people interpreted his role in the peasants ' revolt as a betrayal of the people , when in fact they had misinterpreted his message . His revolt was a theological issue , not a social , political , or economic revolution . He believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and his economic views were as conservative as were those of the majority of his contemporaries . During the later 1520 's , Luther was drawn ever closer to the German princes as his theological break with Rome required more and more administrativedirection . Luther was not an " organization man , " nor was he interested in politics or in political power . He was a scriptorian , a theologicalscholar , and a teacher . As Lutheranism spread through the northern German states it came to be organized and administered as a state church by the various princes and magistrates who ruled in their territories " as instruments of God . " The invisible church , the Kingdom of Christ , the ultimate brotherhood of the elect , requires no institutionalization , Luther maintained , but he also conceded that the visible church , the Kingdom of the World , the temporal congregation of believers and worshipers , does require organization , laws , and government . It is this area of ecclesiastical and civil jurisdiction that Luther was willing to have handled by the magistratesand princes . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lutheran ideas and attitudes through Germany , Scandinavia , and even into eastern Europe was closely allied with the interests of the ruling classes , whether noble or burgher , and wherever Lutheranism succeeded it was as a state religion , protected and promoted by the magistracy.  | Lutheran propaganda , in tracts , pamphlets and vivid cartoons , poured through northern Germany in the 1520 's , attracting thousands of adherents and , most importantly , converting many of the territorial rulers . Soon evangelical congregations were organized throughout the realms of converted princes and unified into territorial churches under the patronage of these rulers . Saxony was the first large state to be thus evangelized , but Lutheranism quickly spread to neighboring Hesse , Mansfeld , Brandenburg , Brunswick , Wurttenberg , Luneburg , Anhalt , and eventually into all of northern Germany and Scandinavia . The Reformation also caught on rapidly in the Imperial Cities of Nurnberg , Augsburg , Ulm , Nordlingen , Heilbronn and Strasbourg , and from these into many of the other towns and cities of Germany . ? The Augsburg Confession and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1529 , the emperor attempted to enforce the Edict of Worms and extirpate heresy in the empire . A new imperial edict granting religious liberty to Catholics in Lutheran lands but denying it to Lutherans in Catholic territories was met with an immediate written protest by five of the Lutheran princes and some fourteen cities . This " protest " eventually gave the common name of Protestants to the scores of divergent reformation movements of the sixteenth century . A year later another attempt to stem the tide of reformation brought in response the Augsburg Confession , the first of several official statements of evangelical belief and practice . The Augsburg Confession was a moderateand conciliatory document , written by Philipp Melanchthon in the hope of placating the emperor and reducing the threat of religious war . But still it was a declaration of Protestant beliefs and as such it aroused as much Catholic opposition as it did Lutheran agreement . With their confessionin hand , the Lutheran princes next formed a military alliance , called the Schmalkaldic League , for the purpose of defending their cause against the inevitable imperial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack . Amidst the endemic problems with France , the Turks , and the troublesome papacy , no sooner was one fire put out than another burst into flames . Peace was settled with France in 1526 only to have the Turks crash through the outer perimeter of Christian defense in the east and defeat the emperor 's brother-in-law , Louis II of Hungary , at the Battle of Mohacs , thus opening the empire to massive Turkish invasion from the southeast . At the time of the Diet of Speyer the Turks were already laying siege to Vienna itself . Meantime , imperial troops , campaigning in central Italy against Franco-papal armies , p 207got out of control and put Rome to its most devastating sack since Visigothand Vandal days . Thereupon , Henry VIII , frustrated by the failure of his initial attempt to obtain a papal divorce from Charles 's aunt , Catherine of Aragon , joined with Francis I in a new war against the emperor . And thus Charles V was forced to turn his attention and resources from one troubled spot to another as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Persistently , the emperor also pressured the pope to summon a generalcouncil for the purpose of eradicating the still flagrant abuses of the Church ? especially in Germany ? as well as solving the problem of the Lutheran heresy . Charles and his humanist advisors believed that a willing and conciliatory attitude on both sides could result in a healing of the religious schism . Pope Paul procrastinated , for he feared the jurisdictional threat of a general council . Yet he also knew the church needed reform and hoped the schism might be healed through arbitration rather than war . By the autumn of 1544 the fourth of the Hapsburg-Valois wars between Francis I and Charles V was drawing to a close . Suleiman and his Turkish hoards were still a threat in Hungary and Austria but Francis was brought to heel in the Treaty of Crespy . Things now seemed to be turning in Charles 's favor . Pope Paul agreed to aid the emperor in a crusade against the Protestants ; Maurice of Saxony agreed to join in an attack on his cousin , the elector and leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon by Henry VIII and Francis I. Late in 1546 , more than fifteen years after the formation of the Schmalkaldic League , the emperor finally struck in force against the now almost solidly Protestant north . He reached the peak of his success in April 1547 at the Battle of Muhlberg , where the army of the Schmalkaldic League was put to flight and the Saxon elector captured . Shortly thereafter Philipp of Hesse also surrendered , and the emperor issued a conciliatory edict , known as the Interim of Augsburg ( 1548 ) which he hoped would heal the doctrinal disputes until the Council of Trent reconvened and completed its work . But the wheel of fortune turned fast in Reformation Europe . Four years later the whole situation was reversed . Maurice of Saxony betrayed the emperor and switched sides , signing an alliance with the French king and leading an attack on Charles 's northern flank . In 1555 peace was finally restored in the empire with a compromise settlement . By this ReligiousPeace of Augsburg , each prince of the empire was free to chose his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its observance in his territories . Ecclesiastical property acquired by Protestant princes before 1552 was to remain Protestant . Lutheran subjects of Catholic ecclesiasticalstates would not be required to renounce their faith , but by an " ecclesiastical reservation " any Catholic prince becoming a Protestant wasp208required to give up his ecclesiastical see , which would then be awarded to a new Catholic beneficiary . The settlement was imperfect , but it did bring relative tranquility to a land torn by dispute and war . Until the early seventeenth century it continued as the legal basis of religious politics in Germany . Within four months after the peace of Augsburg , Charles V had abdicated all of his crowns , and the center of religious dissent shifted westward to Switzerland , France , and England . ? Zwingli and the Reformation in SwitzerlandLuther was not a lone voice crying in the wilderness . Even before his indulgence hassel with Tetzel , other humanists and reformers were challengingCatholic doctrines as well as calling attention to clerical abuses . Thomas Wyttenback , in Basel , for example , was denouncing " the fraud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years later Ulrich Zwingli , priest of Glarus in northeastern Switzerland , vehemently rebuked the indulgence hawker , Bernardino Samson , urging the people to put their trust in Christ rather than in papal certificates . Zwingli later maintained that in 1516 he had already begun preaching the gospel before Luther was even heard of . Zwingli , who was born in 1484 just seven weeks after Luther 's birth , was attracted by the writings of Erasmus , and became a member of the circle of humanists associated with the Froben printing house in Basel . Educated in Basel , Bern , and Vienna , Zwingli became priest of Glarus in 1503 and of Einsiedeln ten years later . As he became increasingly concerned with the spiritual welfare of his parishioners he moved gradually from Erasmus 's aristocratic humanism to a more direct criticism of the doctrines of the church . He never entirely abandoned his humanistic orientation , however , and carried out a reformation in Zurich and surroundingregions that in its rational and systematic approach combined the practical piety of Erasmus with the Biblical fundamentalism of Luther . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejection of ecclesiastical authority and in his willingness to act politically ( even militarily ) in defense of Christian truth . In this sense Zwingli was an interestingcombination of the humanist , the theologian , and the radical . In December , 1518 he became priest of the Grossmunster in Zurich , and from this post he expounded the principles and carried out the reformsthat gradually drew the western Swiss cantons out of the Roman orbit . Within a year after the Diet of Worms , Zwingli was strongly criticizingmany ecclesiastical observances . He also condemned the system of Swiss mercenaries , especially when they served the papacy . Through thep209use of public disputations , and with the support of the Zurich Council , Zwingli carried out an extensive reform of the church during the next few years , culminating in the abolition of the mass in 1525 . Pope Adrian VI ( 1521-23 ) , the Dutch mentor of Charles V and friend of Erasmus , tried to persuade Zwingli to remain obedient to Rome and faithful to the Catholic Church . But the Zurich reformer paid no attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clement VII ( 1523-34 ) . The papal dependence upon Swiss mercenaries was too great for the pope to risk upsetting the system by a rash reaction against Zurich . However , some of the neighboring Swiss were greatly disturbed by the rebellious actions of the canton . The diet of the Swiss confederation , meeting in Luzern , reprimanded Zurich for its religious innovations and warned it against further reforms . At the same time , the cantons proposed , since the pope is " silent and asleep , " to legislate for themselves in many matters of religious practice . Several of the northern , so-called forest cantons ( Luzern , Uri , Schwyz , Unterwalden , and Zug ) thereupon formed a separate alliance of their own to combat heresy and reformation , thereby driving Zurich to find allies among the more sympathetic cantons of Bern , Basel , Solothurn , and Schaffhausen , and among the Lutheran cities of southwestern Germany . In spite of their apparent common cause , the Swiss and German reformations remained remarkably separate . For Zwingli as for Luther , the Bible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and comprehensiblebody of teaching and law . Furthermore , both denied the salvational merit of good works , or of the saints , relying solely upon faith and divine grace to justify and redeem . But beyond that their doctrines began to diverge . Zwingli 's underlying humanism persuaded him to believe there was some human predisposition to do good and led him to recognize the existence of will . He dissented sharply from Luther 's view of the Lord 's Supper , particularly in the meaning of the words " This is my body , " which he interpreted as a symbolic presence of Christ in the sacrament , not a " real presence " as Luther insisted upon . At the Marburg Colloquy ( 1529 ) an attempt was made to reach a general agreement on doctrinal matters , but the effort foundered on this issue of the Eucharist . " You have a different spirit from us , " Luther charged , " One side in this controversy is of the Devil and is God 's enemy . " While Zwingli lived , the civil authority in Zurich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the church . After his death in the second Kappel War of 1531 ( fought between Zurich and the army of the Catholic cantons ) , the Reformed congregations of western Switzerland and Alsace each found their own working relationship under the guidance of capable and dedicated men who had been motivated and trained byp210Zwingli . Heinrich Bullinger ably carried on at Zurich for the next fortyfouryears ; Johannes Oecolampadius and Wolfgang Capito led the Reformationin Basel ; Berthold Haller carried it to Bern , Vadianus to St. Gall , and Sebastian Hofmeister to Schaffhausen . Mattew Zell first brought the reformedgospel to Strasbourg , and was soon joined there by Capito and later by Martin Bucer , whose leadership at Strasbourg made it the most tolerant Protestant city in Europe and the haven for religious exiles of every kind . AnabaptismSwitzerland also spawned another form of religious and social revolt , Anabaptism . Mavericks as far as the mainstream of the Reformation went , these unorthodox reformers and rebels were outcasts among Protestants as well as among Catholics . Furthermore , they differed a great deal with one another both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and describe . Their most distinguishing characteristic was their conception of the church as a brotherhood , a body of believers , disciples of Christ , separate and distinct from the secular state and autonomous in its organizationand government . Membership in such communities was symbolized by baptism , and since baptism resulted from hearing the word and believing , it followed that infant baptism was vigorously rejected by the Anabaptists . Their name derives from their insistence upon adult baptism , following conversion , which in practice meant re-baptism since all Christiansof the time had been baptised as infants . Collateral with their belief in the autonomous community of believerswas their rejection of the authority of the state . They declined to take oaths to civil authorities , refused to recognize many laws , and resisted paying taxes . It is not surprising that they seemed to everyone else as dangerous , radical , conspiratorial rebels . Their predominantly lower class composition , their frequently communal life , and their occasional rabid eschatology further combined to make them feared and persecuted . Anabaptism arose first in Zurich , where Conrad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their public disputations . In spite of strong opposition ( even attempts at extermination ) , the Swiss Anabaptists quicklyorganized themselves into congregations , practicing believers ' baptism and teaching the gospel of discipleship based on the Sermon on the Mount . Persistent persecution forced many of the Brethren to flee to other parts of the empire where the movement grew like scattered seeds . Michael Sattler moved into the Schwartzwald and valley of the Neckar , where his followers gathered and proclaimed , in 1527 , the Schleitheim Confession , p 211consisting of seven articles of faith outlining their beliefs and objectives . Balthasar Hubmaier , another Zurich convert , became leader of a similar movement in Moravia after a long trek eastward . He was soon joined by Hans Hut , who , imbibed with Thomas Muntzer 's zeal , radicalized the movement there and contributed to its negative image . George Blaurock went south from Zurich into the high Tyrol where the movement grew rapidly among the discontented peasants and found its greatest early leaderin Jacob Hutter . When persecution by Austrian authorities intensified , Hutter led his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hubmaier 's congregations to form the large Hutterite communitiesrecognized by their passive , pastural lives and by their close communalsociety . The spread of Anabaptism northward down the Rhine and into the Lowlands was accompanied by several new and less attractive adaptations , including an intense millenarianism . The initiator of this phase of the movement was Melchior Hofmann , a wandering furrier from Swabia . In 1529 he associated himself with the Anabaptist community in Strasbourg , but was expelled from that relatively tolerant city for his rabble-rousing oratory . Drifting through the Netherlands and East Friesland , he began prophesying the approaching Last Judgment , which he set for 1533 , and designated Strasbourg as the New Jerusalem . He was arrested when he returned there , but the flame of eschatological enthusiasm that he had lighted was not easily extinguished . It flared up next in the Netherlands . As persecution mounted , two new and fanatical leaders , converts during Hofmann 's Dutch sojourn , came to the front . Jan Matthys , a Haarlem baker claiming to be the reincarnated Enoch , and his companion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anabaptist communities to the Westphaliancity of Munster , where they announced the foundations of yet another New Jerusalem . The bizarre episode of Munster from February 1534 until June 1535 , as it fell under the hypnotic spell of Matthys and then of Leyden , who had himself proclaimed prophet-king , is a classic example of fanaticism feeding on fanaticism until reality is abandoned and either selfannihilationor destruction from outside become inevitable . Besieged for more than a year by armies of Philipp of Hesse and the bishop of Munster , the city finally collapsed and its inhabitants were put to the sword . Those who managed to escape from the Munster holocaust , along with many persecuted congregations from other parts of the Lowlands , eventually found a new and inspiring leader in Menno Simons , a former parish priest of West Friesland . Under the sensitive and dedicated Menno Simons these Mennonites , as they came to be called , revived the earlier principles of sobriety , meekness , pacifism , and long-suffering , as being the attributes of Christ 's disciples , and dedicated themselves to a simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continents and four centuries is a modern odyssey worthy of a new Homer . ? John CalvinIn the meantime , in March 1536 , a Basel publisher issued a small octavo book , entitled Institutes of the Christian Religion . Its author , a twenty-six-year-old French exile by the name of John Calvin , was destined to infuse a dynamic new dimension into the Reformation , giving it a vitality that would carry it into all parts of Europe and beyond the seas . The Institutes was a forthright book written in clear , descriptive Latin as a catechism of Christian doctrine and a manual for church organization . It contained a dedicatory introduction to the king of France , then proceeded systematically and succinctly to outline the principal points of the law and the gospel . The impact of the Institutes was both immediate and lasting because it summarized the whole of Protestant theology in a logical and manageable way . Calvin reached Switzerland for the first time in 1535 after fleeing France , where he had become too closely associated with the reform party at the University of Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school in Paris , Orleans , and Bourges , studying law under some of the most renowned teachers of the age . His conversion to Protestantism is shrouded in mystery , but by the time he published the Institutes he seems to have freed himself totally from Catholic thinking . Later in 1536 he found himself in the city of Geneva where , through the entreaties of Guillaume Farel , a fiery minister sent by Bern to convert the semi-imperial city to Protestantism , he began his ministry . The first phase of that ministry lasted less than two years as Calvin and Farel clashed head-on with the Genevan Council over jurisdiction and ecclesiastical discipline . At Easter 1538 they were both expelled from the city . Thereupon , Calvin accepted Bucer 's invitation to join him in Strasbourgand a new phase of the Reformation began . At Strasbourg Calvin further expanded and clarified his theology while developing a sharper notion of religious politics and ecclesiastical organization . When he returned to Geneva three-and-one-half years later it was with a clear conception of the gospel and of his role as an organizational as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his " Ecclesiastical Ordonnances " Calvin established a theocraticregime in Geneva that was unequalled in its effective jurisdiction.  |p213The  Ministry , staffed with carefully chosen pastors and teachers , was the pastoral and educational arm of the visible church , guarding its doctrinal purity and giving instruction in faith . The Consistory was its disciplinary arm , overseeing and correcting the lives of the people . Composed of both ministers and lay elders , the Consistory kept a close eye on every facet of Genevan life and brought quick and severe punishment to violators of its strict code of conduct . Heresy was looked upon without the least degree of tolerance , being punished in extreme cases by death . Even minor infractionsof the ecclesiastical law were treated as serious offenses . The most famous heresy case occurring in Calvin 's Geneva was that of the Spanish physician-theologian , Michael Servetus , who was burned to death in 1553 for his writings against the doctrine of the Trinity . One of the few contemporarieswho raised their voices against this action was Sebastian Castellio , a Savoyard humanist who taught that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Castellio 's advocacy of religious toleration was strongly opposed in Geneva and did not receive much better reception elsewhere . In Calvin 's mind the relationship between church and state was close , but it was not identical . He distinguished between spiritual and temporal jurisdictions and considered their respective callings distinct and complementary . " As soul and body constitute one man , " he said , " so church and state constitute one society , distinct in function but inseparablein being . " Furthermore , since the authority for both jurisdictions comes from God , and since the Bible is the word of God to magistrates and laymen as well as to the church and its clergymen , it was evident to Calvin that the church , as custodian of God 's word , held a clear preeminenceover the civil magistry in all matters of faith and morals ? and even of law . Thus , if the civil authority should violate the laws of God or abuse its divinely ordained function , it is the responsibility of the church , or its representative , to override that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters . This doctrine marks a clear distinction from Luther 's submission of the church to the jurisdiction of the state . It also accounts in part for the potentially revolutionary spirit of Calvinism as it spread across Europe . But Calvin was no more a political revolutionary than Luther was . The Genevan reformer made it clear that God did not condone civil disorder . Simple people are never justified in disobeying their rulers or in initiating . action against them . Only clearly constituted and divinely sanctioned authorityhave the right to resist or oppose a government , even if that government is tyrannical . In such a case the people 's duty is then to the resisting authority , since God must be obeyed above all . Even then Calvin was cautious in applying even this conservative resistance theory to particularpolitical situations . Many of his followers were not so circumspect.  | The Spread of CalvinismAs Calvinism rapidly made its way from Geneva into the neighboring cantons , and from Switzerland into France , the Netherlands , Scotland , England and eastward into Germany and beyond , it was obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them a greater impact than their numbers would indicate . This success may be due in part to the tight organization and rigid discipline of the Calvinist forces , but it was surely furthered through their active social ethic stemming from Calvin 's theology . The crux of that theology was the belief in an omnipotentand omniscient sovereign God who " in His own wisdom , has from the remotest eternity , decreed what He would do , and now by His own power , executed what He has decreed . " Furthermore , being a God of justice as well as majesty , he has of necessity condemned all mankind , because man is " impure , profane , and abominable to God , " meriting nothing but eternaldamnation . Man 's spirit is so alien to God , according to Calvin , " that he conceives , covets , and undertakes nothing that is not evil , perverse , iniquitous , and soiled . " His will is so obstinate " that it can not excite itself . . . to anything but what is evil . " Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justice . Nevertheless , God also ordains some men to eternal salvation , not through their merit but through his mercy . For those whom he elected to salvation God provides a means of rescue through the redemption of Jesus Christ . By this vicarious transfusion of grace the elect are reborn and are made " partakers of the divine nature . " This divine election , or predestination , was fundamental to Calvinist dynamics . It meant that those who were thus regenerated and justified constituted a chosen people of God , totally indebted to him , dedicated to his service and directing their energiesto the single purpose of carrying out his will . The social effects of this belief were profound . It produced a movement that could not be halted nor deterred . France was the first target of Calvinist proselyting efforts outside of Switzerland . In 1541 the first French edition of the Institutes ( enlarged now to several times its original size ) was published and distributed widely . The next decade was the germination period of Calvinism in France . By 1555 there were Calvinist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synod met in Paris , where a Calvinist confession of faith was drawn up . Between 1555 and 1562 a great number of French nobles joined these Huguenot congregations , giving an aristocratic and volatile flavor to French Protestantism , and ensuring the outbreak of civil war . Calvinism grew rapidly in the Netherlands also , due to Protestant emigration from France and to the dispatch of ministers from Genevap215itself . Protestant literature had been circulating in the Low Countries for many years in spite of Charles V 's repressive measures to curtail it . After the emperor 's abdication in 1556 and the accession of his son Philip II , Calvinism seemed to spread even more rapidly as the homeland of Erasmus reacted favorably to Calvinist logic and organization . A Belgic Confession was written in 1561 and adopted five years later in the Synod of Antwerp . Across the Channel , Calvinist literature infiltrated into England duringEdward VI 's reign ( 1547-53 ) and following Mary Tudor 's death in 1558 returning English divines who had spent their exile in Geneva added a new vitality to English Protestantism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Calvinist Puritans during the first half of her reign , even though her northern neighbor succumbed to Calvinism , but in the later years she was hard-pressed to keep them in check . The " Thundering Scot , " John Knox , was largely responsible for the success of Calvinism in Scotland . Trained in Geneva at the feet of Calvin himself , Knox led a relentless and ultimately successful crusade against the Catholic nobles of the north country and against the ill-starred regime of Mary Queen of Scots , achieving in the 1561 Kirk of Scotland the first fully successful Calvinization of a whole kingdom . In Germany Calvinism penetrated into the Rhineland Palatinate first under the protective cover of Elector Frederick III , count Palatine of the Rhine . Even though there was no accommodation for Calvinism in the Peace of Augsburg , it spread rapidly from the Palatinate into neighboring Nassau , Hesse , Anhalt , and Cleves . In 1563 the Heidelberg Catechism was adopted by the Rhenish reformers giving a valuable doctrinal guide for all the Reformed churches of the empire and aiding its continued spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hungary . ? Ecclesiastical Rebellion in EnglandThe church in England was also rife with corruption and abuse . Although seldom as powerful and independent as their German counterparts , the English bishops had nevertheless succeeded in amassing great wealth and prestige . Church courts were notoriously corrupt in RenaissanceEngland , and the administration of ecclesiastical finances was subject to scandalous abuse , as was the operation of the monasteries . These and many other infractions were seen and criticized by concerned observers . English humanists were aware of the abuses and vigorously denounced them . As early as 1511 John Colet challenged the prelates to make amends and reform the church by reforming their own lives . The consequence of an avaricious clergy was to drive an ever wideningwedge between the institutional church and the people , causing them to lose faith in religious rituals and to turn elsewhere for guidance and solace . Many English worshippers found devotional satisfaction with the Lollards , whose underground cells continued to harbor religious dissidents since Wyclifs time . Others turned to less organized forms of individual spiritual devotions . When Lutheran literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smuggled into England where it was avidly read by reform-minded dons at the University of Cambridge . Among these early proto-Protestants were Hugh Latimer , Thomas Cranmer , Robert Barnes , Thomas Bilney , and William Tyndale . The latter became a very important figure in the English Reformation because of his prolific pamphleteering and his stirring English translation of the New Testament . More than anyone else , Tyndale was the intellectual bridge between England and the German Lutherans . ? Henry VIII and the Break with RomeBut it was neither Luther , Tyndale , nor Colet who caused the EnglishReformation . They and many others had a part in its shaping , but it was the king , Henry VIII , who was most responsible for the ecclesiastical break with Rome . In sixteenth-century England the king had great authority . The crown commanded in all things and demanded both respect and obedience from its clergy . But the churchmen owed allegiance to the pope as well as loyalty to the king . Nothing illustrates this dichotomy more vividly than the rise and fall of Henry 's lord chancellor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honored and powerful of the king 's servants , he was also archbishop of York , cardinal , and permanent papal legate in England , making him the supreme ecclesiastical authority in Englandnext to the pope . But in his attempt to dominate both church and state he failed effectively to control either one . His fall in 1530 carried the English clergy with him , for they were both associated in everyone 's mind with the hated Roman pope . The cause of Wolsey 's demise was his failure to obtain from Pope Clement VII a divorce , or annulment , of the king 's twenty-one year marriage to Catherine of Aragon . Henry needed a male heir ; his wife had produced only a daughter and four still-born sons . Now she was beyond childbearing age ? and Henry 's emotions were caught by the vivacious eyes of Anne Boleyn . The king tried to free himself from his wife by legal means . But Catherine 's resistance and the pressures of her nephew , EmperorCharles V , on the pope were too much for Henry to overcome . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 217 Thomas Cromwell and the Reformation ParliamentWhen the venerable archbishop of Canterbury died in 1532 Henry appointed to succeed him a malleable and soft-spoken scholar who had no love for the pope and who could be counted on to obey the king 's wishes . Thomas Cranmer was the choice . To assist him Henry brought forward Wolsey 's former secretary , Thomas Cromwell , who had gradually risen in the king 's estimation to become principal secretary and Lord Privy Seal . Cromwell was a capable administrator and a clever politician . He had the intellectual capacity to plan whatever objectives the king required and the cold determination to carry them out . Above all , he was industrious and completely loyal to the king . Parliament was convened and became the instrument through which Cromwell executed the king 's will . First the papacy was declared guilty of violating the English Statute of Praemunire , which prohibited appeals to Rome without royal consent ; then Henry was declared " Protector and Only Supreme Head of the Church and Clergy in England " ; the payment of annates to Rome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Rome crowned the work of this Reformation Parliament . As far as Englandwas concerned the Roman pontiff had been removed , and his place taken by the king . Now Henry married Anne Boleyn and had his archbishoppronounce the marriage to Catherine " null and absolutely void , " and the one to Anne " good and lawful . " The enactments of the Reformation Parliament were significant constitutionallyas well as religiously . For in effect the king and parliament had not only legalized the king 's moral actions and completely repudiated the authority of Rome , they also declared the autonomous sovereignty of the English state . To make its enactment secure Parliament passed a final Act of Supremacy , declaring the king " Supreme head in earth of the Church of England , " a Succession Act , and a Treason Act defining the bounds of loyalty . Thomas More and Opposition to Henry VIIIA few people ? very few ? would not submit to the king 's will . Most prominent of these were John Fisher , bishop of Rochester , and Henry 's former lord chancellor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Years before , in his remarkable little book , Utopia , More had debated the issue of whether or not a good man should serve a bad master . " Do n't give up the ship in a storm because you can not control the winds , " he concluded , " For what you can not turn to good , you can at least make less bad . " But as moderately and gently as More tried to influp218ence the king toward less bad government he was still caught in the undertowof the Henrician Revolution . He refrained from opposing the king , but he likewise refused to take the oath condoning Henry 's actions . Henry wanted and needed More 's support ; he demanded total allegiance or death . On July 6 , 1535 Thomas More was beheaded . The financing of the English Reformation was achieved by the cool logic of Thomas Cromwell . Between 1536 and 1539 the monasteries ? first the smaller then the larger ones ? were systematically suppressed and became the property of the crown . Now , for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something approaching popular opposition . Already in bad humor over newly imposed taxes and rents , a motley array of people in Lincolnshire took up arms in protest . The revolt , known as the Pilgrimage of Grace , gained momentum as it spread into Yorkshire , Lancashire , and East Riding . But , poorly directed and uncertain about its aims and objectives , the revolt disbanded in December 1536 . Its leaders were sacrificed to Henry 's revenge . Others in turn fell victim to the king 's capricious will . Anne Boleyn was beheaded only three years after her spectacular triumph ; in 1541 Henry 's fifth wife , Catherine Howard , followed her cousin to the block ; Robert Barnes lost royal favor and his life in 1540 ; and in the same year Cromwell himself , the mastermind of the Henrician Reformation fell to the ax . Just as wives and ministers rose and fell , so did Henry 's policies fluctuate with his changing whims and the shifting balance of powers . He tried alternately to side with the Schmalkaldic League , support the emperor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whatever he did he hoped to win glory and fame for himself . In January 1547 , Henry VIII died , leaving the country weak from financial mismanagement and reckless foreign encounters , and at the mercy of court factions eager to gain the upper hand in a government that now passed to Henry 's haughty nine-year-old son , Edward VI . The Edwardian ReformationA council of regency , headed by Edward Seymour , duke of Somerset ( the young king 's uncle , and brother to Jane Seymour , Henry 's third wife ) directed the government and presided over the second phase of the English Reformation . Under Henry VIII almost no doctrinal changes had taken place . His was an ecclesiastical not a theological revolution . Henry had harshly prosecuted those who expressed Protestant views . Now the pent-up feelings of Protestant-prone clerics and laymen , and returning exilesfrom Germany and Switzerland , carried the English church towardp219continental Protestantism . The Edwardian Reformation was also carried out by acts of Parliament . Under Archbishop Cranmer 's supervision the dissolution of the monasteries was completed ; the Lord 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Book of Common Prayer , drawn largely from Lutheran and Zwinglian sources , was published in 1549 ; clerical celebacy was ended ; and images were removed from the churches . In 1551 the winds of power shifted again and Somerset was swept from office . The new man at the helm was John Dudley , earl of Warwick and duke of Northumberland . Ruthless and ambitious , Northumberland was nevertheless a strong administrator who was able to make some headwayagainst the continuing chaos of English finances . Under Northumberlandthe Reformation continued . A new , even more Protestant oriented Prayer Book was compiled by Cranmer in 1552 ; another Act of Uniformitymade the English liturgy compulsory ; and a new confession , known as the Forty-two Articles , was published . But neither Edward nor Northumberlandlived to bask in their creations . Sickly throughout his short life , the king succumbed in July 1553 . Caught in a plot to advance his son to the throne through marriage to sixteen-year-old Lady Jane Grey ( who had a claim to the throne if the direct line succession to Henry 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career suddenly ended . The successionwas not by-passed . Mary expected and wanted the throne , and the people of England wanted her more than they wanted the scheming duke , even though she was openly Catholic . The failure of Northumberland 's plot cost him his life and that of his unfortunate son and daughter-in-law . ? Bloody MarySecurely on the throne , Mary tried to halt the movement of Reformationand initiate a return to Rome . It was expected that she would restore Catholic worship to the realm , but it was hoped she would do it smoothly and without undue subservience to Rome . Many features of the Reformation would have to be retained ; everyone knew that , and they hoped the queen knew it too . Mary was sincere and devout , but she was also overly zealous in religious matters and lacked the flexibility and politicaljudgment necessary to pursue a safe course through such dangerous times . She was not cruel or vindictive as she is popularly portrayed , but her ardent dedication to an unpopular cause led her to extreme actions that should never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's reign solved few of the problems inherited from her brother and father , and added more for her sister to resolve.  | Again the religious realignment was carried out by Parliament , and with less travail than might be expected . The supremacy acts of Henry 's reign were removed , and the Edwardian doctrinal reforms were repealed . Picking up momentum , Parliament authorized the reconciliation with Rome and the restoration of the rights and authority of the Holy See . Pope Julius III , a gentle and conciliatory pontiff , reciprocated by confirmingthe secular possession of previous church properties , thus avoiding the upheaval that certainly would have followed Mary 's attempt to restore monastic lands to the church . Cardinal Pole , the highest ranking English Catholic , was brought back from exile to direct the intricacies of doctrinal recovery . But Mary became impatient with the pace of restoration and began to push faster than the religious community was willing to move . Reluctance was interpreted by her as refusal , and disagreement taken for opposition . Soon the ax began to fall again , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost their lives . Others escaped into Swiss exile . Mary 's greatest blunder was her marriage to the emperor 's son , Philip of Spain . From Charles 's point of view the alliance made good sense . It insured English allegiance to imperial-Spanish policy and it guaranteed her cooperation in the impending war with France . But the English resented it vehemently . To them it meant the vassalage of England to Spain . Civil uprisings in the Midlands and in Kent had to be put down by force . Violence spawned more violence . Stronger opposition by the Protestant bishops caused the queen to turn her wrath against them . The bishop of London was put to death , as was Hugh Latimer , the bishop of Worcester , and finally even archbishop Cranmer . Mary was determined to follow the course she had marked out regardless of the cost . When the final phase of the Hapsburg-Valois Wars began in 1557 she complied with her husband 's wish and brought England into the conflict on the side of Hapsburg Spain . But she did not live to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectacular Spanish victories in Italy and in France . She did survive long enough , however , to learn of the humiliation of English arms and the loss of Calais to the French . She died on November 17 , 1558 , mourned by a few , hated by many , pitied by all . The Catholic ReformationThe response of the Catholic Church to the spread of Protestantism was both negative and positive . Clerics , theologians , and friars from every country joined in writing against the reformers . Laymen , too , rose to defend the faith . Even Henry VIII answered Luther 's Babylonian Captivityp221of the Church with a vituperate Defense of the Seven Sacraments against Martin Luther , for which he was awarded the title " Defender of the Faith " by Pope Leo X. As the Reformation spread so did reactions to it . Notwithstanding these negative responses to the Reformation , there were at the same time many moves from within the church toward reform and reconciliation . The Christian humanists had exerted pressure in that direction for decades before Luther 's time . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church ; they frequently made concrete proposalsfor its improvement . Positive steps toward reformation were being taken on other levels too . The moving examples of saintly persons , such as Saint Teresa of Avila and San Juan de la Cruz , led many people closer to God . But canonization came to only a few ; there were others who contributedin more immediate ways to the betterment of life and worship . Bishop Giberti of Verona , for example , demonstrated what could be done to improve and strengthen the church . Setting a standard of enlightened reform , he founded orphanages and schools , relief for the poor , better education for the clergy , and put an end to many of the clerical abuses that had existed . And in doing this he infused a more spiritual atmosphere into the entire diocese . The Venetian , Gasparo Contarini , was another who aspired to improve the church , not just criticize it . Through a long career as a distinguished diplomat and man of letters he influenced many people for good . When he became a cardinal he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest levels . Reformation of the monastic and mendicant orders also took on vitality in the early sixteenth century , but even more significant was the founding of new orders dedicated to promoting internal reform and increasingspirituality . The simplest of these new orders , in terms of its goal , was the Capuchins , a reform offshoot from the Franciscans . It was devoted to serving the downtrodden and poor through acts of charity , piety , and compassion . Several new brotherhoods , designed to regulate and spiritualizethe lives of the laity and secular clergy , were also founded . The Oratory of Divine Love was one of the earliest and most effective of these . It aspired to harmonize the faith and culture of the time and promote reform in the church through devotions , prayers , and exemplary lives . It numberedamong its adherents some of the highest officials of the church . Closely related to it were the Barnabites , Somaschi , and the Theatines . The latter was founded by Gaetano Thiene , a mild and gentle layman from Vicenza , and Gian Pietro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he became a cardinal , was one of the most dedicatedreformers in the curia , and subsequently as pope the most vehement champion of Catholicism.  | The Jesuits A new direction to the reforming movement in the church was taken in 1540 by the establishment of the Society of Jesus , or Jesuits . Its founder was Ignatius Loyola , a Basque soldier from the northern Spanish province of Guipuzcoa . Seriously injured in the battle of Pamplona ( 1521 ) , Loyola turned his thoughts , and his life , toward religion . Resolving to devote himself to the church , he began preparing for whatever call he might receive . In addition to devotions , prayers , and pilgrimages , lie trained his mind and spirit by systematic and arduous education ? ten years of study at Barcelona , Salamanca , Alcala , and the University of Paris ? and by the application of spiritual exercises designed to discipline and direct the will toward God . Published as a handbook for spiritual training , Loyola 's Spiritual Exercises became one of the most effective instruments of the Catholic Reformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kempis 's Imitation of Christ , and other devotional books , was not just the salvation of men 's souls but to prepare them for more effective service to God and the church . Likewise , the Jesuit Order , which developed out of Loyola 's association with a handful of followers at Paris , was dedicated to service and to actively promoting and defending the teachings of the church . The Jesuits soon became the most zealous and effective instrument of reform , a company of religious soldiers sworn by vows of obedience to defend the church . They thought of themselves as teachers , and established grammar schools and seminaries throughout Europe . As defenders of the faith they were effective and dedicated missionaries , both among faltering Christians in Europe and the heathen nations as far away as China , Japan , and South America . Some Jesuits became priests and expounded the gospel from the pulpit , some were confessors to princes and rulers , others became inquisitorsin the Holy Office , and still others occupied chairs of theology at the great universities . In all of their activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They combined high ideals with practicality . Efficiency , dedication , flexibility , and utility were their guidelines . And their results were impressive . The work of two Jesuits alone , Francis Xavier and Peter Canisius , accounted for the winning of a million new souls to the church and the gaining of thousands who had fallen away . ? Pope Paul III and the Council of TrentTo be correctly understood , the Catholic Reformation must be viewed at another level as well . The Renaissance popes from Martin V top223Leo X were notoriously unspiritual and neglectful of the religious needs of the people . The first reforming pope to mount the throne was Adrian VI , in 1521 . He was an austere and pedantic Dutch prelate who taught humanismto his prize pupil , Charles V , and served the emperor as both statesman and priest . Had he lived to carry out his plans the story of the Reformationmight have read differently . He was succeeded by Leo X 's Medici cousin , Clement VII ( 1523-34 ) , whose weak character and irresolute mind brought nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first reforming pope , in any meaningful sense , was Alessandro Farnese , Pope Paul III ( 1534-49 ) . He enlarged the curia with reformers of the calibre of Contarini , Caraffa , Jacopo Sadoleto , and Reginald Pole , and appointed a reform commission to study the causes of corruption in the church . The commission 's report laid the primary blame right at the pope 's door . The root of all errors , it said , was the papacy itself , ambitious , proud , and blind to its faults . A major step had been taken toward church-wide reformation , but it was not followed up . Finally , in 1545 , Pope Paul convened a general council at Trent . The first assembly lasted until 1547 , and , in spite of the efforts of a strong reform faction , directed its deliberations more to confirming dogma than to correcting abuses . In 1551-52 a second assembly of the Council resumedits work at Trent . Protestant delegates were invited to attend , but there was no common ground nor enthusiasm for understanding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the council met in its third and last assembly in 1562-63 . Catholic doctrines were dogmaticallydefined and Protestantism condemned ; the authority and responsibilitiesof the clergy were circumscribed ; and the practices of the church clarified . The pope was firmly sustained at the head of the universal body . And thus renovated , with a new spirit of dogmatic certainty , the Catholic Church was prepared to carry the religious fight to the enemy . Now the real Counter-Reformation began . The Roman InquisitionThe main weapons of the religious war against Protestantism ? and against anyone now who deviated in the least from approved Catholic dogma  --  were , in addition to the Jesuits and the decrees of the Council of Trent , the Roman Inquisition and the Index of Prohibited Books . Courts of inquisition had been established many times during the Middle Ages to ferret out heretics and religious conspirators , but these were not permanent , continuing institutions . Not until the establishment of the Spanish Inquisition in 1478 did any country have a permanent bureaucratic strucp224ture for that purpose . In 1542 , Cardinal Caraffa proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was established as the Holy Office of the Universal Church . Through this instrument Caraffa hoped to centralize and modernize the heresy hunting machinery and make it more effective throughout the church . Caraffa himself became the first inquisitor-general . In 1555 , the trenchant Caraffa became Pope Paul IV . He was seventy-nine years old then , but he still grasped the reins with energy and enthusiasm . He had been a reformer all his life , and since his elevation to the cardinalate he had been one of the moving spirits of the Catholic Reformation . But as pope his cantankerous personality and self-righteous zeal did as much as anything to pervert that reformation into a bigoted Counter-Reformation against Protestantism . In 1559 he compiled and published a list of " dangerous and unholy " books that he had issued while he was inquisitor-general . This Index Librorum Prohibitorum became the first church-wide Index published by the papacy . It was continued as a permanentfixture with frequently updated editions to counteract the latest errors . Paul IV 's pontificate marked the transition in papal policy from reform to Counter-Reformation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conformity . Thenceforth the attitude of the popes was aggressively militant . Additional reforms improving the effectivenessof papal government were instituted by Pius IV ( 1559-65 ) and Pius V ( 1566-72 ) , who used the Inquisition and any other means at his disposal to root out heresy in Italy while cracking down on church corruptionand abuse with equal fervor . The papal diplomatic service was modernizedand the calendar reformed by Pope Gregory XIII ( 1572-85 ) , and Sixtus V ( 1585-90 ) further tightened control of financial and administrativeaffairs . The Counter-Reformation papacy energized the church with new vitality and dedication preparing it to resume ( for a short time , at least ) an active role in European affairs and in the grandiose artistic and architectural expressions of the Age of Baroque . Nevertheless , in spite of renewed papal vigor and aggressiveness , the Protestant Reformation and its accompanying fragmentation spelled the end of Catholic dominance in Europe . This led in turn not only to further religious diversity but eventuallyto the secularization of thought and life . The Culture of Reformation and Counter-Reformation EuropeThe Reformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it did contribute heavily to changing that culture in some very definite ways . Humanism , for instance , was diverted from a classics ccilp225tered intellectual-literary movement to an active religious partisanship . As the Reformation spread and intensified , few humanist writers could remainaloof from its influence . They frequently took sides ( usually the Catholic ) and soon many of them were as deeply entangled in religious tirades as anyone else . Some humanist converts to Lutheranism , like Ulrich von Hutten , turned almost entirely to sectarian writing , although the greatestof them , Philipp Melanchthon , not only retained his fine Latin style , he maintained a moderate and conciliatory attitude through most of the turmoil . Sebastian Castellio , a humanist convert to Calvinism , displayed eloquenceas well as feeling in his defense of religious toleration against Calvin 's dogmatism . Humanists were prominent in the high echelons of the Catholic church , for a time . The emperor Charles V always relied on humanist trained secretaries and advisors . But the fervor of the CounterReformationall but extinguished humanism as a movement in the Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the second half of the century the mounting violence of religious confrontation produced a predictable backlash in the form of secularism and scepticism . Michel de Montaigne is an example of the humanist turned sceptic . The cancerous conflict in France had all but destroyed the vital organs of government when Montaigne wrote in 1588 : " The sanest party is still made up of members of a decrepit and worm-eaten body . In such a body the least infected member is called healthy . " ( Essays , III , 9 ) . Yet in spite of growing rationalism and secularism toward the end of the sixteenthcentury , this was also the flourishing period of European demonologyand witchcraft mania , a blight in Western history that was not overcomeuntil late in the next century . The influence of the religious upheaval on the literature of the sixteenthcentury was profound . It took many forms and directions in producingsome of the greatest literature of all time . As the literary vehicle of the church , Latin played a unique role in this outpouring . It was also the language of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of the distinquished Latin writings of Erasmus , More , Vives , and Lefevre d'Etaples , and the profound theological works of Luther , Melanchthon , Zwingli , and Calvin , Latin had passed its literary peak . Its greatest impact in the sixteenth century was its influence on the rapidly developing vernacularlanguages . The sixteenth century was the first great age of vernacular literature . In France that literary flowering came earliest in poetry . Out of a long tradition of medieval lyrical and court poetry , sprinkled with the poignant raw-life ballads of Francois Villon ( 1431-c. 63 ) , French poetry came of age under the patronage of Francis I. Clear yet subtle , tender and witty , French poetry acquired its first master in Clement Marotp226(1496-1544) . He was not the last . Saint-Gelais and the king 's own sister , Marguerite of Navarre , added much depth and pathos . A broader and more exalted conception of French poetry was introduced after mid-century by the Pleiade , a school of poets , led by Joachim du Bellay ( 1522-60 ) and Pierre de Ronsard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supreme vehicle of poetic literature . Ronsard was particularly successful in describingbeauty and in depicting the most personal yet universal emotions . Vernacular poetry flourished outside of France also , but not with the same balance of beauty , content , and form . The great period of Italian poetry ended with Lodovico Ariosto ( 1474-1533 ) , whose masterpiece , the romantic epic Orlando Furioso , was the culmination of the medieval chivalricromances and the epitome of Italian Renaissance manners , morals , and splendor ? a literary mirror of the age . Another peak was reached later in the century with Torquato Tasso 's heroic epic , Jerusalem Delivered , depicting the story of the reconquest of Jerusalem in the first Crusade . The best Spanish poet of the Reformation age was Garcilaso de la Vega ( 1501-36 ) , an erudite young Latin and Italian scholar , orator , musician , diplomat , and soldier , whose poetry was a model of tranquility set with deep feeling . Late in the century , lyric poetry found its chief Castilianexponent in Luis de Gongora ( 1561-1627 ) , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heights , succeeded by his verbal extravagances in drawing a curtain of obscurity between poetry and all but a narrow clientele of readers . In the north , vernacular languages were less fully developed by the early sixteenth century and consequently produced less significant poetry and almost no top-ranked poets . Important because of its contemporary polemical impact , however , is Sebastian Brant 's ( 1457-1521 ) The Ship of Fools . Doggerel poetry , The Ship of Fools , nevertheless , was effective social satire , and went through many editions . More lyrical were the GermanMeistersingers , popular composers and singers of light verse , who produced their most famous member in the shoemaker-poet , Hans Sachs ( 1494-1576 ) , remembered still as the sympathetic protagonist of Wagner 's Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg . Latin retained its primacy as the literary language of England far into the sixteenth century , but by the 1540 's at least two writers had acquired some renown as English poets . These were Sir Thomas Wyatt ( 1503-42 ) , a courtier of Henry VIII and admirer of his second wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Surrey ( 1517-47 ) , son of the powerful duke of Norfolk and cousin to the king 's fifth wife , Catherine Howard . When the Howard star fell with the execution of the queen , Surrey lost favor and he too was beheaded , at the age of twentynine . Versatile and precocious , he introduced blank verse into English and composed graceful and polished sonnets . With Philip Sidney ( 1554-86 ) and p 227Edmund Spencer ( 1552-99 ) English poetry reached its Renaissance peak . Spencer was undoubtedly the finest of the Elizabethan poets , and his Faerie Queen ranks high among the literary creations of that day . The crowning glory of the Elizabethan age , however , was secular drama , expressing to the fullest the emotional energy and intellectual versatilityof the time . A galaxy of dramatic writers , culminating in ChristopherMarlowe ( 1564-93 ) and William Shakespeare ( 1564-1616 ) set the tone and gave momentum to this popular medium . In Spain , too , drama reached its golden age in the last half of the sixteenth century and the beginning of the seventeenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lope de Vega ( 1562-1635 ) , Tirso de Molina ( 1571-1658 ) , and Juan Ruiz de Alarcon ( 1581-1639 ) . Even more than in drama , Spain was preeminent in the development of the novel . From Fernando de Rojas ' La Celestina ( 1493 ) to Michel de Cervantes ' masterpiece , Don Quixote de la Mancha ( 1605-15 ) the Spanish novel set the pace for others to follow . Spain also pioneered in the creationof the " picaresque novel , " exploring the adventurous lives of lowbornrogues and social outcasts to uncover the sham and pretense in society . The first of these entertaining and insightful novels was Lazarillo de Tormes , and the best is perhaps Mateo Aleman 's Guzman de Alfarache . French prose was more influenced by the Reformation than was Spanish , and it often reflected the clash of religious ideologies . The most delightful and robust novelist of the period was Francois Rabelais ( 1494-1553 ) . Enthusiasm , satirical humor , and rebellious freedom characterizeRabelais and his lusty giants Gargantua and Pantagruel . Condemned by the Sorbonne and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " best-sellers " in their time . A unique genre of French literature reaching its zenith in the second half of the century was the essay . Its creator and most gifted exponent was Montaigne ( 1533-92 ) , whose vivid and pithy insights into human nature have seldom been equalled and never surpassed . Finally , the theological works of Luther and Calvin , and the vernaculartranslations of the Bible by Lefevre , Luther , Tyndale , and Coverdale helped establish the literary preeminence of modern French , German , and English . Style , orthography , syntax , spelling , and vocabulary continued to change , as they should in living languages , but the direction and pattern of those changes owe much to the literary craftsmanship of the great sixteenthcentury writers . ? MannerismIn the expressions of art , Italy set the style and tone just as she had for over 150 years . The splendor and glory of the High Renaissance would never again be attained , but new moods and motivations prompted new and interesting artistic responses . One of these is called mannerism , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the sixteenth century this was an artistic movement growing out of the High Renaissance , with certaincharacteristics in common with it ( grace , refinement , attraction to the human figure , etc. ) , yet also an exaggeration and repudiation of it . The virtuosity of Michelangelo 's later paintings , for example , helped make virtuositya conscious objective . This in turn led to capriciousness , distortion , and eccentricity . In the early sixteenth century the artists were gradually liberated from total dependence upon the patron 's commission and they emerged as creative masters in their own right , free to chose their own medium , subject matter , and theme . Mannerist painting of the period 1530-1570 reflected this freedom . It also revealed very pronounced emotionalstresses and unresolved tensions , expressed in visual distortion , the elongation of graceful but sensuous human figures , and the , idealization of forms beyond the natural . The leading mannerist painters of Florence and Rome in the generation after Andrea del Sarto and Raphael were Jacopo Pontormo ( 1494-1556 ) and Rosso Fiorentino ( 1494-1540 ) , who tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Similarly , Giulio Romano ( 1495-1546 ) , Francesco Parmigianino ( 1503-40 ) , and Agnolo Bronzino ( 1503-72 ) elaborated the style in their exaggerated elegance and idealized portraits . Mannerism was carried to France by Rosso and by Francesco Primaticcio ( 1504-70 ) who served Francis I for many years . The best example of the spread of mannerism into other parts of Europe may be seen in the paintings of El Greco ( 1541-1614 ) , a Cretean artist trained in Italy and living most of his life in Spain . El Greco 's technique was predominantly mannerist , and shows a strong religious emotion springing from the tensions of the Reformation and Counter-Reformation . The strain of his elongated and tortuous figures reveals not only mannerist stylism but suggests a deep religious imagery and a close identification with mystical experiences . It should not be thought that all artists of the sixteenth century were mannerists . The Venetian tradition was largely unaffected by it ( except for Tintoretto ) and continued to flourish alongside mannerist art for most of the century . Venetian art , as exemplified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful painter of the century , Lorenzo Lotto ( 1480-1556 ) , and especially Paolo Veronese ( 1528-88 ) , emphasized vivid color and grandiose composition in perpetuating the High Renaissance through the stresses of the sixteenth century . For Venetian artists , as well as for others like Francois Clouet ( 1505-72 ) in France , Antonio Moro ( 1519-75 ) in Flanders and Spain , and Sanchez Coello ( 1531-88 ) in Spain , this was also the first great age of European portraiture.  | ? The Arts in Northern EuropeFurther north a different spirit pervaded the world of art . In Germany , Switzerland , and the Netherlands art was not just influenced by the Reformation , it was overwhelmed by it . Few , if any , of the leading Germanartists , from Altdorfer and Grunewald to Holbein and Direr , were unaffected by the religious upheaval . Albrecht Direr ( 1471-1528 ) , the greatest of the Renaissance German artists , was one of the first northernerscaption to catch the spirit and vitality of Italian creativity , and the first to grasp the possibilities of printing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , forcing him to compromise his Renaissance confidence in man 's will and power of achievement . His growing preoccupation with themes such as his Melancholia , the memorable Knight , Death and the Devil , and the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse reveal his deep concern for the spiritual dilemma of man . Lucas Cranach ( 1472-1553 ) , and many others like him , gave themselves entirely to the Reformation , using their artistic talents almost exclusively for pictorial polemics . Cranachprovided the visual accompaniment to Luther 's robust tracts . The Reformation likewise influenced the work of the greatest Dutch painter of the century , Pieter Bruegel the Elder ( 1528-69 ) . But Bruegel remained the master painter of sixteenth century life , especially the personal lives of the simple Dutch country folk as he depicted them in his Country Wedding and The Peasants ' Dance . It is unnecessary to elaborate further the impact of the Reformation on sixteenth century painting . All of the arts were influenced and altered by the religious upheaval , and all forms of art responded in their own ways . Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new form of emphasis and decor . In Catholic lands the effect was less pronounced until the second half of the century when the Counter-Reformation sparked a renewed enthusiasm for building and launched a dynamic new architectural style that would dominate southern Europe for almost a century . This was the beginning of the Baroque . It was first seen in Giacomo della Porta 's facade of the Gesu in Rome ( built by the Jesuits in 1568-73 ) , in the rhythmic unity of Vignola 's interior of the same church , and in Carlo Maderno 's pulsating facade of Santa Susannaa few years later . Of all the arts , music was the best suited to become an integral part of the religious experiences of the century . Luther took a great interest in church music and , although the musical role in the liturgy was altered in the Lutheran worship , it remained an important part of the religious service . Luther was the leading spirit in this musical renovation , from polyphonicchorals and liturgical chants to the hundreds of congregational hymns that became a hallmark of Protestant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and with the singing of large , trained choirs . The greatest of the Catholic composers was Palestrina ( 1524-94 ) , organist and choir-master of the papal choir . His music expressed the vitality and grandeur associated with the Catholic Reformation and with the ensuing age of European Baroque.  |p231AT  THE CLOSE of the fifteenth century the territorial states of France , Spain , and England developed rapidly toward centralized , bureaucratic monarchies . Not yet " absolute , " as they came to be called in the seventeenthcentury , they were gaining strength by consolidating national territory , controlling more effectively the centrifugal forces trying to pull them apart , and developing the institutional bureaucracy necessary to rule a modern state . Monarchs in the Middle Ages were handicapped by the independent power of the nobles and by the unreliability of feudal military contracts . They did have a number of long-range advantages , however . The law of escheat , for example , allowed a fief to revert to the crown if the fiefholder died without heirs . Favorable financial arrangements between the king and the towns also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extend credit and loans to the king , or when the towns rallied to his support . The monarchs also profited from the rise of representative institutions , such as the Parliament in England , the Estates General in France , and the Cortes of Aragon and Castile , because through these bodiescame the authorization for valuable taxes . Therefore , the keys to increasingmonarchical power in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries were the ability to raise royal revenues and the skill to limit or control the nobility . In most cases the two went hand-in-hand . One other asset , which some rulers took greater advantage of than others , was the increasing popularity of monarchy . For the ordinary man of the sixteenth century a strong crown usually meant more just laws , more equitable treatment , and no heavier taxes ( if he lived in one of the remote provinces far from the capital they could even be lighter ) than if he were under the jurisdiction of a feudal lord . The Development of MonarchySuccess in capitalizing on these advantages , and making others , dependedlargely upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon their success in maintaining and prospering their dynasty through advantageous marriages . Among the most successful at all of these were the Spanish monarchs , Ferdinand of Aragon ( 1479-1516 ) and Isabel of Castile ( 1474-1504 ) , King Louis XI of France ( 1461-83 ) , and the founder of the Tudor dynasty in England , Henry VII ( 1485-1509 ) . Headway in limiting the power of the nobles came slowly in some cases , and was achieved only at great cost in others . Louis XI pressed too hard in 1465 and found he had a rebellion on his hands . The nobles in England were in continuous civil war between 1455 and 1485 ( the Wars of the Roses ) , and weakened themselves accordingly . Henry VII was able to limit the nobles ' right to maintain private armies in defiance of the crown , while Louis XI 's son , Charles VIII ( 1483-98 ) , diverted the energy of the French nobility into foreign war in Italy . Queen Isabel placed her husband , Ferdinand , at the head of all three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in times of stress . The Spanish rulers still had many problems to overcome , however , because of the many institutional and traditional differences between the two kingdoms of Castile and Aragon . Gradually , they shifted much of the political jurisdiction of their realms from the nobles to royal councils , like the Council of Castile , the Council of Aragon , and the Council of the Inquisition . The latter was the first institution with jurisdiction in both kingdoms . Louis XI met the challenge of his most powerful vassal , the duke of Burgundy , by surrounding him with a cordon of diplomatic alliances and entangling him in a web of political intrigue . In 1477 the colorful Burgundian duke , Charles the Bold , was defeated and killed in battle and the duchy reverted to the French crown . Other Burgundian territories , however ( Franche-Comte , Luxemburg , and the Netherlands ) , passed from Charles 's daughter , through her marriage to Maximilian of Austria , into Hapsburg hands . Nothing could prevent the duchies of Anjou , Maine , and Provence from becoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorporation of Brittany by marriage. p 233 The Royal RevenueIncreasing the royal revenue was no easy matter for any of the monarchs . Henry VII was able , both by tight-fisted management and clever maneuver , to build up a tidy reserve , only to have his prodigal son squander it all on his first continental campaign . The French crown was financially more fortunate in that it had acquired the right to exact a direct general tax , called the taille , without recourse to the Estates General . With this additional income Louis XI and his successors were able to create the nucleus of a standing royal army and free themselves from total dependence upon the feudal levy . Money was , as a contemporary remarked , the sinews of war . The Spanish kings were hard pressed for cash ? since neither they nor their French and English counterparts were strong enough yet to force the nobles to pay their share of the taxes ? but received sizeable sums from the church ( the cruzada , a " crusade " tax for war against the infidel , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to supplement their income with American silver . There remained , of course , many limitations upon the power of the crown , both theoretical and real . In all countries the nobility remained strong and relatively independent , although in the sixteenth century they identified more and more with the crown . Successful monarchs were those who could find ways of winning their allegiance and making them king 's men . A more serious practical handicap for the rulers was the inadequacy of royal officials and the absence of an institutional bureaucracy for administeringthe laws . Finally , poor transportation and communication facilities further hampered the effective operation of government as national territories increased in size and widened further the separation between the king 's theoretical and actual power . With the French invasion of Italy in 1494 a new era opened in the political evolution of Europe . During the first half of the sixteenth century the war in Italy drew almost all of the European powers into its mire . International diplomacy , developed to a fine point of performance on a smaller scale in Renaissance Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambitious and growing monarchies . FranceAt the center of this states system , both geographically and politically , was France . With fifteen to sixteen million people , it was the largest of the territorial states . It was also the wealthiest . To further increase its wealth and to occupy the restless nobility , Charles VIII had marched allp234the way to Naples in 1494 . For the next half-century the two pivot-points of French policy were the attempt to dominate Italy and to prevent the Hapsburg encirclement of France . In 1515 the young and dashing count of Angouleme became King Francis I. His first gesture as king was a glorious new campaign into Italy , establishing his renown as a warrior and projectingFrance into another costly and eventually disastrous military involvementin the peninsula . The cultural consequences were more encouraging , for with renewed contact with Renaissance Italy came an artistic and architectural flowering in France , supported and encouraged by the king . Francis I was charismatic enough to enable him to retain the loyalty of the nobles even under adverse conditions , but he was also wise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the Conseil des Affaires . ? SpainHis life-long rival , Charles V , was not so favorably endowed , yet the emperor made more of his gifts than did Francis . Through the complicated entanglements of marriage diplomacy , Charles of Ghent ( born in 1500 ) gradually came into possession of more territory and potential power than any European ruler since Charlemagne . But Charles was not gifted with more than ordinary wisdom and ability . Slow at speech and thought , he succeeded by the strength of his character rather than by the sagacity of his mind . The chart below shows the steps by which Charles became , in turn , duke of Burgundy upon the death of his father , Philip of HapsburgBurgundy ( ruled by a regent during Charles 's minority ) , king of Castile after the passing of his grandmother , Isabel , and the mental collapse of his mother , Juana ( with his grandfather as regent until 1516 ) , of Aragon with the death of Ferdinand , and archduke of Austria upon the death of EmperorMaximilian.  |p235Maximilian  's demise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to succeed him ( over rival candidates Francis I and Henry VIII ) in July 1519 . In addition , Charles V inherited all of the Aragonese claims to the Balearic Islands , Sardinia , Sicily and Naples , and the New World conquestsof Castile . But Charles 's power was more theoretical than real . Each territory was held by separate right , and there were no unifying institutions of any kind for collecting taxes , enforcing laws , or fighting wars . He had to be a dozen different rulers , speaking a score of languages , in order to rule successfully . In Spain his reign began in civil war as the Castilian comunerosrose against his rule , and were joined by an equally serious Valencian uprising . Only gradually did it become apparent , both to the Spanish and to the emperor , that Spain was the most important part of his empire . He came to rely more heavily upon Spanish manpower and moneypower to maintain his position . Through the governing structure and economic machinerydeveloped under Ferdinand and Isabel , Charles was able to rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain . He was wise enough not to try to draw Castile and Aragon too close together , letting them retain their separate institutions , laws , and customs . The rapidly growing overseas empire was ruled primarily through Castilian institutions and by Castilian personnel . The system had many flaws but it was superior to most others of the time . Under Charles 's hand Spain advanced to the rank of a major power . ? EnglandOf the other national monarchies only England aspired to the first rank during the early sixteenth century , although Scotland , Denmark , and Portugal also attained considerable importance . Henry VIII was responsiblefor giving England weight in international affairs , but he was likewise the cause of its greatest humiliation . England was small ( some three millionpeople at a time when there were six million in Spain , fifteen million in France , thirteen to fifteen million in German.y , and even four million in the Netherlands ) , but she played an important part in the diplomatic , religious , and governmental development of sixteenth-century Europe . English parliamentary rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a time when representative government seemed to be losing ground on the continent . Although Henry ruled despoticallyand capriciously , he received remarkable support and strength from Parliament and , consequently , continued to involve it in all of his affairs . By the time his daughter , Elizabeth , came to the throne , Parliamentwas more firmly a part of English government than it had ever been.  | Economic Growth and Social UnrestTo account for the rise of monarchy in the sixteenth century it is necessary to examine the changes taking place in economic and social affairs . Most of the 62,000,000 people of Europe were still engaged in agriculture , just as they were in the Middle Ages , producing wheat , rye , barley , beans , and peas for food , and flax , hemp , and other fiber crops for clothing , rope , and building materials . But in the sixteenth century some agricultural lands were being converted into more profitable use . One of these was the production of wool . Many landowners in England were enclosing the common lands to provide more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought huge profits to some but it had harmful effects on agriculture and even destroyed some of the small tenant farmers who depended on the soil for their survival . In Spain the results of wool growing were even more detrimental because of the power of the sheep-raisers guild , the Mesta , which grew with the monarchy and soon dominated land policy in Castile . The unique migratory pattern of Castilian sheep-raising destroyed thousands of acres of farmland as the herds moved south in the autumn from their Leon and Soria grazing areas to sunny Andalucia , then north again in the spring . Even without the encroachments of sheep and the devastations of war , European agriculture in the sixteenth century was seriously underproductiveand unable to supply the demands of an expanding population . Industry , too , was unable to provide the basic essentials to achieve a well-fed and clothed society . Some ate and dressed sumptuously , but the majority of the population survived at a subsistence level . In the second half of the century important improvements in mining and metallurgy accompanied technological progress in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods of production nor the patterns of consumption . Trade and CommerceWhat did change dramatically in the sixteenth century was trade and commerce . Beginning with the discovery of America and the opening of an all-water route around Africa to India and southeast Asia , Europe experienced a veritable commercial revolution . This revolution took many forms and stimulated accompanying transformations in financial exchange , banking , and the distribution of wealth . The first impact of the European expansion was limited in scope but vast in its ultimate economic and political implications . Portuguese spice from the Malibar Coast of India , and later from the far off Moluccas , began the shift of trade from the 237Mediterranean to the Atlantic ( via Cape Horn and the Indian Ocean ) . This change was intensified by the discovery of America and the beginning of its trans-Atlantic commerce . With the exploitation of New World silver , a boom in trade relationshipsand techniques followed . An international financial network developed , with trading houses from Cadiz to Amsterdam trading not only in commodities and wares but also in bills of exchange , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flourished , Seville boomed like San Francisco in the gold rush , and Genoa got its share of the action via loans to Castilian entrepreneurs . But the greatest financial beneficiary of the Atlantic trade was Antwerp , where Charles V 's favor , the Portuguese spice staple , Spanish and English wool , and the international monetary exchange all crossed . The " spin-off ' from the Antwerp bourse was enough to make many cities in the Netherlands wealthy . Lyons , too , and the cities of south Germany profited from the financial activity . The Fuggers of Augsburg , who helped Charles V win the imperial crown became the chief bankers of the empire . ? The Price RevolutionAmong the many related consequences of the commercial expansion was the rapid increase in prices throughout Europe , and especially in the south . This movement of prices began early in the century , reaching inflationaryproportions after 1560 , and was most extreme in foodstuffs , especiallygrain . This so-called price revolution fluctuated greatly in different regions and times , but it amounted to an overall increase of approximately 400 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not keep pace with these prices and as a result most wage-earners were caught in a serious wage-price squeeze that diminished the real value of their money and lowered their already precarious standard of living . Also , those landowners who could not raise rents were caught in the same squeeze and frequently forced into bankruptcy or poverty . On the other hand , many of the wellto-dogentry , some nobles , and most of the merchant adventurers profited from the financial situation as they were able to use the inflation to their advantage . Governments , too , were affected by inflation , causing taxes to be raised and creating even greater difficulties in the payment of debts . By the end of the century Spain had gone bankrupt four times . The causes of the sixteenth-century price revolution were multiple . The rapid influx of bullion from the New World had traditionally been identified as the principal culprit . It is now believed that other factors such as the shortage of land , the competition for jobs , and increasing populationmay have had more causal effects than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the flood of silver into the European economy after mid-century helped to maintain and probably increase the inflation that had already begun . ? The Growth of PopulationThe economy is always closely linked with the density and movement of population . Evidence is abundant that the population of sixteenth-centuryEurope increased by eighteen or twenty million souls ( or about 30 to 40 percent ) . A comparable increase in our time would be considered stagnation , but in the 1500 's , after a century or more of decliningpopulation , this growth represented a veritable population " explosion . " The increase was not uniform nor steady . It seems to have been the greatest in France during the first part of the century , and in Germany , Italy , and England in the latter half . The demographic movement also seems to have been toward the cities , making some , like Seville and Madrid , that were little more than rural towns when the century began , large and thriving centers at its end . The great cities of Italy ? Naples , Venice , Milan , Genoa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as did Palermo , Messina , and , spectacularly , Rome . Many northern cities now became economic and political crossroads , and some of them cultural centers as well . Paris , which had long been the largest city north of the Alps , nearing half a million inhabitantsby 1600 , was a teeming metropolis with every virtue and vice known at the time . Antwerp thrived on finance and trade , as did Amsterdam a generation or two later . London quadrupled its population in little over a century . The surge to the cities was part of the broader economic and social unrest of the time . It came partly from the population pressure on the land and on the food supply and from the widespread desire of men to seek their fortunes in the cities . The Reformation also contributed to the growth of cities as converts to new faiths sought strength and solace in numbers . With the decline of feudalism , most peasants in western Europe were now free to move about , to compete with others for employment , and to choose their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these " freemen " were no freer than their ancestor serfs had been . Many of them became rural workers , struggling to make enough pennies a day to keep themselves and their families alive . Those who went to the cities without money and without a trade soon became lost in the jungle of nondescript buildings and inhospitable people.  |p239Both  town and country provided raw material for civil unrest and disorder , and , when a cause was provided , open revolution . It is small wonder , then , that most sixteenth-century governments interpreted their primary functions to be maintaining order at home and preventing attack from abroad . But disorder came , nevertheless . Hardly a year passed withoutinsurrection or revolt in some part of the land . No country was exempt . Causes were never the same , but among those most frequently expressedwere excessive taxation , political or social oppression , religious restraints , or the violations of some medieval rights . The comunero revolt and Germania shook Spain in 1520 , five years later the Peasants ' War afflicted Germany , and recurring upheavals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reveal the social unrest of the times . Up until 1562 , France had been relatively free from major disturbances . But its time of sorrows was about to begin . ? France and the Wars of ReligionDuring the second half of the sixteenth century , the French monarchyexperienced its most serious crisis . Well-established and generally popular by 1559 , it was subjected to extreme challenges thereafter when King Henry II ( Francis I 's son ) was accidently killed in a tournament celebrating the end of the Hapsburg-Valois Wars ( Treaty of CateauCambresis , 1559 ) . He left the throne to a succession of immature and weak-charactered sons and a Florentine wife whose maternal concern for her children caused irreparable damage to them and to France . Henry 's and Catherine de Medici 's oldest son was fifteen-year-old Francis II . Sickly and dominated by his wife 's uncles ( of the house of Guise ) , Francis lived less than two years . The throne then passed to nineyear-oldCharles IX , who was only slightly more healthy than his brother and possessed no attributes of kingship . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and after that as queen mother , telling her son what to do . When Charles IX died in 1574 he was succeeded by yet another son , Henry III , who was strong-willed , robust , and intelligent . But , being completely untrustworthy , dissolute , and psychotic , he proceeded to dissipate his reign until he was assassinated in 1589 . Only the strong will of the queen mother and the institutional strength of the monarchy as establishedin earlier reigns carried it through these disastrous decades . In 1562 , Calvinist Huguenots in France accepted the challenge hurled by the extreme Catholic faction in France , led by the duke of Guise , and civil war broke out . It was a bloody orgy for France , selfinflictedand seemingly interminable . In additon to being a religious war fought between militant Calvinists and rabid Catholics , it was a factional struggle between rival nobles . The house of Guise represented one extreme , with the Bourbons of Navarre and Bearn ( particularly Henry of Navarre and his cousin the Prince of Conde ) on the other . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on one side or the other . Economic distress and social dislocation added further causes for rivalry and war . Recurring financial crisis contributed to fear and distrust , and the heavy imposition of taxes added resentment and defiance . The spiralling inflation , which was reaching serious proportions , further diminishedwages and profits , causing widespread despair . Some of these factors led many French nobles , who were caught by inflation and had lost their land to the speculators , to join the Huguenot ranks following the peace of Cateau-Cambresis . Catherine de Medici tried hard to prevent civil war . She negotiated incessantly with all parties in an effort to reduce tensions . But when she gave concessions to the Protestants the Catholics became aroused , and when she leaned toward the latter the opposite occurred . By 1572 peace finally seemed within grasp . A treaty was signed and , as was the custom , it was sealed in a marriage alliance between the former foes . Henry of Navarre , leader ( with Gaspard de Coligny ) of the Huguenots , was wedded to Marguerite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occasion thousands of Huguenots were in Paris on St. Bartholomew 's Day ( August 24 ) . Jealous of the influence Coligny exercised over her son , the king , and fear that Charles might succumb to Coligny 's pressure for war on Spain , Catherine abandoned her usual level-headedness and convinced herself that the safety and security of France depended on the assassination of Coligny . Henry of Guise willingly accepted the assignment , which he then botched . Coligny was only wounded . The Huguenot nobles reacted spontaneously with demands of punishment and threats of retaliation . Catherine panicked , issuing , instead , an order for the extermination of all Huguenots in Paris . From the capital the carnage spread into the provinces . The Massacre of St. Bartholomew 's did not end the civil wars , it rather guaranteed that they would continue on for many years to come . So successful was the Huguenot resurgence after St. Bartholomew 's that in the next peace settlement in 1576 they were granted broad freedomsand guarantees . In reaction , Catholics formed a league to resist Protestantadvances and assure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without children , the heir to the throne became Henry of Navarre , leader of the Huguenots . The Catholic leaguers were alarmed . With the duke of Guise at their head they negotiated a treaty with Spain to come to their aid . Philip II sent diplomatic advice and occasional money , but when the crisis occurred in 1588 he was too involved launching his own Armada ) against England to give more than token support to the duke of Guise . Paris responded on the " Day of the Barricades " by supporting Guise ; King Henry fled for his life , and the Catholic League became the ruler of northernFrance . Nine months later ( December 1588 ) , Guise was assassinated by order of the king and the wars suddenly took a new turn . Henry fled to the camp of his former foe ( and brother-in-law ) , Henry of Navarre , and together they began the siege of Paris . When the last Valois was in turn assassinated in August , 1589 , Navarre declared his accession as Henry IV . But it still required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Catholic Church ( recognizing that " Paris was worth a mass " ) before Henry IV was finally accepted and crowned king . ? Henry IV and the Edict of NantesThe recovery of France under the first Bourbon monarch was spectacular , but not totally sound . It was achieved largely through **25;439;TOOLONG skill and his charismatic ability to unite the dissident factionsinto a nation again . Energetic and magnanimous , he approached his task with enthusiasm and confidence . He concluded the war with Spain by the Treaty of Vervins , which restored the status quo between France and Spain as it was following the wars in 1559 . Safe now from foreign interventionhe was free to attack the domestic problems at hand . He placated his former Huguenot friends by issuing the Edict of Nantes , giving a measureof religious and civil freedom to the Protestants . Nantes was important in the history of religious toleration because it allowed a minority religious group to exist and practice a faith other than the official religion of the state . The Huguenots were further declared eligible to hold public offices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same as Catholics . Henry demonstrated his willingness to uphold the edict by raising his trusted Huguenot lieutenant , the duke of Sully , to the high post of superintendent of finances ( he was already director of communications , superintendentof fortifications and buildings , and grand master of artillery ) . The role played by Sully in the centralization of French government under Henry IV was particularly large . He immediately instigated monetary reforms , established a bureaucratic order in the financial structure , and made the tax farming system more efficient than it had ever been . He even accumulated a surplus in the royal treasury . By removing previous restrictionson grain exports , reintroducing silkworm cultivation in the south , and reclaiming thousands of acres of wasteland , he made agriculture flourishonce more thus prompting the king 's promise of a chicken in every peasant 's pot every Sunday . Sully 's promotion of the famous " Paulette " may not have been so wise . By this system of sanctioned venality , purchased offices became hereditary and their tenure secure upon the payment of an annual fee to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffers , thus assisting the Bourbon rulers to their claim to absolute power , but it also curtailed that power by depriving the king of complete authority over administrative offices . By 1610 French recovery had been successful enough for Henry to resume an aggressive role in foreign affairs . In his memoirs , Sully attributes to Henry a " Grand Design " to neutralize Hapsburg power through a system of protective alliances and European-wide councils . It is doubtful that Henry 's grand design was so comprehensive , although he did fear Hapsburg power and aimed his diplomacy to counter it . But at that moment his life was cut short by an assassin 's knife . His brief , turbulent reign ended in turbulence . When the aggrandizement of France and the French crown was resumed by Richelieu fourteen years later , it was along the lines alreadyp 243begun by the illustrious Henry , whom Frenchmen still lovingly refer to as " Henri le Grand . " ? The Influence of Spain and Philip IIThe rise of Spain in the sixteenth century , from a conjunction of poor and sparsely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in Europe , is certainly spectacular . When Charles V abdicated his thrones in 1555-56 , his Austrian territories went to his brother , Ferdinand , who was also elected Holy Roman Emperor . The Burgundian ( Netherlands and Franche Comte ) and Spanish realms , with their empires , went to Charles 's son , Philip II . Philip was a reserved , solitary , intensely serious man , slightly built and distinctively Hapsburg appearing , with his light hair , protruding jaw , and thick lower lip . Outwardly cold and impassive , Philip was sensitive to the world of literature and art , and he was an avid patron of letters and science . His personality pervaded much of Spanish society during the forty-two years of his reign ; it was particularly felt in government , where austerity , formality , and frugality were the marks of the regime . Philip took his duties as king seriously , working long hours himself and expecting his subordinates to do likewise . He was so meticulous about every detail of government that at times the wheels of administration almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replies , and penned scrawling annotation in the margins of diplomatic correspondence . Philip ruled through the system of councils established by Ferdinand and Isabel and expanded by his father . Chief among these were the Councilof State , composed largely of Castilian nobles , and smaller administrativecouncils responsible for the affairs of Castile , Aragon , Italy , and the Indies . These were made up primarily of trained legal personnel ( letrados ) . Liaison between councils and crown was provided by secretaries of state , who also served in a broad field of responsibilities from simple private clerks to advisors on royal policy . For the first half of his reign Philip was served in this capacity by Gonzalo Perez and his capable but overly ambitiousson , Antonio Perez . After the latter 's fall in 1578 , several men of varying abilities shared the secretarial office . Philip 's closest personal advisoron high policy matters was Antoine Perrenot , cardinal of Granvelle , until he died in 1586.  | The Spanish EmpireIn Philip 's reign the overseas empire became increasingly important . It represented not only Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to replenish Spain 's over-committed coffers . Wool had been , along with wine and olives , the principal source of export income . With the developing of the Guanajuato and Potosi mines , silver now began to flow in . From something like nine million ducats value in the first five years of Philip 's reign , it rose to twenty million during 1575-80 , and surged to forty-two million in 1590-95 . This represented no more than 11 or 12 percent of the annual crown income , but it was an important 11 percent . With it the king was able to borrow on the expected return and finance projects that he should have left alone . Inflation ate up a large share of the increase , and the rest went to Genoese and German bankers to pay previous debts . Thus , neglect of agriculture , as population shifted to the cities , the displacement of the Moriscos , and the costly military escalation in the Netherlands , Portugal , England , and France all had disastrous effects on the Spanish economy , forcing Philip to resort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his government . ? Spain and the Catholic ChurchThe working relationship between Spain and the Catholic Church was close . Their cultural affinities were deep and their political ties necessary . The Spanish people were devoutly Catholic and their rulers had always been defenders of the faith . Philip was no less dedicated than his ancestors had been in fighting heresy and rooting out corruption . Religion was an integral part of everything done in Spain , by monarch and people . It was natural , therefore , that Spain should become the backbone of the Counter-Reformation and Philip the champion of Catholicism throughout Europe . To say Philip was devoted to the church , however , does not mean he was subservient to the will of the papacy . Frequently their policies clashed and on occasion ( during the pontificates of Paul IV and Sixtus V ) Spanish-papal relations were openly hostile . Philip was always ready to submit to God 's will , but he was not always convinced the pope knew that will any better than he did . A chronic religious and social problem of Philip 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Moors converted to Christianity ) who continued to revert to Islamic practices and worship while outwardly observing Christian rituals . Government pressure to bring them into line . resulted in open rebellion in 1569 . The revolt was serious andp245widespread , requiring almost two years of military campaigning to suppress . The Morisco revolt was doubly dangerous because it coincided with the new Turkish offensive in the Mediterranean , which overran Cyprus and threatened to cut off Christian trade to the Levant . In 1570 Spain joined with Venice and the papacy in a new Holy League against the Turk . In early autumn 1571 the combined armada , commanded by Philip 's twentyfouryear old half-brother , Don Juan of Austria , met and defeated the Turkish fleet of over 300 galleys in the Bay of Lepanto . The victory at Lepanto secured Philip 's Mediterranean flank and allowed him to turn his attention again to his serious problems in the north . ? Spain 's Relations with England and the NetherlandsThe Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis had brought peace with France in 1559 . But it was a precarious peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Closely related to the situation in France was Philip 's relations with Scotland and England . Civil war and religious upheavalin Scotland drove Mary from the throne and presented Spain with a major dilemma . Not to help Mary meant victory for the Calvinists , but to assist her would give support to France and to her ambitious Guise relatives . Similarly , Philip had to pursue a cautious policy with Elizabeth of England . He hoped to keep England as an ally , as she had been during his father 's reign , but Elizabeth was clever enough to keep him guessing about her intentions and thereby neutralize his strength . The most vital area of Philip 's affairs was the Netherlands . As the richest part of his empire , and the most difficult to rule , it presented to the Catholic King a problem of growing concern . The revolt of the Netherlands against Philip 's rule began gradually and picked up momentum as the king tried awkwardly to counter Dutch demands and tighten royal control . In 1566 he sent the stern duke of Alba to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pouring fuel on the fire by his ruthless regime , and soon half of the provinces were in arms against the king . William of Orange ( William the Silent ) became the hero of the Dutch as he took up their cause with vehemence and skill , riding the crest of the revolt to become stadholder and commander of the armies of Holland , Zeeland , Friesland , and Utrecht . Alba was recalled in 1573 , but his more conciliatory successor died of typhus three years later . Don Juan of Austria was then assigned the onerous task , and he died two years later , after having accomplished little . Finally the duke of Parma , Philip 's young nephew , Alexander Farnese , was sent to try his luck . Parma was a statesmanand diplomat as well as a military man , and came as close as anyonep246could to ending the struggle . But he arrived too late . No one in the Lowlandswas willing to compromise any more . Parma did draw together most of the southern states in the Union of Arras ( 1579 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rival league of the north , known as the Union of Utrecht , dedicated to opposing and overthrowing the Spanish rule . In 1581 the States General of the northern league formally deposed Philip II and began looking around for someone else to reign . Although it was not apparent yet , this Act of Abjuration marked the beginning of Dutch independence . From this point on the United Provinces , as they were called , grew and flourished in a remarkable way . ? The Spanish ArmadaSpain was not able to prevent the loss of the Netherlands because she could not control the Channel and prevent the almost constant reinforcementof materials and men from Elizabeth 's England . Eventually Philip became convinced that the key to the Netherlands was England . To crush the Dutch rebels by putting a stop to Elizabeth 's aid , and at the same time topple her heretical reign and restore Catholicism to England , Philip ordered the preparation of the Spanish Armada . Its aim was to sail up the English Channel , rendezvous with Parma and escort his army across the Channel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rise to their support and the whole affair would be over in a few weeks . It turned out to be the most costly blunder of Philip 's reign . Building a fleet of the size required was impossible . Compromises had to be made . In 1580 the crown of Portugal passed to Philip , giving him a second nucleus around which to construct the fleet . When it finally sailed in July 1588 , under the command of the duke of Medina Sidonia , the Armada was composed of some 130 vessels , but only twenty or so were front line war galleons . The rest were large cargo hulks , galleys , and small flyboats . The English fleet , commanded by Lord Howard of Effingham , was equally as large , and much closer to replenishing supplies . But the failure of the Armada was not due to the English fleet , although on the last day of the encounter it did inflict heavy damage on the Armada , nor to the " winds of God , " although the northern gales did nearly destroy all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Ireland on its long voyage home . The cause of defeat was Philip 's failure to secure a suitable Channel port for the rendezvous with Parma 's army . Without it Parma could not move , and without Parma , Medina Sidonia had no choice than to return to Spain ? by the only route left . The war with England , thus foolishly begun , dragged on for the last ten years of Philip 's life. p 247Elizabeth dominated the English scene in the second half of the sixteenth century just as Philip did in Spain . She was a strong-willed , mercurial monarch , yet capricious and often irresolute . She was intelligent , witty , and charming when charm was required . She was also thrifty , even parsimonious , with the finances of state , but when it came to the royal wardrobe the queen was prodigal in the extreme . Believing that the people vicariously identified with their monarch , and that even her lavish dress and display became personalized in each of her subjects as they beheld her , she accomplished many extravagant processions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see and be seen . The society ruled by Elizabeth was in chronic ferment , yet remarkablystable . The top ranks of the structure ? peers and titled nobility ? were compact and influential . They possessed privilege and power as well as extravagant wealth . Yet , in some ways their position was precarious . Depending upon royal preferrment and patronage , as did all office holders in the realm , they had to watch their step carefully to keep their place . Below them in rank was the amorphous body of landed gentry , knights , squires , and gentlemen , who possessed heraldic arms but not aristocratic titles . Their ranks were in constant agitation as money , preferrment , and differences in skill caused fluctuations in the fortunes of many . The Elizabethanyeomen were also more flexible than their ancestors had been , but the unpredictable nature of the times made their life critical too . The city merchants formed an aristocracy of their own , based on money and credit . During Elizabeth 's reign they made solid gains ? which they usually converted into land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earners could not so easily control their lot . With their country cousins , the propertyless peasants , they made up the bulk of Elizabethan society ? poor , wretched , and hopelessly confined to their miserable condition . Indigence and vagrancy were common , even though they were cruelly punished . Not until the Elizabethan Poor Law of 1598 was legitimate unemployment acknowledged and a small step taken to ameliorate it . The structure of Elizabeth 's government was essentially the same as that of her predecessors , except that she reduced the size of the Privy Council and used it more effectively . Her chief minister and confident was Sir William Cecil , principal secretary and lord treasurer , who in 1572 she made Lord Burghley . Other key figures in her personal rule were her long-time favorite , Robert Dudley , earl of Leicester , and the inexorable Sir Francis Walsingham , principal secretary after 1572 . Parliament was summonedthirteen times in Elizabeth 's forty-four year reign , but for a total of only three years in session . It played an important role in providing money for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many matters of state which Elizabeth considered to be her prerogative alone . By the end of the reign the House of Commons , especially , was becoming increasingly stubborn about granting the queen 's wishes . Her successor reaped the resultsof her tight rein. p 249 Elizabeth 's Religious PolicyElizabeth 's settlement of the religious dilemma when she became queen in 1558 was wisely conceived and skillfully engineered , steering a careful middle course between Catholic and Protestant extremes . Moderationand expedience were the principles of the queen 's reign in religious matters as well as in politics and diplomacy . The legislating of the religious settlement was provided by two acts of Parliament : the Act of Supremacy , which repealed Mary 's religious legislation and designated Elizabeth " SupremeGovernor of the Realm , " and the Act of Uniformity , which restoredthe general liturgy and doctrines of Edward VI 's reign . In 1562 a new Anglican confession of faith , known as the Thirty-Nine Articles , was adopted . This confession was a revised edition of Cranmer 's Forty-Two Articles , with three of the more anti-Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Elizabeth chose the moderate Protestant divine , Matthew Parker , as archbishop of Canterbury to help implement her policy of compromise . Still , the settlement was a precarious balance at best , aided in some measure by the unpreparedness of either extreme to capitalize on Queen Mary 's sudden death . During the next few years religious tensions increased again . Factionaldisagreements arose over such matters as the form of the communionservice and the use of clerical vestments and the chalice . Furthermore , Catholics became increasingly disillusioned as the English church took an unmistakable Protestant direction . At the same time , radical Protestantsand Puritan reformers , including Marian exiles now flocking back from Geneva and other Calvinist refuges , advocated a more thorough-going reformation . After 1570 both Papists and Puritans became threateningly vociferous in their demands . As English Catholics became more disruptive , with the infiltration of Jesuit trained missionaries , and as Puritan influences in the government increased , the severity of anti-Catholic laws grew correspondingly . The crisis came in the 1580 's in conjunction with the rising international tensionsinvolving Spain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of them Catholic priests ' , as the threat of foreign invasion became imminent . Still , the fact that both Papists and Puritans continued to subsistin England , and that many shades of theological divergence were still tolerated within the Anglican Church , makes the Elizabethan religious settlement remarkably successful.  | Elizabeth 's Foreign PolicyElizabeth 's foreign policy , like her religious management , was predicatedon political expediency and characterized by caution , ambiguity , and even dissimulation . She was faced with the traditional enmity of France and Scotland , hostility from Rome , and at best the uncertain friendship of Spain . Elizabeth met these challenges with forthright indecision . As with her dilatory marriage policy , which she used to great advantage in foreign affairs , the queen retreated from any situation that would commit her to an inflexible course or that would force the hand of her enemies . Her policy was preventative : to impede a possible alliance betweenSpain and France ; weaken the Spanish position in the Netherlands without strengthening that of France ; glean as much economic and strategicadvantage as possible from limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and to play off the Scottish nobles against one another , thus safeguarding her vulnerable northern flank . Until the mid-1580 's Elizabeth was successful . But eventually she was drawn into the European ideological conflict on the side of the Protestantsby the combination of Spanish truculence , Anglo-Spanish maritime rivalry , Puritan pressures , Catholic plots , French impotence , and Dutch persistence . In 1585 the queen reluctantly committed her resources to a formal alliance with the Dutch . The following year an expeditionary force under the earl of Leicester landed in the Netherlands to assist in driving out the Spanish . Peace did not return during the remaining eighteen years of Elizabeth 's reign . ? Hawkins and DrakeIn the meantime , " beyond the line " ( on the open sea ) there was never peace . To augment the nation 's meager economic income from relativelystagnant agricultural production and a narrowly-based wool and cloth trade , Elizabethan merchants gradually began to diversify and expandtheir commercial operations . Interest in the newly discovered Russiantrade led to the founding of the Muscovy Company . Sir Humphrey Gilbert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage to India . Martin Frobisher and other English seamen sailed to the New World . Economically , the most successful of the English ventures was John Hawkins 's thriving slave trade with Spanish America . The enterprise was illegal but it brought handsome profits to Hawkins , and to the queen . In 1568 , one of Hawkins 's expeditions was surprised by a Spanish flotilla in the harbor of San Juan de Uloa . Only two of his shipsNational Monarchy and Religious Wars 251p251managed to escape and return to England ; one of those was commanded by Sir Francis Drake . For the next twenty-eight years Drake carried on a relentless personalfeud against the king of Spain . In 1571-73 the Devonshire seaman was again in the West Indies , this time looking for plunder not trade . From 1577 to 1580 he pillaged the Spanish ports of Peru , captured a silver galleon off Panama , and then sailed for the Moluccas . When he returned to England after circumnavigating the globe he became the greatest English hero alive . His feats stimulated the English imagination and spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manner Columbusand his immediate successors had awakened Spain . Soon other English seamen were venturing into the unknown seas and taking part in the free-lance war against Spanish shipping and trade . When war came , the English fleet was reaching its pinnacle . The Armada encounter of 1588 was not decisive , even though the English fleet did inflict heavy damage to the Spanish . The ensuing naval war was even less conclusive . The following year , Drake led the " English Armada " in a counter-attack on Spain . His mission was to destroy the remnants of the Spanish Armada and land an invasion army in Portugal . It was as unsuccessful as the Spanish had been . Nearly half of its 25,000 men and 120 ships were lost . In 1595 Drake and Hawkins led a new expedition to the West Indies intending to capture the Spanish treasure fleet and devastate its American bases . This venture was not only a failure , it was an English tragedy , since both Hawkins and Drake died before the fleet returned . A year later another English fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sailed into Cadiz harbor . The town was sacked , but the victory was hollow for the fifty or more loaded merchantmen Howard had intended to capture were burned by the commander of the Cadiz garrisonwho was none other than the duke of Medina Sidonia . Philip II retaliatedwith two more armadas in 1595 and 1597 , but violent storms drove them both from the English Channel . The naval war was still a stand-off ? profitless and disappointing for both England and Spain ? when the two monarchs passed from the scene at the turn of the century . ? Sixteenth-Century Science and ThoughtThe sixteenth century was preeminently the century of religious thought and controversy . The Reformation and Counter-Reformation pervadedall aspects of life during that age . Religion was a motivating factor in politics and in war . Nevertheless , it was also an age of diversity and expan%um . The discovery and conquest of new worlds across the seas opened new vistas and suggested new possibilities for human endeavor . Growing awareness of the complexity and diversity of nature and the aspiration not just to imitate nature but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novel approaches to long-held notions . This was the age of Renaissance as well as Reformation . And the Reformation , too , represented the courageousquestioning and challenging of traditional ideas . The sixteenth century was not an age of great scientific discovery and thought , but it was a time of innovative suggestion and of intellectual preparation . The marvelous strides in scientific method and achievement taken in the seventeenth century did not come about in a vacuum . They developed out of the thinking and questioning of previous ages . The Renaissancehumanists contributed to the inquisitive spirit of the time by making available to study for the first time the entire canon of Greek scientific writings , from Archimedes and Appolonius to Eratosthenes . By their enthusiasm for Plato , the humanists also revealed Plato 's fascination with numbers , forms , and mathematics , which in turn affected all phases of scientific thought in the following centuries . The desire to know and understand stimulated many men of the sixteenth century to investigate phenomena written of by the Greeks and the Arabs , and to push on into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1500-57 ) , who demonstrated the solution of cubic equations , and Girolamo Cardano ( 1501-76 ) , his brilliant but erratic pupil . Pioneering work in chemistry and medicine was done by the bombastic and controversial Paracelsus ( 1493-1541 ) while he pursued his mystical formulations as an alchemist . More substantial was the anatomical study and teaching of Andreas Vesalius ( 1514-64 ) as he meticulously dissected cadavers and described the details of their structure to his students . His Fabrica ( 1543 ) carefully describing in words and pictures the parts and functions of the body , is a noteworthy achievement of Renaissance science . ? CopernicusA very different kind of achievement was the De Revolutionibus ( On the Revolutions of Heavenly Bodies ) of Nicolaus Copernicus ( 1473-1543 ) , also published in 1543 , at the time of his death , but written in 1530 . Copernicus was an Italian educated Polish mathematician , lawyer , physician , and priest , who spent the last thirty years of his life making such stellar observations as his poor eyesight would permit , and compiling his computations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the view that the sun was motionless at the center of the universe , that the earthNational Monarchy and Religious Wars 253p253revolved in a circle around it ( while rotating on its own axis every twenty-four hours ) , and that the stars were motionless at the circumference of the universe . There was something " revolutionary " in Copernucus 's suggestions , but he did not intend it to be too radical . He was essentially conservative , hoping to rectify and fulfill the Aristotelian-Ptolemeic system rather than replacing it with another . The elements and conditions remained the same , the circular and uniform motion of the planets was retained , and the teleological assumptions of the system were unchanged . The only real difference between Copernicus 's universe and Ptolemy 's was his interchangeof the sun and earth , with its accompanying simplification . However , in his having the earth move instead of the sun there were some religious implications . This prompted Copernicus to postpone publication of his work ( when it was published it was put forth simply as a mathematicalproposition rather than as a fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the main reason for its unpopularity was that it raised insoluable new problems and failed to explain many of the old observable phenomena . In the second half of the century the Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe ( 1546-1601 ) provided careful observations and detailed stellar tabulations that made possible the revolutionary contributionsof Galileo and Kepler . In the meantime , the role of Copernicus , like that of Tartaglia , Paracelsus , Vesalius , and other sixteenth-century scientists was important , althoughfor different reasons than are commonly given . In each case these men brought the scientific work of the Greeks and Arabs to its logical culmination and perfection . In so doing they also raised issues and problemsthat helped stimulate renewed activity during the following century . Sixteenth Century PhilosophyThe most ambitious attempt to reconcile the dichotomies of science and religion in the sixteenth century was launched by the restless Italian philosopher Giordano Bruno ( 1548-1600 ) . Bruno liked the heliocentric system of Copernicus but carried it much further by claiming it as fact , and by asserting the infinity of the universe , unlimited by crystaline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bruno anticipated many notions that were later established by observation . His conception of infinity and the imperishability of matter infused his philosophy of God with a new " scientific " speculation , and led him to conceive of God as the infinite cause that permeates and energizes the universe . But Bruno 's attempt to articulate his religious ideas in terms of the Copernican universe eventually got him into serious trouble with the Inquisition . He was arrested in Venice , spent eight years in Venetian and Roman prisons , and finally burned at the stake . Two other philosophers helped bridge the gap in scientific thought from Copernicus to Bacon and Descartes . The first of these was BernardinoTelesio ( 1508-80 ) , who insisted that nature must be understood in her own terms according to experience and observation . Telesio attacked Aristotle 's conceptions of matter and form , and his denial of a Creator . He substituted a conception of the universe composed of divinely created matter acted upon by the force of heat and cold to produce , through expansion and contraction , all motion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Tommaso Campanella ( 1568-1639 ) held that all knowledge was founded on experience and conscious reasoning , and that knowledge , along with power and will , were the principles of being . For Campanella , nature was as direct a revelation of God as was the church , and should be read and obeyed with equal devotion . Although he was a devout Catholic , this conviction did not endear him to the Roman authoritiesand he spent much of his life in prison . Campanella extended his speculations into the realm of politics , his City of the Sun being the most serious attempt since More 's Utopia to describe the ideal society . ? Sixteenth Century Political ThoughtPolitical thought followed many avenues in the later sixteenth centurydue to the multiplication of loyalties created by the Reformation , but they led to some original and significant contributions . The cockpit of political controversy was France , where the wars of Religion gave theoreticaldisagreements a knife-like edge . Huguenot pamphleteers were among the first to stress the limited nature of monarchical government and even brought the idea of kingship itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Francogallia ( 1573 ) that the monarch was historicallylimited by law and by custom , and advocated the election of kings in France and their supervision by the Estates General . Theodore Ber , a ( 1519-1605 ) maintained that the authority of the king was granted by contract and if he fails to observe his political and religious duties he could be removed , through the proper divine authority . By similar arguments , the pseudonymous author of the Vindiciae contra Tyrannos ( 1579 ) limitedthe power of the monarch through a double contract , one between God , the king , and the people , and the other between the king and the people ( as a community not as individuals ) .  |p255Sur|prisingly  similar to these revolutionary views of the French Protestantmonarchomachs ( monarch haters ) were the anti-royalist writings of the Spanish Jesuits , Juan de Mariana and Francisco Suarez , and the Italian Roberto Bellarmino . Like Hotman , Mariana ( 1536-1624 ) advanced the thesis that the king derived his authority from the people through a contract , and could be deposed by them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the Authority of the King , published in 1595 ) . Suarez ( 1548-1617 ) advocated the limitation of monarchy in a more traditional way , arguing that the pope possessed the right to regulate the authority of the secular rulers , since he was the universal head of Christendom . Cardinal Bellarmino ( 1542-1621 ) also espoused the universal authority of the pope , in spiritual matters at least , but affirmed that the secular rulers derived their civil power from the community by contract . Yet , in spite of these and other arguments for the limited and contractualnature of monarchy , the trend by the end of the century was unmistakably in the other direction , toward strong , centralizing governmentsand monarchical absolutism . Both in practice and in theory this was an age of enlarging authority rather than extending liberty . The most systematic and influential elaboration of a theory of strong central governmentcame from the French jurist Jean Bodin ( 1530-96 ) . The key to Bodin 's justification was his definition of sovereignty as the power of a monarch to make laws binding upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Six Books of the Commonwealth ( 1576 ) , comes to the king by natural law , not by contract or agreement . It is perpetual and inalienable , and the ruler is accountable only to God for its use . For that reason , no individuals or corporate groups have the right to oppose or resist the king . This right of sovereignty , which Johannes Althusius(1557-1638) defined as the " preeminent , supreme and universal power which governs all that concerns the spiritual and temporal welfare of the subjects , " points directly to the seventeenth-century elaboration of Divine Right and other justifications of absolute monarchy. 12Absolute Monarchyat Its Heightp259AFTER THE TURBULENCE of the sixteenth-century 's religious wars , the period from 1600 to 1715 looks like an age of retrenchment , with a consolidation of power so great that we call its products " absolute monarchies . " Defined briefly , absolute monarchy was the old royal form of government , but with its ruler claiming full sovereignty over his territory and subjects . This meant that no subject or internal group such as a church could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruler . It meant also that the ruler was freed or absolved ( hence the term absolute ) of all theoretical controls by his subjects or their assemblies , though in fact the royal will was sometimes bent by powerful pressure groups . Finally , it intensified international conflicts , as princes tested their growing power in clashes between their states . As we shall see , the most effective of these absolute monarchies was France , which fought off internal rebellion and external threats from Spain and Austria during the Thirty Years ' War of 1618-48 , and then , under Louis XIV , became the model of that type of government . That monarch also took on most of Europe 's other states in a series of wars , although this unwittingly helped the emergence of England and Austria , major opponents , as great military powers . To the east , Russia at long last began ' to realize its potential as a great , European power.  | In order to understand these developments , it is necessary first to examine the background of the seventeenth-century economy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a period of prolonged depression reaching its low point around the 1640 's and 1650 's . This was in sharp contrast to the sixteenth century 's economic boom of rising population , agricultural expansion , and the influx of New World silver and gold . Seventeenth-century society was , of course , substantially the hierarchical one of clergy , nobles , townsmen , and peasants that had existed during the immediately preceding centuries . Yet the way in which the various social groups clashed with each other and with the state was very distinctive of the hard times of the 1600 's . Political ideas were framed as a response to social clashes , economic stagnation , and the religiously motivated foreign wars and internal revolts that swept across western and central Europe . ? The Economic SituationBy 1600 Europe had gone about as far as it could with medieval banking , industrial , and commercial techniques . The New World 's silver mines that had primed the economic pump during the sixteenth century began to run dry , leaving the continent without the coinage that had helped inflate prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few private banks and fewer state ones that could pick up the slack by providingalternatives to cash , such as loans and bills of exchange . The one hopeful sign in banking circles was the emergence of the semi-state Dutch Bank of Amsterdam . It served as the normal exchanger of Europe 's many state monies . This enormously boosted international commerce . Merchants could trade easily across borders , and seller and buyer alike figured profits and costs with precision since all foreign coins exchanged through the Amsterdam bank were listed in terms of its own bank money . Toward the end of the seventeenth century , the Bank of England , established in 1694 , showed that semi-state banks could serve another purpose . For it was the intermediary between merchants eager to have a sure investment and a state that badly needed to borrow regularly at a low interest rate . ? Industry , Agriculture , TradeIndustrial and agricultural production did not , in general , advance during the seventeenth century . Indeed , there was a striking setback in southern Europe , especially the Italian peninsula , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little as a tenth of what they had aAbsolute Monarchy at Its Height 261Europe - 1598 ' sppho IIoP ? J- &; psbu r9p260century before . In eastern Europe , where the raw products of the field , stream , and mines were crucial to the economy , the " solution " to a slackeningof prices and demands in western Europe was a dismal one : rather than improve agricultural methods noble owners of estates tried to get the most of the soil by turning their working peasants into unfree serfs . WesternEuropean agriculture was slightly better off . The centuries-old trend from serfdom to free peasant status continued , and in the Netherlands some initiative was taken in improving crops . Northwestern Europe was the main bright spot in industry also . Ironically , this may have been partly due to almost continuous warfare . Soldiers needed guns , uniforms , and other equipment , and as the century wore on and states increased the size , discipline , and equipment of their armies , the cloth , mining , and metallurgicalindustries benefited . Another factor in the industrial development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrepreneursfrom the south . These people were eager to flee to places with a greater interest in investing in commerce , industry , and mining ( rather than country estates , purchasable government office , and church build- ings ) , and greater religious and intellectual tolerance . England , Holland , northern German port towns , and Sweden reaped the greatest economic windfalls from this population shift . Amsterdam alone grew from a quiet town of three thousand households to some hundred thousand persons , many of them refugees from the southern , Spanish Netherlands . We quite rightly think of the seventeenth century as part of the golden age of European expansion , citing the foundation of East India Companies by England , France , and Holland , as well as the colonization of the northern , central , and southern American coastlines . However progress was often superficial . The French traced the course of the Mississippi river but established only two thousand settlers in Canada by 1660 . In Spanishdominatedcentral Mexico , sixteenth-century colonization was followed by a fivefold drop in the European and native population to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world with its first local " depression " in modern times . European penetration of Africa was limited to parts of the west coast , while in the far east Dutch , English , and Portuguesetraders fought among themselves for the " prize " of paying out badly needed silver and gold for Asian products . In truth , trade between western and northeastern Europe was more significant economically for Europeans than the scramble for furs , silks , tobaccos , and spices of the non-European world . Even that European trade went into the doldrums during much of the seventeenth century , with the notable exception of the Dutch ( who managed to become important middlemen in the exchange of goods as well as of monies ) and , at the century 's end , of the English . ? Human MiseryIt is difficult for us to sort out the causes from the symptoms of the economically depressed conditions of the 1600 's . But some things are clear . There simply were not the manpower , money , and food to keep Europe even on the moderately prosperous level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the population levelled off , and then fluctuated wildly between lows caused by terrifying plagues and crop failures brought on by a century of cold , damp weather , and highs produced by good crops and the natural tendency of the population to double itself in a generation unless checked by natural disasters . In human terms , the misery was greater than in economic statistics , but we can grasp the picture if we realize that a person was considered old at forty , and that babies surviving their first year were only one-third of those born . Medical practices did little to help . Louis XIII of France ruefully noted on his deathbed that he would have lived much longer if it had not been for his physicians ! WarAbsolute Monarchy at Its Height 263p263was a grim reaper , of course , even if we can doubt the figure of a 40 percent loss of the German population during the Thirty Years ' War . Plague was another grim reaper , reportedly carrying off 130 thousand souls in Naples in the single year of 1656 . The population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periods as 1648-52 , 1660-63 , 1675-79 , 1693-94 , and 1709-10 . The poor were struck more savagely than others by the vagaries of fate , a staggering generalization when one notes that even in economically advanced England , those on relief amounted to one-sixth of the populationat the century 's end , while fully one-half of the people were too poor to pay for the " poor " through alms and other donations . As we move up the social scale , we find better diets , sanitation , and access to food in times of scarcity ; hence one French town could save 60 percent of its bourgeois children before age fifteen , as opposed to only 40 percent of workers ' offspring . Probably the aristocracy were the most fortunate . In England , at least , the aristocracy seem to have shown their optimism by having larger families than their social inferiors . And princely and noble families could somehow escape the summertime stinking , smog- and disease-infested air of Paris , London , Florence , and a dozen other major cities by retreating to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , Louis XIV saw death carry away all his legitimate children , and all but two of his grandchildrenand greatgrandchildren , as well as his first wife . Little wonder that nobles , office holders and merchants frequently established family memorialsin the form of chapels in the corners of great churches , or that educated and unlettered alike could make witchcraft a popular belief , and desperately looked to palmistry , astrology , and even the elixir of life as ways of either explaining cruel fate or trying to outwit it . The terrible economic and social conditions make it perfectly intelligible why there were more witches in the seventeenth than any other century ? they were a convenient scapegoat . ? Popular RebellionAnother " escape " was rebellion , for it was easy to give vent to one 's angry frustrations by killing tax collectors , and turning harvest festivals into a bloodbath against one 's landowner and master . " Popular rebellion , " that is uprisings by the towns ' wageearners and the rural peasants or serfs , were almost constantly on the minds of rulers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to instill the " people " with the idea that they must obey their social and political authorities , while in France Richelieu viewed the poor as mad dogs who needed to be chained , or at least kept working and uneducated . We can list a few of the popular revolts : the tax revolt of the " Barefooted Ones " in Normandy in 1639 ; uprisings in Sicily and Naples against foreign Spanish tax collectors and hated local nobles a decade later ; mob uprisings that tore apart the already assassinated body of a French royal favorite , Concini , in 1617 , and killed two Dutch political leaders , the de Witt brothers , then removed their fingers as souvenirs in 1672 ; the widespread south Russian revolt of Cossacknomad-warriors and their peasant followers against the Polish state in the 1650 's ; and the massive uprising of down-and-outs under Stenka Razin against the Russian state and higher society in the 1670 's . ? Rebellion and Stability among the Middle and Upper ClassesSome of these revolts involved a few of the middle and upper classes as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , rebellionled and composed of the wealthy and titled was usually a different kind of phenomenon , even when it occurred at the same time and place as lower-class uprisings . It was not as terrifying or bloody as a rule , since its armed rebellion was often by relatively organized armies ( sometimes whole companies of the state 's army seduced into rebellion by loyalty to the noblemen-captains ) , and the opposition often worked peacefully through regular channels , such as assemblies of the well-to-do ( England 's Parliament ) or law courts ( the Parlement of Paris ) . The major revolts can be listed here , and will be noted again when we deal with individual states : the " Time of Troubles " in Russia , 1605-13 , concerning a dispute amongst nobles and others over succession to the throne ; the war of independence by Portugal against Spanish rule , 1640-52 ; the abortive constitutional revoltof the Parlement of Paris and succeeding military rising of the French nobility , together called the Fronde ( 1648-53 ) ; the Puritan Revolution that temporarily abolished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war by Bohemian nobles for automony from Austria , 1618-23 ; and a similar Hungarian uprising against the Austrians in the 1670 's and again in the 1680 's . For the most part , however , bourgeois and noble subjects did not take out their frustrations in rebellion like the artisans and peasants . Middle-class people , whether merchants , government officials , or members of medical or other professions , were more interested in improving themselvessocially by the peaceful means of buying patents of nobility from their king , purchasing noble estates and dressing like noblemen , or buying the highest governmental posts that included the right to call their holders noblemen . As for the nobilities , they had already arrived at the top so/cially , to be envied by every ambitious social-climbing peasant , merchant , or craftsman . Unless they were stripped of their political and social roles at royal courts , or deprived of their time-honored right to duel among themselves , turn their castles into impregnable fortresses , or tyrannize over their peasants , they remained relatively peaceful . The main incitement to middle- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Reformation well into the seventeenthcentury . Here was a real " cause " to be fought over , a motive that could make persons of every walk of life forget the age 's ingrained belief that everyone should remain submissively in his social class and respectful of his political superiors whether these were parish priest , lord of the village , town mayor , provincial governor , or king . Religious passion led to the following bloody deeds , listed chronologically : the assassination of Henry IV of France in 1610 , the revolt of Protestant Bohemians against Catholic Austrians in 1618 , the resumption of the Calvinist Dutch war of independence against Catholic Spain in 1621 , and the Puritan Revolution against the Anglican state culminating in the execution of Charles I in 1649 . ? The " Divine Right of Kings " TheoryThe main political idea that arose to meet this social unrest and economic depression was the famous divine right of kings . In order to fend off the assassin 's dagger , and make subjects contented with their lot , royal propagandists simply extended the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thereby making the king 's person as well as his office look divinely inspired . Thus in the words of the French prime minister and cardinal , Richelieu , " the king is the likeness of God , God 's regent on earth and the one who works out His providence . " How then could seventeenth-century persons question divine-right absolutism , let alone begin to think of any viable alternative ? The deep religious roots of absolute monarchy , and especially the notion of destructive human will going back to Adam 's Fall , made it natural to think of the state 's purpose as restraining the beast in men and women . The old medieval principle of " natural law " was also brought up to date as further support for absolutism . Originally natural law had meant those principles of morality and justice that human beings could come to know through their God-given rational faculty . In its secular **25;466;TOOLONG , " natural law " became transformed into the set of principlesthat the observation of human nature deemed necessary for human survival . For example , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1651 ) , observed that man 's selfish tendencies made for a " war of all against all " in the " state of nature . " Hobbes concluded that this human instinctive right to do anything had to give way to a more practical set of natural laws . Basically these called for persons to give up their rights to an all-powerful state in return for protection of life . ? Locke 's Theory of Individual RightsAs the seventeenth century progressed , however , both divine-right and natural-law defenses of absolutism began to lose their appeal , partly because they had done their work in calming down subjects , and partly because they became less meaningful in a changing intellectual climate . There was a gradual secularization of European society , illustrated by the fact that Louis XIV referred to " God " far less frequently in his letters than Louis XIII had . Hence to speak of one 's divine right made less sense . Then , too , Hobbes ' version of natural law dissatisfied persons who were beginning to realize that the growth of the centralized state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order . In short they suggested that if subjects were to give up some old-fashioned freedoms , they should expect to receive back more than just the guarantee of life . These developments set the stage for the most famous book on political thought in the century , and probably the most influential of all time , John Locke 's Two Treatises of Government ( 1689 ) . Locke boldly stated that humans are born with " natural rights " to life , liberty , and property . He was also firmly convinced that most human beings would respect these rights , that is , that the " state of nature " was not a state of constant fighting as Hobbes thought , but one of basic trust . This made it possible for Locke to establish his famous social contract . That agreement let the people keep their natural rights while giving up to a government the power and right to protect and enforce those rights . The implications of Locke 's natural rights ' philosophy were startling . First , he made governmentthe servant of the people , rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to governments . Secondly , he paved the way for an increasingly optimistic view of what governments could do , anticipating the notion that government can help humans in the right to " life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . " Third , in the short run he strengthened the position of the well-to-do in society and politics . His idea of natural rights really meant that those who had property ( a distinct minority in his day even in England ) had it purely of their own doing , and owed nothing to government or society for it . This " self-made " man ethicp267made him also assume that property owners alone should partake in governmentby electing representatives from among themselves to legislate , and watch the royal executive branch of government . But , fourthly and finally , Locke 's stress on human dignity and respect for others made it possible for the individual liberties of the few to be broadened eventually into the human rights of the many in a democratic society . It should be heavily underscored however , that Locke 's main influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on divine-right absolutism . Hence we should think of divine right , the Fall of Adam , and political turmoil in trying to make sense of the activities of rulers in the 1600 's . ? Mercantilist Doctrines of the StateJust as rulers thought of their divine right to impose order on their rebellious subjects , so too , they considered it their prerogative to control all economic activities within their states . The basic assumption behind this principle of " mercantilism , " or state-controlled economy , was that there was a fixed amount of wealth in the world . It naturally followed that if rulers were to have a strong army and peaceful , if not happy , subjects , they should try to secure as much as they could of this total . The crudest version of mercantilism was called bullionism , which tried to stockpile bullion or the raw metal for gold and silver coins by preventing the import of goods from other states if paid for in coin , and seeking to sell as much as possible outside the realm for cash . Bullionism was associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World bullion during the late sixteenth century . Hence the collapse of Spanish might in the seventeenth century as bullion supplies dwindled necessitated a more sophisticated version of mercantilism . States fought to achieve a favorable balance of trade , and therefore an increase of bullion , by making certain that imports be somehow offset by exports . In France native luxury items , such as silks , were developed by state aid and protected by tariffs against Italian silk goods . Everywhere native shipping was developed to seek out markets , and England insisted on regulating shipping interests even after it dropped some other economic controls in the late seventeenth century . Water ways were dredged in France , and a canal dug to link Prussia 's main rivers , the Elbe and Oder , thus facilitating trade within states . And , as every American student knows , Spanish , French , and English colonies were meant to supply raw materials and purchase the home country 's manufactures , in both cases keeping wealth within the confines of the state . Only the Dutch managed to escape the rigors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the world 's greatest coinage broker , trading middleman , and possessor of the largest merchant marine , they could afford to let trade flow freely : after all much of it passed through their hands , and they profitted handsomely . At the other extreme werep269eastern European states , notably Prussia , Sweden , and Russia , which went beyond western European regulation of the economy by having the state run its own industries and mines , largely because they lacked the bourgeois wealth and skill to let private entrepreneurs do the job . The significance of mercantilism should be kept in perspective . It was designed to serve the state , not its subjects . Hence it was not a cure-all for the century 's social and economic ills , though it did help to damp down the flames of unrest by protecting the economy and even distributingsome of the wealth among subjects . In the words of the English statesmanand philosopher , Francis Bacon , money was " like muck ; good to be spread around . " Just how far was this money spread ? Poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with rulers , economicallyas well as socially and politically . The poor might , if lucky , receive help from state and private charity , especially in Holland , England , and France . The rich commoner might , if lucky in his contacts at a royal court , receive a monopoly on making soap or mining copper , while other merchants had to fend for themselves . Meanwhile the nobility , from Spain to Sweden , and from Russia to Naples , received court pensions , governmentsinecures , and tax exemptions , all of which were paid for ultimately by the rest of society . ? The Thirty Years ' WarEconomic , social , and political problems came to a head most spectacularlyin the Thirty Years ' War of 1618-48 , especially in the confederationof states called the Holy Roman Empire . These lands were constantly crisscrossed by rival Protestant and Catholic armies made up of fellow Germans , only to suffer the further injury of invasion by foreign armies on behalf of the Catholic and Protestant German sides . Before the fighting was over the Holy Roman Empire had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war : an abortive Protestant revolt in the kingdom of Bohemiaagainst the Catholic Holy Roman Emperor ; the ill-fated intervention by the Danish king against the Emperor 's side in support of the survivors of the Bohemian cause ; the more successful intervention by Sweden 's king on behalf of German Protestants against the Emperor and other Catholic German princes ; and , finally , the involvement of Lutheran Sweden and Catholic France for their own interests and the rights of individual German princes against the absolutist drive of the Holy Roman Emperor.  |p270The  Holy Roman EmpireThe Holy Roman Empire was tailor-made for this conflict which we call the last of the religious wars and the first modern , secular conflict . It was a loose confederation of states or principalities whose princes were virtually autonomous of the power of their titular ruler , the Holy Roman Emperor . This made for tension between the " German liberties " or right of self government by these various dukes , electors , archbishops , and bishops , on the one hand , and the desire of the Emperor Ferdinand ( 1619-37 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words to turn the Empire into an absolute monarchy . The tension was all the greater , since many of the princes were Protestant while Ferdinand was a dedicated Catholic who was every bit as interested in saving the souls of his Protestant princes and their subjects as he was in being politically absolute . Most of the trouble arose from the patchwork settlement of 1555 that had ended the earlier religious war of the German Reformation with the general provision that each prince could impose either Catholicism or Lutheranism on his subjects . Lutheran princes , notably the Electors of Brandenburg and Saxony , constantly broke one of the subordinate clauses by taking charge of church lands , that is , lands ruled secularly as well as religiously by Catholic bishops or archbishops . Naturally Catholics wanted to uphold the 1555 principle that church lands were very different from secular ones , and hence should remain Catholic . Calvinists led by the Electorof the Palatinate were even more resentful of the 1555 arrangements , since these made it technically illegal for Calvinism to exist in the Empire , or for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious sparks were not enough to explode the German powder keg , the Holy Roman Empire 's lack of strong central government and state army like those in France , Spain , and Sweden , was enough to invite trouble . Those three states and others were eager to send their troops into the German lands in the name of religion and for the sake of territorial conquest , if the settlement of 1555 should ever break down completely and bring civil-religious war to Germany . ? The Bohemian Revolt , 1618-23The war began with a revolt by the Bohemian subjects of Ferdinand . In 1618 that Austrian Hapsburg prince was not only about to be elected as Holy Roman Emperor , but was in the process of bringing together underAbsolute Monarchy at Its Height 271p271his personal rule some key family territories previously divided among his relatives . The most important were Austria , Hungary , and Bohemia . The trouble was that Ferdinand 's Catholicism and absolutism ran headlong into the privileges of his Protestant noble subjects in Bohemia . Their revolt started spectacularly with the famous " defenestration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hapsburgs were tossed out of a window of the Prague palace , escaping with their lives , but sustaining a loss of dignity and an insult to princely authority . The rebellion was ill-fated however , since it never managed to get enough outside support to match the power of Ferdinand . He was able to enlist the support of major Catholic princes of the Empire constituting a Catholic League , complete with army and the leadership of the Duke of Bavaria . This was enough to win the battle of White Mountain late in 1620 against the Bohemian nobles and outside Protestant forces led by the Calvinist Elector Frederick of the Palatinate , who had made the mistake of accepting the Bohemians ' offer to be their king in place of the deposed Ferdinand . By 1623 , the Bohemian revolt was over , and the Calvinist Palatinate was turned over to Maximilian of Bavaria and the Spanish branch of the Hapsburg family that had also helped Ferdinand as relatives and territorial opportunists . The Rise of AustriaThe Bohemian revolt really began the rise of Austria to major-power status , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Bohemian subjects during the rest of the 1620 's . Noble lands were turned over to Catholic carpetbaggers who swarmed in from all across Europe and Protestant worship was all but obliterated . The Bohemian assembly or diet was stripped of essential powers . And Ferdinand made certain that there would be no further revolts or depositions of rulers in Bohemia by changingits constitution so that the Bohemian crown would henceforth pass down through the male Austrian Hapsburg line in hereditary succession . The Danish Phase , 1625-29Ferdinand may have started the rise of Austria , but his success against his Bohemian subjects and the Elector of the Palatinate caused a backlash in the northern states of the Holy Roman Empire and beyond . Terrified by the northward march of the Catholic League 's armies andp272fearful lest their religious and political liberties be also crushed , the north German princes fought back . The war entered its Danish phase as king Christian of Denmark placed himself at the head of these German Protestants . His position resembled somewhat that of the hapless Elector of the Palatinate . As a Lutheran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was duke of Holstein ) he had two good reasons to support German Protestant princes . And he also wanted to take over some Catholic church states to round out his kingdom . Unfortunately for Christian , the Catholic League 's army and a second force under the Emperor 's personal commander , Wallenstein , were able to overwhelm the Protestant coalition within four years . In 1629 Ferdinand was at the height of his power . Denmark was forced out of the war . German Protestant seizures of Catholic church lands since 1555 were declared illegal by the Emperor , and repossession proceedingsbegan . Nearby , the Spanish branch of the Hapsburgs , fresh from their takeover of the Rhineland holdings of the Palatinate were sending troops from Spain 's Italian possessions along the Rhine to the Netherlands in an attempt to reconquer the Dutch provinces that had broken from Spain in the sixteenth century . ? The Swedish Phase , 1630-35Ferdinand 's successes brought another Lutheran ruler , king Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden , into the war . This " Lion of the North " who already had conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sweden into a great military and economic power took over key German ports on the Baltic , and then swept southward . Until his mysterious death in battle in 1632 , Gustavus Adolphus was well on his way to dominating the Empire , so much so that he frightened his German Protestant allies almost as much as his Austrian and other Catholic foes . His death shifted back the balance to the imperial Catholic side . By 1635 Emperor Ferdinandwas in the enviable position of being able to expect concessions from German Protestantism , while his Spanish cousins were still hopeful of subduing the Dutch rebels . ? The Franco-Swedish Phase , 1635-48Abruptly , the Swedish phase became the Franco-Swedish phase . Though a Catholic state , France felt that it had to intervene against CathoAbsoluteMonarchy at Its Height 273p273lic Austria and Catholic Spain . Otherwise those two Hapsburg states would become so successful against the Swedes and the Dutch that they would , together , encircle France and threaten it with annihilation . That fear had already prompted France 's chief minister , Cardinal Richelieu , to give financialsupport to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted ( unsuccessfully ) to wrest from Spain some key Swiss and Italian posts on the Spanish supply line from Italy to the Netherlands . Now in 1635 , Richelieu had to intervene openly and more directly against the Hapsburgs . French forces teamed up with the Swedes and some German states against the Emperor , while French and Dutch forces held off the Spaniards . In 1648 the German side of the war came to an end by the treaties of Westphalia . The same year Spain recognized definitively the independenceof the Dutch republic . France continued to fight with Spain until the Peace of the Pyrenees in 1659 . ? The Peace of Westphalia in GermanyWhat had been accomplished by the Thirty Years ' War and the **25;493;TOOLONG and Franco-Spanish conflicts ? In the first place , the Holy Roman Empire had escaped Austrian imperial absolutism , and the famous " German liberties " of the princes were strengthened , announcingthe emergence of absolutist princes within the formal structure of the Empire . German princes henceforth could virtually dictate their own foreign policy as well as control their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious rights were broadened in the sense that now a prince could impose Catholicism , Lutheranism , or previously outlawed Calvinism on his subjects . Catholic church lands were parcelled out to the state , Catholic , Lutheran , or Calvinist , that had actually held them in 1624 , a compromise that satisfied the princes in general , regardless of their faith . Religious rights of subjects were another matter . These went against the grain of the emergence of princely absolutism at Westphalia , and specificallyagainst the principle that the ruler would determine ( impose ) the religion of his subjects . All that princes would concede were the right of subjects to move to a more religiously congenial state , and the right of practitioners of the prince 's faith to toleration if he adopted another faith . In practice , many princes did decide that war had proved the futility of forcing conformity to one church . The Elector of Brandenburg in particularbecame famous for tolerating all faiths , and of inviting religious refugeesto his realm . The Holy Roman Emperor in his capacity as prince of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however . He insisted on ramming his religion ( Catholicism ) down the throats of his subjects , especially the Bohemians. - :  --  ( As " nudeue-eu.r a cet arl , repeadux /uy infirm : Orr- ' men:de haute et de veryeaaae Del.prouuer tog au bard la i ' 12/it-ce Cu ' Miseries of the War ? The Hanging , from an etching by Jacques Callot . Courtesy , Museum of Fine Arts , Boston.  | ? The International Settlement of Westphalia and the PyreneesInternationally , the settlements demonstrated the emergence of absolutismon an even grander scale than within each principality of the Holy Roman Empire . Several of the European states that had intervened in the war became much stronger as a direct result of the wartime disciplining of economic resources and strengthening of border defenses . Sweden reached the height of its power , establishing bridgeheads at the mouths of key north German rivers , and at home utilizing its copper and other mines for war industries and trade with other states . France pushed its frontiers into the Rhineland , the Spanish Netherlands , the Savoyard Alps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own . The Dutch republic ( though not absolutist ) showed that a country with the economic knowhowwe have already seen could survive the fury of the Spaniards even with a weak federal constitution . And Spain , though shorn of its Dutch provinces , battered by French forces , and in severe economic decline , at least managed to maintain the political absolutism that king Philip II had achieved by 1598 . Europe was on its way to becoming a continent of sovereign military states driven by secular motives and their internal power to fight among themselves . The stage was set for the secular wars of Louis XIV 's time and the emergence of a balance-of-power principle as a way of regulating relations among predatory powers . ? The Decline of Religious WarClearly , too , in this process of the rise of secular absolutist states religious motives were on the wane . Within the Holy Roman Empire itself , religious issues had , to all intents and purposes , been settled . Internationally , the initial fighting for God and absolutism ( or God and " liberties " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war between the Dutch and the Spaniards had some religious content , Calvinism rallying against Catholicism , but the conflict between Catholic France and Catholic Spain was a secular struggle for external security on the part of France . And as the Swedish involvement against Austria became deeper and deeper , the cause of Lutheranism became secondary to the Swedish drive for strategicallyand commercially important ports. p 277 Economic and Social Impact of WarThe economic and social ramifications of the Thirty Years ' War are more difficult to assess . However , an entire generation of Germans was scarred by the military and psychological ravages of the conflict . Poorly disciplined armies numbering into the tens of thousands , with their youthfuland female campfollowers , and under the banner of adventurer-generals like Wallenstein simply could not be contained by moral precepts or orders from princes . They looted , burned , raped whenever they took over a hithertountouched city ; they forced countryside inhabitants to feed , quarter , and even pay the infamous " contributions " of the war , and thought nothing of burying alive peasants who were so discourteous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Can one fail to understand the exaggerated stories of destruction that have come from this German war , which in some accounts killed off one-fourth of the population and left more wolves than people in some towns ? Outside Germany , the scars were less deep and easier to heal . But the Spanish and Dutch Netherlands suffered from the siege warfare that wore down the populations of beleaguered towns ; and eastern France suffered the incursions of marching armies on more than one occasion , as Spanish forces came within a few miles of Paris itself . Probably , the indirect effects of war on economy and society were greater than its direct impact . War forced rulers to increase taxes at preciselythe time when the European economy was becoming depressed . This intensified the social unrest and political revolts of the age . But conversely , the social and political discontent throughout early seventeenth-century Europe actually strengthed the absolutist forces in the long run . Rulers discovered how to tax , how to use armies against subjects , how to play nobles against peasants . Subjects began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebellion . In Sweden , Denmark , Prussia , Austria , the prince emerged stronger than ever from the political and social tensions . And as we shall see , the absolutist forces came out on top in France . The absolutist results of social unrest also were reinforced by the demise of religious passions . The last of the religious wars bred almost the last of religious revolts . The Bohemian rebels had waved the flag of religion , and had seen it trampled upon . In the last half of the seventeenth century , there was no ideological motive like religion to capture the imaginationand inflame the passions of would-be rebels . Rebellions were fewer and less serious as a result.  | France : the Model Absolute MonarchyAt the very beginning of the seventeenth century , France had a strong , centralized monarchy and a powerful , charismatic king , Henry IV ( 1589-1610 ) . He brought an end to the French religious wars a generation before they stopped in the Holy Roman Empire , and with a far more satisfactory religious settlement . This Edict of Nantes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military power to defend themselves , the privilege of worshipping in select places , and the right to be considered for government offices . Not surprisingly , this settlement lasted , with some modification in 1629 , until 1685 . For the Huguenots now had as much as they could expect in a state whose population was 90 percent Catholic . Catholics were placated by the edict 's retention of Catholicism as the official state religion and the awarding to Catholics of the lion 's share of state offices . The edict also placed the monarchy in control of the religious situation , for a Catholic king had imposed his political solution to religious differences , instead of being controlled by one or the other religiousgroup . So powerful was Henry IV that he could show his independence of the international head of the Catholic church , the Pope , by impos ' ing a national solution to the French religious problem regardless of the Pope 's feelings . This was in the tradition of French royal and priestly semi-independence of the Papacy , the so-called Gallican tradition . Henry IV had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the issue of the power and lawlessness of the nobility . His princely relatives and great nobles retained the memories of being independent warlords during the Middle Ages and rebel chieftains during the more recent religious wars . They also held important posts as military governors of French provinces , commanders of the king 's armies , and holdersof seats on the royal council . The king 's own civil government also proved troublesome to the crown at the local level . Officials in regional law courts or Parlements , and in taxing bureaus were virtually irremovable , having bought their offices and the privilege of bequeathing them at death to a son or close relation . Moreover , local tax bureaus were inefficient and corrupt , while the law courts headed by the famous Parlement of Paris clung to the tradition of judicial review , that is , they decided whether any new royal law or tax deserved to be registered with the courts , a procedure which most subjects considered necessary before they would obey these laws . Absolute Monarchy at Its Height 279 The Reign of Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order " policies to Henry IV 's legacy of religious peace . However these came mainly after the first part of Louis ' reign , when he was growing up under the influence of his rather weak mother , Marie de Medici , and then some unimaginative chief ministers . Together , these people barely held on to Henry IV 's achievements against rebellious nobles , Huguenots , and Parlements . ? Richelieu versus RebellionRoyal fortunes brightened considerably when the mature Louis XIII chose Cardinal Richelieu as his chief minister in 1624 . Until his death in 1642 a few months before the king 's own demise , Richelieu bent every nerve in his physically frail body to make his royal master obeyed by subjects and respected by fellow rulers . The key Huguenot town of La Rochelle was captured in 1628 , allowing Richelieu to strengthen the Henriciansettlement at Nantes . By the Peace of Alais , 1629 , Richelieu let the Huguenots retain their right to worship , while taking away their military power . The results were to be dramatically shown after the deaths of Louis XIII and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France that did not rebel . Louis and Richelieu handled Catholic noblemen more ruthlessly . For example , the death penalty for the nobles ' favorite pastime of dueling was strictly enforced : to the shock of one " veteran " dueler , who tried to test the minister 's and king 's will by dueling in front of Richelieu 's residence , that bold soul was quickly condemned and dispatchedfrom this life . The executioner 's axe swung down also on a numberof noble hotheads who dared to plot against Richelieu 's life or rebel against Louis ' authority . Only members of the royal family ( who also hated Richelieu and plotted against him ) were spared that fate , and even the king 's brother and mother had to leave the realm , the one temporarily in disgrace , the other permanently in exile . Louis and Richelieu also took some measures to enhance the central organs of government , notably by turning the temporary agents of the crown , called intendants , into quasi-permanent local officials . These intendantsnow saw that the regional courts and tax bureaus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed the tasks of judging and taxing themselves . Further centralizing steps on behalf of royal absolutism were prevented by France 's war against Spain and Austria , which we have already noted . Both Louis and Richelieu knew that the military drive to prevent Hapsburg encirclement of France took financial and other resources which otherwise could have gone into the task of revamping the financial and judicial apparatus . However the wars , increased taxes , and intendants fanned the flames of rebellion amongst tax-weary peasants in many areas , and embitteredthe Parlements which were forced to register taxes and accept supervisionby intendants . The king and his famous minister barely kept matters under control by exiling the most obstinate judges and hanging batches of peasants as " examples " for the rest of the population . ? Mazarin and the Fronde 1648-53A reaction against Louis XIII 's " law and order " policies was almost inevitable . It came against the king 's widow , Anne of Austria , and her chief minister , Mazarin , who ruled for the now child-king , Louis XIV , between 1643 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a game in which Parisian boys threw stones at passersby from their slings ( Frondes ) , only to scamper away when the police arrived . In a way , this name was an appropriate one , since the Fronde of 1648-53 was a futile uprising that petered out when Mazarin finally brought military force to bear on the opposition . However , before this happened France experienced two phases of the Fronde that made a lasting impact on the kingdom . First came the Parlementary Fronde of 1648-49 , which imposed on the monarchy a set of reforms drawn up by the Parlement of Paris and other law courts . Arbitrary imprisonment or exiling was severely restricted . All but six of the realm 's intendancies were abolished . And taxes were subject to judicial review . One can easily see how the parlementarians were striking back at the absolutist policies of Louis XIII . These reforms continued to be enforced to a large degree during the second phase of the revolt , called the noble Fronde ( 1650-53 ) . Mazarin had his hands full , trying to play off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well ( the war with Austria had ended in 1648 ) . ? The Legacy of the FrondeEventually the coalitions fell apart , as parlementary judges hated noble " lawlessness " ( that is , fighting the crown ) , and the nobles became contemptuous of judges who rebelled with the pen but not the sword . The mass of the French population was thoroughly alienated by the purely destructive actions of the nobles . Parisians were particularly horrified toAbsolute Monarchy at Its Height 281Central &izrope; ' 1660 ? SpaniskHaysbury K of KINGDOM OF SSWEDENp281e VVV Vsee the nobles ' followers set fire to the city hall while the elite of the capital were inside debating how to end the Fronde . And the parlementarianscame in for their share of criticism ; every time they talked reform , it seemed that the result was more civil war . So when Mazarin put down the noble forces with royal armies , and forced the Parlement of Paris to capitulate , French subjects of every walk of life were prepared to have royal absolutism rather than suffer destruction and anarchy . Never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of armed revolt . Never again would the parlementarians entertain such sweeping reform proposals . Rebellion was " out of season , " as one of Louis XIV 's ministers later declared . Mazarin could also boast of having put the finishing touches to Richelieu 's foreign designs . Following his peace with Austria in 1648 , he imposed a treaty on Spain in 1659 , pushing back the French borders on all sides just as he had pushed back the forces of internal opposition.  | ? The Personal Rule of Louis XIV ( 1661-1715 ) The work of Richelieu and Mazarin made the task of Louis XIV much easier than that of any other late-seventeenth-century ruler . The man who reigned personally after Mazarin 's death for the incredibly long period from 1661 to 1715 was quite appropriately called the Sun King . He radiated self-confidence , fully believing that God had called him to a lifetimeof work that was " grand , noble , and delightful . " For the first part of his personal reign , up to about 1685 , it really seemed all that . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbolized by the palace , gardens , and courtly life at Versailles , a grandioseexpansion of his father 's small hunting lodge . It was said that you could tell what was happening at Versailles merely by consulting a calendarand a watch ! This referred to the fact that Louis had an elaborate ritual which included rising in the morning and going to bed at night ? in the presence and with the assistance of the greatest nobles of the land . These nobles , some of whom had been rebels during the Fronde , delighted in handing the king his shirt , in gambling away the hours of boredom , in hunting with the physically near-perfect king , and in dressing up like ancientgods at masquerades where Louis was Apollo , the Sun God . Did they realize that while they enjoyed the highest social place yet devised by Europeans , they were cut off from the business of ruling , reserved for a professional class of bureaucrats ? In any case , Louis was able to domesticatethe nobility , to put them in a gilded cage as it were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fronde . The other great significance of Versailles was that its dazzling splendor , centered as it was around the king , elevated him above all subjects . This was the ceremonial counterpart of the theory of divine right : both aimed at awing subjects into submission and obedience . ? Louis XIV 's Government and ColbertLouis XIV 's government was admired by fellow monarchs almost as much as his courtly life at Versailles . Perhaps his greatest achievement was in being his own prime minister , no mean feat in view of the fact that it broke with the tradition of the rule of prime ministers Richelieu and Mazarin . Louis really wanted to rule personally , and during his first decadesall but achieved that by carefully selecting three or four ministers to work closely with him , but always with the king having the final say , as well as the option of dismissing a minister at any time.  | His most famous minister was Jean-Baptiste Colbert , a brilliant mind , but a cold , self-effacing , almost machine-like workhorse . Colbert was the brains behind two reforming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the civil and criminal procedures were codified throughout the realm , though the actual laws continued to differ from region to region . Through him also , mercantilist measures appropriately called Colbertism , were undertaken . Treasure was amassed ( later to be used for Louis ' wars ) , the navy rejuvenated , a tapestry works established , and the tariff structure streamlined . Colbert also had much to do with the reestablishmentof the intendants after their removal by the Fronde : these eager state servants poked their noses into the financial and other records of supposedly independent town government , supervised the building of roads , interfered with the work of law courts and assumed control of most tax machinery , as well as being census takers . They were the eyes and ears of the royal government . In a sense , Colbert had another task , that of cultural coordinator . Louis XIV could claim credit for discovering the brilliant playwright Moliere , whom many of the religious and courtly establishmentfound overly critical . However , Colbert was closely associated with the host of academies that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of having academies for painting and sculpture , science , literature , an observatory built beyond the Paris smog , and a special school for French artists in Rome . ? Louvois ' Brutal PoliciesColbert died in 1683 , and even before then another of Louis ' ministerswas beginning to loom as the most important man in the king 's team of advisors . This was the minister of war , Louvois , a hard-driving , ruthless person who completed the work of his father , Le Tellier , in organizing , disciplining , and placing under civilian control the military machine of 400,000 effectives that Louis assembled . Louvois and Louis were closely associated with the brutal tactics of destroying German towns that , as we shall see , brought upon France two gigantic wars which turned the Colbertianpromise of economic prosperity into a nightmare of death and destruction . Louvois was equally brutal in pushing the king 's policy of restoring religious unity to France . While Louis seemed contented to bribe and cajole Huguenots into turning Catholic like the rest of the French population , Louvois and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Huguenot households . After harassment by those soldiers , or other forms of persecution , many a Huguenot family fled top285the local Catholic priest for absolution of their sins and baptism into the Catholic faith . Finally , Louis , thinking that there were few Huguenots left , revoked the edict of Nantes in 1685 . No longer could a subject worship except as a Catholic . ? The Achievements of AbsolutismThe 1680 's , marked as they were by the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes , the onslaught of major wars , and the death of Colbert , are normallyviewed as the turning point in the Sun King 's reign . This meant that the older Louis presided over a decline of the very absolute monarchy which he had taken to the height of its potential . The decline was not only economic and military ; it also involved the ossification of personal monarchyconscious of the needs of state and subjects into a monarchy that appeared autocratic , capricious , and even tyrannical . We should also note the positive aspects of the record . The monarchyhad streamlined economics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twentieth-century readers who fail to appreciate the seventeenth-century quest for religious unity ? religion as well . The ossification of personal monarchy itself was both inevitable , and , in part , a good thing . Governmentbecame too complex for Louis and a few men to handle . Hence the army of bureaucrats who served the ministers when the government and court moved into Versailles . Hence , too , the bureaus established locally by the intendants to assist them . Bureaucracy changed the whole tone of government ; for not only did it rigidify , and in a sense chain the ruler since he had to act through slowmoving , literal-minded , petty officials ; it also imposed the will of the monarch on his subjects far more effectively than a single king could by running around his realm as earlier monarchs had tried to do . It was entirely appropriate for Louis to say that he was to die but the state would go on . ? Absolutism 's LimitsLouis showed the limitations as well as the strengths of absolutism . He failed to overhaul the tax structure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning the clergy 's meager donations into major financial obligations . To the Sun King who believed with his age in an hierarchical society , such an attack on upper-class privilege was almost inconceivable.  |p286Louis  also failed to control troublesome elements within the Catholicchurch . The Jansenist movement which stressed original sin and deemphasizedthe role of the church in the individual 's quest for salvation could not be eradicated , even after the king destroyed Jansenism 's buildings at Port Royal and scattered the bones of its departed saints . The Pope , too , proved impossible to manipulate . Louis did have his French clergy proclaimthe so-called Gallican articles of church and state autonomy from Papal dominance in 1682 ; but by the end of the reign the king had backed down from enforcing the articles , and actually begged the Pope to help him suppress Jansenism . Nor could he regiment public opinion , which during his last decade spoke out in popular songs , in doggerel verse , and in books smuggled into the kingdom , all directed against his relations with the opposite sex , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression . Louis simply lacked the techniques to control thought that are placed at the disposal of both democratic and totalitarian modern states . ? Louis XIV and the European Balance of PowerLouis XIV is almost as well known for his wars as for his court and government . Little wonder , since he managed to take on most of Europe in a series of conflicts that looked as if they would give France domination over the continent . As we shall see , the War of Devolution ( 1667-68 ) , the Dutch War ( 1672-79 ) , the War of the League of Augsburg ( 1688-1697 ) and the War of Spanish Succession ( 1701-1714 ) created an entirely differentsituation from what was feared . Europe rallied against France , working out a principle or rule of thumb for international relations : whenever a state threatened to become overly powerful internationally , the other states would ally diplomatically and militarily to create a balance of power . If necessary they would redraw boundaries to give some states enough land and resources to counter the power of the aggressor-state . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rise to great-power status of such states as England , Austria , and Russia . Here it is more important to see their role in the international conflicts centered on Louis ) UV 's France.  | Louis ' Military AmbitionsIn the 1660 's , Louis XIV was young , ambitious , and eager to test his state 's power in Europe . He was especially anxious to uphold his " gloire , " a seventeenth-century word which did not mean personal glory or egocentrismbut rather the full potential of one 's office , in this case that of a warrior-king . He had the greatest army assembled since the days of the Roman Empire , the best generals that had been schooled in the mid-centurycivil and international wars , the best siege expert , Vauban ? of whom it was said that if he fortified a place it was impregnable , and if he stormed one , it was doomed . To be sure , his military machine could not sweep across a continent the way twentieth-century armies could , since it was composed of lumberingcannon , slowmoving infantry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could it undertake the annihilation of an enemy : armies were better disciplined than during the Thirty Years ' War , but except for noble officers , soldiers were picked from the bottom of society by force and bribery , and even then it was difficult to find replacements when soldiers fell in battle . Lacking the unlimited " pool " of modern military drafts , Louis XIV tended to settle for limited maneuvers , concentrating on hoppingfrom one captured fort to another . He was especially interested in strengthening France 's border defenses to the east against the Spanish Netherlands , the German Rhineland , and Spanish Franche Comte . He was ambitious and naive enough to think that he might even become Holy Roman Emperor since it was an elective office , and at one point he had several of the electors bribed . ( They took his money and voted for the Austrian Hapsburg line to continue . ) He looked even more confidently to the day when the sickly , childless Charles II of Spain ( reigned 1665-1700 ) would die ; for Louis had so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriages that he assumed the dynasticright of a Bourbon offspring to occupy the Spanish throne when the latter 's Hapsburg line died out . ? War of Devolution ( 1667-68 ) Louis could not wait for Charles II of Spain to die . Instead he launched his War of Devolution to take over parts of the Spanish Netherlands . He contended that by local Netherlands law some lands " devolved " on the female offspring of a first marriage ( on Louis ' Spanish wife ) rather than on the male offspring of the second marriage ( on Charles II of Spain ) . Fresh from imposing this legal sophistry on Spain , the Sun King sought revenge against the Dutch republic , which had organized a coalition to keep Louis from claiming any more devolution territory . ? The Dutch War ( 1672-79 ) To his surprise , this Dutch War had a very uneven outcome . The Dutch stopped Louis ' armies in their tracks by letting water from the sea through the famous Dutch dykes into the flat countryside . They also replaced their peace-and-commerce minded leaders with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a true descendant of the William of Orange who had led the Dutch revolt of the sixteenth century against Spain . France had to settle at the war 's conclusion for non-Dutch territory : it rounded out its borders with the Spanish Netherlands , and took over Franche Comte . Then , in the 1680 's Louis XIV blundered badly by virtually tearing up the treaty of Westphalia that had rearranged the Franco-German bordersin 1648 . Special French tribunals declared that certain Rhineland territories were French " dependencies , " or had been in the medieval past . As soon as the French judges declared for annexation , French troops took over the disputed lands to the astonishment of the German states in the Holy Roman Empire . Further " peacetime " acquisitions took place : in 1681 Strasbourg on the Rhine and Casale in the Savoyard Alps became French . Next came most of Spanish Luxembourg . The aggrieved states did temporarily acquiesce through the Truce of Ratisbon in 1684 , but Europeanevents and human hatred of Louis quickly worked against peace and France . ? The Emergence of Austria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vienna in 1683 . Louis had hoped that the Ottoman Empire of the Turks would keep the Austrian Hapsburgs under Emperor Leopold too busy to worry about the Rhineland . Instead , a European crusade of great powers threw back the besiegers in what became a rout . Austria expanded its Austrian , Bohemian , and Hungarian possessions to include former Turkish Hungary and Transylvania . On the Danube emerged the great power of Austria , appropriatelyp289called by some historians the Danubian monarchy . And throughout Europe , Catholic Louis was taunted for his secret support of the Moslem Turkish cause with the nickname , " the Most Christian Turk " ( his official European title was the Most Christian King ) . The other " event " was the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England . On the invitation of dissatisfied subjects of the English king James II , the Dutch leader and son-in-law of James , William III , invaded England . James fled , William and his wife Mary were declared joint rulers of England , and in the ensuing settlement between the leaders of the English Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louis XIV might have aided James , but he mistrusted that ally , and banked on a long civil war between James and William . Instead William III , the military figure of the hour , and enemy of Louis XIV , was now at the head of the two greatest commercial states of the age , England and the Dutch Republic . ? War of the League of Augsburg ( 1688-97 ) These events , plus Louis ' attempt to overawe his enemies by devastatingGerman Rhineland towns , brought about the long War of the League of Augsburg . Austria , England , the Dutch republic , Spain , and even the Holy Roman Empire as a unit became the major ingredients of a grand coalition to push France back to its former boundaries . By the treaty of Ryswick in 1697 , France was able to salvage Strasbourg , but lost other Rhineland and Savoyard acquisitions . And Austria and England were well prepared for the next battle over the balance of power . ? The Spanish Succession ProblemThis was the Spanish Succession question , which came to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Charles II . The French , English , and Dutch politicians had tried to head off a succession war by agreeing to partition the Spanish Empire between the Austrian Hapsburg and French Bourbon dynasties . But Charles upset their plans by bequeathinghis entire possessions to Louis XIV 's grandson . After a week of agonizingdeliberation , Louis XIV threw open the doors of his palace chamber and announced to the assembled diplomats , " Behold the king of Spain " ( his grandson now Philip V of Spain ) .  | Louis hoped that this decision would be accepted by Europe , since it had the backing of both Spain and France , would probably be accepted by England and the Dutch republic so long as the French and Spanish crowns and states remained separate , and was totally unacceptable to only one man , Emperor Leopold I who felt his second son was robbed of the Spanish inheritance . Louis ' thinking was sound , but his subsequent actions defied all logic . He sent advisors to dominate the Spanish government , secured special trading privileges with the Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Netherlands ' fortresses that had been manned by Dutch forces . ? The War of Spanish Succession ( 1701-14 ) Hence the War of Spanish Succession erupted , pitting England , the Dutch republic , the Holy Roman Empire , its Austrian Hapsburg emperor , and most individual German states against France and Spain . The military and economic destruction on both sides was enormous . Warfare was finally reduced to head-on battles , like Malplaquet in 1709 , which claimed almost 40,000 casualties on both sides . Obviously this type of fighting could solve nothing , even if the brilliant English general , Marlborough , claimed victory in bloodbaths like this . Somehow the allied forces could bring neither France nor Spain to its knees . The Spanish succession question had to be solved by diplomacy , though this was trickier now than in 1700 , most of the claimants and their close relatives having died . ? The Utrecht SettlementPeace treaties in 1713 and 1714 , commonly called the Treaty of Utrecht , resolved the succession problem in such a way that Europe now had a balance of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' grandson , Philip V. However , there was a provision that the French and Spanish crowns and states would remain distinct . To further balance the power of these Bourbon states , the already large Danubian monarchy of Austria was awarded Spain 's holdings in the Spanish Netherlandsand Italy , while the emerging commercial empire of England was enhanced by the award of the Asiento ( slave and other trading within the Spanish empire ) , Mediterranean posts of Gibraltar and Minorca , and New World territories of Newfoundland , Nova Scotia , and Hudson 's Bay . In a separate Great Northern War of 1700-1721 , to be discussed later , a finalp 291great power , Russia , was added to France , England , and Austria , to round out the balance of power . Spain and the Dutch republics still remained as important powers , but the wars of Louis XIV , the lack of natural resources , and commercial competition , especially from England , reduced them to mere shadows of their former selves . The same happened to Sweden , replaced by Russia as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1603-1640England stands out as the most turbulent , and at the same time , the most successful seventeenth-century state in terms of grappling with internalproblems . It began the century with a growing crisis of authority between kings James I ( 1603-25 ) and Charles I ( 1625-49 ) and their wealthy subjects in Parliament . The overly clever and irritating Scotsman , James , quarreled with Parliament constantly over his desire to increase taxes , his weak stand against Catholic Spain , and his hostility toward the Puritans who wanted to simplify the services and organization of the state Anglican Church . Charles was even more disliked , for he continued the same stands , and tried between 1629 and 1640 to enforce them through royal appointedjudges and special state and church courts , without even calling Parliament . Subjects called this the " eleven years ' tyranny , " retaining vivid memories of the forced collection of " Ship Money , " that is contributions for a navy against an unnamed danger . They also recalled that Puritans were whipped , branded with red hot irons , even mutilated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Archbishop Laud 's " High Church " policy of making the Anglican church more ritualistic and administratively authoritarian , that is , closer to Catholicism , than ever . And they worried when another Caroline administrator , Strafford , imposed an authoritarian regime on Anglican and Catholic Irish subjects , fearing that this abuse of military judicial power might one day be turned against Puritan English subjects . In short , many English subjects feared that Charles was turning their government into an absolute monarchy like those emerging on the continent . They did not of course advertise the fact that they had far greater political power than any subject body of the day : the important merchant and landed families controlled the unpaid local offices like Justice of the Peace , and Lord Lieutenant ; they had a powerful national assembly , Parliament , to represent their interests , and sooner or later Charles would have to call it ; and they were the most undertaxed elite in Europe.  | ? The Puritan Revolution , 1640-1660Charles was forced to call Parliament in 1640 when a disastrous war with Scotland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale . The Long Parliament , which lasted on and off from 1640 to 1660 , was in no mood to give him the aid that might really make him absolute . Instead they abolished the most hated , arbitrary elements of his government in 1640-41 . The special courts were destroyed , arbitrary detention halted , and taxation without parliamentary approval declared illegal . Strafford was executed , and Laud placed in jail . These reforms were followed by civil war between Charles ' supporters , called " Cavaliers , " and parliamentarians with their own army of " Roundheads , " so named because of the way they shaved their hair . The parliamentarians won , and in 1649 beheaded Charles . The republic of 1649-60 established a degree of religious toleration after destroying the Anglican Church , and worked out a practice of taxing the well-to-do as well as the poor , a remarkable feat for the age . Externally , the regime emerged victorious in conflicts with the Dutch commercialrivals and the old English foe , Catholic Spain . But somehow the regime never outlived its first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oliver Cromwell . His regime became too dictatorial even for his supporters , the well-to-do landed and merchant interests . Cromwell died in 1658 and in 1660 Charles I 's son was placed on the restored throne as Charles II . ? The Restoration Monarchy , 1660-88The Restoration settlement retained the moderate revolutionary gains of 1640-41 , that is , they placed monarchy under the restraint of ruling with the assistance of Parliament and through the regular law courts . The Anglican church was restored , but with somewhat less power than before . During his relatively peaceful reign from 1660 to 1685 Charles II learned how to work within this system , even though he was a secret Catholic and really wanted to make the monarchy absolute . Perhaps it was typical of him that he balanced Catholic mistresses with Protestant ones , just as he drew back from tolerating Catholicism and appointing Catholics to office whenever the Protestant Parliament threatened to attack his remainingpowers.  |p293His  brother James II ( 1685-88 ) was not so diplomatic . Within three years this avowed Catholic had antagonized both emerging political parties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , AnglicanTories . They did not want another revolution , but had to oppose James in 1688 when a male , Catholic heir was born , taking the imminently expected succession ( James was not expected to live much longer ) from the king 's oldest daughter , the Protestant Mary . ? Glorious Revolution of 1688As we have seen , Mary 's husband , William III of the Dutch republic , helped out the Whigs and Tories by engineering the Glorious Revolution , a military take-over with continental troops unopposed by the English people . The subsequent Bill of Rights in 1689 strengthened the moderate revolutionary gains of 1640-41 and the Restoration settlement of 1660 . England became a limited monarchy with three technically independent branches of government , the executive crown , the parliamentary legislature , and the judiciary balancing each other . In practice , Parliament and Crown cooperated closely , thereby makingthe parliamentary monarchy far more cohesive than continental absolutemonarchies . The well-to-do controlled tax legislation in Parliament , and influenced the way the king used tax money . Hence they were willing to tax themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money at low rates of interest to the crown , an enormous help during the costly wars against Louis XIV . England also became a model of liberty , boasting the existence of widespread religious toleration , freedom of the press , and trial by peers . Finally , by crushing an Irish rebellion in 1689 and by uniting the English and Scottish crowns in 1707 , the English state became the much larger , internally secure kingdom of Great Britain . ? Early Seventeenth-Century RussiaThe other surprising political phenomenon of the seventeenth century was the Europeanization of Russia . That culturally backward , **26;520;TOOLONG , crudely governed state was scarcely part of Europe in 1600 . It had escaped the Renaissance and the Reformation , and was now escaping the revolution in science which was sweeping through western and central Europe.  | However , a new dynasty , the Romanovs , ended the succession disputecalled the Time of Troubles ( 1605-13 ) that almost tore the country apart at the beginning of the century . Then , at mid-century there was a modest reformation of the Russian Orthodox church . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orthodox church , this reform broke down Russian resistance to change and innovation . Finally , near the end of the century Russia experienced the dynamic reign of Tsar Peter the Great . ? Peter the Great ( 1682-1725 ) Peter was no Sun King , no lover of courtly ways , but in his own , pragmatic way he uplifted his society . He was especially interested in naval and military matters , a love which came to him as a youth when he wandered through the foreigners ' suburb outside Moscow . Peter learned how to march his playmates like western soldiers , took apart and put together again a sailing boat , and boasted of knowing over twenty trades . ( His courtiers naturally scattered when he produced a pair of pincers to demonstrate his " skill " as a dentist . ) ? The Great Northern War ( 1700-21 ) In 1695-96 Peter tested his army and navy , now much expanded , against the Ottoman Empire to the south . He was disappointed that all he could seize was the port of Azov leading to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a coalition of northern European states could be formed against another enemy , Sweden . Peter 's entry into this Great Northern War was initially a disaster . He lost the battle of Narva in a blinding snowstorm to an army only one-eighth the size of his forces . Undaunted he brought in European military advisors to revamp his army , and eventually emerged at the Treaty of Nystad with sizable gains . He acquired territory on the Baltic Sea , a warm water port providing commercialand cultural contact with the west , and a brand new capital , St. Petersburg , which he had built without waiting for the peace.  | ? Europeanization of RussiaThis new territory signalled Russia 's emergence as a great European power , and its ruler 's determination to turn it toward European culture . Peter had also visited Europe to recruit western technicians and learned at first hand how Dutch shipyards and European mining and manufacturing worked . When he returned to Russia , just before the northern war , he established a series of technical plants and schools for the furthering of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the artillery , navigation , engineering , and so forth . He also tried to make his courtiers look like westerners , cutting off their beards , placing them in western dress , and putting pipes in their mouths . Little did he know that he was beginning to make them think like westerners as well . His emphasis , pragmatic and unintellectual as it was , set the stage for the entry of Europeanliterature in the decades after his death.  | ? Petrine Government and SocietyUnfortunately Peter could not substantially alter the social or governmentalstructures of his state . The trend of the peasants from free status to being serfs tied to their noble master 's lands was accelerated . Peter probably had no choice , for it was the sure way to be able to know peasants could not escape the tax collector or the military recruiter . But it had the effect of placing the nobles between the state and the peasant mass of the population , whereas they were being tamed in western Europe . Peter did make his nobles a service nobility , that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And he turned the church into virtually a department of state by placing a civil servant at the Russian Orthodox church 's head . However , the governmental apparatus itself remained haphazardby western standards . Officials were corrupt , and had to be supervisedby native spies and foreign experts . There was no systematic bureaucracy , like Louis XIV 's , and in the place of French intendants and their staffs there were governors who tried to govern over huge territories . ? The Other StatesThe pattern of absolutism , as shown in France and Russia , can be illustrated also by tracing the emergence of Austria and Prussia . As we have seen , the Austrian Hapsburgs not only held on to their rather formal role as head of the Holy Roman Empire , but crushed a Bohemian rebellion , threw back the Turkish siege of Vienna , and incorporated Turkish Hungary and Transylvania in their multinational Danubian monarchy . Prussia 's real emergence was to come in the eighteenth century , but already in the seventeenth , the Hohenzollern dynasty brought together by marriage the scattered north German lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the center , and Prussia , in the east . Princely leadership , an aggressive foreign policy , and an ability to impose military rule on the restive nobles and townspeople made Prussia an important power by 1715 . In 1701 , the prince acquired a crown , becoming " King in Prussia . " If space permitted , we could also discuss the fascinating constitution of the Dutch republic , which appeared very decentralized but allowed political shifts from peace-minded merchant leadership to military domination under the House of Orange , depending on whether peace or war was " the order of the day . " Until overtaken by the English at the century 's end , the Dutch also utilized the connection between politics and commerce to maintain a leading role in the economic and fiscal affairs of Europe . Spain 's " decline "  |p297is  another interesting subject . Suffice it to say here that it survived the successful revolt of Portugal ( 1640-68 ) , the abortive revolt of the province of Catalonia ( 1640-52 ) , and the dreary reign of Charles II ( 1665-1700 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what remained of the empire after the Spanish succession revived economically and even achieved a degree of centralization modelled after Louis ) UV 's France . It is with good reason that we call the period when absolutism reached its height the " Age of Louis XIV . "  |p299So  SPECTACULAR were the achievements of the thinkers and artists of the seventeenth century that we often refer to it as the " century of genius . " But even more appropriate is the term " age of the scientific revolution , " since this genius was most clearly demonstrated by the scientists , who vastly increased our knowledge of astronomy , physics , and mathematics . At the other side of the intellectual spectrum , painters , sculptors , and architects developed the striking new artistic style of the baroque . In both science and art there was a trend away from religion , even though scientistsand artists did not always realize this , and despite the fact that often they worked with problems which were , in their origins , distinctly religious . In the course of this chapter we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that God controlled the ultimate destiny of man and the emerging secular notion , expressed best in the philosophy of the time , that the physical world was governed by fixed laws , which human beings could use to improve their lot on earth . ? The Scientific RevolutionWhen historians speak of the " scientific revolution " of the seventeenthcentury , they mean that science destroyed basic theories about the heavens and the earth , going back to Ptolemy 's astronomy and Aristotle's physics during ancient history . They also mean that the new theories replacing ancient-medieval science made up not just " new " ideas but constituteda fundamentally different way of looking at science and physical phenomena . In other words , a critical and quantitative approach , called the " scientific method " was developed . Of course scientists had always sought to be methodical but the changes in assumptions about the way in which the universe operated made it possible to have a much more accurateand useful methodology by the 1600 's . In a sense , the scientific revolution began with the so-called Copernicanrevolution of 1543 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe , no mean feat in view of the fact that most scientists going back to antiquity had assumed that the sun , planets , and fixed stars went around the earth . In so doing that sixteenth-century astronomer had defied not only ancient authority but the human senses , which perceived the sun rising and setting , while the earth appeared to be motionless at the universe 's center . What Copernicus could not do , however , was break with still more fundamental tenets of Ptolemaic astronomy or Aristotelian physics . Specifically , the Copernican revolution retained Ptolemy 's notion of the perfectheavenly bodies going around their center in circular motion . ( Circular motion was assumed to be perfect , fit for the heavens . ) He also retained Aristotle 's idea that motion on the imperfect earth was different . In the Aristotelian scheme the earth was composed of four elements , the heaviest being earth proper , surrounded by the next heaviest , water , and with two outer layers , lighter air , and , lightest of all , fire . Of course , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular ( the continents and islands ) being above water . However , the natural tendency of all substancesof these qualities was to go down , if earthy or watery , or upward , if airy or fiery . Unfortunately it was hard to see just why the earth 's four elements should move rectilinearly while according to Copernicus the earth itself moved circularly around the sun . This central problem of reconciling the types of motion on earth and in the heavens could not be resolved until scientists understood that the entire universe was one , regulated by the same laws of motion , and that these laws explained not only circular and rectilinear motion , but the many other types of motion , including ellipticalones , which in the Aristotelian and Ptolemaic schemes , were " unnatural . " ( That is they required some special explanation , divine intervention causing fire , in the form of lightning , to fall , and human action , the tossing of a ball in the air , causing upward earthy motion ) .  | Kepler and GalileoWithin a span of ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kepler laid down three laws that brushed aside the remaining debris from Ptolemy 's scheme . In their stead he had the planets moving about the sun in elliptical orbits , whose speed and dimensionscould be determined with mathematical precision . His contemporary , Galileo , added more tangible support to the heliocentric or sun-centered theory . Training his self-made telescope on the heavens , he saw a miniature planetary system in Jupiter and its moons that demolished the old notion that the earth could be the only center of heavenly motion . And his discovery of sunspots and the moon 's imperfect surface added credence to those who were beginning to doubt that the supposedly " perfect " heavens were all that different from this corrupt , earthy globe of sinful creatures . Galileo was equally famous for his work in physics , which came close to the modern view of motion . In contrast to the ancient Aristotelian idea that assumes most motion to be unnatural , the modern inertial theory assumes motion to be natural . More precisely , it contends that a body which is not influenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or moving at a constant speed and in a straight line . While Galileo did not make the test attributed to him of dropping weights from the leaning tower of Pisa , he did work out mathematically various terrestial motions : of projectiles , balls rolling down inclined planes , bodies dropped from heights in free fall , and the swing of the pendulum of a clock . ? Newton 's Law of GravitationThe synthesis of Keplerian astronomy and Galilean physics was made by perhaps the most brilliant , and clearly one of the most eccentric of seventeenth-century scientists . Sir Isaac Newton grasped the essentials of the principle of gravitation as a young man , yet had to be goaded by paranoic reaction against a rival scientist before he worked out the details , some twenty years later . There is probably no truth to the idea that his inspiration came from a falling apple . But his famous Mathematical Principlesof Natural Philosophy ( 1687 ) showed that the same gravitational principles governed the motion of the apple , moon , planets , and the infiniteuniverse . It was now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with one set of laws , a mathematical language to describe them , and an unerring predictability of all physical objects.  | ? Other SciencesMuch of the revolutionary work in physics and astronomy was aided by breakthroughs in mathematics . The calculus , coordinate geometry , slide rules , and the decimal system permitted scientists to make complicated calculations without agonizing expenditures of time as previously was the case , and also to work out mathematically , on paper , various types of curved movements , which had defied analysis in early ages . Human biology also made the breakthrough of William Harvey 's theory that the heart acted like a pump , circulating blood through the body . Meanwhile botanistsand zoologists were still working at the elementary level of classifying plants and animals and setting up zoos . Chemistry was beginning to deal with gases , but had not yet arrived at a sophisticated conception of elementscapable of replacing Aristotle 's earth , water , air , fire . And geologists had yet to puzzle out the existence of fossils on mountain tops , and the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birthdate of 4004 B.C. In most of these sciences , existing assumptions ( like the sudden Creation and short history of the earth ) blocked basic revolutionary changes comparable to the theory of inertia 's overthrow of the old idea that most motion was unnatural . ? The Scientific MethodOne of the reasons science became all the rage when the scientific revolution broke on Europe was its method of arriving at truth . Europeans felt that science could actually tell truth , a sharp contrast to the impossi- : ble squabbles among theologians of varying churches , the habit of universityprofessors answering questions by falling back on an ancient or medievalauthority and statesmen 's habit of engaging in wars . Confidence in scientific method arose also because scientists concentrated on answering the question " how " something works and how its movement is related to other objects ' motions . This could be answered by observation , experiment , and mathematical description . In the process , scientists discarded as irrelevant ( or unanswerable by human beings ) the old scientific question of " why " something happens , that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nature . Two philosophers are most closely associated with this scientific method , Francis Bacon and Rene Descartes . Bacon was no scientist , reputedlydying from the effects of his one experiment , going out into the snow to preserve a chicken . Yet his New Organon of 1620 put the rightp303stress on science 's need to build up generalizations gradually from a factual base . His model scientist was like the bee , which took an ingredient from one object ( nectar from the flower ) and produced something entirely new , the honey . And he ranted against two false models : ( 1 ) the spider , which like the ancient Aristotelian scientists , kept spinning old material from inside himself , instead of looking outside his own thoughts for the facts , ( 2 ) the ant , which simply piled fact on fact like some contemporary **29;548;TOOLONG . The more theoretical , mathematical aspects of the scientific method , which Bacon slighted , were stressed by Descartes , a brilliant mathematician . His Discourse on Method of 1637 was a model of how one should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that he virtually ignored the facts which Bacon stressed as the primary stage of scientific knowledge . Descartes thought that one could start with a self-evident truth , comparable to a mathematical axiom , and deduce complicated conclusions , like theorems , and only then glance back at the phenomena to see whether theory squared with the facts . Luckily for both Bacon and Descartes , Sir Isaac Newton pulled togethertheir two approaches . In Newton 's words , " the whole burden of science seems to consist in this ? from the phenomena of motions to investigate the forces of nature , and from these forces to demonstrate other phenomena . " This approach gave ample room for formulating theoriesand working them out mathematically , once the facts were established . ? Popularization of ScienceThe eighteenth-century writer Voltaire said that no one understands Newton , but everyone talks about him . It was almost literally true , at least among the literate minority of the European population . By the eighteenthcentury even those French and German intellectuals whose national pride or other reasons had made them prefer Descartes or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accepting his clocklikeuniverse which was kept going by mysterious , invisible gravity . An Italian book was entitled Newtonism for Ladies . The craze involved not just an acceptance of a watered-down Newton , but the entire gamut of new scientific laws and inventions . Academies for experimenting and disseminating information sprang up , first in Italy , then in France and England , and finally ranging from eastern Europe all the way to the New World . Their functions are told by the very title of the English academy , the Royal Society for Improving Natural Knowledge , and by the mandate of the French Academy of Sciences to " work for the perfection of the sciences and arts and to seek generally for all that can be of use or convenience to the human race , and particularly to France . " These were very broad instructions , typical of the period 's enthusiasm for science even if unrealistic about what could actually be accomplished in the immediate future . ? Practical Scientific BenefitsStill , there were practical as well as theoretical advances in the realm of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather , astronomy explained seasonal changes , and the study of atmospheric pressure resulted in the first steam engine , announcing that human beings were on the threshold of emancipating themselves from less reliable water , wind , animal , and human power . Equally profound in its implications was the development of accurate timepieces , for they would one day give modern , urban society the means to organize a daily schedule with greater efficiency . The seventeenth century saw the development and widespread use of pocket watches that kept fairly good time . The still more famous pendulum clocks of the period are interesting simply because they were the first important industrial invention fashioned by theoretical science rather than by practical-minded craftsmen . And even one of the most primitive of all the sciences , medicine , which was associated as much with causing death as preserving life , was on the verge of using innoculationto prevent smallpox . ( Unfortunately , when innoculations began in the early eighteenth century , the habit of treating an individual with a mild dose of another 's disease sometimes innoculated the person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of the " scientific spirit " was broader than the applicationof pure , theoretical science to practical matters . Precision and accuracywhich were the hall marks of science crept into the vocabulary and work of geographers , economists , and military writers . Improved surveying and mapmaking helped property owners , tax assessors , and international treaty makers , who finally discovered the convenience of appending maps to treaties . " Political arithmetic , " or the application of statistics to thep305economic , social , and political spheres , was another important development , even though the politicians did not alter their states ' policies in line with the information garnered about death-rates , the actual wealth of subjects , and commercial trade . By contrast , Dutch businessmen did put vital statistics to use in developing life-insurance schemes , some city blocks were using numbers instead of signs to distinguish houses , and gunners replaced quaint names like " cannons petro " and " bastard cannons " with more precise terms like " twenty-four pounders " and " forty-two pounders . " The scientific emphasis on rationality and uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demise of witchcraft by the eighteenth centuryafter it had reached its very peak in the previous decades . Sorcerers and other agents of evil supernatural forces or beings like the Devil could not coexist in a universe ruled by Newtonian natural laws . And an English judge peremptorily threw out of court one of the last witch trials with the caustic comment that there was no law against a woman travelling between London and Oxford on a broomstick . There were limits to such a rational approach however . While some advances were made in helping deaf mutes , society retained its fears and prejudices about mentally handicapped individuals . The scientific spirit spread very broadly among the literate , educated minority of Europeans . Even kings became involved . While Charles II of England went around laughing at the thought that his scientists were weighing air , Louis XIV was visiting his new observatory . There is a story about a lady who kept a cadaver in her carriage for experimental work in anatomy . Perhaps the most charming story was a fictitious one , **25;579;TOOLONG on the Plurality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dialogues , the author removed the fears of a fashionable lady that she was in danger , now that the world was not at the center of the universe , but whirling around the sun . Gradually she gave up her need for the Indian theory that the world was held up by elephants , and at last she triumphantly proclaimed about the universe : " I value it the more since I know it resembles a Watch , and the whole order of nature the more plain and easy it is , to me it appears the more admirable . " ? Religion and ScienceThe path to acceptance of the new science was not entirely smooth , however . Many tradition-minded university professors continued to teach their Aristotle into the eighteenth century . And religious critics were many , especially during the early stages of the scientific revolution when it was hard to sort out the good things in science from the apparent threat it posed to religion . Galileo 's quarrel with the Catholic church over his Dialogueon the two chief cosmic systems , the Ptolemaic and the Copernican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confrontation . While Protestants had been the original leaders of religious reaction against Copernicanideas , Galileo clashed with Catholic authorities . He suggested that the Bible should not be taken literally when it alluded to the physical universe . ( It suggested that the earth was the center , and that the sun moved . ) This was galling enough to those close to the Pope who feared that criticism of Biblical " science " might undermine the average Christian'sbelief in the religious and moral aspects of God 's Word . Even more irritating was Galileo 's suggestion that his sources , human mathematical reasoning and sensory knowledge , could not err ( he did err , frequently ) while the Bible could , even though it was divinely inspired . It took little to stir up the Pope , an erstwhile benefactor of Galileo , to turn against him when it was suggested that the buffoon of the Dialogue , " Simplicio , " was meant to be none other than the Pope . ( It actually was an hypothetical simple-minded defender of the Ptolemaic system . ) The Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taught as " truth , " just as an hypothesis ; now Galileo , supportingheliocentrism and ridiculing Ptolemaic geocentrism in his clever dialogue , was muzzled , placed under house arrest , and ordered to say the Penitential Psalms . The irony of this destructive , polarizing controversy was that it need not have taken place , or could have been worked out to save the authority of the churches and the religious message about human destiny ( the question of " why " ) in the Bible and yet keep the validity of the scientific quest for truth about how the universe functions . Somehow both areas of knowledge had become more obstinate and sweeping in their claims than was healthy or correct . As time went on religion did retreat to a more reasonable posture , Sir Isaac Newton actually being buried in WestminsterAbbey , usually reserved for royalty and clergy . Science on the other hand became more pervasive , having an impact on all other intellectualrealms , including philosophy , political thought , and religion itself . The clock-like universe of the scientific revolution led many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that is the idea that God simply created the world with its fixed laws , and gave humans the ability to understand how they worked and the reason to figure out natural , moral ways of living together . There was no room in such a natural religion ( called Deism in the eighteenth century ) for a God who intervened to defy his own scientific laws through miracles . And , by implication , there was not even room for belief that the Bible was divinely inspired , by God for man 's use ; or for accepting the central Christian idea that God sent His own son to teach , die for men 's sins and return to his Father . In short , religion was reduced to morality ? a matter of individual reason and conscience rather than a relationship between omnipresent deity and frail humans needing faith and outside help to get through life . ? The Impact of Critical Religious ScholarshipIn addition to science , other sources of knowledge worked to underminetraditional religion . One was the growth in critical analysis of the past , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seventeenthcentury , university scholars were exposing myths about Greek and Roman history ( including the story of Romulus and Remus and the birth of Rome ) . Father Jean Bolland delved into medieval saints ' lives and banishedspurious saints from the list with the hope that the true saints who remained would be an inspiration rather than a scandal . However , many Christians thought the Bollandists were simply undermining belief in sainthood . Then along came the supreme skeptic of the seventeenth century , Pierre Bayle . His Critical and Historical Dictionary ( 1697 ) examined microscopicallyand with acid wit the morals of thousands of figures from the Christian past , pagan antiquity , and the Old Testament . Though Bayle was a Christian , and probably meant to show that there were high ideals set by God even if men did not meet them , his criticism of specific Biblical humans tended to undermine religious belief . His favorite Old Testament figure was David , who was castigated for " his adultery with Bathsheba , the murder of Uriah , and the proscription of the people " along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward natural religion by suggesting ( to the scandal of his age ) that a society of atheists could be just as moral ( maybe more , he added ) as a Christian society . Few caught Bayle 's inference that Christians ought to be more moral than others , and could if they actually practiced their beliefs . Equally misunderstood was the brilliant Biblical analyst , Richard Simon . His several critical histories of the various parts of the Bible tried to buttress Christianity by purging it of literal belief in those contradictory passages and other inconsistencies which had always been embarrassing . All he accomplished was the underminingof confidence in the Bible.  | ? Knowledge of Non-Christian CulturesAs Europeans delved into the non-Christian past and the non-Europeanpresent they added doubts to old Christian belief . How could one believe in Adam and Eve if Egyptian accounts went so far back that those " first " humans were later comers ? How could one square wars of religion between professed Christians with the supposed " inferiority " of contemporarypeoples in other continents who were now known to live more moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God or His son , Jesus . This was the time when the North American Indian was emergingin European literature as the Noble Savage , and when the Confucian was being dubbed the Sage Chinese . In an unconscious move towards the eighteenth-century idea that all religions are essentially the same , if stripped of everything beyond their " natural " elements , the Jesuit missionaries in China tried to write the Chinese population into the Catholic church . The Jesuits failed to convince the Pope that the Chinese secular customs were harmless , their moralityessentially Christian , and only a few pagan ( religious , but non-Christian ) rites deserved to be purged . But this " Chinese rites " controversy poured forth hundreds of books from the European presses , most of them turning people toward fascination in Chinese culture and belief that the Chinese Confucians were every bit as good , if not better than European Christians . ? Formal PhilosophyThe seventeenth century was one of the great periods of philosophy , the last age when philosophers attempted to bring together all past knowledgeand present ideas in grand philosophical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weight of past knowledge , including ancient moral philosophies revived during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries to look just as convincing as Christian ideas . They had to contend with Stoicism'sbelief in human struggle with a hostile universe , Epicureanism 's interest in moderate enjoyment of life , and Pyrrhonism 's suggestion that morality is relative since neither the senses nor reason can arrive at any absolute truth . Furthermore , these philosophers had to accommodate the philosophical implications of the scientific revolution , which banished man from the center of a world created by an aloof deity.  | DescartesWhere did human beings fit into the cold , mechanistic scheme of a clock-like universe ? The most influential philosopher of the century , Descartes , placed homo sapiens in a far more glorious role than either the ancient pagan philosophies or medieval Christianity 's view of man as a combined beast and angel . Descartes started by questioning everything he could : the knowledge accumulated from the past ( professors constantly quarrelled ) ; the physical world ( since the human senses were imperfect and might be seeing something that did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps he was in a dream , and his body was not really there ) . Then he arrived at one absolute truth , something that the fact that he was thinking as he questioned all these things . His famous aphorism was : " I think ; therefore I exist . " What Descartes was really saying was that human beings were thinking , even rational beings , something that the ancient pagans and Christians had shied away from asserting . Now all Descartes needed to build up an optimistic view of human potentiality was to fit God and the physical world into his man-centered philosophy . His God was really an abstraction of pure wisdom , a being who simply set up the universe , and ? more crucially in view of Descartes ' initial skepticism about what his senses told him about the physical worldone who could not deceive human beings about that world . In other words , scientists could now rest assured that when they observed , experimented , and deduced principles or laws about matter in motion , these really conformed to reality . Far from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or beings battling against a hostile world as some pagans had suggested , people could become the " masters and possessors of nature . " ? Leibniz and SpinozaDescartes ' " Cartesian " philosophy had one flaw that perplexed Europeanphilosophers until John Locke came along a generation later to straighten it out . The Cartesian dilemma was how to fit together the essential part of the human being that was pure mind or soul , and the body that was somehow attached to the human mind . One answer was given by Leibniz , a brilliant thinker about virtually all intellectual issues and inventor of the calculus ( Newton discovered it independently ) . The Leibnizian universe was composed of " monads , " centers of energy rather than separate minds and bodies . Though each monad goes its own way , they all interract harmoniously through God who has preprogrammed their coordination through a " pre-established harmony . " Unfortunately , this theory tended to make humans subject to God , something Descartes had implicitly rejected . Spinoza 's pantheism fell into an opposite trap ; his God was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , rather than independent of it . This theory did solve the relationship of mind and body , since in Spinoza 's world , the physical and psychical or mental phenomenaare really only two different views of the same deity , rather than two distinct , Cartesian substances . But Europeans were horrified that God could be reduced to substances in this world , and called Spinoza an atheist . ? Locke 's Common SenseJohn Locke 's Essay Concerning Human Understanding ( 1690 ) was just the right book at the right time to put European philosophy back on a common-sense course . Brushing aside the impossible question of how mind and body could interact , Locke asked pragmatically what can we imperfecthuman beings know ? In answering , he rejected the notion that some ideas could be innate , that is here from birth ( a pet notion of Descartes ) . He sidestepped the question of whether " revelation , " which is knowledge from God , mainly through the Bible , can add to human knowledge or merely fortify what we already know ourselves . Boldly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which come from " experience . " This means that the outside world provides the human senses with the data which the mind sorts out into working knowledge . Locke 's common-sense philosophy took Europe by storm in the eighteenth century , and with good reason . By evading the age-old stress on revelation , he allowed humans to believe that they , and not God , were responsible for pushing back the frontiers of knowledge . By burying Descartes ' belief in innate ideas , he made people think that they did not have to settle for the knowledge of the past ; ideas could change simply by changing the experiences of society . In other words , human beings ' educationand hence their very actions could be altered . It was an exhilarating thought that Locke expressed when he said that the difference between ap 311Hottentot and an Englishman was education . This made it possible for Europeans to believe in material , intellectual , and moral progress . In short , the old search for the magical elixir of life would be largely replaced by a confidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the " Moderns " in the famous late seventeenth-century literary Battle of the Ancients versus the Moderns . Those scholars who claimed that the ancient Greeks and Romans had asked and answered all the great questions and reached perfection in literaturewere answered by the moderns ' modest but devastating answer : We are greater , for we stand atop ( ancient ) giants ; we not only know what they knew , but have learned by their errors , and added our own knowledgeto theirs . As the author of Mother Goose stories , Charles Perrault , said in a popular poem , " And one can compare , without fear of injustice ; the Age of Louis XIV , to the fair Age of Augustus . " Traditional ReligionFormal religion was not entirely divorced from the intellectual vitalityof the age of the scientific revolution . Indeed , the seventeenth century was a time of intensely heated religious controversy , a carryover from theReformation of the sixteenth century . The main difference was that whilein the 1500 's the major arguments had been between churches , for examplebetween Catholicism and Lutheranism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One key issue arose over salvation . In France and the Spanish Netherlands , Catholic Jansenists stressed thetall of Adam and played down the hope of salvation , except for the fewlucky enough to receive God 's grace , while Catholic Jesuits emphasizedGod 's mercy and the joy of life in this world . In the Dutch Netherlands , the officials in control of the Calvinist ( Reformed ) church took a standclose to Jansenism by stressing predestination , while their rivals within thechurch , the Arminians , emphasized man 's free will , much like the Jesuits . In England , the quarrel within the Anglican church between thesemi-Catholic High Church supporters and their Puritan opponents involvedboth theology and ritual . The Puritans wished to purify the church , that is strip it of all its High Church emphasis on what they consideredidolatrous , Catholic externals : the clergy 's beautiful vestments , the use of the ring in marriage , the stress on organ music , and the inference that salvation was an easy thing to obtain by merely going through religious ceremonies . These Puritans were close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predestination and the will of God . The Russian Orthodox church had its own quarrels , but these were mainly over the wording and forms of the church service . The reforming Patriarch Nikon turned many tradition-minded Russians into hostile Old Believers by making the Russian church conform to practices in the Greek Orthodox church . He altered the number of Hallelujas and genuflections , the spelling of Jesus ' name , and other externals , all of which were deeply symbolical to the Old Believers . Much of this intensified religious interest was constructive in its effects , making Christians more aware of their beliefs . Many people tried to act out their beliefs by more regular churchgoing , increasing their gifts to the poor , visiting hospitals or caring for the sick . English , Dutch , and French charity of the period was especially striking , though some middleandupper-class do-gooders were a bit sanctimonious and even condescendingtoward those less fortunate than themselves . There was a divisive effect of this religious turmoil . Many were turned away from the formal churches and Christian theology , some toward the emerging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly emotional and personal religious experiences , still others toward a desperate effort on behalf of religious toleration . Religious " Enthusiasm " and TolerationThe emotional " wing " of seventeenth-century Christianity is a fascinatingphenomenon . Its devotees were often called " enthusiasts " because they were en-thused , that is , literally filled with God . American students may recall reading of religious fanatics running naked through the streets of Salem , Massachusetts , when " drunk with God . " Their brand of enthusiasm , which freed them from polite Christian society 's scruples was at the opposite extreme of Quaker enthusiasts , the followers of George Fox 's Society of Friends , whose emotional communion with God made them far more moral than the society about them . Different again were the Pietists , German Lutherans who stressed mysticism , piety , and humanitarianism . There were many other sects , including Quietists , Molinosists , Lapadists , Ranters , and some Baptist groups . All found the rigid , intellectual , and ritualistic approach of the main churches irrelevant to their own emotional needs.  |p313Much  more subdued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring the churches together . Locke wrote a famous Letter on Toleration , which argued for toleration of all but Catholics and Atheists . He thought both were potential enemies of the state . Pierre Bayle went much further , contending that since God alone knows absolute truth , every one 's belief should be tolerated ; it was enough that one sincerely believed what he or she professed . Unfortunately for the basic beliefs which were the driving force and grandeur of Christianity , the move to tolerate and to accept differences had the effect of watering down religion to the common elements , which meant stripping it of everything except the morality of " natural religion . " Unfortunately , also , most rulers did not believe toleration to be practical . They remembered too well the religious wars of the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries and the rebellions that stemmed from religious differences ! Instead of seeing toleration as a way to internal and international peace , they clung to the seventeenth-century motto of " One King , One Faith , One Law . " Louis XIV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungary , and William III persecutedIrish Catholics . The Dutch republic , Prussia , and at the end of the century the English state , were exceptions , largely due to the economic motive of tolerating talented persons and to the strong will of political leaders . ? ' The Baroque Style of ArtThe artistic style of the seventeenth century , the baroque , takes its name from a Portuguese word for deformed pearls . Somehow the term was applied , rather nastily , to the art : critics assumed that baroque painting , sculpture , and architecture , were a rejection , or at least a debasement of the Renaissance style of classical naturalism , harmony , and proportion . There is some truth to this charge . Instead of stressing these orderly traits , baroque painters and sculptors seemed bent on distorting human figures to accentuate their emotions . Its architects stressed movement rather than repose , by using light and shade to play on facades , and by stringing out an entire wing of uniform windows . Its planners of urban squares or palace grounds refused to settle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it on a grandiose scale with courtyards or gardens through paths , canals , or balustrades . Often , this integration , at least on canvas and in the interiors of churches , was achieved by dramatically emphasizingp314some focal point of the scene , or the high altar , in contrast to a Renaissancepainting which can often be cut up into parts , or a Renaissance church , which is centered on the plan of an even-armed cross . We will have a more rounded , fairer assessment of baroque if we realize that these traits of emotionalism , movement , exaggeration , and unity on a grand scale were not " bad " or " inferior " but simply attempts to express the artistic feeling of a new age . Some of the baroque 's technicalorigins lay in the Renaissance style , but naturally these were expanded , modified , altered , distorted , at times rejected as baroque artists worked within the intellectual , social , and political context of their own age . ? Religious BaroqueThe most spectacular influence was religious . It derived from the sixteenth-century Reformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humans , and the sheer unleashing of emotional conflict between Protestantsand Catholics . The Catholic church was most adept at capturing this spirit of intense feeling and drama . The Jesuit order became famous for its baroque churches , especially the parent church of the Gesu in Rome . Its interior captured the imagination and won over the hearts of the curious visitor and devout worshipper alike . There was a soaring dome and barrel vault to awe the viewer , and the human eye could trace its way along columns at the side of the curving front wall which nestled the high altar . The facade combined different styles in its two stories to achieve both movement and unity . Despite the clustering of columns and pilasters in a way that defies the Renaissance 's classical canons , the observer 's attentionis somehow drawn upward from columns to pilasters , and from the straight sides through second-story ends to the triangular top . Perhaps an even better example of religious baroque is the sculpted altarpiece , the Vision of St. Teresa , by Lorenzo Bernini . Set in a chapel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ecstatic saint is inextricablyconnected with the angel aiming his arrow at her heart . This dramaticstory is connected with the background architecture by billowing clouds beneath the figures and shafts of gold light above them . Bernini 's overly elaborate setting for St. Peter 's chair , in St. Peter 's cathedral , shows that baroque religious feeling could be combined with Renaissance harmony . The chair is suspended above temporal church figures mounted on the altar and below a heavenly scene , while clouds unite the entire piece.  | Baroque and the StateSecond only to religion as a molder of baroque was politics . The emerging absolute monarchy 's wealth and power allowed rulers to patronizepainters and erect new palaces , as well as to infuse art with a little of the sense of their own grandeur and power . The best examples come from Louis XIV 's France , notably the classical columned facade of the Louvre done by Perrault , and the equally classical wings of Versailles . It is often said that France rejected the baroque and voted for a refined classical style stemming from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of symmetry and balance , but both architectural masterpieces also convey a sense of power and movement that is more baroque than Renaissance , and above all reflects absolutism . And anyone who has glanced at the colorful , richly ornate ceilings of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles or Apollo 's Gallery at the Louvre , knows that palace interiors could be flamboyantly baroque , even if their exteriors were restrained . It is more difficult to fit baroque into the intellectual context of the age . However , one senses in the painting , especially Rembrandt 's penetratingportraits and dramatic scenes such as the " Night Watch , " a fathoming of human actions beyond Renaissance naturalism . It could well be that all the political , social , economic , and religious unrest noted in this and the previous chapter forced painters and sculptors of the 1600 's to show inner turmoil in the people of the day . Certainly the scientific revolution had an impact . It was shown dramatically in the late seventeenth century 's emphasis on motion , on controlling and organizing earthly space ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the infinite universe ( by the use of domes , billowing clouds , and sweeping curves ) . ? LiteratureSo far we have limited this analysis of baroque to painting , sculpture , and architecture . Literature and music also displayed baroque traits , though one should not try to force too rigidly either field into that style . Words which describe baroque writing in the early decades of the seventeenthcentury are elaborate , emotional , complicated , even bombastic . The Italian poet Marino thought the very purpose of poetry was to astonish the reader , while the Spaniard Gongora used metaphors and allusions in such a way that the reader was almost lost . Perhaps the greatest baroque vehiclep 317of literature was the stage . England 's Shakespeare , France 's Corneille , Spain 's Lope de Vega all concentrated their plays on a single emotion of the hero , whether this was passionate love , noble honor , or a death-defying quest for fame . As the century wore on , the literature did become more subdued , more polished , and less vulgar . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French language so that it was clear , precise , and , eventually relatively unemotional . This was in keeping with the change in tone of royal courts from the barnyard manners and conversationof 1600 to the elegant , refined talk of 1700 . MusicMusic contributed the baroque 's most typical creation , opera . It combined an enormous number of arts : elaborate stage scenery , instruments , the human voice , acting , costumes , and some semblance of a story . Like its religious version ( the oratorio ) , the secular opera played on the audience 's emotions by effective use of the human voice , going so far as to " produce " male adult sopranos whose unnaturally high but rich and powerfulvoices had a devastating effect on many operagoers . Musicians also began to work out the implications of the current transition from polyphonicto monodic music , and the technique of combining strong melodies with some dissonance . The development of instruments , especially strings ( including some of the best violins made , highly prized today , like the Amati and Stradivari ) complemented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's court , as many as one hundred violins were combined with twenty piano-like clavecins , giving the effect of a thunderstorm . The orchestrawas also emerging , though the notion of a conductor to discipline a performance was rather difficult for many musicians of the age to take . Baroque , Society , and TimeEssentially , all forms of the baroque were for the elite , just as governmentand society were dominated by the wealthy and the titled . Yet it should be remembered that church interiors were meant for the worship of both the prince and the pauper , and the goal of dazzling the eyes and evoking the deepest feelings was certainly set with all walks of life in mind . Moreover , this still largely preliterate age directed its church music at the average churchgoer who had to rely on nonliterary vehicles for his religious education . Even in painting , which so often depicted the high and mighty of the current and previous times , mythology as well as religion , there were glimpses of the suffering poor , ranging from Caravaggio 's pilgrims to Le @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all aspects of the seventeenthcentury . It also changed with the times . At the beginning of the century it was difficult to tell whether the art was " baroque " or what is called " mannerism " ? a transitional stage between Renaissance and baroque that stressed extremes of emotion , distortion of figures , revolt against artistic rules . That was natural , fitting in with the turmoil of the late religious wars and political upheaval . As the seventeenth century came to a close all the arts underwent another shift . We have noted how courtly language became refined . Turbulence and warfare on canvas gave way to subdued portraits . Mathematics and rationality became keys for understanding music and for writing prose . In a broad sense these developments reflected the order that secular states had imposed on their subjects , an order which forced many artists and the public from an obsession with violence and emotion . Concurrently , the scientific revolution 's suggestion that the world was regular and its human inhabitants capable of understanding and even controlling it gave Europeans freedom to engage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more enjoyable analysis of the human race on canvas , in music and on paper . This was fully in keeping with the age that read its Locke and believed in a rational , natural man who could create political society in an orderly fashion and learn to tolerate other peoples and other beliefs.  |p323IN  1715 WHEN the aging but still vigorous symbol of royal absolutism , Louis XIV , finally breathed his last at Versailles , Europe was enjoying one of its rare intervals of peace . King Louis is reported to have confessed at the end that he had loved war too much , but the peace that prevailed in 1715 was probably more the result of the monarch 's financial extremities than any genuine repentance . Even though the concept of total war or even the nation-in-arms was still far in the future , by 1715 armies had increased in size to the point where the financial burden of continuous large scale warfare was so great that occasional respites were essential for all participants . The peace treaties of 1713 and 1714 which ended Louis ' last war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the eighteenthcentury was to experience . It is hard for us to imagine a world in which war was looked upon as a normal state of affairs and periods of peace as exceptional . Yet this was generally the situation at the beginning of the eighteenth century in Europe . The large and increasingly powerful dynastic states which emerged in the sixteenth century looked upon militarycompetition between rulers as a sort of royal prerogative ? the true sport of kings ? to be enjoyed whenever royal resources permitted . To tight was necessary to survive , and if rulers sometimes made treaties or alliances it was usually not with the intention of securing permanent peace and friendship , but was generally a matter of tactical or strategic necessity . P324But if war was the normal state and peace the exception , what were the factors which produced the relatively peaceful interlude between 1715 and 1740 ? In order to answer this question we must turn to the internal situation of the major powers and try to see why at this point in history they chose to follow the paths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FleuryAt Louis XIV 's death his legal successor was his five-year-old , greatgrandson , Louis XV . This meant that there would have to be a regency until the young lad attained legal age to rule ( thirteen for kings of France ) . Because of his dislike for his dissolute nephew , the Duke of Orleans , Louis had tried to exclude him from his rightful position as head of the council of regency ( as nearest male relative ) , and to put his own illegitimate sons in control . But when the Duke agreed to restore to the Parlement of Paris their right to review royal laws which Louis XIV had suppressed , the court declared Louis ' will invalid and confirmed Orleans as chief regent . But he could never feel as secure as a regular monarch and was not inclined to take any bold initiative in foreign affairs . In spite of the Duke 's unsavory reputation , his relations with the young king seem to have been cordial and proper . Although the Regent 's scheme to increase the participation and influence of the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the noblemen 's quickly demonstrated lack of ability and application , he demonstrated his own perceptiveness by moving at once to end the experiment and restore control to experienced ministers . And in spite of the ultimate collapse of the radical financial schemes of his protege , the Scotsman , John Law , the economy of the country made a good recovery from the financial chaos brought on by the preceding half centuryof war . In 1723 the Regent died and Louis XV assumed his full powers . After a brief interlude he appointed his former tutor , Bishop Fleury , to act as his chief minister , though in the tradition of his predecessor he always refused to have a chief minister in name . Bishop Fleury who was soon made a cardinal proved to be a most worthy successor to Colbert and Richelieu . In a quiet but effective way he gradually took control of more and more aspects of policy as it became clear that the young king had inherited none of his great-grandfather 's zest for the dreary details of government . From the beginning Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exercise of power and accordingly he came to depend more and more on Fleury and his ministers to carry on the busi/ness of government . Fleury , by temperament a moderate and conservative man ( he was 73 when he took office ) , had seen enough of the vicissitudes of life to learn that in most instances the best policy was to avoid rocking the boat . In diplomacy this meant that France should strive to maintain her position but do everything to avoid open warfare . But in 1733 he was unable to resist the pressure of a pro-war faction at court which took advantage of the death of the king of Poland to urge that France support the candidacy of the queen 's father , Stanislas Lezcnski , who had held the elective throne briefly once before . Although legally elected by a portion of the Polish nobility , he was forcibly deposed by the combined military efforts of the Austrians and the Russians who had their own candidate . The cautious Cardinal authorized only token military supportbut utilized it so effectively that France emerged from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valuable Duchy of Lorraine ( the deposed king was to have the Duchy as consolation for the loss of his throne and on his death it would go to his daughter , the queen of France ) . In 1740 the Cardinal was again drawn into war . Before the Hapsburg emperor , Charles VI , died , he had made agreements with all the major powers to accept his daughter , Maria Theresa , as the legitimate and rightful successor to his title and his lands . But when he died the temptation to take advantage of a traditional enemy at a moment of weakness was too strong for the young and ambitious king of Prussia and the war hawks of the court of France to resist . Fortunately for the Cardinal he did not live to see the ultimate failure of France 's effort in the war which he tried as long as he could to avoid . Internally what France needed after the severe drain of Louis XIV 's wars and the disruptions caused by speculation during the Regency was a period of financial order and stability . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in stabilizing the value of French currency ( devaluations had been a favorite device for meeting the unusual expenses of war ) at the level it was to hold until the French Revolution . By carefullycutting expenses and improving the collection and utilization of existingrevenues Fleury was able to balance the French budget for the only time ( 1738 ) during the eighteenth century . By the time of his death Cardinal Fleury 's conscientious attention to the details of government and his cautious but effective foreign policy had brought the monarchy to a new peak of prosperity and popularity . When Louis XV became seriously ill in 1745 , the apparently spontaneous outburst of sympathy and concern indicated by the number of prayers and masses said for his recovery seems to suggest that Fleury had done his work well . But unfortunately no successor combining all his favorable talents appeared . For a time the monarchy could live on the store of good will accumulated by the Cardinal , but the supply was quite quickly exhausted . ? England and the Hanoverian SuccessionBy the Act of Settlement of 1701 the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Protestant Electress of Hanover or her heirs ( descendants of James I 's daughter , Elizabeth ) . When Queen Anne died in 1714 , the transition to the Hanoverian line went more easily and smoothly than most expected . George , the Elector of Hanover , was accepted as the only viable alternative to civil war ( an abortive attempt of the old pretender , James Edward Stuart , to launch an invasion from Scotland in 1715 failed miserably ) , but as a middle-aged foreigner ( he spoke no English ) he was never able to exercise really effective control of the government . This left a vacuum of power that was finally filled by Sir Robert Walpole who was called to the chancellorship of the Exchequer in 1721 to clean up the mess left by the collapse of the wave of speculation in stocks known as the " South Sea Bubble . " Certain members of both Parliament and the royal council had been involved in the affair and it was felt to be necessary to bring in new men , including a new Chancellor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Robert was not only not involved but had even given public warnings of the potential dangers in the situation . Within a few years he was assuming such a predominant role in the royal council that he seemed to be acting very much like a prime minister ? although at that time the title did not exist officially . ? Ministry of Walpole , 1721-42From 1721 to 1742 , Sir Robert Walpole in his position of leadership established both internal and external policies remarkably similar to those of his contemporary in France , Cardinal Fleury . Walpole had even more compelling reasons for caution , however . He had to try to conciliate the numerous " interests " or power groups which could exert influence through either the House of Lords or the House of Commons , as well as satisfy the king ( he was still a minister only at the king 's pleasure ) , and allow nothing to be done that might arouse the people ( popular outcry forced him to abandon his proposal for an excise tax in 1734 ) . Sir RobertP327accomplished these tasks with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoiding armed conflicts , but like the latter found his hand forced by powerful pro-war forces in 1739-40 . English merchants who found their illicit but formerly condoned trade with the Spanish colonies suddenly drastically curtailed by a new and rigorous enforcement policy on the part of the Spanish government , demanded that England undertake armed retaliation against what were described as Spanish atrocities . These traders were able to stir up enough support in Parliament to force a declaration of war in 1739 . When England 's traditional ally , Austria , was attacked by France and Prussia in 1740 , the war against Spain was expanded to include both those countries . Like Fleury , Walpole retiredbefore the end of the conflict which , as he predicted , brought little gain or glory to his fellow countrymen . His skill at using every resource of patronage and influence to keep the government running smoothly under his control made his system a model for all political and factional leaders in the eighteenth century . Fortunately for Walpole both the first two Georges ( 1714-27 , 1727-60 ) were satisfied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little attempt to initiate policy . When George III later attempted to take a more independent line it produced the tensions and crises which troubled British political life in the second half of the eighteenth century . ? The Holy Roman Empire and the Hapsburg Succession , 1715-50The Archduke Charles , the younger brother of Emperor Joseph I ( 1705-11 ) had been the Hapsburg candidate for the Spanish throne and had seemed to find some support , especially in Aragon , during the War of the Spanish Succession . He therefore found it distasteful to have to abandon his hopes at the peace table in 1714 , even though in the meantime he had unexpectedly become Emperor on the death of his older brother in 1711 . While Charles was not as eager for peace as his two contemporaries , Fleury and Walpole , he had an Achilles heel which forced him to moderate any aggressive designs . Charles ' problem was that for the first time the ruler of the Hapsburg lands in Europe had no male heir to succeed him . Since the law of succession in several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ female , something had to be done if the fragmentation of the Hapsburg inheritance was to be avoided . Charles ' legal advisors came up with a device which would solve the problem , if he could get accepted . This was a document called a " PragmaticSanction " which provided that those signing would agree to recogp328nize the right of his daughter , Maria Theresa , to inherit all the Hapsburg lands without regard to any contrary legal custom or tradition . Charles , in his anxiety to get the document approved , on several occasions bargained away military and territorial advantages . It was this situation which tended to make Hapsburg policies more moderate up until his death in 1740 . At that point Maria Theresa found how little to be trusted was the word of kings and diplomats , when the temptation to share in the spoils of the Hapsburg territory brought a quick end to almost three decades of relative peace . Europe was not to know such a luxury again until the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 . ? Prussia and Frederick II , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Prussia ( 1740-86 ) who had inherited the superb military machine developedby his father , Frederick William I ( 1713-40 ) who had built it but never could bring himself to the point of risking it in battle . Frederick William I , a subject perhaps more suited to study by a psychiatrist than a historian , had all the attributes usually associated with the word " Prussian . " He was fanatical in his devotion to the interests of his kingdom and ruthless in his methods of organizing it for war . His army was far larger in proportion to population than any other in Europe , and it was raised and supported by the most rigorous utilization of both material and human resources . But even if one concedes that such Spartan policies were essentialto the survival of Prussia , one can hardly excuse the physical abuse which he often meted out to those who displeased him , or his cruel treatmentof his own children . The young Prince Frederick often suffered under the blows of his father 's cane and when he failed in an attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His father spared Frederick 's life but forced him to witness the execution of the friend who had accompaniedhim . After this traumatic episode the young man bowed to his father'swill and began to devote the conscientious attention to military and civil affairs which was to characterize the rest of his long life . And when an opportunity came in 1740 to sieze the neighboring Austrian province of Silesia from the young and seemingly defenseless Hapsburg empress , Maria Theresa , Frederick was quite prepared to place what he considered to be the future security and well-being of his kingdom above any moral considerations . He moved with a ruthlessness which his father would have applauded , but which sent a thrill of horror through all Europe.  | Silesia and the War of the Austrian SuccessionWhen Frederick was quickly joined by France , Maria Theresa and the Habsburg inheritance seemed to be doomed . England 's honoring of her long-standing Austrian alliance seemed to offer little prospect of help . England 's land forces were pitiably small , and the Hanoverian rulers were generally more anxious to guard Hanover than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The most immediate threat came from the Elector Maximilian of Bavaria who with French support invaded Habsburg territories and succeeded in getting himself elected Holy Roman Emperor . At this critical moment the future Empress managed to rally the traditionally hostile and rebellious Hungarians to her support and by a combination of military and diplomatic moves successfully turned the tide ? at a price , however . Peace with Frederick was gained by accepting his occupation of Silesia . When the new Bavarian Emperor died suddenly in 1742 , Maria was able to get her husband , the Duke of Tuscany , elected as Emperor and her position thus made more secure . The French were driven out of Habsburg lands by 1744 and thereafter the fighting between England , France , and her ally Spain was primarily concerned with overseas or colonial conflicts and had little effect on the ultimate terms . The final treaty of Aix La Chapelle in 1748 did confirm Frederick 's successful siezureof Silesia ? a crucial factor in the rise of Prussia and so of all European history . The Extension of European ConflictsIt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European conflicts , as a matter of course , tended to have worldwide reverberations but by 1715 this had become a permanent fact of international relations even though the consequences of this development were not generally understood by European statesmen and diplomats until the emergence of William Pitt the Elder as the war leader in Great Britain in 1757 . Generally , until the second half of the seventeenth century none of the powers had settlers enough in the territories they claimed nor , with the exception of Spain and the Dutch , did their territories produce enough wealth to make them worthy of serious consideration . But by 1700 the products of the French and English plantations , especially in the West Indies , had become so valuable that these two countries became increasingly aware of their economic importance . While their possessions in North America were less immediately valuable , the steady growth of population in the English colonies was to make it increasingly difficult for the mother country to ignore their interest and concerns in future conflicts . The increasing importance of commerce and of colonies , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis upon securing commercial concessions and strategic maritime posts in the treaty of Utrecht . The most significant of these was the asiento , the privilege of supplying slaves to the Spanish colonies on the New World . ? Overseas StrategiesAlthough the War of the Austrian Succession was primarily concerned with continental issues , it actually merged with the commercial and colonial war between England and Spain . England 's alliance with Austria involved her on the continent as did Spain 's anti-Austrian objectives in Italy . France and England only began hostilities in 1744 , and although they fought some important land battles , their overseas interests in both North America and India involved major commitments of manpower and material . However , as usual , the peace settlement of 1748 was determined by the military situation in Europe without regard to the actual success or failure of operations overseas . The British colonists were infuriated to find that the key French fortress at Louisburg at the mouth of the Saint Lawrence River which they had taken with great effort was to be returned to the enemy ? seemingly without consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or their interests . But their indignation could not be entirely ignored at home and it probably contributed to the change in attitude manifested when hostilities were resumed in the Seven Years War ( called the French and Indian War in America ) in 1756 . ? The Philosophes and the New World-ViewIn the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries the traditional **41;606;TOOLONG had received a series of shattering blows . The full effects of these were not felt until the eighteenth century when intellectuals ( both amateur and professional ) began to explore , discover , and then explain to the literate public the truly vast implications of this new scientific view of the world . The leaders of the movement have generallybeen referred to by the French term " philosophes , " although many to whom it has been applied were not philosophers in the formal or professionalsense . Their most important role was as popularizers of the radicalp331new-world view and its ' implications through both the written and spoken word . In doing this virtually all literary forms were utilized and one reason t lie philosophes were so successful was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such style and grace that they managed to make even the most dry and abstruse subjects relatively lively and interesting . The most famous of the philosophes was Francois Marie Arouet , better known as Voltaire ( 1694-1778 ) . Of bourgeois origin and moderate wealth , as a young man he offended a nobleman in some of his writings and was forced to take refuge in England . He there became acquainted not only with the intoxicating air of free expression , but also first came to be aware of the new theories of Newton and Locke . Convinced of the absolutevalidity of the idea of the world as a great machine run by natural laws , he devoted the rest of his life after his return from England to defending this view against all attackers and preaching it to all who would listen . A master literary artist , he used all the forms ? essay , drama , poetry , and novel ? for the spread of these new ideas . Because they seemed to threaten traditional religion he found it safer to live most of the later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Friend of kings , princes , and aristocrats as well as the literary elite , he was the acknowledged leader of all those trying to move people toward a happier existence by making known to them the laws of nature and nature 's God . But Voltaire was not alone . His contemporary , Diderot ( 1713-84 ) , who really was a philosopher , devoted his life to disseminating the new world-view of the enlightenment through the publication over almost twenty years of a multi-volumed encyclopedia which contained in its many articles written by experts such as the famous mathematician , D'Alembert ( 1717-83 ) the sum total of knowledge available to the enlightenedman . As each volume appeared , Frenchmen would line up at the public reading rooms to await their turn to read the new volume like a novel . Two other philosophes more famous for their political and social views , the Baron de Montesquieu ( 1689-1755 ) and Jean Jacques Rousseau will be discussed in detail later on . The establishment of Newton 's theory of universal gravitation seemed to place the cap-stone on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regularly established laws which could be expressed mathematically and were completely intelligible to human reason . As a contemporary poet ecstatically expressed it , " God said , Let Newton be ' and there was light . " No longer was the universe dark and mysterious and knowable only to God . With the scientific method developedby Newton and his predecessors , there was no limit to what man night be able to discover about the universe in which he lived . The for/merly unfathomable abyss between lowly man and the omnipotent creator seemed to be closing ? or at least it appeared that it might be as man continued to extend the limits of his knowledge . Intoxicated with this idea and its tremendous boost to man 's self-esteem , the philosophers began to dream of a perfect world here and now ? rather than as something only obtainable in the heavenly realm of future existence . There were two critical assumptions which most seemed to accept with a remarkably unscientificlack of rigor . The first one was that the creator God who made this marvelous machine for man must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and happiness of man . What malevolent God could ever have produced such a marvel for man 's enjoyment ? The second assumption was this wonderful universe designed for man 's happiness and well-being operatedin the area of human relations according to the same regular natural laws as in its physical aspects . Or at least it could if man by study and proper education would only learn what these " natural " laws of the universein the area of human ( including political , social , and economic ) relations were , and put themselves in harmony with them . For most of the philosophes it was the disharmony between the human laws and institutionswhich was the source of all man 's ills and the solution was to bring these laws and institutions into accord with those prescribed by nature . ? Religion : DeismThe first problem of those who adopted these new views was to establish some relationship to the traditional Christianity which they all had been brought up in . For most it was a question of modifying traditionalChristianity to the degree necessary to make a comfortable accommodation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God who might continue to be identified with the God of the Bible so long as the miracles could be dismissed as the fantasies of people who were carried away by religious enthusiasm . This belief was known as Deism and it was undoubtedly a position knowingly or unknowingly held by millions who still considered themselves good Christians . Many like George Washington continued to be churchgoers , but like him discreetly separated themselves from the supernatural elements of the faith ( he withdrew during the administration of Holy Communion ) . Some Deists like Voltaire rejected **25;649;TOOLONG vehemently and completely , and a very small numberof the philosophes even professed atheism.  | Freedom of Belief , Speech , and PressSince the differences between the traditional churches and sects revolvedaround issues which were ultimately theological and therefore supernatural , to the philosophes there seemed to be no basis for establishing the absolute validity of any one set of beliefs as opposed to another . Therefore it clearly was totally irrational and unjustified to persecute anyonefor his religious beliefs or to attempt to control them . The only natural and accordingly proper attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no justification for censoring the writing or speech of anyone on religious grounds . Since the church had been responsiblefor most restrictions on speech and press , the philosophes , most of whom at various times suffered from the effects of this censorship , were enthusiastic supporters of these two civil liberties . ? Faith in ProgressIt was assumed that like the physical laws of the universe the laws governing human relations and activities would apply universally . From this it followed that man and societies when organized " naturally " would basically be all alike , since men from the Eskimos to the South Sea Islanderswere intrinsically similar in their human condition and the fundamental rules of human conduct would be the same wherever the enlightened congregated . The result ( along with the acceptance of French as the languageof culture ) gave the eighteenth century a cosmopolitan aspect that has never existed since . Intellectuals moved freely from one country to another and even between continents , as shown by the experiences of Franklin and Jefferson in Europe . Because of the belief that men had discovered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scientific method , and through education could hope to make the conditions essential to human happiness known and actively sought , it was a century of optimism . Achievement of the golden age was just a matter of time and progress toward it was inevitable . A few , of course , were more impressed by the obstacles than the prospects , but generally complacency or acceptance of the status quo was apparently very rarely felt and even less seldom expressed . Even Voltairewho in his fable Candide seemed to end up by saying that with all the evil in the world one should limit oneself to cultivating one 's garden , obviously never took the advice seriously himself . He never stopped fightingfor causes that seemed to him to be just.  |p334Enlighted  DespotismAll the philosophes agreed that given the new world-view 's stress on individual rights , the aim of the political order was to allow the greatest possible freedom to individuals with only the very minimum of restrictions absolutely essential to the protection of society 's interests . Since this was the most desirable situation , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the laws of a country were brought into harmony with the natural laws of the political order , as far as they could be discernedby a truly enlightened sovereign . Because there would always be some groups and individuals with a vested interest in preserving the old order , the ruler would have to be strong enough to overcome this opposition ? even absolute power might be necessary . But since the properly enlightened ruler could always be expected to know and follow the interests of his people ( with whom obviously his own interests as an enlightenedruler were identical ) , there was no danger of an enlightened despot abusing his power . This classical theory of enlightened despotism , as just described , has been applied to certain monarchs of the eighteenth century who seemed to make an effort to apply the political principles of the enlightenment to their countries . The three foremost examples of enlightened despots are Frederick II ( The Great ) of Prussia , Joseph II of Austria ( co-ruler with his mother 1765-80 , ruler 1780-90 ) and Catherine II ( The Great ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judge by her policies and accomplishments , the Empress of Austria , Maria Theresa ( 1740-80 ) might well be included in this list , but her strongly traditional Catholic religious beliefs led her to reject the ideology of the Enlightenment . ? Frederick the Great of PrussiaThanks in large measure to the work of his father , Frederick inheriteda kingdom which although made up of disparate territories , neverthelesshad received a relatively high degree of administrative centralization . The Prussian bureaucracy was already becoming a model for all Europe , and as long as an active energetic ruler coordinated the administration of the kingdom , it was successful in getting more out of its limited resources than any other country in Europe . The cost was great but at least it was fairly evenly distributed between the towns and the countryside . Even though the Prussian nobility were exempt from regular taxes , they were all required to serve the state in either a civil or military capacity . While it wasp 335true that they held extensive powers over the serfs on their estates , they were also held responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the local level as well as for collecting the taxes from their own serfs . Because of the effectiveness with which this obligation of service was enforced it could perhaps be described as the least unjust social system in eighteenth century Europe . Frederick II consciously embraced the principle of enlightened despotismthat the first obligation of the ruler is to live and rule only for the well being of his people . This principle Frederick expressed most aptly when he described himself as the first servant of the state . For rulers who repudiated traditional Christianity and its doctrine of obligatory obedience to sovereigns , some logical justification for the obligation of obedience to their rule had to be found . Mere hereditary right was not sufficient since in the bright lexicon of the Enlightenment no legal claim was valid unless it could be supported by some principle of justice or utility . Frederick in a sense had to prove his right to the throne by what he did rather than what he was ? a most revolutionary idea if one considers its possible implications . Although it has always been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were not revolutionaries , their doctrine of enlighteneddespotism , although conservative as long as hereditary and traditional rulers were willing to become enlightened , was bound to be subversive of rulers who refused to accept its demands . Since natural laws were expected to be applied universally , it is obvious that throughout the lands of a single ruler all laws should not only be just but uniform . In a state like Prussia made up of a conglomeration of territories extending over 500 miles with quite different historical backgroundsand traditions , the tremendous disparity in laws could only be an offense to the enlightened . Unfortunately for Frederick he could not claim the initiative in starting the vast codification of Prussian law . It had been begun by his singularly unenlightened father , but Frederick gave the projecthis blessing and as much material support as he could spare . The task was not finally completed until after his death , but he clearly deserved the credit for seeing it through . The fact that this enlightened step also greatly improved Prussian civil administration and made the task of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toleration and EducationFrederick II also received high marks as an enlightened ruler for his policy of religious toleration . In a Europe where religious prosecution wasp336still very much alive , Frederick welcomed the exiled Jesuits and offered to build a mosque in Prussia if any Moslems would be willing to come settle there . His record in this area is slightly tarnished by his strong prejudice against Jews , however . The indifference to the tenets of traditional religion which underlay his policy , also led him to virtually suspend censorship of all religious books and to this degree support freedom of speech and thought . Whether this would have been so freely granted had the speech been critical of him or the Prussian state is an open question , but one could say as nasty things as one wished about revealed religion . Since education was to provide the means for producing the perfect society , according to the tenets of the Enlightenment , it was also to Frederick'scredit that he attempted to extend the opportunity for education in his state and to recognize an obligation of the state to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him by initiating an elementaryschool provision , Frederick greatly extended state responsibility for education in 1763 ? at least in theory . With his limited resources , support was always meager and practical results below aspirations . Furthermore , Frederick 's statements made it clear that he supported education because of the greater practical utility of educated citizens rather than as an instrument of social improvement . ? Joseph II of AustriaAlthough Frederick 's adherence to enlightened ideals was impressive , in no case did this require any notable sacrifice of either his own or his kingdom 's interest ? quite the contrary . This was not the case with Joseph II , however , and accordingly he is usually recognized as a much more sincere advocate of enlightenment than his Prussian counterpart . It is also true that his innovations were both more numerous and more radical . His mother , Maria Theresa had made numerous innovations in the Hapsburg state which were perfectly in harmony with the political objectives of the enlightened despots . The bitter experience of the threat to her realm in 1740-48 had made the necessity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too evident . What Maria found was that , except for her Bohemian lands which had lost most of their traditional self-governing privileges in the Thirty Years War , ruling Austria was like having to negotiate with separate independent states so strong and extensivewere the powers of local representative estates . The recently acquired territories in the Netherlands and Lombardy , the traditionally separate kingdom of Hungary , the nuclear lands of Upper and Lower Austria , thep337Tyrol , Styria and Carinola , as well as Bohemia , Moravia and Silesia , were all virtually autonomous units controlling their own fiscal , judicial , and military affairs . The still existing representative assemblies in these areas were completely dominated by the local nobility who generally had no aim other than to safeguard their own local rights and privileges . As soon as the war was over in 1748 , with all except Silesia still intact , Maria ordered the trusted advisers to whom she felt she owed her survival to proceed with the process of modernizing the Hapsburg state . Since this meant removing power from the privileged at the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high order of political skill to accomplish it without throwing the state into turmoil . But Maria Theresa , in spite of her impatience to settle with her arch enemy , Frederick II , carried out the process of centralizing power with consummate skill . While the administrative reforms did not attempt to establish anything approachingcomplete equality of taxation , they did assess the burden more equitablythan in most other countries . Hungary required special treatment as its special claims to autonomy had been recognized as recently as 1723 . But what the Empress could not do directly she accomplished indirectly . Like Louis XIV she began a policy of buying the support of the Hungarian nobility by attracting them to Vienna with promises of favors both of money and power . More and more Hungarians appeared in positions of authority in both the civil and the military administrations . As a result of his mother 's efforts and with his own active participationas co-ruler after 1765 , Joseph in 1780 found himself at the head of a state which had accomplished in twenty years what had taken almost a century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make Joseph 's program all the more difficult to achieve but it did not cause him to slacken his determination to go ahead . Joseph II 's experience furnishes a striking example of the dangers and difficulties of attempting to realize good intentions in an imperfect world . Impatient with his mother who tended to delay the introduction of reforms because she feared the consequences of too rapid change , Joseph attempted to introduce social and economic changes that were not being finally achieved in eastern Europe for another half century . These included the abolition of the degrading conditions of serfdom which existed throughout the Hapsburg Empire , and the establishment of equal liability to taxation of all land holders , regardless of social rank . A secondary and permanent reform was to removejustice at the local level from the hands of the nobility and give it to a government appointed and supported judge . The emperor also pushed for new law codes , some of which were established during his reign and others after his death . In economics Joseph tried to move his realm fromp338the traditional government controls of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In his religious policy he moved with as much daring as seemed feasible in a dynastic state where the Catholic religion provided the single bond of unity besides common allegiance to the ruler . Although he made repeated protestations of his loyalty to the Roman Church , he did not hesitate to regulate church affairs in ways that were highly distasteful to church authorities , and even to treat the pope with studied insolence when he came to Vienna to see if he could persuade Joseph to modify some of his policies . In 1781 he issued an edict which not only sanctioned private religious observances , but opened both the universities and the ranks of the civil service to non-Catholics . He also closed down those still existing cloistered religious orders which had been declining drastically in numbers and religious zeal since the sixteenth century . He applied their wealth to the improvement of social welfare programs . He also restricted the number of religious holidays and attempted to regulate religious ceremonies and processions . Unfortunately these last steps provided a means for his opponentsto stir up peasant resentment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve their conditions . As one would expect of an enlightened ruler , he increased government support of education and particularlyof the University of Vienna . Joseph 's attempts at reform in the social , economic and religious structure of the Hapsburg realm aroused intense and widespread opposition ? unfortunately from all ranks . The nobility understandably objected to their losses resulting from the abolition of serfdom and the establishmentof equal liability to taxation . The serfs found that the new situation did not automatically bring an end to their problems and blamed the government for lack of sincerity as well as effectiveness . They also resentedgovernment regulation of religious observances which had resulted in the abolition of many longstanding and cherished local traditions . Althoughthe bourgeoise might have been expected to support Joseph , its numbers were relatively small except in Bohemia and the Netherlands , and its economic position was often not strong enough to benefit very much by the introduction of his limited laissez-faire policies . As opposition mounted Joseph became more determined to use his power to see that his will was carried out . Police power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition , even from those who otherwise were sympathetic with the aims of the reforms . Outlying portions of the empire such as the Netherlands , Lombardy , and Hungary where ties to the crown were weaker or less well defined , were in open revolt at the time of Joseph 's death in 1790 . No wonder he died feeling that he had failed inp339everything he attempted . His younger brother succeeded him , and althoughan equally strong partisan of enlightened policy ( his Duchy of Tuscany was considered by many to be a model ) was forced to rescind major portions of Joseph 's program in order to re-establish internal peace and order . But those portions which were retained , such as the judicial reforms , did represent a permanent contribution to the continuing viabilityof the Hapsburg state . ? Catherine the Great of RussiaThe Tsarina , Catherine II , is traditionally included among the enlighteneddespots , although all authorities agree that she is least deserving in every respect except her willingness to subsidize the philosophe writers who established her reputation . Even so she is usually excused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and her somewhat shaky claim to the throne made it difficult if not impossible for her to attempt any truly radical enlightened reforms . Because she had occupied the throne only with the acquiescence of the Russian nobility when her husband died under mysterious circumstances ( she had a living son who might have been considered to have a better claim to the throne with his mother relegated to the position of regent ) it was reasonable that she would be extremely cautious about doing anything that would arouse opposition . Besides relieving the nobility of any obligation to service in the army or the government ? obligations which Peter the Great had rigorouslyenforced when he had formalized their ranks and privileges ? she also confirmed the extended rights over their serfs which they had graduallyusurped since Peter 's death . Even the confirmation of the rights of the towns which the Tsarina issued in 1775 made no change in the basic character of an administrative system which gave preponderance to the nobility at the local level . The chief reasons for including Catherine among the enlightened despots were her well-publicized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her policies toward the church . Although she seems to have read many of the works of the philosopher and invited them to visit her so they could instruct her , she seemed to have been most influenced by Montesquieu whose ideas that governments must be suited to the physicaland social environment of the people they ruled , seemed to offer a convenient justification of autocracy in Russia . The size of the country and the variety of its people seemed to indicate that only autocratic rule could be effective . With the church she continued Peter 's policies of secularizationby taking over the lands of the church and making all clergy simply civil servants of the state . The confiscated property was used for the most part for beneficial social welfare projects . Although Catherine II seems to have been aware of the importance of education and the desirabilityof its support , it remained understandably low on her list of prioritiesand little progress was made in this field . ? Development of Laissez-FaireBy the mid-eighteenth century it was being urged that the economic interests of governments and people were identical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a poor country and , the argument went , the state should therefore pursue those economic policies which would bring maximum prosperity to its citizens . This could be best achieved by allowing them to pursue their natural instincts for profit since these would automatically guide them toward the best investment of their money and their labor , provided they were not hindered in their efforts by governmentregulations . One group of economists in France called the Physiocratsdeveloped the theory that if all would follow their instincts and enlightened self-interest , the economy would function like a great machine which would in the end bring the greatest prosperity to all . A Scotsman , Adam Smith ( 1723-90 ) , developed the notion of this wonderful machine a step further by arguing that the pursuit of enlightened economic selfinterest , far from being harmful to the interest of society as traditional Christian economic ethics had held , would be reconciled with the interest of society by the operation of a wonderful and even sort of magical " invisible hand " which could effectively reconcile the most flagrant pursuitof self-interest with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adam Smith 's theory that the wealth of nations ( the title of the book he published in 1776 ) could best be obtained by allowing economic freedom to their citizens , became the basis for the dominant stream of economic thought throughout the nineteenth century and much of the twentieth . The similarity between Adam Smith 's ideas and those of the Physiocrats is shown by the fact that we use the latter 's term " laissezfaire " ( allow one to act freely ) as a convenient description of Smith 's theory . ? Social Structure of Eighteenth Century EuropeThe social structure of most countries in Europe was extremely complex by the eighteenth century but there was a kind of general pat-P341tern . At the top was the relatively small aristocratic or noble class which for the most part derived its wealth from land and in most cases possessed certain formally recognized or even legalized rights or privileges denied to other classes . One of the most common of these was exemption from taxation . This privilege was based originally on the idea that this class by fighting for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) made its contribution in blood rather than money . Over the years other forms of service besides military had likewise been recognized as deserving of the rank and privileges of nobility , and in some cases money alone became sufficient to gain admission to its ranks . Originally this noble class had actively shared powers of government with the crown , but in western Europe they had generally lost this position by the eighteenth century . In the eastern part of the continent ( east of a line running roughly from the Elbe River to the Adriatic ) however , where for local reasons the system of serfdom had been reimposed in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , they still played a key role as administrators and judges for their rulers . Originally in the Middle Ages the only other class ( excepting the clergy who were a corporate group into which one entered by choice rather than birth ) were the serfs who by virtue of their status were required to performcertain services ( later transformed to money payments as serfdom disappeared in western Europe ) for the lords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oppressive servile aspects ( such as uncompensated labor ) had disappeared by the eighteenth century in western Europe , but this seemed to make the few remaining obligations , such as payments when land was inherited , all the more objectionable . Between lords and serfs there had come to intrude a new class , the class in the middle , the new townsmen ? the bourgeoisie . Over the centuriesthis class had grown markedly in size and importance because of its increasing wealth , but by the eighteenth century it probably still constitutedless than 15 percent of the population . As members of the class achieved wealth through their handicrafts or in commerce or banking or governmental finance , the upper ranks found it not too difficult to move into the ranks of the nobility . While it is clear that as a group this class was generally cut off from the privileges and honors of the nobility , many members , by virtue of membership in guilds or professions or other corporategroups , shared in the special rights or distinctions of these groups ? and these were not inconsiderable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privileged of all these corporate groups was the clergy , although their privileges were not shared equally between noble and non-noble members . The status and privileges of the clergy varied greatly from country to country , but in all they constituted a separate and distinct order .   ? The Implications of Enlightenment : Social TheoryAlthough the philosophes generally were not equalizers or social radicals ? quite the opposite in most cases ? their doctrine was bound to be revolutionary in its implications when applied to a traditional society . Since their doctrine affirmed that all men are created free and equal in rights , special rights or privileges could be only rationally justified as a reward for special talents or contributions to the state ? in which case they should be only personal and not transmissible ? or when such privilegescould be justified on the basis of social utility ? perhaps as a means of getting some distasteful or socially necessary task accomplished . The implications of this doctrine therefore were to place in jeopardy all special rights or privileges that were held solely on the basis of hereditary or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the philosophesdid not push the implications of this doctrine very hard , since most of them lived happily on intimate terms with persons of noble status , they always remained in the background as the ultimate justification for proposals for social reform such as the abolition of serfdom and equality of taxation . The degree to which the doctrine of social equality had pervadednot only intellectual circles but French society as a whole became quickly evident during the Revolution when all former social distinctions were abolished in June of 1790 and equality became one of its watchwords . ? Critics of the Enlightenment World-ViewAlthough the great majority of those whom we would call **29;676;TOOLONG embraced the new world-view in the eighteenth century and worked valiantly to spread its message through all available channels of propaganda ( Diderot 's Encyclopedia was only the most famous ) , there were some , however , who rejected it completely as well as some who refused to accept certain particulars , or interpreted its implications differently . Probably the largest group of dissenters was made up of those who remained strictly loyal to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholics in France who remained staunchly loyal to the faith . Although they never attained the intellectual preeminenceor reputation of the philosophes , they did try to continue to keep a pro-church viewpoint alive and before the public . In addition , in both England and Germany movements developed in the eighteenth centurywhich placed emphasis on the importance of emotion rather than reason as the key element in religious commitment . P343Besides the supporters of religious orthodoxy , even adherents of the basic tenets of the Enlightenment differed in their positions on particular topics . Although both Voltaire and Montesquieu were admirers of the English government in the form it assumed after the Revolution of 1688 , Voltaire recognized that it was unrealistic to propose it as a model for the traditional monarchies on the continent . The lawyer and judge , the Baron Montesquieu , on the other hand , perhaps because he recognized that the natural laws of politics were not nearly so easily determinable as his other philosophe friends thought , judged that it might be well to maintain some kind of check on the absolute power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocated a constitution providing for a separationof powers and a system of checks and balances such as he thought he saw operating in England after 1688 . Or as an alternative a system providingfor a powerful , privileged aristocracy which could provide a necessary and salutary check on absolute monarchy . Another dissenter from the political orthodoxy of the philosophes was Jean Jacques Rousseau ( 1712-78 ) . He did not dissent from the idea of the existence of a universal , natural law , he merely disputed whether this was identifiable with human reason . For him the emotions were much more important in determining what was natural than reason . Rousseau also rejected the rules and regulations of eighteenth-century society as artificial and corrupting and urged that men seek a new basis for morality . Contrary to popular view he did not find it in the example of the " noble savage , " since he was well aware that laws and conventions had contributed to man 's moral improvement . But Rousseau 's chief distinction was his insistence , in his since famous but then relatively little known book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless all men living under its jurisdiction had a direct voice in the making of its laws . His insistence on the right of every individual ( male ) to such participation , and his insistence on the immorality of any other system , made him the first modern advocate of the one man-one vote principle . His advocacy of radical democracy put him completely outside the mainstream of **27;707;TOOLONG thought . Generally , even the most liberal political writers took it for granted that the right to vote would be limited to the educated and/or well-to-do . ? Diplomatic Revolution , 1756The brief interval of peace during the first half of the century was interrupted in 1740 when old rivals went to war again . France , allying with Frederick II , resumed her long standing conflict with the Habsburgs , and England renewed her old rivalry with Spain . In the end the Empress Maria Theresa was the only loser at the peace table , and understandably she thought of the peace as only a truce to be maintained until she was ready to make Frederick II pay for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1711-94 ) , recognized that it would be very difficult to accomplishthis aim if opposed by the two best land armies in Europe , France and Prussia . Accordingly , the Empress was persuaded to end the long-time feud with France and seek her as an ally . Frederick played into their hands by initiating a shift from a French to an English alliance in 1756 , and a complete reversal of alliances was quickly accomplished with an abandonedFrance now joining with Austria . When the Tsarina Elizabeth of Russia also joined the attack on Prussia , it seemed as though Frederick 's situation was hopeless . But during the next seven years he showed his true military genius by marching his army from one border of Prussia to the other and always managing somehow to hold off the attacks of his three opponents . ? Seven Years War , 1756-63The opening phases of this war were disastrous for England overseas with Braddock 's defeat in America only one of several setbacks . Public opinion soon demanded the inclusion of William Pitt , the Elder ( 1708-78 ) , into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic and military operations . For the first time the colonial aspects of a war were given higher priority than the European on the grounds that these colonial areas were of greater importance to Great Britain and that any conquests overseas could , if necessary , be used as bargaining points in any settlement of affairs in Europe . In the meantime France , as usual , continued to divide its support between large-scale land operations on the continent and naval and land operations overseas . In the end the result completely vindicated Pitt 's judgment . Spain 's entry into the conflict on France 's side in 1761 was too late to have any effect on the outcome and served only to provide more spoils for England . By 1763 the French had been defeated both at home and abroad , and with Russia pulling out of the war in 1762 , Maria Theresa had to admit that once again she failed in her effort to force Frederick II to return Silesia . The success of Frederick II and Pitt had almost been too great , however . A frustrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight again as soon as they had recovered , but the wily Frederick II for the remainder of his reign was able to forestall Austrian efforts to find some compensations for their loss . On the other hand in 1777 the success of the American colonists in their war for inde/pendence convinced the French that this offered an opportunity to humiliatetheir old rival , England . Their intervention on behalf of the colonists was effective for them , but gained nothing for France but some dearly bought solace for past defeats . ? French Military ReorganizationOne positive benefit for France did emerge , however . As a result of her defeat in the Seven Years War , France undertook a drastic reorganizationof her military machine . Its chief aims were to make forces more mobile and battle more decisive . Eighteenth-century armies tended to be very unwieldy and immobile , as commanders were reluctant to move far from their supply bases , and it was difficult to force the enemy to join battle if he wished to avoid it . If battles were fought , they frequently brought no decisive result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure was evolved using the division as the basic unit . Each division was given all the necessary supporting units ( artillery , cavalry , quartermaster , medical , etc. ) to enable it to operate as a self-sufficient unit which could be relatively easily maneuvered by commanders . Some new weaponry , such as lighter and more mobile artillery , was also developed . These innovations , along with experience gained in the American War and some additional innovations by the revolutionary government , were what provided the basis for French military domination of Europe down to the end of the Napoleonic wars . ? Partition of Poland , 1772In the late 1760 's it appeared that Poland under an enlightened king was making an effort to repair some of the most critical weaknesses of its government which had made it the prey of its stronger neighbors throughoutits history . An elective kingship and a representative assembly which gave each of its members a personal veto had made any really effective government impossible . But none of the great powers wished to see real reform unless they could continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within Poland were also unable to unite behind their ruler . In order to avoid anyone 's taking advantage as Frederick had done with Silesia in 1740 , Poland 's three neighbors , Russia , Prussia , and Austria , agreed in 1772 that each should take an agreed uponp346portion of Polish territory and thereby avoid the dangers of a quarrel over the spoils . Since Poland 's forces were inadequate to resist even one of these powers , there was no alternative but to submit . This so-called " partitionof Poland " stands as the eighteenth century 's classic example of the continuing and constant predatory instincts of all great powers in this century . The means of satisfying them changed from time to time ? becoming more effective ? but the instincts did n't . ? England and the Agricultural RevolutionAs a result of its victories in the Seven Years War , Great Britain and Prussia dominated the period between 1763 and 1789 . Frederick the Great continued his buildup of Prussian power , and skillfully used it to defend the territory which he had acquired at such great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to grow in wealth and power , even though her progress at times seemed to be threatened by internal political tensions . Her trade continued to grow spectacularly ? in part as a result of her victories in the competition for colonial areas ? but in large measure because of the remarkable economic development of the whole European complex . England was in a particularly favorable position because since the beginning of the century she had been going through an agricultural revolutionwhich not only provided the food base for the remarkable increase in population which becomes evident in the second half of the eighteenth century , but also had the effect of making agriculture increasingly profitable . This helped to provide additional capital for the support of commercialventures , or after 1780 for the new machines which were just beginning to revolutionize the production of textiles . The agricultural innovationssuch as the use of lime , marl , or other chemical fertilizers , the use of root crops to restore fertility , the use of horse-drawn implements such as harrows , rakes and seed-drills , seem hardly extraordinary to us . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farms which could be developedby combining holdings and enclosing former communal lands , along with the scientific breeding which became possible with enclosed lands , all resulted in a truly revolutionary increase in agricultural production . Other effects were perhaps not so beneficial . The small independent farmer usuallyfound it almost impossible to compete since he lacked the capital to enclose and fence his land . He either had to become a renter , a daylaborer , or go to the city and provide the labor supply for the newly developing industry . Fortunately the peak of the enclosure movement didp 347not come until the very end of the century when the demand for factory labor was beginning to be quite strong . ? Colonies and the Constitutional CrisisThe only dark spot in this bright picture was the problem of England'srelations with her North American colonies . During the first half of the century , although the colonies were theoretically restricted by mercanp348tilist colonial trading policies , the government generally was tolerant of violations so long as they did not adversely affect English interests . The fact that the colonists used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonists in the West Indies to pay for products bought in England helped to make a policy of " salutary neglect " beneficial to both . The situation changed after the Seven Years War , however , when Britain felt it only reasonable that the colonists should bear part of the burden of paying for the war which had so successfully defended them . This , however , raised the question of just what were the exact powers of the mother country over her colonies , and it turned out in the end that this issue could not be resolved peaceably . Part of the difficulty was that Great Britain herself was going through a kind of constitutional crisis and this tended to complicate markedlythe problem with the colonies . During the reigns of the first two Georges the broad lines of cabinet government and ministerial responsibilityhad developed under Walpole 's skillful handling . Unfortunately , on his death there was no single politician able to carry on as effectively , with the result that control was generally exercised by combinations of interests or factions which tried to establish policies favorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peace , it failed when war came in 1756 and the leaders of the various factions were forced to turn to William Pitt , an individualist whom none of them trusted , but whose ability to arouse the people they all feared . His brilliant management of the war effort made him popular with the masses but not with the young George III who succeeded to the throne in 1760 . The new king had visions of ruling England as a kind of " patriot king " who , by holding himself above all factional interests and party strife , would appoint only ministers with similar ideals and would use his extensive powers of patronage to insure that only men with the proper view of the national interest were elected . If only George III had possessed the capacity ( or perhaps charisma ) to induce people to trust him and accept his views , he might have succeeded . But to a large number of Englishmen , and especially the Whigs whose forebears had revolted in 1688 , the question of who had the right to define the national interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to many that if George III 's views prevailed , English political liberties were once again in danger . Even though most of George III 's opponents supported him on the issue of coercing the American rebels , if there had been a better political climate in England , the issue might either have been settled or avoided altogether . It was failure in the war that finally brought down the king 's man , Lord North ( Prime Minister , 1770-82 ) , and when George III turned to the young William Pittp349(1759-1806) , whom both sides felt they could trust , the crisis was over . Although Pitt and some of the older opponents of the king made gestures toward introducing reforms that would have made a revival of the king 's attempt at " enlightened despotism " impossible , these were quickly forgottenwhen it became evident that all concerned felt safer living with the known short-comings of the old system rather than risking the unknown dangers of trying to bring into being a more truly representative government . The riots in support of John Wilkes , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been useful in the struggle against the king , but there was some fear that they had also perhaps afforded an accurate foretaste of what it might mean to give power to the people . Because the turmoil in France after 1789 only tended to confirm that view , England had to wait until 1832 for her first real Parliamentary reform . ? The Decline of FranceIt was hard for contemporaries to understand what had happened toFrance between 1748 and 1763 . At the former date she was still living onthe capital of prosperity and stable government provided by CardinalFleury and his wise administration , and although she did not gain anything in the war of the Austrian Succession , she had not lost anything either . But gradually the ineptitude and shortsightedness of the rival court factionsthat contended for control of the key ministries after Fleury 's deathbegan to have its effect . Louis XV persisted in his decision to appoint nochief minister , and when Cardinal Fleury died no one appeared to takeover the authority which he had exercised de facto . There were able individualministers at various times , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could coordinate effectively all phases of the governmentbehind a single policy . Absolutism without a single initiating andcoordinating force at the top turned out to be perhaps the worst kind ofgovernment . Louis XV understood his role and at times bestirred himself to play it , but for the most part he refused to do the hard kind of royalhomework that was required if France was to maintain its pre-eminence . The difficulties of Louis ' government were legion , but most of themcould be traced back to one cause ? lack of money . The irony was thatFrance was unquestionably the richest country in Europe in terms ofwealth and resources . So obviously the problem was caused by the royalgovernment 's inability to tap this wealth . In spite of the efforts of Colbertand others , the collection of taxes remained very costly and inefficient . One of the expedients which the monarchy had resorted to in its desperap350tion for money was to sell offices , including that of tax collector . This meant that the government had little or no control over these agents or their performance . Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the taille , was the most important factor in reducing revenues , the tremendous variation in the amounts imposed on those who paid the taille was equally disadvantageous . The amounts , levied by the government on the various provinces were not for the most part based on wealth or population or other reasonable indices , but simply on what had been paid by that province over the preceding years . Certain areas of the country retained the privilege of negotiating with the government over the amount of the tax they were to be required to pay , and understandably these areas usually paid only one-half to one-third of the amount paid by those not enjoying this privilege . Although Louis XIV had attempted toward the end of his reign to introduce new taxes which would have to be paid by all individuals and classes ( except churchmen of course ) the one that was most effective was abandoned as soon as the war which it was supposed to pay for was over in 1714 . There had been an attempt to reimpose it at a reduced level in 1725 , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came up again , this time sponsored by the royal comptroller . The levy was supposed to amount to one-twentieth of income , but the Parlement of Paris , the highest court in the land which , after the death of Louis XIV had recovered its right to " remonstrate " against royal acts , refused to register the new tax . The clergy also refused to pay it . The king , who tried to coerce Parlement by ordering it to register and then exiling its members from Paris when it did n't , was finally forced to accept a compromise . The tax would be paid thereafter , but always in the same amount as in 1748 . The attempt to force the clergy to accept it also failed . Later on during the century in times of special need ( usually war ) a second levy of one-twentieth was added on top of the first ? but always only with the Parlement 's approval . The failure to find new sources of revenue meant that every year the deficit grew larger as each year 's deficit had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest cost to current expenses . Wars only intensified the problem as they always required additional loans and so ultimately higher interest expense . It was this vicious cycle of deficit borrowing ? higher interest payments ? larger deficits , that plagued the monarchy throughout the century . Fortunately the state of the French economy was such that French and foreign financiers were willing and able to provide the loans that were annually required.  | The French ParlementsThe principal obstacle to change in France was the Parlements , with the Parlement of Paris having the largest jurisdiction and the greatest influenceand prestige . During the reign of Louis ) UV these courts had timidly registered all laws without " remonstrance " after Louis early in his reign had lectured them on their duty to their sovereign . But France was only too well aware that under Louis XV royal authority was flaunted in ways that Louis XIV would never have tolerated . Even Louis XV finally lost patience as resistance grew even stronger in the provincial parlements as well as Paris , and in 1771 he dissolved all the old Parlements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of remonstrance . His death in 1774 , however , put an end to this attempt to restore the absolute power of the monarchy . When the young Louis XVI ascended the throne , he was assured by counselors sympathetic to the former Parlements , that if he wished to get his reign off on the right foot , he should restore the Parlements to their former position and powers . Louis XVI was sadly deceived if he believed that by doing this he had earned the court 's gratitudeand support . Within a year the Parlement of Paris was attacking the reform proposals of his comptroller , Turgot , and it continued to harass his government until it provoked the final crisis of 1787-89 . ? Louis XVIAll France had breathed a sigh of relief on the death of Louis XV in 1774 . Like his great-grandfather he had lived far too long . The young Louis XVI was welcomed with enthusiasm and with great hopes for the restoration of France 's power and prestige . The victory of the American colonists with France 's backing restored some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very costly venture with no solid or strategic gains to show for it . When the young king appointed first the experienced administratorTurgot , and then the Swiss banker , Necker , who were both known as advocates of enlightened reform , it seemed as though enlightened despotismhad perhaps at last reached France . But when vested interests at court and the Parlements were able to bring about the dismissal of both ( Turgot 's proposal to extend the annual road tax to the formerly exempt nobility was denounced as in effect " taxation with representation " ) hopes for a new day for France plummeted once again . With the long cycle of prosperity coming to an end in the seventies and with continuing recession in the eighties it was a decade of uncertainty and watchful waiting.  | Although neither Louis XV nor XVI could perhaps qualify as " enlighteneddespots , " it should not be assumed that France was badly governedwhen one got below the top echelon . Recent studies have shown that the intendants in charge of local administration were generally conscientiousand able . Even those holding purchased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well . The chief problem was that the tax structure was incapable of producing the sums of money needed to maintain the kingdom even in times of peace . But understandablyall those who possessed any kind of privilege or exemption were reluctant to accept change and they found in the Parlements powerful supporters of their traditional rights and privileges . But they also had no conception of the seriousness of the crisis which was soon to break upon France and Europe.  |p353THE  CONVOCATION of the Estates General for the first time in almost two centuries has traditionally been thought of as marking the beginning of the French Revolution . In fact , however , it actually began in 1787 when the near bankrupt monarchy found itself compelled to find some means to deal with its financial crisis . With hindsight we can see that the conditions which led to the crisis of 1787 had existed for a century or more , but few people had any comprehension of the possible effects of their cumulative impact with the result the revolution of 1789 came as a complete surprise to contemporaries . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions seemed to be functioning reasonably well . Although some people had complaints , has there ever been a period of history when they have n't ? And while it was true that the government had been forced to seek loans more and more frequently at rising interest rates , there was little or no reason for the general public to suspect that a crisis was imminent . Just before his dismissal in 1781 , the comptroller-general , Necker , had issued the first public statement on the state of royal finances which indicated that the king 's treasury could expect a surplus of income in a normal year . Calonne , the comptroller since 1783 , was supporting an extensive program of public works which seemed to suggest no need for economizing on the part of the royal government.  | ? The First Assembly of NotablesThere was therefore little reason to anticipate the dramatic announcementon the last day of 1786 that the king planned to convene an Assembly of Notables ( all but four of the one hundred and fifty members were nobles ) to advise the king on fiscal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not met for more than a century and a half , it was a highly unusual step to take , even if not revolutionary . What had happened was that Calonne had exhausted the traditional expedients used by the treasury to meet the continuing and mounting deficits , and the monarchy faced the threat of immediate bankruptcy unless some way could be found to increase revenues . When this situation was revealed to the Notables by Calonne at their first session in February , 1787 , the shock effect on both the members of the Assembly , and very soon on France itself , was unprecedented ? especially in view of the recent optimism of both Calonne and Necker . The first reaction of the Notables was to disbelieve the report , but when the existence of a substantial deficit was verified , they next blamed Calonne . As a result , when the comptroller introduced his reform proposals , they examined them with prejudiced eyes . These reform proposals were extensiveand detailed , but the most crucial one was a proposed new land tax which would be paid by all landholders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Assembly were willing to go along with the new tax provided the king was willing to establish a kind of " watch-dog committee " to keep an eye on the treasury . When the king refused to agree ( at that point he was unwilling to consider allowing any group to have permanent surveillance over the crown 's expenditures ) the Assembly refused to endorse the new taxes and was dissolved ( May , 1787 ) . But the crisis remained unresolved . ? The Failure of the Techniques of AbsolutismAt this point , the only course open seemed to be for Louis XVI to force the acceptance of the necessary reforms using the traditional techniquesof royal absolutism . This meant issuing new laws and decrees that would have to be registered by the Parlement of Paris if they were to have legal validity . The Parlement , made up of judges who had bought their office and who had noble status , had been trying throughout the eighteenthcentury to affirm its right to the power of judicial review of all laws proposed by the crown . Ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of Louis XVI 's reign , the Parlement had shown itself more and more inclined to challenge royal financial decrees . Now it not only refused to register the new taxes but called for the convocation of the Estates General as the only body legally authorized to sanction new taxes . This was a truly revolutionary stand since both Louis XIV and XV had introduced new taxes at will without convening that body . Louis XVI went through the traditional forms of directly ordering the Parlement to register the decrees . When it then declared this forced registration to be null and void , Louis ordered the members of the court to leave Paris and to cease their functions ? the usual means used to force the Parlement to do the king 's bidding . Although a compromise was patched up and the court returned to Paris in September 1787 , the fundamental issue was not resolved . Could the crown levy new taxes without the approval of an Estates General ? Over the next six months the king made several unsuccessful attempts to reach an agreement with the Parlement on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was forced to resort to absolutist techniques . On May 8 , 1788 he ordered the establishment of a new system of law courts which would deprive the Parlements of most of their business and also established a new supreme court to take over the Parlement 's old power of registration . Probably because of the popularity of the Parlement 's stand against new taxes these decrees provoked immediate widespread and vocal opposition all across the country . Most of the provincial Parlements protestedvigorously , and in some instances were supported by popular demonstrations . Many lower courts also joined the protest . Many of the Parlementspublished their official protests in pamphlet form . In some instances they were joined by the lower courts and other official bodies such as town councils , as well as many individuals . There was an unprecedented flurry of protests in the form of pamphlets during June , July , and August . Since the Parlements were the traditional agents of censorship there was nothing to stop anyone from publishing his views ? and hundreds did ? especially in Paris and the provincial cities where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers to publish pamphlets in support of its action , the vast majority of the pamphlets were so hostile to the government 's action ? even the clergy who happened to be meeting in a special assembly joined the protest ? that clearly something had to be done to try to win public support . Accordingly the king on July 5 , 1788 issued a decree calling for officials having access to records concerning prodecures to be followed in convening an Estates General to forward them to Versailles . When this hint that a convocation of the Estates Gen- eral was contemplated failed to have any appreciable calming effect , a second decree was issued on August 8 , 1788 formally proclaiming the convocation of an Estates General for May of 1789 . When the king followedthis up quickly with the reappointment of Necker as comptroller , the public 's attitude toward the government quickly changed from hostilityto extravagant praise . ? The Revolution of 1788And well it might since a revolutionary victory had just been achieved as bloodlessly as the English one a century before . The foremost absolute monarch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of the people in an Estates General ! What could have been more revolutionary ? But whereas England in 1688 had a representativegovernment whose powers and role in government had been clearly defined over a period of four hundred years , the Estates General had not met in 175 years . And since the Estates General had never succeeded in becoming anything more than an ineffective and little used adjunct of the French monarchy , no one could say with certainty how it should be convoked , how it should proceed , or just exactly what should be its powersand its relationship to the monarch . But the evidence is overwhelming that the vast majority of Frenchmen in 1788 jumped to the conclusion that the Estates General when it met would have legislative powers comparableto the English Parliament , and that its meeting would be merely the first step toward the development of a constitution providing for limited constitutional monarchy . But how was this transition to be achieved ? How was this body to be organized and how elected ? Suddenly for the first time in their lives Frenchmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real political experience except in those few provinces which still had their local representative Estates . Even there virtually their only function had been to negotiate the annual tax levy with royal officials . Now the French were confronted with the most crucial and difficult of political questions ? how was the power which everyone assumed the monarchy was relinquishing to be divided between the various classes and interests ? The problem had to be at least partially settled before the Estates were either elected or organized , since the mode of election and initial organization would well be decisive in determining the future structureof the government . As in England the initiative in convocation and electoral procedure had to come from the crown , and therefore the probp357lem was how to influence the royal government . At first some of the most influential element , the " patriots " or the " faction americaine , " in the Parlement of Paris , who had taken the lead in calling for the Estates General , feared that the king would try to organize the coming assembly in such a way as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decrees of May 8 and the Parlements were restored to their former position , this faction probably was responsible for the demand by the Parlement of Paris that in organizing the convocation the king adhere strictly to the procedures used in the last Estates General of 1614 . But no sooner had this demand been publicised than it became the subject of a violent wave of protests in the pamphlets which now began to pour from the presses in even greater volume . Since traditionally the three orders of clergy , nobility , and Third Estate had an equal number of representatives , some of the pamphleteers quickly pointed out that the procedure followed in 1614 had been grossly unfair to the Third Estate which represented 98 percent of the people but had only one-third of the deputies . These partisansof the Third Estate immediately accused the Parlement of attempting to organize the coming assembly in such a way as to assure the preponderantinfluence of the nobility and clergy . This accusation whether justified or not quickly ended the popularity of the Parlement . ? Vote by Order or by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been the practice to have twice as many representatives of the Third Estate as either the clergy or the nobility , and a surge of popular feeling now developed in support of this ratio between the number of deputies of each order . Coupled with this , however , was the more radical demand that voting be by head rather than by order . The popular view was that under the old system of voting in the Estates General any action required the approval of each order voting separately ? which of course had the effect of giving each order veto power . If , however , the voting was done with deputies of the three orders sitting together as one body , the Third Estate , if it had double the number of deputies , could with the support of known sympathizers in the other orders always expect to have a majority . This then became the key issue around which all others revolved . The king , now uncertain about the procedures to be followed in the convocation , decided to reconvene the Assembly of Notables and ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of November and finally decided that organization and voting should be by order . By this time a flood of petitions had poured into Versailles from all over the country urging the doubling and the vote by head , so there was little doubt but that this was the popular view . But the leading and most influentialnoblemen had just recommended the opposite . What was to be done ? With a rising tide of pamphlets demanding doubling and the vote by head , the king at the end of December on Necker 's advice ordered the doubling of the Third , but prescribed no change in the manner of voting . This turned out to be the worst course . The Third Estate was angry because he did n't go the whole way , and the nobility was angry because they thought that he intended at some point to go the whole way ( otherwise what was the point of doubling ) . Because of the ambiguity of this decision , leadership , instead of being firmly in the hands of the king tended to fall into the hands of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great intellect but as yet without the experience or the breadth of vision to assume the position of national leadership that was slipping from Necker and the crown . ? The Meeting of the Estates GeneralBeginning in February 1789 the nation began the long and complex process of electing deputies . Only the nobility elected representatives directly to Versailles . Both the other orders went through a process of indirect election in which individuals at the local level chose electors who in turn joined with other electors to choose the deputies . At every level in each order cahiers , or lists of grievances and recommendations , were drawn up and these were finally combined into a summary statement which the deputy was to carry with him to Versailles . What the cahiers make absolutelyclear is that all France , including the nobility and the clergy , wanted to see the establishment of some form of limited , responsible government which could maintain the monarchy , but associate the people with it in some constitutional manner . Although there were , of course , wide variationsin details , the degree of unanimity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most striking . Although some of the recommendations might seem to threaten long standing rights and privileges such as the traditional noble exemption from some taxes , one is impressed by the moderation of both the demands themselves and the tone in which they were made . What happened then to the nation that was seemingly ready to make peaceful but revolutionary change by common consent in May of 1789 ? Unfortunately below this general level of agreement there was the problem of implementation . How were these general principles and aims to bep 359K= Kingdomrealized in an effective working structure of government ? The only means possible in this instance was the Estates General which in the eyes of the majority of Frenchmen was itself not organized in such a way as to give just and proper weight to the wishes of all citizens . Since the Third Estate had neither organization nor arms , nor even the will for violence at this point , the only possible technique was passive resistance ? the deputies could abstain from doing anything after the opening ceremony on May 5 , 1789 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was the course they followed and for six weeks there was a stalemate . Nothing could be done because the deputies of the Third Estate refused to organize unless it was agreed that credentials would be verified by a committee of the whole body rather than just by each order verifying its own . This action was revolutionary in the sense that it was a defiance of royal orders , but it was passive disobedience of the kind which Parlements had used effectively for centuries . When the royal government failed in its attempt to develop a compromise acceptable to either the nobility or the clergy , the deputies of the commons ? as they were beginning to call themselves ? on June 17 took the bold step of declaring that since they effectively represented 98 percent of the people , they should be considered a National Assembly . They also invited deputies of the other two orders to sit with them . Some of the most enthusiastic sympathizers from the other two orders ( members of the lower clergy particularly ) did begin to drift in , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Third Estate were apprehensive when they arrived at their meeting place on June 20 and found it closed and under guard . Fearing that this might be merely preliminary to dismissing them , they adjourned to a nearby indoor tennis court where they joined in a solemn oath to never disband until France had a constitution . ? The Victory of the Third EstateIt turned out that the hall was merely closed to prepare it for a royal session on June 23 at which the king offered a further compromise on the issue of the vote . His proposal which called for the vote by head on some matters such as taxation and by order on matters involving only the interests of that order , might have been acceptable in the first days of May , but by now the Third Estate had begun to feel its power . When the king ordered them to leave the hall at the conclusion of the session , the renegadenobleman , Mirabeau , who had been elected as a deputy of the Third Estate and had quickly established leadership of that body refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will to order them forcibly expelled . They felt confident of the support of the Parisians and strong in their own solidarity . The following weekend there was rioting in Paris when a rumor of Necker 's dismissal circulated , and for the first time members of the Parisian guard openly fraternized with the rioters . A frightened royal government finally capitulated to the pressure of the Third Estate and on June 27 , 1789 ordered the nobility and clergy to join with the Third Estate in a single assembly which now became truly national . Because no legitimate means seemed to be available , the Third Estate had resorted to the extra-legal means of passive disobedience and had succeeded in forcing the royal government to accept its demands . To manyp361in the privileged orders this seemed to confirm their fears that the Third would have little respect for tradition or precedent . The nobility in the Estates from provincial areas were generally far more conservative than the liberal , more broad-minded nobility of Paris , and the tactics of the Third convinced many both within the Assembly and outside that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be risked . There was a resultant solidifying of resistance to change among those who held favored status under the old regime which was ultimately to make nobility synonomous with counter-revolution and to make it , along with the clergy , the objects of a social revolution carried out by act of the Assembly which stripped them of their privileged status . Another effect of the royal order of June 27th was to change the nobility from the foremost opponents of royal absolutism ? a role they had played ever since the feudal era ? to the most ardent and persistent defenders of the king and his royal authority . Since they both based their position and power on inheritance and tradition they obviously had a common enemy in any class or a group that wished to establish other criteria such as ability or talent as a basis for political power or social prestige . Unfortunately , Louis XVI did not see the danger of this embrace by the nobility , and ultimately it cost him his life . Despite the king 's concessions a majority in the royal council believedthat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . Regular troops were moved into the vicinity of Versailles and Paris and no one was really convinced when the king declared that they were there to protect the Assembly . Finally on July 12 some members of the royal council who were alarmed at the direction events seemed to be moving persuaded the king to dismiss Necker and replace him with someone who would stand firm . When this news reached Paris , the citizens , seeking means to defend themselves against an anticipated attack by royal troops , sought arms in the various royal buildings in the city ? among them the Bastille . When the governor of that formidable fortress refused admittance , the mob proceeded to storm it . During the bloody events of that day ( some of the defenders of the Bastille and some public officials were lynched ) cooler heads used the occasion to seize control of the city from its royal officials and establish a new popularly elected governing body with its own citizen militia ? soon to be called the National Guard . Louis refused to send troops to the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to the city hall in Paris to help them celebrate their victory . When he was persuaded to pin on the new red , white and blue cockade ( the white of the Bourbons combined with the red and blue of Paris ) it was only the first of many efforts by leaders of the Third Estate to identify Louis withp362the new forces now at work in France , but it was a role he never could bring himself to play convincingly . ? The Spread of Revolutionary ActionAfter the capture of the Bastille and the establishment of the new municipal government in Paris , the tempo of revolutionary action greatly accelerated . Hearing of events in Paris , eager supporters of the Third Estate in provincial towns and cities proceeded to democratize their own municipalgovernments . The occasional violence which resulted undoubtedly contributed to the phenomenon which swept the countryside during the last weeks of July now generally known as the " Great Fear . " The fall of 1788 had been marked by an unprecedented failure of crops coming on top of a general economic recession which hit when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1770 's . By the following summer there were serious shortages of grain and prices had skyrocketed . As a result there seems to have been an unusually large sort of floating population of migrant or displaced persons who were mixed with the usual rural underworld of beggars , smugglers , and petty thieves . Given the state of tension which had existed in France for more than a year ? and the process of electing deputies and drawing up cahiers made even the remote rural inhabitants aware that momentous events were underway ? it is understandable that rumors that neighboring villages had been attacked by " brigands " could easily sweep across the countryside in a wave of fear and panic . It is also understandable that the villagers could reasonably believe that the nobility who seemed most threatened by the events of the precedingmonths were responsible for the instigation of these attacks . When the villagers picked up staves and pitchforks , or whatever was at hand , and banded together to defend themselves they quickly saw an opportunity to free themselves from the bitterly resented monetary obligations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of seigneurial rights . In many instances they marched to the seigneur 's residence , demanded the legal documents upon which their obligations were recorded and proceeded to burn them . Except in a very few instances where the seigneur resisted , there was no bloodshed and very little actual violence . But the number and extent of these illegal acts of defiance led to the impression that the whole countryside was in arms and was in the process of attacking the unpopular vestiges of the old feudal seigneurial system . To all responsible officials and to all citizens who believed that respect for the rights of property was a fundamental prerequisite for anyp364society , it was obvious that something had to be done to restore order . On the night of August 4 in accord with well laid plans a number of noble deputies arose in the National Assembly in turn and voluntarily renounced the seigneurial obligations which they held personally . Others quickly followed the example and someone then proposed that such obligations be legally abolished . By the early morning it was said that the vestiges of the feudal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws took several days to work out and in the end it was found that the members of the Assembly had not been so radical or so generous as first appeared . The rights which infringed on personal freedom such as the prohibitions against having arms or hunting , or requiring the performance of any demeaning personal services were abolished outright . But those obligations which arose from property such as the cens or quit-rent , or the payments due when lands changed hands , all of these were to be redeemed ? meaning that the peasant landholder had to buy them off over a specifiedperiod . Furthermore in the case of dispute about obligations , the burden of proof was to be on the peasant . Even though the results were obviously far short of what the peasants would have liked ? and what they eventually got in 1793 ? they were too radical for the king . For the whole month of September the Assembly waited in vain for his approval . ? Declaration of the Rights of Man and the CitizenMeanwhile for the rest of August the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would follow in drawing up their constitution for France . Collectively these principles were based on the fundamental beliefs of the Enlightenment respecting man 's rights as a human being and as a citizen . Starting with the inherent freedom and equality of man , the declaration went on to spell out what the majority of the Assembly felt were the necessary conditions to secure these rights . Men need to be secure in their persons and property , but able to enjoy the right to do anything which is not expressly forbidden by law . Law is the expression of the general will . All citizens have a right to take part in the making of this law either directly or through their representatives . Citizens are entitled to freedom from arbitrary arrest or the presumption of guilt until proved . They are also guaranteed freedom of speech , press and religiousopinion . Taxes must be approved by all citizens and must be apportionedequally according to capacity to pay . No one can be deprived of his property without due process of law . All citizens are eligible for any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people for theirp365actions . As might be expected the main points of the Declaration were directed chiefly toward specific grievances against the old regime , but it was broad enough to provide a general basis for liberal movements throughout the next century . As hunger got worse during September and the king delayed his approval of the August 4 decrees , popular tension once again erupted and the women of Paris staged a march to Versailles . With a minimum of violence they succeeded in getting both the Assembly and the royal family moved to Paris where the sovereign people would presumably be better able to keep an eye on them . This was to be the last serious instance of violence for the next two years while the Assembly completed its work . ? The Work of the Constituent AssemblyThe National ( also called Constituent ) Assembly then set about the difficult task of not only drawing up a constitution but also trying to deal legislatively with the most pressing problems of the moment . The first serious rifts in the ranks of the supporters of the Revolution began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the king with respect to the Assembly was being debated , as well as the question of whether legislative power should be in the hands of one or two houses . These were , of course , fundamental constitutional issues and when the body had decided on a unicameral system and only a suspensive veto , some deputies who believed in the necessity of strong monarchy for stabilityfelt that the decision would so fatally flaw the new constitution that they turned against the Revolution . This pattern was to be repeated again and again as legislative decisions were made . The result was a continuing draining away of revolutionary support not only in the Assembly but in the country as a whole . The narrowing base of popular support for the Revolution was to make the problem of governing France increasingly difficult and the trend was not to be successfully reversed until the Terror ? and then only temporarily . The Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizens had stated the principles on which the new structure of society and government were to be based and it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put them into effect . This meant uprooting the many aspects of the old regime which violated the principles of freedom and equality and introducing the new elements necessary to secure them . In government and administration the general pattern followed was to try to reverse the long-term pattern of centralization which had been characteristic of the monarchy . Eighty-three departments with uniform structure were established in place of the old provinces with their widevariations in traditions , rights , and privileges . The departments were to be governed by elective assemblies as were towns and cities . All local officials including mayors , judges , tax collectors and ultimately even priests were to be locally elected . In one critical respect the Assembly seemed to depart from its stated principles . Rather than universal male sufferage and eligibility for office , qualifications for voting were set up which divided France into " active " ( those with the right to vote ) and " passive " citizens . Although the propertyqualification was set relatively low ( payment of taxes equal to wages for three days labor ) it was still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disenfranchised . The qualifications for eligibility to hold office were much higher and limited the number eligible to about 50,000 ( out of a potential electorate of about six million ) . The major economic problem was the deficit . What had been the king 's problem now became the Assembly 's problem . It is usually the policy of revolutionary governments to repudiate the debt of the governmentthey overturn , but in this case the revolutionaries were not really overturning the king . Besides a large proportion of the money he owed was owed to them or members of their class . The only solution to the immediateproblem seemed to be to borrow more money to tide the Assembly over until the new government could restore fiscal health . Unfortunately those with money were not impressed with the new government 's prospectsand initial attempts to float loans were only partially successful . Then in November the Assembly , with the financial crisis in mind , passed an act placing the vast property of the church at the disposal of the nation . Within a few months they were using this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for actual negotiable paper money called assignats . The extensive lands of the church were to be sold off and paid for with assignats which would then be destroyed . In this way the amount of assignats in circulation would gradually be reduced . At first the system worked well with assignats circulating at nearly face value , but as opposition to the revolution mounted confidence in the assignats fell to such a degree that by 1792-93 they were circulating at about one-third of their face value . But in the meantime they had enabled the Assembly to survive the financial crisis . ? The Civil Constitution of the ClergyBut only at inestimable cost , however , for the appropriation of church lands immediately involved the Assembly in religious affairs . Bep367cause it took over the source of much of its income , the government felt obliged to provide financial support for the church and as long as it was paying the bill it seemed only reasonable to reorganize the church along lines more in accord with the principles of the revolution . All priests and other officials were to be elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . The Assembly was surprised to find that many churchmenconscientiously refused to accept the new arrangement called the Civil Constitution of the Clergy and began to agitate against the Revolution . The government responded by requiring all priests to take an oath affirming their support of the Civil Constitution . When some of the clergy refused , conscientious Catholics sought them out rather than receive the sacraments from priests that had capitulated to the state . The climax came when the papacy formally condemned the Civil Constitution and other acts of the National Assembly directed against the church such as the abolition of monasteries . This made it impossible for a conscientious Catholicto support the Revolution any longer . The cause of counter-revolution thus received its greatest assist and French society was cleft by a rift that still has not healed . ? Opposition of the KingThe most important conscientious Catholic was the king himself . The decision of the pope plus the other actions of the Assembly which had restricted his traditional powers made him easy prey for those members of the court and the nobility who wanted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1791 he had decided to try to escape from the control of the Revolution in Paris and seek refuge across the border where all who deplored the course of events in France could rally around him . When this well planned and very nearly successful escape effort failed France was in trouble . The Constituent Assembly had just about completedits work on a constitution in which the monarch had to play a key role . Yet the monarch had not only attempted to abandon his post , but in a statement left behind him strongly criticized many of the actions of the Assembly and the provisions of the proposed constitution . It may seem surprising in view of this that the Assembly did not just let him go and wish him Godspeed . But for over eight centuries France had followed the principle of hereditary monarchy , and many otherwise very radical revolutionarieswere as yet unwilling to deviate from the monarchical principle . Therefore when Louis XVI showed himself willing to reconsider , the Assemblywas willing to go along with the patently false explanation that thep368king had never intended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there seemed to be no alternative but to appear satisfied with each other . The Revolutionaries , however , obviously could never completelytrust Louis XVI again in spite of his outward acceptance of the new constitution . ? The Counter-Revolutionary MovementThe new constitution went into effect in September of 1791 and the newly elected body called the Legislative Assembly began to try to deal with the legacy of problems left to it by its predecessor . The most pressing of these was the growing disillusionment with the Revolution and the growing strength of an active counter-revolutionary movement . The first counter-revolutionaries were noblemen who found themselves unable to accept the events of Bastille day . The foremost examples were the king 's brothers , the Count of Artois and the Count of Provence and as the revolutionary program unfolded other noblemen and their families followed their example and went into exile . Even after the decrees abolishing nobility were passed in June , 1790 the numbers leaving were not large , but these were not ordinary people . Many were among the oldest and most illustrious members of the European aristocracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not far from the French frontier and began organizing a military force . The king 's escape attempt involved the help of French troops whose noble officers considered their foremost loyalty to be to the king and not to the Assembly . A steady barrage of counter-revolutionary propaganda was kept up from just across the border of the Empire . So long as Louis XVI had maintained an outward appearance of accepting the changes being made in France , the other rulers remained officially perfectly correct in their attitude toward developments in France and generally rebuffed the attempts of emigres nobles to get support for a counter-revolutionary offensive against France . But once Louis ' escape attempt seemed to show that he was an unwilling participant in events in France , the other crowned heads in Europe began to show more concern . Louis ' acceptance of the constitutionmade it difficult for them to be too openly hostile , and there is reason to believe that the declaration drawn up at a meeting of the Emperor Leopold II , the queen 's brother , with King Frederick William II of Prussia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the emigres rather than a genuine threat to France . What the joint declaration that emerged from the meeting said , however , was that the two rulers deplored what wasp369happening in France and urged that action be taken jointly by all powers to try to restore the king to his former position . Since it was known to the makers that several powers , including Great Britain , had no intention of taking action and that accordingly joint action was impossible , it was clearly intended to give the emigres the illusion of support without the substance . But when the document was published and circulated in France by counter-revolutionary agents , it must have sounded like a very real and dangerous threat to the average Frenchman . ? Revolutionary Reaction Toward Other PowersUp until this time the Revolutionaries had matched their revolutionaryfervor for internal change with an equally revolutionary pacifistic policyin foreign affairs . In the spring of 1790 in reply to an inquiry from Spain whether France would honor the long-standing alliance with Spain and join the latter in a war on England , the National Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in self-defense . But with the seemingly mounting hostility of Austria and its ally Prussia , the new Legislative Assembly began to experience a change of attitude . Although it is now recognized that the declaration made by the rulers of Austria and Prussia at Pillnitz in August , 1791 was only meant to sound threatening , the Legislative Assembly and most Frenchmen were not aware of this . But whether intended as a real threat or not , it provided a basis for supporting a war initiative by a faction of the Assembly which wanted to take aggressive action against the growing threat of counterrevolution . It was too tempting not to use the patriotic appeal of the " country in danger " in order to get the popular support needed to force their more radical views on the more conservative members of the Assembly . When they were joined in turn by some of the conservatives who hoped to use the war as an excuse for a conservative military takeover , as well as by supporters of the king who thought that a war would provide the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became almost inevitable . On April 20 , 1792 a declaration of war against Austria was passed with only a handful of members dissenting . Prussia in accordance with its alliance with Austria in turn declared war on France . At first the strategy of the radical faction known as the Girondists , seemed to have backfired when the initial military operations ended disastrously . But they were able to attribute the blame to the alleged treason of the king who was suspected by many to be conveying military information to the enemy . When a large Austro-Prussian force crossed the eastern border on the road to Paris at the end of July , tension mounted . Petitions demanding the removal of the king and the establishment of a new constitutionwere presented to the Assembly and these began to get vocal supportfrom the populace of Paris . When the commander of the invading army , the Duke of Brunswick , issued a proclamation at the end of July threatening the citizens of Paris with dire punishment if they harmed the royal family , the complicity of the king seemed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group known as the Jacobins which at this time included most of the Girondists . On the night of August 9 well organized forces attacked the royal residence , the Tuileries , and the royal family was forced to take refuge with the Legislative Assembly . Unfortunately the order to cease fighting never reached the king 's Swiss Guard and casualties were heavy on both sides . The following day the Assembly declared the king removed and called for the election of representatives to a new constitutional conventionwhich would be charged with establishing the government of the first French Republic . In effect a second French Revolution had been accomplishedby the Parisian populace along with the detachments of army volunteers from the provinces which were passing through Paris on their way to the endangered frontier . The most famous of these was the detachmentfrom Marseilles which brought its stirring new revolutionary song with it . ? The First RepublicAlthough the principal reason for the second revolution was the impossibility of maintaining a constitutional monarchy without the willing cooperation of the monarch , it is also true that its fall was initiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a much more radically liberal regime ? one more democratic , more egalitarian , and more anti-religious than the one that had just fallen . But when the National Convention met for the first time on September 20 , 1792 and was given a chance for survival by a victory at Valmy over the Austro-Prussian invaders on the same day , it became evident that even a body which had been elected for the most part by what was probably the radical minority of the French electorate , could not agree on policy . The Girondists who had been the radicals in the Legislative Assembly quickly became the right wing in the Convention . The new radical wing was called the Mountain because its adherents sat in elevated seats to the left of the speaker 's rostrum . As the Convention had to deal with different issues such as the fate of the king ( he was executed in January , 1793 for treason against the people ofp371France ) , the prosecution of the war , control of the economy , and control of counter-revolutionary activities , the divisions within it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control by the Conventionover the departments , especially where fighting or **29;736;TOOLONG was going on , and more rigorous economic controls to assure supplies for the military and cheap food for the masses . Increasingly frustratedduring the spring of 1793 in its efforts to get its policies adopted , the Mountain appealed to the radical revolutionaries of the city for support . They responded by surrounding the Convention building and demandingthe exclusion of those Girondist deputies opposed to the Mountain'sprogram . The Convention made a feeble show of resistance but soon gave in to the pressure . As a result from the beginning of June 1793 the Mountain was in control . ? The Reign of TerrorOutside of Paris there was considerable opposition even from loyal supporters of the Revolution to a government in Paris controlled by the radicals of the Mountain with the support of the Parisian mob , and at one time as many as half the departments were refusing to obey the Convention'sorders . This situation in combination with the threat of invasion from without led the Convention to adopt the policy of terror . Beginning in July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hands of a committee made up of twelve members of the Convention called the Committeeof Public Safety . It had full control over both military and civil affairs . Following a policy of conciliation on the one hand by offering amnesty to those who were willing to cease their opposition to the rule of the Convention and terror on the other in dealing with those who refused to lay down their arms , the Committee managed to keep France from collapsing internally while at the same time seeing that the army 's ranks were filled ( general conscription of manpower was introduced ) and its soldiers supplied with food , clothing , and weapons ( the government had the power to requisition any needed items ) . Altogether about 17,000 persons were executed during the Terror and although Revolutionary justice was inevitably crude and guilt by associationwas an accepted principle , probably most of these were guilty of overt acts against the government . Many like the former queen , Marie Antoinette , were not guilty of any overt acts but certainly guilty of hostile feelings toward the Revolution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee and the ranks of the Convention the crisis appeared to be under control by the spring of 1794 . There was mounting criticismp372from some members of the Convention who believed that the Terror and other controls over individuals ( both economic and personal ) should be relaxed . On the other hand there were some groups both inside and outside the Convention calling for even more radical measures . Maximilien Robespierre , prominent member of the Jacobins since the early days of the Revolution and a leader of the Mountain who had great influence both in the Convention and in the Committee of Public Safety persuaded his colleagues on the Committee to send to the guillotine those who opposed the policies of the Committee from either the right or the left . Thus in the spring of 1794 the Terror was turned into a political weapon . Up until this time it had been directed primarily against those who either had or threatened to take up arms against the Revolution , and most of the executions had taken place in the rebellious departments . In the spring most of the executions took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a threat or supposed threat to the authority of the Convention . Since this posed a potential threat to all members of the Convention , some began to think about ways to rid themselves of the Committee . By July , with French troops everywhere on the offensive outside France , a successful plot was developed within the Convention by members who as representativesof the Convention in rebellious areas had incurred the wrath of Robespierre because of cruelty or corruption . Although it was not the intention of these conspirators to end the Terror , but only Robespierre 's control of it , the Convention seized the opportunity to re-assert itself and proceeded to dismantle the machinery of control . Reaction against not only the Committee of Public Safety but also against the Mountain and its policies soon followed . Those ousted Girondists who had managed to escapeexecution were allowed to return to take their seats . ? The DirectoryThus when the Convention finally completed its task of making a new constitution in the spring of 1795 , the result was a document far less radical than the one drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never put into effect . It called for a bicameral legislature , and executive authority was to be wielded by a council of five men called the Directory . This title was given to the whole government which took power in September of 1795 ? but not under the most auspicious circumstances . The members of the Convention wished to forestall the possibility that free elections under the new constitution might lead to the election of a royalist majority . For this reason they proposed that two-thirds of theirp373number should be guaranteed seats in the new legislative bodies . Although this proposal won a slight majority in the nationally held referendum on the question of accepting the new constitution , it lost heavily in Paris and especially in the conservative , well-to-do districts . When the results of the vote were announced , the conservative sections of Paris attempted to organizea popular movement against the still sitting Convention , but they were thwarted by the effective defense of its building by a young general of artillery named Buonaparte . As a result a month later the Directory was able to formally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in seats in one or the other of its two legislative bodies , the Council of Ancients ( limited to married men over forty ) or the Council of 500 . What was desperately needed in France was a government of reconciliation , a government that could re-unite the country and restore a sense of national community . Unfortunately the circumstances of its inception made it virtually impossible for the Directory to accomplish that task . Unsure of itself from the beginning , the government struck out violently , using extra-legal procedures to void elections and thereby making itself vulnerable to those who in turn believed themselves thereby justified in using violence against it . In 1797 the Directors even had to go so far as to call on the army to support them in a coup directed against a resurgence of the Right in the elections of that year ? certainly a dangerous procedure for a government which supposedly based its power on the will of the people . Historically the Directory has had a bad name . No great leaders emerged from its ranks , and generally its members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mostly middle-class men of property with little inclination to try to win over or even to understand the mass of the people . They placed stability before democracy when they found they could n't have both , but in the end they had to give way to one who seemed to offer even more stability than they ? Napoleon Bonaparte . ? The Rise of General BonaparteGeneral Bonaparte had deserved a reward for saving the Convention in 1795 , and finally accepted the offer of the command of the Army of Italy in the dual attack on Austria planned for the summer of 1796 . One army was to drive due east across Germany , and the other was to advance north from Italy . At that point the Republic had been at war for almost four years and had achieved spectacular success . French armies occupied both the Austrian Netherlands and virtually the whole left bank of thep374Rhine . Prussia , along with Spain and Sardinia which had entered the war at the same time as England in February , 1793 , had dropped out of the war during 1795 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace which left France holding the Austrian Netherlands . France , proud of the success of her citizen armies , felt that there had to be some compensation for the blood and money she had expended since 1792 . To suggest the relinquishing of any gains simply to achieve peace was looked upon as unpatriotic . Accordingly the only alternative was for the war to continue . General Bonaparte in his first field command showed himself a masterat using the new army , fashioned by combining the new tactics , organization , and weapons developed after the disastrous defeats of 1756-63 , with the masses of skilled , well-disciplined , and highly motivated soldiers provided by the Revolution . It was a combination unmatched by any other power in Europe and was to provide the basis for French domination for the next twenty years . In a series of lightning-like attacks which saw troops moved with unprecedented speed to decisive strategic points , Napoleonin the summer and fall of 1796 quickly defeated the forces of the Austrians and their Italian allies . As General Bonaparte gained control of northern Italy he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new names and new governments . Although the Directory had little interest in the future of Italy , it had no alternative but to accept Napoleon 's actions . Could the Revolutionary Republic of France deny the benefits of liberty to other people ? More importantly satellite governments could be more easily exploited as they were forced to supply both money and ultimately troops to their French liberators . By his victories and his levies on the new republics , as well as by unofficial looting of works of art , Boneparte made war pay ? a factor of crucial importance to the financially hard-pressed Directory . When the General made peace with Austria in 1797 the terms gave France more than she wanted in Italy and less than she wanted on the west bank of the Rhine , but the Directory was again forced to go along . Later after he supplied military support to the Directors in the crisis of September , 1797 Napoleon became even more difficult to control . By this time he was a national hero in France , but the defeat of Austria had left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attacking her through the Suez life-line to India led to the disastrous Egyptian expeditionof 1798 . Cut off by Admiral Nelson 's destruction of the French fleet , Napoleon was lucky to get safely back to France after having abandoned his army in the summer of 1799 . He attempted the risky journey because Austria had renewed the war with France and had been joined this time by Russia which resented the French foray into the eastern Mediterranean . The Era of the French Revolution and Napoleon 375 ? Napoleon Takes PowerWhen Napoleon landed in France , he found the Directory shaken though still in power . Some of its members who had lost faith in it approachedBonaparte to see if he would be willing to provide the military force needed to overturn the Directory and replace it with a new and stronger government which could provide greater stability to the country . The General agreed to go along but showed himself to be much less adept at planning a political coup than a military campaign . Although no one had any real enthusiasm for the Directory , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to bow to Bonaparte 's demands for special powers to save the government from an alleged conspiracy of leftists . Even though Napoleon himself fainted away at a crucial moment during the attempted coup d'etat , his brother who was chairman of the Council of 500 kept his head and saved the day . On his order last ditch resisters were chased out of the assembly hall at bayonet point by Bonaparte'smen and the General 's supporters who remained proceeded to vote him the power to draw up yet another new constitution for France . This one , with modifications , provided the basis for Napoleon 's rule until 1814.  | ? Napoleon Reorganizes FranceThe new government was known as the Consulate , after the title of the holders of executive power . Although there were three Consuls only the First Consul had any real power , and it represented very little change for Napoleon to simply change his title to Emperor in 1804 . The constitutionthat Napoleon constructed returned to the tradition of absolutism and centralization that had been pursued by French kings since the Renaissance . But Napoleon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he became Emperor ) had more of the characteristics of the enlightened despotism which France had missed out on in the eighteenth century . His government was a regime of intelligent and conscientious administrators who approached problems with the rationality expected of men who had been educated in the era of Enlightenment . There was just enough popular participation to give the illusion of responsibility , but not enough to impede the rational treatment of problems . The public was allowed to approve by plebiscite important constitutional matters , such as the establishment of the position of emperor , and also to elect a permanentbody of electors which provided members for various legislative and executive bodies . The legislative bodies were supposed to rubber-stamp the acts of the elite Council of State , but when they showed slight signs of independence in 1808 , Napoleon abolished them . In order to insure the execution of policy down to the lowest level , department and district heads as well as mayors were all appointed by the government in Paris . It seemed as though the old intendant had merely been given a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temper of the French people unerringly . What they really wanted was stability ? the kind of stability that would result not only from a firm hand restoring order in areas still in armed revolt , but also from the capacity to effect a reconciliation between the various factions of a highly fragmented French society . This service Napoleonwas in a unique position to supply . He owed his elevation to no particular class or group and therefore could act completely independently using men of talent of any background . On several occasions he took pains to dissociate his regime from either republican or royalist factions . Napoleon 's reorganization of the government , his legislation , and his policies soon established his popularity . It was evident that he meant to preserve the major changes of the Revolution while rejecting its extremes . By a concordat with the papacy which accepted the Revolution 's dispositionof church lands , he healed the long standing schism with the church . Catholics could now support a French government with enthusiasm for theThe Era of the French Revolution and Napoleon 377p377first time since 1790 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were confirmed in their possession . The abolition of the vestiges of the seigneurial regime also remained in force , thus insuring the support of the peasantry . Honors and titles were revived , but only as rewards for merit . The equality of all citizens before the law was confirmed by the series of law codes drawn up at the instigation of the Emperor who personally participated in the discussion of several of their provisions . The famous Napoleonic code constituted the Emperor 's most enduring monument . On the other hand , some elements of the new regime were not so favorable . The liberty of speech , press , and assembly which had been enjoyed during most of the Revolution were increasingly restricted . Also as the wars went on the levies of men and money which the Emperor required became more and more burdensome . But to most Frenchmen these disadvantages were a small price to pay for the stability and glory which the great Emperor brought to France , and there was almost no evidence of serious discontent until the very end of his regime.  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have many opportunitiesto make peace if he had been willing to put a halt to the arbitrary changes he kept making in the map of Europe . These seemed to be without any clear purpose , unless it was ? as many feared outside France ? to establish France 's domination of the continent . Immediately after he assumed power he made mother quick campaignin Italy and once again forced Austria to accept peace . England too at this time seemed receptive to peace terms , and in 1802 at Amiens she signed perhaps the most unfavorable treaty Great Britain has ever knowinglyaccepted . But Napoleon , seemingly could not quietly accept the status quo , and almost immediately he began to make unilateral changes in the boundaries of his various satellite republics in Italy and central Europe . The English could only conclude that peace with Napoleon on any terms except complete surrender was impossible . Consequently in 1803 they resumed their long struggle to free the continent of his domination ? as the principle of the balance of power required . But Napoleon 's subsequent victories over combined Austro-Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Russia in 1807 , made him master of Europe . At a meeting with Tsar Alexander I of Russia after that defeat they rearranged boundaries and rulers to satisfy their mutual interests . Napoleon who was already dreaming of establishing a dynasty placed his brothers on the thrones of Holland , Spain , and Westphalia . Meanwhile he consolidated dozens of the smaller states in the Holy Roman Empire into a number of larger principalities which were then arbitrarily reassigned to rulers who would agree to support him . These were then joined together in what was called the Confederation of the Rhine ? thus , ironically , probably speedingup the process of German unification by at least a half century . ? The Continental SystemAfter 1806 Napoleon 's policies were more and more governed by his new strategy for the defeat of England . Although French ships were superiorin design ( the best English fighting ships were those captured from the French ) the English remained masters of the sea ? as was proved conclusivelyat Trafalgar in 1805 . Even if Napoleon had used his far larger land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have needed the trained men to man it , which might take longer than building the ships . A quicker and less risky course seemed to be to use the weapon of economic warfare . TradeThe Era of the French Revolution and Napoleon 379p279wars were nothing new to mercantilist Europe , but what Napoleon proposedwas on a larger scale than ever before . The aim of what became known as the Continental System was to close the continent of Europe to English trade completely , since her economic viability depended on her commerce with the continent . While the project seemed theoretically sound , its success depended on whether he could really shut off English trade significantly . For the next six years implementation of this policy by any and all means was his primary objective . When Portugal refused to close her ports to British ships , they could be forced to do so only by forces moved through France 's old ally Spain . But even after Napoleon placed his brother on the Spanish throne , French troops were unable to move safely through Spain because of underground resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attack on Portugal was a complete failure , and the guerilla war in Spain was to be a continuingdrain on his resources until his downfall . As part of his effort to shut off the ports of the west coast of Italy , as well as those of Holland and northern Germany , he incorporated these territories into France proper ? seemingly confirming France 's imperialist intentions in Europe.  | War With RussiaIn 1807 Alexander I of Russia had agreed to join in the Continental System , but from the beginning he encountered protests from the Russian nobility whose livelihood depended upon the export of Russian grain , timber , and furs , and whose comfort depended on the import of the luxury goods usually supplied by English ships . Alexander had reasons to mistrust Napoleon 's intentions in eastern Europe as well , and this provided an additional reason for announcing his withdrawal from the system in 1811 . Since other countries were equally anxious to escape if they could , Napoleon had no alternative but to try to force Alexander 's compliance . The result was the invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land army assembled up until that time ( more than half the troops were supplied by Napoleon 's satellite states or allies ) . Although this army reached Moscow , the Tsar refused to surrender and the troops had no alternative but a long and bitter retreat harassed by both an early winter and the Russian cavalry . Napoleon was in critical straits after the Russian fiasco , but it took more than a year for a new coalition to be organized ( for the first time it included all four of the great powers at once ) and for its military forces to push him from eastern Europe back to the borders of France . The coalitionwas always threatened with disruption until Castlereagh of England finally persuaded the members to join in a firm twenty-year alliance directedagainst any renewed threat from France ? the traditional disrupter of Europe . The members of the alliance completed their mission with the captureof Napoleon and his exile to the small Italian island of Elba in May , 1814 . The peace terms imposed were remarkably mild considering the grief and suffering which an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Austrian foreign minister , Metternich , and Castlereagh saw no point in making a treaty that was so vindictive that Frenchmen could never accept it with honor . It was only after Napoleon 's escape from Elba in March of 1815 , his resumption of power in France and his ill-fated attempt to reopen hostilities against the coalition with its disastrous ending at Waterloo in June that stiffer penalties were imposed on France ? minor loss of territory and an indemnity with occupation by coalition troops until paid.  | Spread of Liberalism and NationalismWith Napoleon deposed and Louis XVI 's brother re-established on the throne of France as Louis XVIII ( Louis XVI 's son , Louis XVII , had died in prison in 1795 ) , the next step was to revise the boundaries of the map of Europe in accordance with the interests of the members of the victorious coalition . It is clear that Europe could never really go back to the way of life it knew in 1789 much as some ( and perhaps a majority ) of those living in 1815 would have liked . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the reactionary Louis XVIII had been forced to accept in an official document known as the Charter , before he could be restored to the throne of France . The Charter reconfirmedthose aspects of the Revolution established by Napoleon and in addition guaranteed responsible government with appropriate constitutionalprovisions for civil liberties and elected assemblies . There was to be no turning back in France . And even though it was possible to dismantle the satellite governments established by Napoleon , it was not possible to so easily erase the memory of the benefits of the application of Revolutionaryprinciples in these countries . Policies such as the abolition of the vestiges of feudal land tenure , the secularization of church property , the establishment of equality before the law and the opening of careers to talent rather than birth continued to have wide appeal . These principles would provide a basis for future liberal efforts to change the old governmentsand social structures that were now being restored . One of the most powerful forces unleashed by the Revolution was the patriotic fervor generated as a result of the establishment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a total commitment . The new spirit of brotherhood and community may have been nurtured by the breakdown of the old corporate social structure of the old regime , but whatever its source , the intense feeling of loyalty and devotion which Frenchmen developed toward their nation and its interests was unquestionably a major factor in enabling it to establish its dominance over Europe for almost two decades . But more importantly the intensity of this feeling provoked a corresponding counter-reaction in many of the areas occupied by French forces , but most notably in Spain , Italy , and Germany . Since at this time Italy and Germany were only geographical terms , the appearance of this feeling constituted the first step in a long and difficult struggle to achieve nationhood . Some historians have argued that , seen in its proper perspective , the French Revolution was only part of a broader revolutionary movement which affected not only France but many other countries both in Europe and America , in the second half of the eighteenth century . While it can be helpful to our understanding of this period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was events in France which dominated the history of both Europe and the world from 1789 to 1815 . The most significant developments in other countries generally came in reaction to events in France . At first this took the form of an instinctive but sterile defense of old institutions against the dangers of any French innovations , but as time went on and France again and again demonstrated her military superiority , her opponents were forced into the painful process of self-examination which in numerous instances resulted in the adoption of " revolutionary " principles . To cope with the mass armies of the French , military conscriptionwas adopted in several countries and became a permanent aspect of European life . The support of mass armies also required the mobilization of material resources on an unprecedented scale . In Prussia an attempt was made to broaden the base of popular support for the government by alleviating conditions of serfdom and restricting some privileges of the aristocracy . Resistance to change generally , except where demonstrably essential to survival , remained strong , however , outside France . The experience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of drastic changes in a country 's government and society . As early as 1790 , Edmund Burke , the famous member of the English Parliament , had pointed out the mistakes of the French Revolutionaries and in so doing provided a sound intellectual basis for a policy of conservatism . It is , therefore , easy to understand why the era that followed the final defeat of Napoleon and France , the symbols of revolution , is often designated as the Age of Conservatism.                     