@@773861

txt // collapse and may prove rapidly fatal . Examination usually shows a severely ill patient in great pain and a clue to the diagnosis may be provided by finding absent or unequal radial or femoral pulses . If the dissection involves the thoracic aorta it may produce acute aortic incompetence or a left-sided bloody effusion . Occlusion of the spinal arteries may cause focal neurological signs . The E.C.G. shows no specific change . If the patient survives the acute episode radiological examination shows widening of the aorta . Treatment . Treatment consists of bed rest with morphine at frequent intervals to relieve the pain . If the patient survives the acute attack the prognosis must be guarded as the process may recur , although there have been some remarkably long survivals . Treatment with j blockers may improve prognosis . ANEURYSM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA An aneurysm of the abdominal aorta is nearly always due to atheroma . It may cause abdominal pain which is often quite severe and is due to pressure on the vertebral column and neighbouring organs . The diagnosis can be confirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resection and replacement by an arterial graft . Death may occur from rupture of the aneurysm . CARDIOMYOPATHY Cardiomyopathy occurs in several diseases and affects primarily myocardium , although the endocardium or pericardium are also sometimes involved . It may complicate such generalised diseases as amyloidosis , scleroderma , systemic lupus erythematosus or leukaemia , or may appear as an isolated phenomenon . One well-defined variety is due to endomyocardial fibrosis , which is a common cause of cardiac failure in East Africa . Its aetiology is obscure . There are two main types : ( 1 ) Congestive Cardiomyopathy . This is essentially a dilatation of the heart with failure of the myocardium . The main clinical features are left ventricular failure rapidly followed by congestive failure . The heart is enlarged , often with a triple rhythm and sometimes functional mitral and tricuspid incompetence . ( 2 ) Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy . The essential feature is hypertrophy without dilatation . This leads to resistance to filling of the ventricles in diastole and to obstruction to outflow in systole producing a picture similar to aortic stenosis . The clinical course may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure develops . Sudden death is not uncommon . // Propranolol is effective in relieving the outflow obstruction and increasing diastolic filling ; if this fails , removal of a segment of the hypertrophied muscle may be necessary . Alcoholic Cardiomyopathy . Prolonged and heavy drinking can damage the heart muscle . Early symptoms are dyspnoea on effort and palpitation . There are no specific physical signs but tachycardia , ectopic beats , or actual fibrillation may occur and the electrocardiogram may show T wave changes . At this stage the condition is probably reversible . If drinking continues , a state similar to beri-beri may develop with oedema and cardiac enlargement and with signs of a high cardiac output . ATRIAL MYXOMA This benign tumour usually develops in the left atrium and produces symptoms and signs similar to those of mitral stenosis . Peripheral emboli may occur . The treatment is surgical removal . THE HEART AM ) THYROID DISEASE THYROTOXICOSIS Thyrotoxicosis frequently affects the heart , particularly in the older age groups . The action of increased thyroid hormone is to raise the cardiac rate and output . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulse pressure , warm extremities and an over-active heart are the chief signs in the cardiovascular system . In older patients these signs may be complicated by various arrhythmias , particularly atrial fibrillation , and by heart failure . The heart failure and atrial fibrillation of thyrotoxicosis are difficult to control adequately with digitalis and , the addition of a , 8 blocker is useful . The thyrotoxicosis itself should be treated as quickly as possible ; after this is relieved the heart usually returns to normal and if atrial fibrillation persists it can nearly always be easily reversed . MYXOEDEMA Myxoedema may also have effects on the heart . Bradycardia , sometimes extreme , is not uncommon . Patients with myxoedema have a high incidence of coronary artery disease . In addition , myxoedema is occasionally complicated by a pericardial effusion , the cause of which is not clear . The electrocardiogram is characteristic , showing low-voltage QRS complexes in all leads , with flat T waves . HEART DISEASE AND PREGNANCY Pregnancy produces a number of changes in the circulation which throw an increased strain on the heart and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . // These changes begin during the second month of pregnancy , increase until about the thirty-second week and then diminish . The chief changes are : ( 1 ) An increase in cardiac output . ( 2 ) Some retention of sodium and water . Clinically there is tachycardia , a full pulse and warm , flushed and pulsating extremities . There may be some ankle oedema , although this may also be a sign of toxaemia . The apex beat is rather forcible and may in the later months of pregnancy be displaced a little to the left . The jugular venous pressure is slightly raised . The increased cardiac flow produces pulmonary and aortic systolic murmurs . A physiological third heart sound is not uncommon due to rapid ventricular filling . Fitness for Pregnancy . The decision as to whether a patient with heart disease is fit for pregnancy is not always easy and when there is any doubt expert advice should be sought . Generally speaking the following rules will be found useful : ( 1 ) Patients with no symptoms or evidence of cardiac enlargement will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Patients who have had heart failure or who have severe effort intolerance should be advised against pregnancy ; if they have already conceived , the pregnancy should be terminated in the first three months . ( 3 ) The middle group present the main difficulty . This includes those with moderate dyspnoea on effort and some cardiac enlargement . Each of these cases will have to be judged on its own merits . Cardiac Surgery and Pregnancy . If the patient has some lesion which can be corrected surgically this should be done before pregnancy or , if the patient is already pregnant , within the first three months . General Management during Pregnancy . All patients with heart disease should be carefully observed by both physician and obstetrician . Patients who have symptoms before pregnancy or those who develop some dyspnoea during pregnancy must have a full night 's rest and in addition should rest during the afternoon . The earliest signs of cardiac failure are the development of pulmonary congestion with riles at the bases of the lungs and X-ray evidence of congestion . Filling of the neck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misleading as these may occur normally in pregnancy . If failure develops it should be treated in the usual way ( p. 101 ) . Management of Labour . In most patients natural delivery assisted perhaps by forceps in the second stage is quite satisfactory . Caesarian section is rarely required except perhaps in coarctation of the aorta where there is a risk of rupture . During the period of labour and for four days afterwards // ampicillin 500 mg. four times daily should be given as there is a risk of infective endocarditis . Post-Partum Period . Rest is important in the post-partum period and the long-term problem of looking after a child and a home must be considered before embarking on a further pregnancy . Mitral Stenosis in Pregnancy . The vast majority of patients with heart disease and pregnancy have rheumatic heart disease , usually mitral stenosis . The main danger in these patients is the rapid development of pulmonary congestion with attacks of pulmonary oedema , which may be fatal . This usually starts early in pregnancy and is an indication for an emergency mitral valvotomy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce a rapid onset of cardiac failure . CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE Congenital heart disease may be classified as follows : Table This list is by no means exhaustive , but covers the commoner congenital lesions . The diagnosis and management of congenital heart disease in infants and young children is a specialised subject and will not be considered here . ACYANOTIC GROUP COARCTATION OF THE AORTA In coarctation of the aorta there is a narrowing of the aorta usually just below the origin of the left subclavian artery . The narrowed aorta is partially bypassed by a collateral circulation between branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries and the intercostal and superior epigastric arteries . Clinical Features . The condition may remain ' asymptomatic in early life and adolescence . It may present as hypertension ; as heart failure , which // usually develops between the ages of thirty and forty years ; or as a subarachnoid haemorrhage due to rupture of a congenital berry aneurysm of the circle of Willis , which is a common ( 15 per cent ) associated condition . Examination shows a raised blood pressure in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is usually normal , but with a low pulse pressure . The femoral pulses are either absent or feeble and delayed . There is often conspicuous arterial pulsation in the neck . The heart may show evidence of left ventricular enlargement and there is a widespread systolic murmur heard over the praecordium and at the back . This murmur is due to blood passing through the coarctation and also through the collaterals . A small number of cases are complicated by bicuspid aortic valves and these may have the characteristic murmur of aortic regurgitation . Careful examination will show pulsation in collateral vessels , particularly around the scapula . A radiograph of the chest will often show notching of the ribs due to erosion by the large and tortuous intercostal arteries . Prognosis and Treatment . The prognosis is variable , but few patients with coarctation live beyond middle age . The possibility of resection of the coarctation should therefore be remembered when the abnormality is diagnosed , the optimum age for operation being between seven and fifteen years . DEXTROCARDIA Dextrocardia is often associated with transposition of the abdominal viscera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its presence is unrecognised it may lead to misdiagnosis . BICUSPID AORTIC VALVES These may remain symptomless throughout life , but are especially liable to severe atheromatous change and to infective endocarditis . They may be associated with coarctation of the aorta and may become incompetent . CONGENITAL AORTIC STENOSIS Congenital aortic stenosis is considered under aortic stenosis ( p. 133 ) . PULMONARY STENOSIS Simple congenital pulmonary stenosis is usually valvar and rarely infundibular . Clinical Features . In mild pulmonary stenosis there may be no symptoms and the diagnosis is suggested by finding a systolic ejection murmur and thrill over the pulmonary artery , usually in the second or third left intercostal space . It may be associated with an ejection click . Severe cases usually develop cardiac failure by early adult life . The // venous pulse in the neck shows a large a ' wave ; there is evidence of right ventricular hypertrophy with a systolic ejection murmur and thrill in the pulmonary area . The second sound in the pulmonary area is usually single , because the pulmonary component is delayed and often inaudible . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right atrium during the course of severe pulmonary stenosis , there will be a shunt from the right to the left atrium with the subsequent development of central cyanosis . An E.C.G. shows evidence of right ventricular hypertrophy , and an X-ray shows diminished vascularity of the lung fields with post-stenotic dilatation of the pulmonary artery . Prognosis and Treatment . Severe cases of pulmonary stenosis rarely reach middle age and all cases run the risk of infective endocarditis . All but the mildest cases should be offered relief of the stenosis by valvotomy . PERSISTENT DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS The ductus joining the left pulmonary artery and aorta usually closes at birth or soon afterwards . If it persists , there is a shunt from the aorta to the pulmonary artery , with a consequent increase in pulmonary artery flow and in the output of the left ventricle . Clinical Features . The condition is often symptomless when it is discovered . Infective endocarditis develops in about one-third of the patients who reach middle age . Cardiac failure is another complication which is found in the third and fourth decades , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may occur even in infancy . Examination may show a collapsing pulse with a low diastolic blood pressure . The apex beat is forcible and suggests some left ventricular hypertrophy . The machinery ' murmur which is characteristic of persistent ductus is best heard in the second left intercostal space . It is more or less continuous , starting in early systole , becoming loudef in late systole and dying away towards the end of diastole . It may be associated with a thrill . If the pulmonary artery pressures increase , the murmurs may be confined to systole when the pressure gradient is greatest . In addition over a third of subjects with a persistent ductus have a mitral diastolic murmur which is presumed to be due to increased blood flow through the mitral valve . A proportion of patients with a persistent ductus arteriosus develop pulmonary hypertension , with reversal of the blood flow through the duct and the development of peripheral cyanosis . An E.C.G. may show some left ventricular hypertrophy and radiography some enlargement of the pulmonary vessels with a well-marked aortic knuckle . Prognosis and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this should be advised for all patients except those with pulmonary hypertension. // ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECT Atrial septal defect is commonly due to a failure of development of the septum secundum . More rarely the septum primum fails to fuse and this defect is usually accompanied by a deficiency in the mitral valve causing mitral regurgitation . Half or more of the blood which enters the left atrium passes through the defect into the right atrium and thus back through the pulmonary circulation . Usually the increased flow can be accommodated by the pulmonary circulation without a rise in pulmonary artery pressure . Rarely changes occur in the pulmonary vessels with a rise in pressure and a reversal of the atrial shunt . Clinical Features . Atrial septal defect does not as a rule produce much in the way of symptoms until middle age when it usually presents as cardiac failure . Examination will show some right ventricular enlargement . The apex beat is not obvious and is sometimes described as tapping ' in quality . The increased pulmonary blood flow may be detected as marked pulsation in the enlarged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercostal space . The majority of patients have a systolic murmur in the pulmonary area due to increased blood flow from the right ventricle into the dilated pulmonary artery . The second sound in the pulmonary area is widely split . This split is not altered by respiration and is due to delay of the pulmonary element and is an almost constant feature of the disorder . Sometimes a diastolic murmur is present at the lower end of the sternum and is due to a very high flow rate through the tricuspid valve in diastole , and occasionally a pulmonary regurgitant murmur can be heard if pulmonary hypertension is present . In ostium primum defects there may be an apical pan-systolic murmur due to mitral regurgitation . On a radiograph of the chest there is marked dilatation of the pulmonary arteries , which can be seen to pulsate on screening ( hilar dance ) . The right ventricle is enlarged and the aortic knuckle is small . The E.C.G. shows some evidence of right ventricular enlargement with characteristically an RSR pattern ( right bundle branch block ) in lead VI . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shunt through the defect leading to venous blood entering the left side of the heart and producing cyanosis . Prognosis and Treatment . Most patients with atrial septal defect eventually develop cardiac failure , which should be treated along the usual lines . Surgical repair of the defect should be undertaken if possible . VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT The volume of the shunt between the left and right ventricles depends on the size of the defect and the pulmonary artery pressure and may vary considerably . It may be an isolated defect or may be complicated by other defects ( see Fallot 's tetralogy ) . Clinical Features . Small Defect ( Maladie de Roger ) . A small defect gives // rise to no symptoms unless infective endocarditis supervenes . It is suggested by finding a pan-systolic murmur and thrill in the third or fourth left intercostal space . The prognosis is good and the patient should live his normal span . Large Defect . If the left to right shunt is large so that the pulmonary blood flow may be three or four times the systemic flow there is overloading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ventricle is increased . Heart failure may present in middle age , or more commonly pulmonary hypertension may develop with reversal of the shunt and consequent central cyanosis . The heart is enlarged , with a forcible left ventricular type of apex beat . Marked pulsation over the pulmonary artery in the second and third interspaces will be palpable . A pan-systolic murmur and thrill in the third and fourth interspaces will be found , together with a functional mitral diastolic murmur due to the high flow rate through the mitral valve . An E.C.G. may show evidence of some left ventricular hypertrophy and if pulmonary hypertension is present some right ventricular hypertrophy as well . A radiograph of the chest may show dilated pulmonary arteries , which will be seen to pulsate on screening . Prognosis and Treatment . Provided the disease is not causing symptoms and the pulmonary artery pressure in not rising , patients should be observed and spontaneous closure of the defect may occur . Otherwise surgical treatment will be necessary . CYANOTIC GROUP FALLOT 'S TETRALOGY Fallot 's tetralogy is the commonest cause of cyanotic congenital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valvar or subvalvar ) , ventricular septal defect , over-riding of the aorta so that it lies over both ventricles , and right ventricular hypertrophy . As a result of the obstruction of outflow from the right ventricle due to the pulmonary stenosis venous blood passes into the aorta . The size of the shunt will depend on the severity of the pulmonary stenosis and the pressure in the aorta . Clinical Features . Central cyanosis , with polycythaemia and clubbing of the fingers , is usually present from birth or soon after . In severe cases the patient is under-sized . Dyspnoca is a prominent symptom . The patient often adopts a characteristic squatting position which decreases the , right to left shunt by increasing the peripheral resistance and thus the pressure in the aorta . The heart usually shows minimal right ventricular enlargement and the apex is tapping in quality . There is a systolic murmur , often accompanied by a thrill , in the second or third left intercostal space . The pulmonary second sound is single . // An E.C.G. shows marked right ventricular hypertrophy . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elevated with a deep pulmonary bay , giving rise to the classical cceur en sabot ' . The lung vascular markings are much reduced . Prognosis and Treatment . Patients with Fallot 's tetralogy rarely reach adult life . Operative treatment is now available , either the Blalock operation which aims at increasing the pulmonary blood flow by an anastomosis between a systemic artery and the pulmonary artery , or preferably by the Brock operation which directly relieves the pulmonary stenosis . More recently total correction of the deformity has been undertaken with relief of the stenosis and repair of the septal defect . This will probably become the treatment of choice ultimately . There are a number of other causes of cyanotic congenital heart disease but they are rare and will not be discussed . CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE AND INFECTIVE ENDOCARDITIS Practically all forms of congenital heart disease are prone to develop infective endocarditis , but it is very rare in atrial septal defect . When , therefore , there is any risk of a transient septicaemia such as may occur with dental manipulation , extraction , or tonsillectomy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just before operation followed by phenoxymethylpenicillin 250 mg. four times daily for five days . ISCHAEMIC HEART DISEASE The following conditions may cause cardiac ischaemic pain : ( 1 ) Coronary artery disease . ( 2 ) Aortic valve disease . ( 3 ) Syphilitic aortitis. ( 4 ) Severe anaemia. ( 5 ) Paroxysmal tachycardia ( occasionally ) . CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE One of the most striking changes in the twentieth century in the pattern of disease which affects the Western world has been the emergence of coronary artery disease as one of the most common causes of death , particularly amongst middle-aged men . The reason for this increase is not clear , but several factors may be involved , including a high intake of , animal fat , lack of exercise , and excessive smoking . Coronary artery disease starts with narrowing of the arteries by plaques of atheroma which contain cholesterol . Obstruction of the blood flow eventually becomes so severe that when exercise increases the oxygen consumption of heart muscle , not enough blood can pass through to // supply it . The muscle , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of effort . The next stage of the disease is the development of a thrombus on the plaque of atheroma , which cuts off the blood supply to an area of heart muscle and produces a cardiac infarct . This may be fatal , but often healing occurs with fibrosis and scar formation . If collateral circulation is good , however , the muscle will survive . It can be seen therefore that thrombosis is not necessarily followed by infarction , although the terms coronary thrombosis and myocardial infarction are often used synonymously . It must be realised that some atheroma of the coronary arteries is present in all men and most women over the age of thirty and that the coronary circulation has great powers of opening collateral channels and thus circumventing narrowed arteries . Whether or not symptoms develop depends on the rate of progress of the atheromatous process and the ability of the coronary circulation to open up adequate collateral circulation . The Background to Coronary Disease . It seems probable that clinical coronary disease is the result of a number of factors and processes . Many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not com plete . A knowledge of these factors may be important in that some of them can be avoided , and therefore it may be possible to diminish the risk of developing coronary disease . The most important factors so far discovered are : ( 1 ) Hyperlipidaemia . Increase in blood lipids , both cholesterol and triglycerides , is associated with an increased incidence of coronary disease . The mechanism is probably a complicated one including both effects on the arterial walls and on coagu lation . Hyperlipidaemia is essentially a disorder of lipoprotein metabolism but is considerably influenced by several factors in the diet . It is considered in detail on page 434 . Com munities living on a diet which includes a high intake of ani mal fat usually have a higher level of blood lipids than those whose fat intake is low . However in a community such as the United Kingdom with a high fat intake , and with a high inci dence of coronary disease , the actual variations of fat intake do not seem so important . A high intake of sucrose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to triglyceride by the liver . Finally , a relative deficiency of un saturated fatty acids ( found in vegetable and fish oils ) may also be a factor . How far these findings are applicable to the management of coronary disease is not clear . There is as yet no good evidence that lowering the serum cholesterol either by dietary means or by clofibrate improves the prognosis of patients with clinical evidence of coronary artery disease , except possibly when those with angina are treated with clofibrate . There is some suggestion that lowering the choles150 A SHORT TEXTBOOK OF MEDICINE terol levels in normal subjects may decrease the risk of developing coronary disease but the evidence is still incomplete . ( 2 ) Hypertension . A raised blood pressure carries with it an increased risk of coronary disease . The problems of treating hypertension are considered on page 117. ( 3 ) Cigarette Smoking . There is a correlation between smoking and coronary disease , particularly in the younger age groups . The risk decreases if smoking is stopped . ( 4 ) Exercise and Obesity . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overweight . Epidemiological studies suggest therefore that moderation in diet , avoiding excessive amounts of animal fat and sugar , regular exercise , weight control , and no cigarette smoking , plus lowering of a raised blood pressure if possible , should reduce the incidence of coronary disease , although proof of this is still incomplete . It would seem reasonable that they should also be applied to those who have had a coronary thrombosis . ANGINA OF EFFORT ( Angina Pectoris ) Clinical Features . The patient with angina of effort usually has few complaints apart from his pain . This is described as constricting , or as a heavy feeling , a pressing feeling , an ache or tightness . It is usually substernal and may radiate down the inside of the left arm or both arms or up into the neck or jaw . It may be felt only in the back . It is brought on by effort and relieved within a few minutes by rest . It is more easily provoked in cold weather , after a heavy meal , or with emotional upsets . Anginal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed to be due to temporary deterioration in left ventricular function with a rise in end-diastolic filling pressure . The onset of the attacks of pain may be gradual or it may appear quite suddenly one day . A sudden onset of severe angina of effort should always raise the suspicion that the complaint has gone beyond a narrowing of the coronary arteries and that an actual coronary thrombosis with infarction // has occurred . The course of the disease is variable . The symptoms may become progressively more severe , they may remain stationary or rarely they may improve . At any time a coronary thrombosis may supervene and this may be fatal . Examination of the patient with angina of effort rarely shows any sign diagnostic of the disease . There may be evidence of associated hypertension but this does not help in the diagnosis , which depends entirely on an accurate history . The electrocardiogram may be very useful in confirming the diagnosis . The following may be found : ( 1 ) Some 50 per cent of patients with angina have a normal E.C.G. at rest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electrical pacemaker , the E.C.G. may show S-T depression . However , even a normal effort test does not exclude angina. ( 2 ) The resting E.C.G. may show evidence of ischaemia with S-T depression or T wave inversion . ( 3 ) There may be evidence of actual infarction . Coronary angiography is used in selected cases , particularly if saphenous vein graft is envisaged . vs Prognosis and Treatment . Depression and anxiety often follow a patient 's discovery that he has angina , which is understandable since the probability of sudden death at a relatively early age is common knowledge . Considerable reassurance is therefore required as many of these patients live full and useful lives for ten , fifteen or more years . The patient 's mode of life must be organised to fit both his disease and his temperament . Strenuous exercise must be prohibited , but moderate exercise is not harmful provided it does not produce pain and it may perhaps be beneficial . The patient should if possible continue in his occupation , but overwork or work which keeps him under continued pressure must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be reduced . Smoking undoubtedly reduces coronary blood flow and all patients with angina should be advised to abstain from it . Some patients improve remarkably on giving it up . Nitrites are the most useful drugs for relieving the attacks of pain . Glyceryl trinitrate in doses of 0.5 mg. should be sucked or chewed and will relieve angina within two to three minutes . The drug should be used whenever the pain occurs but is more effective if used to prevent attacks of pain when some effort is required . Their most important effect is to lower blood pressure and thus cardiac work , rather than to increase coronary flow . Long-acting coronary vasodilators can be used particularly in patients who have frequent attacks of angina ; pentaerythritol tetranitrate 30 mg. is given three or four times daily . # blockers are useful in angina for reducing the sympathetic drive to the heart . Propranolol ( starting dose 10 mg. t.d.s. ) or oxprenolol ( starting // dose 40 mg. t.d.s. ) are satisfactory and the dose should be increased until symptoms are controlled . There have been many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduction of coronary angiography has made possible better delineation of the extent of the coronary obstruction . Saphenous vein graft will certainly increase the coronary circulation and should be considered seriously in patients whose symptoms are not controlled by medical treatment , particularly if they are in the younger age group . INTERMEDIATE CORONARY SYNDROME ( Acute Coronary Insufficiency ) A number of patients present with severe anginal pain , occurring at rest , lasting 20 ? 30 minutes and not relieved by trinitrin . In such patients the E.C.G. may show transient depression of the S-T segment and T wave changes . The enzymes are not raised . In spite of the alarming symptoms , the prognosis is quite good . A small proportion of these patients develop a frank infarct , but in the rest the condition stabilises . Treatment . These patients usually respond well to bed rest together with a blocker given orally . When the acute symptoms are controlled the patients should be treated as for angina ; some will require coronary angiography and possibly venous graft . Anticoagulants are not usually indicated . MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger that a clot may form on the atheromatous plaque , thus suddenly cutting off the blood supply to an area of heart muscle ; in other words , a coronary thrombosis may occur leading to myocardial infarction . When a large coronary artery is obstructed by thrombosis the patient may suddenly fall down dead ; indeed this is the only cause of really sudden death . More often , however , the patient survives , and over the next few weeks the dead heart muscle is absorbed and replaced by a fibrous scar . This scar may be firm and strong , but occasionally , particularly if the infarct has been a large one , the scar may become stretched and produce an aneurysm of the heart wall . The functional ability of the heart may be near normal after recovery from an infarct ; but sometimes after a large infarct , the loss of infarcted muscle so encroaches on the reserve power of the heart that congestive failure occurs , or the patient may be left with crippling angina of effort . Clinical Features . A coronary thrombosis may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at rest or on exercise . The onset is usually sudden with severe substernal pain , of the same type and distribution as angina pectoris . It can be distinguished from angina by the fact that it often comes on when // the patient is at rest , and , unlike angina , which is relieved by a few minutes ' rest , it persists for several hours . Some patients will have noted that for a few days before the acute attack they have had mild and short-lived attacks of substernal pain , the so-called warning pains ' , while in other patients the only complaint may be the rather sudden onset of severe angina . Rarely , other symptoms may overshadow the chest pain , for example sudden onset of left ventricular failure , abrupt loss of consciousness due to transient cardiac arrest or arrhythmia , or severe vomiting . These may all be presenting symptoms and only careful questioning will elicit a history of substernal pain . Generally speaking , however , the history is 40 typical and the diagnosis obvious . Examination in typical cases shows the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a rapid pulse and low blood pressure . In milder cases these signs may be missing and it is worth remembering that the blood pressure may not fall markedly for some hours after the acute attack . Cardiac arrhythmias of any type may occur with a coronary thrombosis , one of the most common being ventricular extrasystoles ; these may herald the onset of a dangerous ventricular tachycardia or even ventricular fibrillation . Auscultation of the heart shows a triple rhythm in about half the cases . Sometimes it may be possible to hear transient apical systolic murmurs due to functional mitral regurgitation . If the heart is examined daily after the acute attack it is often possible to hear a pericardial friction rub on about the third or fourth day . Pericarditis should also be remembered as a cause of persistent chest pain after a cardiac infarct . During the first week there is often a rise in temperature , a polymorphonuclear leucocytosis , and a rise in the sedimentation rate , all indications of the inflammatory reaction around the damaged myocardium . The serum levels of glutamic oxaloacetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( alanine transaminase S.G.P.T. ) are raised in most patients after an infarct . The enzymes are released by breaking-down heart muscle and the serum levels are elevated from the first to the fourth day after infarction . The serum levels of lactic dehydrogenase are similarly elevated but for a longer period . Upper limits of normal are S.G.O.T. 35 Karmen units , S.G.P.T. 25 Karmen units . The serum levels of these enzymes are also raised in damage to the liver , pancreas , kidneys and skeletal muscle . The E.C.G. should be used to confirm the diagnosis and define the position and extent of the infarct . The following changes may be found : ( 1 ) The Classical Picture of a Cardiac Infarct ( a ) Anterior infarction produces a large Q wave and raised S-T segment in lead I and in the anterior chest leads with S-T depression in lead 11 . This changes during the next few weeks to a Q wave with marked T wave inversion in lead I and the anterior chest leads and the return of the S-T shift to the iso-electric level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Q wave and raised S-T segment in leads iI and III and aVF with S-T depression in lead I. This also changes in the next few weeks to Q wave with marked T-wave inversion , in leads Ii and III and aVF and return of the S-T shift to the iso-electric level . // ( c ) True posterior infarction does not show pathological Q waves but may be identified by tall R waves combined with tall and symmetrical T waves in leads V1 and V2. ( 2 ) Lesser Changes Symmetrical inversion of T waves without large Q waves or S-T segment shift . A number of other minor changes in the electrocardiogram have been described which alone do not necessarily indicate myocardial infarction , but taken in conjunction with such a history as outlined above , are good enough evidence of an infarct . It must be remembered that a full 12-lead electrocardiogram must be taken and must be repeated at frequent intervals as the changes after a small infarct may be confined to one lead and may be quite transitory . Immediate Complications of Cardiac Infarction ( 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mild and transient rise in venous pressure or some pulmonary congestion in the days following an infarct . It usually resolves rapidly but after a very large infarct the patient may be left in chronic failure . Rupture of a papillary muscle can lead to mitral regurgitation with failure . ( 2 ) Cardiac Arrythmias . Some 80 per cent of patients develop some type of arrythmia after cardiac infarction . These may be transient and last no more than a few seconds , or may be prolonged and may seriously decrease cardiac output . The arrythmia may be of any type . They tend to disappear as the infarct heals , although atrial fibrillation and varying degrees of heart block may persist indefinitely . ( 3 ) Thrombo-embolic Phenomena . Patients lying immobile after a coronary thrombosis are very liable to deep vein thrombosis in the calf veins with the attendant risk of pulmonary embolism . A thrombus may form on the endocardium over the infarcted area . A piece of clot may break off and obstruct arteries in the systemic circulation , particularly those of the brain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it may be due to a fall in cardiac output when it is associated with peripheral vasoconstriction , cold extremities and mental clouding . If this state is prolonged oliguria will develop . Sometimes , however , the cardiac output may in fact be higher than normal , but the peripheral resistance is lowered by vasodilation . These patients usually have extremities of normal colour and temperature . It is not uncommon for patients to develop vasovagal attacks with bradycardia , sweating , hypotension and nausea , and in some but not all such patients these symptoms appear to be precipitated by the administration of morphia . Finally , any prolonged arrythmia may aggravate or cause a hypotensive state . ( 5 ) Rupture of the Heart . Sudden exertion in the week immediately after // an infarct may cause a fatal rupture of the heart . This risk can be diminished by strict bed rest . Long-Term Complications of Cardiac Infarction ( 1 ) Cardiac Aneurysm . If the infarct extends through the full thickness of the myocardium the wall of the heart will be replaced entirely by fibrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ventricle . It may be possible to feel the pulsation of the aneurysm , and to see it on X-ray . The E.C.G. will show persistent large Q waves over the involved area of myocardium. ( 2 ) Dressler 's Syndrome . In the month following an infarct a few patients develop pleural or pericardial pain and a friction rub may be heard . Similar symptoms may follow cardiotomy . The condition reponds to steroids . Treatment . In the early stages bed rest is important but need not be continued for more than ten days for those with small infarcts , and three weeks is usually sufficient for those with more extensive infarction . Thereafter the patient should make a gradual return to activity . Severe pain is often a prominent feature immediately after the infarct and morphine 15 ? 20 mg. , according to the size of the patient , will be re=quired to relieve the pain and mental anguish and may have to be repeated several times in the first twenty-four hours . Morphine may produce vomiting and hypotension , though this can sometimes be helped by combining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also used but can cause a rise in pulmonary artery pressure and thus further embarrass the circulation . All unnecessary effort must be avoided , particularly in the first few days . If the patient is worried by constipation a small enema may be given after 48 hours and repeated every two or three days . If the patient is not too severely ill , a commode may be less exhausting than a bed-pan . To prevent thrombosis in the deep veins of the lower limbs , passive exercises should be given from the start , followed in the third week by active exercise . The diet should be light and easily digestible . The value of anticoagulants after cardiac infarction has never been wholly accepted , and they are now used much less than they were . The theoretical reason for using these drugs is to prevent the development of thrombi in the deep veins of the legs and on the endocardium . It is possible that with less severe restriction of movement in the immediate post-infarction period and with regular leg exercises the danger of deep vein thrombosis has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will no longer be given after cardiac infarction and their use is considered under pulmonary embolism on p. 165 . Many patients are anxious and worried in the weeks following a cardiac infarct and sedation with chlordiazapoxide 10 mg. three times daily may be useful . If cardiac failure , with or without atrial fibrillation , develops it should be treated in the usual way with digitalis and diuretics . Digitalis // may somewhat increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmia developing and must , therefore , be used with caution . Home Treatment or Hospitalisation . Opinions differ as to where patients should be nursed after a cardiac infarction . When there is no evidence of shock or cardiac arrythmias and the attack is not severe it is reasonable to treat the patient at home , providing the circumstances and facilities are suitable . It is still possible that such patients will develop a fatal ventricular fibrillation in the hours immediately after infarction but there is no clear evidence that any drug or other form of treatment , given when the doctor first sees the patient , will reduce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with arrythm ias should be sent to hospital as quickly as possible so that they may be monitored for dangerous arrythmias and have the benefit of intensive care . Monitoring , the Treatment of Arrhythmias and Hypotension . It is now realised that arrhythmias are a frequent cause of circulatory failure and death after cardiac infarction . If the patient is continuously monitored by E.C.G. in the two or three days after infarction , these arrhythmias can be diagnosed immediately and with appropriate treatment the mortality rate can be halved . ( a ) Prevention of Arrhythmias . The use of various drug regimes to prevent the development of arrhythmias after infarction has not proved useful and at present it is best to treat arrhythmias as they arise . ( b ) Treatment of Developed Arrythmias ( 1 ) Ventricular Ectopics . These are very common ; if they are frequent or multifocal they should be treated with lignocaine 50 ? 100 mg. intravenously , followed if necessary by infusion at the rate of 1.0 mg. /minute . Oral phenytoin 100 mg. t.d.s . is also useful . ( 2 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above . If this fails , D.C. conversion should be used ( see p. 110 ) . ( 3 ) Ventricular Fibrillation . Electrical defibrillation ( see p. 113 ) . ( 4 ) Atrial Tachycardia . Practolol 5.0 mg. intravenously is effective . ( 5 ) Atrial Fibrillation . The patient should be digitalised . The addition of practolol 100 mg. t.d.s . orally may be useful . D.C. shock may be required in resistant cases . ( 6 ) Heart Block . Steroids rarely help . Electrical pacemaking may be required . ( 7 ) Sinus Bradycardia . Atropine 0.6 mg. intravenously should be given . ( c ) Hypotension . This may be due to vagal overactivity perhaps exacerbated by morphine , or to low cardiac output with circulatory failure . Vagal overactivity will respond to atropine ( see above ) . In circulatory failure the foot of the bed should be raised provided this does not precipitate pul158 A SHORT TEXTBOOK OF MEDICINE monary oedema . Most of these patients have a low arterial oxygen saturation due to disorganisation of ventilation and perfusion in the lungs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approx. 40 ? 60 per cent ) . The patient should be digitalised to try and raise the cardiac output , and if hypotension persists 200 mg. of hydrocortisone should be given intravenously and repeated as required . Vasoconstrictor drugs are rarely used for they raise the blood pressure at the expense of peripheral organ perfusion . Prolonged hypotension carries a bad prognosis . Subsequent Management When the period of rest has finished the patient is gradually allowed up , but should not return to work for at least three months after the acute attack . If possible the patient should return to his normal employment . If , however , his job is exceptionally heavy or if he is severely crippled by cardiac failure or angina of effort , then some change will be necessary . Overweight patients should be dieted until they reach normal levels . Heavy meals , especially those containing large quantities of fat , must be avoided . There is some evidence that long term treatment with a # blocker improves prognosis after an infarct particularly in the hypertensive subject . Some patients will require considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They may become depressed , anxious , and irritable , and it is the doctor 's job to show them that it is possible to lead a normal and useful life , even if they have had a heart attack . In patients who are having recurrent infarcts the possibility of long-term anticoagulants should be considered . Prognosis Death from an acute attack usually occurs within the first 48 hours and the overall mortality is about 25 per cent . The prognosis is worse in old people and those with extensive infarct . Thereafter the mortality is around 7 per cent per year . SUBACUTE INFECTIVE ENDOCARDITIS ACUTE INFECTIVE ENDOCARDITIS This usually occurs in the course of septicaemia due to organisms of high virulence . The endocardium is affected and the heart valves may be spared . INFECTIVE ENDOCARDITIS Infective endocarditis is due to infection of the endocardium by organisms of moderate virulence . The most common infecting organism is the streptococcus viridans which is often an inhabitant of the mouth and throat of normal people . However , in recent years there has been an in THE // crease in infective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the micro-aerophilic streptococcus , the staphylococcus and rickettsia . Infective endocarditis starts on the heart valves , usually the aortic valve . It most commonly occurs on valves damaged by previous rheumatic fever . It may complicate various congenital lesions including ventricular septal defect , pulmonary and aortic stenosis , persistent ductus arteriosus and bicuspid aortic valves and may develop on various types of artificial valves . It is very rare in syphilitic aortitis and atrial septal defect . There is a group of patients , usually over fifty , who appear to develop infective endocarditis on an apparently normal heart . The infecting organism is frequently the streptococcus faecalis . The starting point of infective endocarditis is often a transient bacteraemia . This may follow dental extraction or filling , when the organism is usually streptococcus viridans ; or after operations on the urinary tract or bowel , when infection with streptococcus faecalis is more common . This emphasises the need for penicillin cover ' if these operations are performed in a patient with damaged heart valves . The bacteria settle on the damaged valve , set up an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formation of a vegetation which often spreads from the valve to adjacent endocardium . Clinical Features . The most constant clinical feature is a persistent low grade fever , and this diagnosis should be considered in any patient with rheumatic heart disease who develops a pyrexia for which there is no other obvious cause . Increasing malaise , tiredness , and breathlessness are common symptoms . In some patients sweating and vague point pains may suggest a recurrence of rheumatic fever . After the first week or two anaemia develops and the patient begins to lose weight . The fingers become clubbed and in patients left untreated generalised pigmentation occurs ; this combined with the anaemia causes a characteristic coloration , sometimes described as the cafj au lait ' appearance . The bacteraemia gives rise to antigen-antibody complexes which cause widespread vascular damage , which show as : ( 1 ) Osler 's Nodes . Small , tender , red round areas most commonly seen on the pads of the fingers and lasting 24 ? 48 hours . ( 2 ) Splinter Haemorrhages . Found under the nails . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and neck . ( 4 ) Renal Damage . An increased number of red cells in the urine is a common feature . In addition , there may be widespread glomerular lesions which in time may progress to renal failure ( see p. 393 ) . ( 5 ) Involvement of cerebral vessels which may give rise to neurological signs or even a confusional state . In addition , emboli may break off from the vegetations on the diseased valves , and 30 per cent of patients will have major infarcts in the brain , // liver , spleen , intestines , or limbs . Retinal involvement produces typical boat-shaped ' haemorrhages . The spleen is usually moderately enlarged , from the chronic septicaemia which is a feature of the condition . Infarction may lead to an acute attack of pain in the splenic area . The heart shows signs of the underlying valve lesion , and rarely changes in the character of the murmurs can be detected . Heat failure may develop . When infective endocarditis occurs in congenital heart disease with a left to right shunt such as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulmonary circulation and lead to infarcts of the lung . This produces rather a different clinical picture , with recurrent episodes of fever , pleurisy , and patchy consolidation of the lungs , so that an erroneous diagnosis of recurrent penumonia may be made . Special Investigations . Examination of the blood reveals a moderate anaemia with a slight leucocytosis . The sedimentation rate is nearly always raised . The urine in the great majority of cases shows an increased number of red cells , although these may be only detected on microscopy . The diagnosis is confirmed by isolation of the organism on blood culture . At least four samples of blood must be taken for culture before antibiotic treatment is started and incubation should continue for three weeks . If organisms are isolated , their sensitivity to various antibiotics must be determined . It is best if blood for culture is taken at the height of the fever . If the patient is very ill and the diagnosis is suspected on clinical grounds , the blood cultures should be taken at short intervals so that the start of treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report on the blood cultures before giving antibiotics . About 30 per cent of patients will have a persistently negative blood culture . In these patients a fungal or rickettsial infection should be considered , but it may be necessary to give a full course of treatment without the diagnosis being confirmed by a positive culture . Complications . ( 1 ) Rupture of a Valve . The aortic valve may be weakened and finally rupture during the course of infective endocarditis . When this occurs it may lead to sudden death or to the rapid development of cardiac failure . Examination shows the characteristic , loud , regurgitant murmur ( cooing dove ) . Less commonly , mitral incompetence may develop as a result of a ruptured chorda , and both these complications are an indication for immedate surgery with valve replacement . ( 2 ) Mycotic Aneurysm . Mycotic aneurysms may develop due to small emboli in the vessels supplying the walls of the large arteries . They may require surgical treatment . Treatment . The patient must be in bed and be given full nursing care . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a ) Streptococcus Viridans. 2.0 mega units of benzylpenicillin intramuscularly four times daily , is usually adequate if the organism is sensitive . If there is no response , or if the organism proves to be partially resistant to // penicillin the dose can be increased to 20 mega units of penicillin or more daily . Owing to the bulk of the injection , it is necessary to give it by continuous intravenous drip . Blood levels can also be increased by giving probenecid 0.5 g. four times daily . ( b ) Streptococcus Faecalis. 2.0 mega units of benzylpenicillin q.i.d. , plus 0.75 g. of streptomycin b.d . The dose of antibiotics should be modified according to response and sensitivity tests . ( c ) Staphyloccocus Aureus . The antibiotic programme will depend on sensitivities . Usually two antibiotics will be required and benzylpenicillin or cloxacillin plus streptomycin or gentamycin are useful combinations . ( d ) Patients with persistently negative blood cultures should be treated with penicillin and streptomycin in the first instance . Treatment should aim at abolishing the fever , stopping all embolic phenomena and restoring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course be negative after treatment . The earlier treatment is started in the course of the disease , the better the chance of effecting a cure . Antibiotic therapy must be given for at least 6 weeks . With these measures it is possible to eradicate infection in the great majority of patients with subacute bacterial endocarditis . In some , however , the disease has caused considerable damage to the heart valves and in these subjects chronic failure and death may ensure although the infection has been cured . All patients must be carefully followed up as relapse or reinfection may occur . PERICARDITIS The following types of pericarditis may be encountered : ( 1 ) Benign . ( 2 ) Rheumatic. ( 3 ) Pyogenic. ( 4 ) Tuberculous . ( 5 ) Malignant. ( 6 ) Subsequent to a cardiac infarct. ( 7 ) Associated with uraemia. ( 8 ) Systemic lupus erythematosus . Pericarditis may be dry or may be associated with an effusion . DRY PERICARDITIS Clinical Features . Dry pericarditis may occur from any of the above causes . Pain is a frequent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ praecordial or referred to the shoulder or neck region . It may be constant or made worse by movement or by respiration . The patient may also complain of symptoms which are related to the disease underlying the pericarditis. // Examination will usually show a pericardial friction rub ; this may be either loud or soft ; it usually sounds rough and rather superficial . It may be heard anywhere over the praecordium and may be either systolic and/or diastolic in timing . E.C.G. Changes . In the early stages the electrocardiogram shows elevation of the S-T segment , the elevated segment being concave upwards . This is followed by the return of the S-T segment to the iso-electric line and flattening or inversion of the T waves . These changes , unlike those of cardiac infarction , can be recorded from both the anterior and posterior aspects of the heart at the same time . PERICARDIAL EFFUSION The symptoms and signs of a pericardial effusion depend on the underlying cause and on the size of the effusion . Small effusions may be indistinguishable from a dry pericarditis . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pericardial sac rises , interfering with the venous return to the heart , a state known as cardiac tamponade . This in turn reduces the cardiac output and thus seriously interferes with cardiac function . Clinical Features . The patient often appears restless and ill and complains of praecordial discomfort and dyspnoea . If the effusion is large , examination will reveal pulsus paradoxus ( p. 86 ) . The venous pressure will be raised , and the apex beat may be felt within the outer limit of cardiac dullness to percussion , which is increased . A pericardial friction rub can often be heard on auscultation , in spite of the presence of an effusion . A radiograph of the heart shows a pear-shaped cardiac shadow with sharper margins than usual ; this is because they have moved less during exposure of the film . Treatment . Effusions large enough to endanger life are rare . A high venous pressure and low arterial pressure are indications for tapping the effusion . It must be remembered that the high venous pressure found with pericardial effusions is necessary to maintain diastolic filling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower venous pressure by venesection or by diuretics . Otherwise the treatment is that of the underlying condition . Varieties of Pericarditis Benign Pericarditis . Benign pericarditis can probably be caused by several viruses including coxsackie , mumps and influenza . It is most common in young adults and there is often a history of a recent upper respiratory tract infection . The onset is sudden with fever , malaise , and pericardial pain . Small effusions sometimes develop . Recovery is the rule within a few weeks , but a number of cases relapse . Treatment is symptomatic . Rheumatic Pericarditis . Pericarditis develops during the course of acute // rheumatic fever in about 10 per cent of patients and provides definite evidence of cardiac involvement . It may or may not be associated with an effusion . Treatment is as for rheumatic fever . Pyogenic Pericarditis . Pericarditis may occur as a complication of pneumonia or may complicate a septicaemia . It should be vigorously treated with antibiotics . Surgical drainage is rarely required . Tuberculous Pericarditis . Tuberculous pericarditis is not common . It usually presents as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fever . The effusion is a clear yellow fluid , occasionally bloodstained , and may be found on culture to contain tubercle bacilli . Treatment consists of prolonged rest , with streptomycin , isoniazid , and para-aminosalicylic acid ( see p. 226 ) . If the effusion is large , aspiration may be required and streptomycin 0.5 g. should then be injected into the pericardial sac . A number of patients subsequently develop constrictive pericarditis ( see below ) . Cardiac Infarction . A pericardial friction rub can often be heard transiently over the infarcted area within a few days of a coronary thrombosis . Post Cardiotomy and Post Infarction ( Dressler 's Syndrome ) . Pericarditis may develop in the months after the occurrence . It responds to steroids . Uraemia . A pericardial rub may be heard in the terminal stages of uraemia ( see p. 379 ) . Malignant Pericarditis . Involvement of the pericardium by new growth may give rise to an effusion which may require tapping . This is a common terminal complication of bronchial neoplasms . CHRONIC CONSTRICTIVE PERICARDITIS Chronic constrictive pericarditis is due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The heart is encased in a shell of fibrous tissue which may be calcified , and as a result the heart is unable to expand in diastole and venous filling is greatly impeded . Clinical Features . The patient is usually in adult life and complains of some dyspnoea on effort associated perhaps with oedema of the ankles and swelling of the abdomen . Orthopnoea is not a feature and the degree of dyspnoea is often slight in comparison with the evidence of gross venous congestion . Examination sometimes may show a pulsus paradoxus and there often is atrial fibrillation . The venous pressure is high , but falls sharply during diastole ( the y descent ) when the tricuspid valves open . The heart is not usually much enlarged and auscultation may reveal a third heart sound or may be normal . Enlargement of the liver , ascites , and oedema of the ankles are often present . Long-standing disease may have caused chronic hepatic congestion sufficient to end in cirrhosis of the liver . A radiograph of the heart usually shows a normally sized or slightly enlarged heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // half the cases , provided lateral as well as postero-anterior radiographs are taken . An electrocardiogram usually shows decreased voltage in the QRS complexes with widespread flattening or inversion of T waves . Treatment . Treatment consists of surgical removal of the constricting pericardium . The operation is a major undertaking , but the results are usually satisfactory . ADHERENT PERICARDIUM Occasionally following rheumatic pericarditis the heart may become attached to surrounding structures . This may be diagnosed clinically by systolic retraction of the lower left ribs posteriorly ( Broadbent 's sign ) , fixation of the apex beat and systolic retraction of intercostal spaces . There is no evidence that an adherent pericardium has any effect on cardiac function and if heart failure supervenes in these cases it is due to the associated valve disease . PULMONARY HEART DISEASE PULMONARY EMBOLISM A pulmonary embolus arises most commonly from deep-vein thrombosis in the leg or pelvis ( p. 171 ) . Rarely it may arise from an intracardiac thrombosis following atrial fibrillation or cardiac infarction . Phlebothrombosis in the legs occurs particularly in obese middle-aged or elderly patients who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also with other medical conditions , pregnancy , or after major surgical operations . Occasionally it occurs in apparently healthy people , particularly women taking an oral contraceptive . Clinical Features . A large pulmonary embolism causes dilatation of the right ventricle with a drop in right ventricular output , and a rise in systemic venous pressure . This results in a fall in cardiac output which is accompanied by peripheral vasoconstriction . A massive embolism may cause sudden death but more commonly the patient complains of the sudden onset of substernal tightness , or pain , dyspnoea and a sudden call to stool . He is sweating , pale and slightly cyanosed . The pulse is small and rapid , the blood pressure low , the cervical venous pressure is raised and frequently there is a gallop rhythm . X-ray of the chest may show a segment with diminished vascular marking and the diagnosis can be confirmed by pulmonary arteriography . The E.C.G. is variable . It may show a deep S wave in lead 1 with a Q or inverted T wave in lead III . The chest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more rarely there may be a right bundle branch block pattern . The changes are usually transitory . Smaller pulmonary emboli cause pulmonary infarction , the symptoms of which are often so slight that it is the most commonly overlooked serious // respiratory lesion . When the infarct extends to the surface of the lung there may be acute pleuritic pain , and about 40 per cent of patients have a haemoptysis ; but frequently the only clinical features are sudden shortness of breath or unexplained rise of temperature and/or pulse rate . With a small embolus , X-ray will show a segmental shadow due to the infarct . It should also be remembered that repeated small pulmonary emboli may seriously obstruct the pulmonary vascular bed and lead to pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular failure . Treatment . A patient who has had a pulmonary embolus should be nursed fairly flat in bed because the cardiac output and blood pressure patient is in pain or distress a small dose of morphine 10 mg. can be given but there is a danger of respiratory depression . If morphine is used or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intravenously can be given and repeated as required . Digitalis is not very helpful in the acute stage but if chronic heart failure ensues the patient should be digitalised ( p. 101 ) . Anticoagulants should be started with heparin 10,000 units six hourly intravenously . Clotting time estimations are only required if treatment with heparin is prolonged , when the dosage is adjusted to increase the clotting time to twice normal . The anticoagulant effect of heparin is almost immediate . At the same time treatment should be started with an oral anticoagulant . This group of drugs acts by suppressing the formation in the liver of prothrombin and factor VII , which are necessary for the coagulation of blood . Among those commonly used are : Table The dosage of these drugs is controlled by estimation of the patient 's prothrombin time which is kept between two and three times the normal . The most important side-effect of these drugs is bleeding from overdosage , a common site being the urinary tract . If this occurs the drug must be stopped . The coagulability of the blood can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is important to use the smallest effective dose or there may be an abrupt fall in prothrombin time with further clotting . The dose usually lies between 10 ? 50 mg . Anticoagulants should rarely be used in the very elderly and in those in whom there is a risk of haemorrhage , e.g. from a duodenal ulcer . The following drugs should not be combined with oral anticoagulants. // ( 1 ) Aspirin ? risk of gastric bleeding . ( 2 ) Liquid paraffin ? enhances effect by blocking vitamin K absorption . ( 3 ) Phenylbutazone , Clofibrate ? enhance effect by decreasing plasma protein-binding. ( 4 ) Barbiturates ? enhance breakdown of anticoagulant in the liver . The clot can be lysed by using streptokinase . However its control is more difficult , although a short course at the beginning of treatment may become widely used . Anticoagulants are usually continued for at least six weeks , and many authorities consider they should be continued up to six months or longer , particularly if there is any evidence of recurrent embolism . Rarely in patients with massive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performed within a few hours of the acute episode . PULMONARY HYPERTENSION Physiology In health the pulmonary circulation is a low pressure system ( range = 15/5 ? 30/15 mm.Hg . ) . It seems probable that at rest in the upright position the main blood flow is through the lower parts of the lungs . With increased flow as occurs on exercise , vasodilatation occurs and more blood passes through the upper zones . The pulmonary artery pressure rises only with flow rates above 15 litres per minute . In man there is evidence that active vasoconstriction of the pulmonary arteries can occur , although its mode of production is unknown . This may be in response to : ( 1 ) Increased pulmonary blood flow . ( 2 ) A rise in left atrial pressure . ( 3 ) Hypoxia and perhaps hypercarbia . Clinical Types of Pulmonary Hypertension ( 1 ) Idiopathic ( Primary ) Pulmonary Hypertension Idiopathic pulmonary hypertension is due to structural narrowing of the pulmonary arteries of obscure cause ; it is probably often due to multiple small pulmonary emboli ( see below ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypertension may be due to progressive obliteration of the pulmonary arteries by repeated thrombosis or embolism . This often follows a phlebo-thromTHE // bosis in the puerperium . Early symptoms are dyspnoea on effort , cough and sometimes haemoptysis . Early diagnosis is important as at this stage the process may be reversible by anticoagulants. ( b ) It may be secondary to increased blood flow through the lungs such as occurs in atrial or ventricular septal defects or with a persistent ductus arteriosus . In these conditions the pulmonary artery can usually accommodate the increased flow without a rise in pulmonary artery pressure . Sometimes , however , active constriction of the pulmonary arteries eventually develops and pulmonary artery pressure may even exceed the systemic pressure , with reversal of the shunt and the development of central cyanosis. ( c ) In mitral valve disease there is usually a small passive rise in pulmonary artery pressure transmitted back from the left atrium . In a small proportion of cases there is in addition active pulmonary vasoconstriction with a considerable rise in pulmonary artery pressure ( p. 125 ) . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lung diseases , commonly chronic bronchitis or emphysema , or rarely pulmonary fibrosis due to silicosis , sarcoidosis or other causes . It is due to obliteration of the pulmonary artery bed by the lung disease ; in addition there may be active vasoconstriction due to hypoxia and perhaps hypercapnia . The clinical features and management of cor pulmonale are considered on p. 197 . Clinical Features . Dyspnoea is common and other symptoms are cough and syncope . Early signs are evidence of right ventricular hypertrophy , a short systolic murmur and a systolic click over the pulmonary artery and a loud pulmonary element to the second heart sound . Later a giant a ' wave in the jugular venous pulse , triple rhythm and cardiac failure with functional tricuspid incompetence may develop . The electrocardiogram shows right ventricular hypertrophy and strain . Treatment . With repeated pulmonary emboli , long-term anticoagulant therapy may reverse the process . In mitral stenosis , relief of the stenosis will frequently release the vasoconstriction . In those with increased pulmonary flow repair of the shunt with reduction of flow has proved disappointing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be subdivided into : ( 1 ) Chronic obliterative arterial disease due to ( a ) Atherosclerosis . ( b ) Buerger 's disease . // ( 2 ) Acute obstruction to the arterial circulation by embolism or thrombosis . ( 3 ) Venous thrombosis , which may affect either the superficial or deep veins. ( 4 ) Raynaud 's syndrome . ( 5 ) Acrocyanosis . PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE ATHEROSCLEROSIS This occurs most commonly over the age of fifty and may complicate diabetes or hypertension . The areas of narrowing or occlusion are often first found in the femoral artery below the profunda femoris branch . Less commonly they develop in the iliacs or lower aorta . In more advanced cases the areas of narrowing can be found throughout the arterial tree of the leg . The arms are very rarely affected . Clinical Features . The earliest symptom is intermittent claudication , a cramp-like pain usually in the calf or more rarely in the thigh , causing the patient to limp . It may be bilateral or unilateral , but is usually worse on one side . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The degree of disability is variable . With obstruction of the lower end of the aorta ( Leriche 's syndrome ) pain may be referred to the thighs and buttocks , there may be muscle wasting , and in men failure of penile erection may occur . In severe cases pain may occur at rest and may be particularly troublesome at night when it may become almost unbearable . When the circulation to the limbs is severely impaired , areas of gangrene may appear . They often start following trauma , particularly round the nail bed and over the heel . In the most severe cases , gangrene of a whole foot or even of extensive areas of the leg , may occur . Examination shows absent or reduced pulses in the limbs and in advanced cases coldness of the limbs with failure of the vasodilatation which normally occurs on warming . If the limb is elevated it blanches unduly rapidly , and cyanosis on dependence may be extreme . Both these signs indicate reduced arterial blood supply . There is an increased incidence of coronary artery disease in those with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disease is always general , not central or peripheral alone . Prognosis and Treatment . For the majority of patients with intermittent claudication the condition is relatively benign and symptoms may last for years without progression and without the development of gangrene . In some patients symptoms may actually improve due to the opening up of collaterals . For the elderly patient with a mild to moderate disability , treatment should be conservative . Patients should be told to avoid trauma to the feet and the assistance of a chiropodist should be enlisted to help with care of the toe-nails and to deal with callouses , etc . Undue heat or // cold should be avoided as far as the feet are concerned , but the body should be kept warm to produce as much reflex vasodilatation as possible . Various vasodilator drugs are used to try and improve the peripheral circulation ; tolazoline 25 mg. t.d.s . is popular but there is no evidence that it has a therapeutic effect . Alcohol may be of value in moderate doses . Tobacco reduces peripheral blood flow and should be avoided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Femoro-popliteal Obstruction . Surgery in this group is disappointing patients under 60 , with apparent unilateral disease and severe symptoms should have an arteriogram and if the disease is proved to be unilateral and limited , and if they are in good general health , operation is justified . Aorto-iliac Obstruction . Patients in this group do better with surgery , and it should be offered to those with severe symptoms . In a few patients , lumbar sympathectomy may be successful , but it is difficult to predict which patients will be helped by this operation . Finally , severe rest pain or gangrene may make amputation necessary . BUERGER 'S DISEASE Buerger 's disease is very rare . It occurs almost exclusively in men and usually starts between the age of twenty-five and forty-five , and is associ ated with heavy smoking . The lesions begin in the small arteries in the feet and lead to progressive obliteration from the periphery of the arteries of the lower limbs . Involvement of arteries in the arms and elsewhere is very rare . Clinical Features . The disease usually starts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superficial venous thrombophlebitis develops in the legs and sometimes in the arms . The disease is slowly progressive . Treatment . Treatment consists of care of the extremities , giving vaso dilator drugs , and avoiding tobacco . Anticoagulants should be used for acute thrombophlebitis . Sympathectomy may produce prolonged relief of symptoms , particularly in the earlier stages of the disease . Amputation may be necessary in advanced cases . ACUTE ARTERIAI , OCCLUSION Acute arterial occlusion may be caused by an embolus arising , from the left side of the heart , usually in a patient with mitral stenosis or subacute bacterial endocarditis . Mural thrombi overlying infarcted areas may simi larly become detached . Alternatively , thrombosis on an atheromatous plaque may occur in situ as a complication of chronic obliterative arterial disease . Clinical Features . The onset is sudden with severe pain , pallor , coldness , S.T. M.-I O // loss of sensation , and weakness in the affected limb . The arterial pulses disappear below the level of the obstruction . If embolectomy is impossible or too long delayed the patient must be treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limb should be kept cool to reduce its oxygen requirements to a minimum ; the rest of the body must be kept warm ; and a careful watch must be maintained for the appearance of gangrene . Amputation may sometimes be required . RAYNAUD 'S SYNDROME This is produced by spasm of the digital arteries . It may be the result of a variety of causes . ( 1 ) Raynaud 's disease , believed to represent hypersensitivity of the digital vessels to cold . ( 2 ) Auto-immune disorders , especially systemic lupus erythematosis and scleroderma. ( 3 ) Occupational in butchers , fishmongers , and people handling vibrating tools . ( 4 ) Other arterial diseases , atheroma , Buerger 's disease . ( 5 ) Blood disorders , polycythaemia vera , haemolytic anaemias. ( 6 ) Thoracic outlet syndromes , cervical ribs , prefixed plexus. ( 7 ) Diseases of the nervous system , syringomyelia. ( 8 ) Phaeochromocytoma . Clinical Features . Most common in young women . It begins distally and spreads proximally . First the fingertips , then the fingers and even the hands become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine movement are impaired . Recovery is in the reverse order , and causes painful paraesthesiae in the affected areas , which become patchily discoloured red , white , and blue . It may be followed by reflex vasodilatation , so that the hand is red and warm , and the pulse bounding . Rarely the nose and more frequently the toes may be affected . Early in the disease there is no evidence of permanent changes but after some years gangrene of the tips of the fingers may develop . Treatment . The patient should avoid exposing the hands to cold and the whole body should be kept as warm as possible to promote reflex vasodilation . Vasodilator drugs are sometimes useful and tolazoline , 25 mg. t.d.s. , is the most satisfactory . Sympathectomy is indicated if medical treatment , fails . ACROCYANOSIS This is a condition of unknown cause found in young people , characterised by painless cyanosis of the hands and feet , sometimes with swelling . The condition is harmless and treatment is unsatisfactory . I // VENOUS THROMBOSIS Deep Vein Thrombosis ( Phlebothrombosis ) There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including venous stagnation , dehydration , and the rise in platelets which follows operation . It is particularly liable to occur after operation or during the course of a severe medical illness . Studies using phlebography and measuring the uptake by the thrombus of 1251-labelled fibrinogen suggest that up to 35 per cent of patients have venous thrombosis after major surgery , although nearly all of them show no clinical evidence of disease . It may be symptomatic of a hidden neoplasm ( particularly carcinoma of the pancreas or bronchus ) or of Buerger 's disease . It is more likely to develop in women on the pill ' . Rarely it occurs for no apparent reason . The danger of a deep vein thrombosis is that a portion of the clot may break off and be swept through the right side of the heart to the lungs to produce a pulmonary infarct ( p. 164 ) . Clinical Features . The symptoms of a deep vein thrombosis are often slight . There may be a slight rise of temperature with a leucocytosis and the patient may complain of pain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ankle , tenderness of the calf and dorsiflexion of the ankle will be painful ( Homan 's sign ) . Sometimes a pulmonary embolism will be the first indication of a deep vein thrombosis . With obstruction of the main venous return from the leg , the whole leg will become swollen and occasionally gangrene of the toes develops , thus leading to an erroneous diagnosis of arterial block . Physical signs may be unreliable , but the following methods of investigation are available . ( 1 ) Ascending Venography . This is most accurate but not entirely suitable for widespread routine use . ( 2 ) Injection of 1251 labelled fibrinogen which becomes incorporated with the thrombus and can thus be detected . ( 3 ) Doppler ultrasound effect . This measures the rate of flow of blood in the femoral vein on compressing the calf . It will only detect obstruction in the femoral vein and not in the calf . Treatment . Deep vein thrombosis should be prevented if possible by encouraging the patient to move his legs at frequent intervals and by avoiding dehydration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be rested . Active movements are best avoided in the early stages in case a clot is dislodged , but gentle passive movements are allowed to prevent stagnation of blood . As soon as the acute stage has settled a crepe bandage should be firmly applied to the leg and the patient should be encouraged to walk . Anticoagulants should be given and continued until one week after all the signs have disappeared and the patient is ambulant . If there is gross oedema of the leg the position of the obstruction should be defined by // venography , and the thrombus removed . This must be done within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms . Prevention . It would obviously be most satisfactory to prevent the development of phlebothrombosis , particularly in patients at risk following surgery . Intermittent stimulation or compression of calf muscles during operation may be helpful . Although early leg exercises in the post-operative period are widely used , there is no good evidence that they are effective . Small doses of heparin given subcutaneously before operation and for five days afterwards appear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet in general use . Superficial Vein Thrombosis Thrombosis may occur in the superficial veins , particularly of the lower limbs . The vein becomes painful and on examination the thrombosis can be palpated as a tender cord . The skin over the thrombosis may be red . Superficial vein thrombosis may occur as a result of injury or as a complication of varicose veins . It should be remembered that it occasionally indicates a deep-seated neoplasm . There is little risk of pulmonary embolism . Treatment consists of firmly bandaging the limb and allowing the patient to walk as much as is comfortable . Phenylbutazone in doses of 100 mg. three times daily for a few days will often reduce inflammation and discomfort . Iliac Vein Compression Obstruction of the venous return from the lower limbs by the right common iliac artery has recently been recognised as an occasional cause of swollen legs . Usually in such patients the left common iliac vein is compressed ( 68 per cent ) but the lower end of the inferior vena cava ( 16 per cent ) and the right common iliac @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The condition is twice as common in women as in men , and is believed to be a major factor in the occurrence of acute venous thrombosis after childbirth or surgical operations ( p. 171 ) , which may be followed by lifelong oedema of one or both limbs . In other patients no such acute episode is recorded , the patient presenting with aching and swelling of one or both legs . Swelling occurs three times as commonly on the left as the right , and the whole of the affected limb is swollen . Pain in the limb on exertion is the rule , and has been termed venous claudication ' . It differs from arterial claudication ( p. 168 ) in that it takes longer to appear and is less quickly relieved by rest . It usually affects the calf , but may spread to the thigh . Sometimes there are recurrent episodes of thrombosis , and chronic varicose ulcers may occur . The diagnosis is proved by combined phlebography and arteriography , and treatment is surgical . // Thrombosis of the Axillary Vein This occasionally occurs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vein such as produced by carrying a rucksack . There is a swelling of the arm and the axillary vein is tender . An embolism is rare and the arm should be rested until the condition subsides . CHAPTER FIVE THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY For descriptive purposes the respiratory system is subdivided into the upper respiratory tract , consisting of the nose , nasopharynx , and larynx , and the lower respiratory tract , comprising the trachea , bronchi , and lungs . The lining membrane of the air passages has a rich blood supply which enables it to warm and moisten the inspired air . A thin film of mucus covers the whole respiratory tract , and is kept continuously moving upwards away from the lungs by the sweeping action of the ciliated mucous membrane ; this is a most effective filter for removing particles of dust from the air before it reaches the lungs . The irregularity of the nasal cavity and the accessory air sinuses which open into it increase the area of mucous membrane with which the air comes into contact , and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , swelling of the mucous membrane readily obstructs drainage of secretions from the sinuses and so may predispose to sinusitis . Another important defence mechanism is the cough reflex . ANATOMY OF THE BRONCHIAL TREE A proper knowledge of the anatomy of the bronchial tree is essential to the understanding of the localisation and spread of many diseases of the lung . Many lung infections spread via the bronchi and the distribution of the infection is determined by the segments which these bronchi supply . Unless the anatomy of the broncho-pulmonary segments is known , the correct localisation of disease within the lung , whether by means of physical signs or radiography , is impossible . Finally , treatment by postural drainage requires a knowledge of the direction of the bronchi so that the patient may be correctly positioned . Surface Markings of the Lobes The upper and lower lobes of the left lung are separated by the oblique fissure . The right lung is composed of three lobes and the right oblique fissure separates the lower lobe from the upper and middle lobes . On each side the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rib and runs upwards and backwards round the chest wall , usually along the line of the 5th or 6th rib to the vertebral column . Its surface marking roughly corresponds to the position of the medial border of the scapula when the // hand is placed on top of the head . The horizontal fissure separates the right upper lobe from the middle lobe . Its surface marking starts at the fourth right costal cartilage and runs horizontally around the chest to join the oblique fissure in the mid-axillary line . The segment of the left lung which occupies the position corresponding to the middle lobe is called the lingula , and it is part of the left upper lobe . The Broncho-pulmonary Segments The bronchi to the separate lobes of each lung arise from the main bronchi on their respective sides . The primary subdivisions of the lobar bronchi , together with the segments of lung which they supply , form the broncho-pulmonary segments . The segments of each lobe are named after their corresponding bronchi . The Upper Lobes . The right upper lobe bronchus divides almost immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anterior and posterior bronchi have axillary branches which supply the lateral part of the upper lobe . The left upper lobe bronchus quickly gives origin to the lingula bronchus which runs downwards and forwards , subdividing into superior and inferior branches . It then gives off branches to the anterior , apical , and posterior segments of the lobe , but differs from the right side in having a common apico-posterior bronchus . The Middle Lobe bronchus is only present on the right side and runs downwards and forwards dividing into lateral and medial divisions . The Lower Lobes . The right lower lobe bronchus gives off an apical branch which arises opposite the middle lobe bronchus and runs backwards to the apical segment of the lower lobe . The basal bronchi consist of anterior , lateral , and posterior branches and , in addition , a medial basal ( or cardiac ) bronchus supplies a small segment on the medial aspect of the lower lobe . On the left side the arrangement is similar , but the medial basal is usually insignificant or absent . LOOKING AT THE CHEST X-RAY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a patient suspected of lung disease , and indeed in many conditions radiological abnormalities are present long before the development of physical signs . The film should be examined in a systematic , rather than haphazard , manner . Firstly it should be ensured that the film has been taken straight by observing that the medial ends of the clavicles are equidistant from the centre of the spine . Undue rotation can produce abnormal looking appearances of the mediastinum and the hilar shadows , as well as gross differences in the opaqueness of the two lungs . The trachea should be central ; displacement may be due to rotation , shift of the mediastinum ( see palpation , p. 186 ) or due to a superior mediastinal swelling ( p. 242 ) . The diaTHE // phragms should next be examined ; flattening of the diaphragms occurs with over-inflated lungs and undue elevation of a diaphragm may be due to diminished lung volume on that side or to diaphragmatic paralysis . The right diaphragm is normally higher than the left and the costo-phrenic angle should be clear and at an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thickening . The lung fields are then examined by comparing one side with another ; the apices of the lungs above the clavicles are first compared and then coming down the chest X-ray and using the anterior ends of the ribs as markers one interspace is compared with the other on the opposite side . In this way small focal lesions can be detected . In addition , the pulmonary vascular markings should be examined and an assessment made as to whether there is any diffuse shadowing in addition to the normal markings . The position of the horizontal fissure should be noted . The hilar regions should be examined ; enlargement may be due to a prominent pulmonary artery , pathological enlargement of the pulmonary artery , enlarged lymph glands or hilar mass . Starting with the first ribs , and comparing one side with another , both the posterior and anterior parts of the ribs should be examined for abnormalities . A lateral chest X-ray will be necessary for full interpretation of a lesion and for correct anatomical localisation ( see bronchopulmonary segments p. 175 ) , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the left lower lobe as it may be obscured in the straight X-ray by the heart shadow . RESPIRATORY FUNCTION TESTS INTRODUCTION Tests of respiratory function aid the clinical assessment of a patient , for they provide an objective method of estimating the respiratory ability . They may be helpful , for example , when thoracic surgery is being considered , and serial recordings are of value both in assessing the effectiveness of a form of treatment and in following the progress of a disease . Some tests are easy to perform and others require skill and complicated apparatus . Each has its limitations and it may be necessary to test several aspects of function before reaching a satisfactory conclusion . It is proposed to discuss the principles involved , rather than the technical aspects . TESTS OF VENTILATION The diagram , which is self-explanatory , illustrates the various subdivisions of the lung volumes . The Tidal Volume is the volume of air breathed in or out at rest and the Resting Expiratory Level is the most satisfactory reference point on the spirometer tracing as it is the most constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Volume and the number of respirations per minute . The Vital Capacity is the largest ventilatory volume that a patient can achieve . It is measured on the spirometer as the volume of a maximal // unhurried expiration following a maximal inspiration . Normal figures for the Vital Capacity can be predicted from tables , the values being larger in males , increasing with size and , in adults , diminishing with age . As a single test of respiratory function , it has many limitations . The predicted normal values have a wide range of ? 20 per cent , and this means that reduction in the Vital Capacity has to be gross before it becomes significant . It is therefore unsuitable for measuring mild to moderate ventilatory defects . In addition , the degree of reduction in the Vital Capacity does not necessarily correlate with a patient 's disability and neither does it indicate the nature of the ventilatory defect or the underlying disease . It can be reduced in practically any disease of the lungs , pleura , or thoracic cage . Its most useful application is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Volume ( RV ) is that volume of gas remaining in the lungs after a maximum expiration . It can be estimated indirectly by subtracting the Expiratory Reserve Volume from the more easily measured Functional Residual Capacity . The Residual Volume ( RV ) , like the Vital Capacity , has a wide normal range , but its proportion to the Total Lung Capacity ( TLC ) is fairly constant . Up to the age of thirty years , it forms 20 to 25 per cent of the Total Lung Capacity . It increases further with age , rising to some 40 per cent in elderly people . The RV/TLC ratio is abnormally increased in conditions where there is over-inflation of the lungs , such as obstruc tive emphysema , asthma , and kyphoscoliosis , and reduced in pulmonary fibrosis . Obstructive airway disease , such as occurs in emphysema and asthma , is best revealed when the Vital Capacity is determined with reference to speed . The Forced Vital Capacity ( FVC ) is the volume of a maximal expiration carried out as rapidly as possible following a maximal inspira @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FVC is termed the FEV1.o ( the Forced Expiratory Volume in one second ) . The percentage of // the FVC expired during this first second is termed the FER ( Forced Expiratory Ratio ) , and is normally 75 per cent or more . Reduction in both the FEVI.o and the FER occurs with expiratory obstruction and is particularly useful in detecting airflow obstruction from asthma , chronic bronchitis and emphysema . The response of asthma to the inhalation of a bronchodilator is best detected by an improvement in the FEV , . o and this change distinguishes reversible airflow obstruction ( asthma ) from irrevers ible airflow obstruction ( chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) . The Maximum Breathing Capacity ( MBC ) or Maximum Voluntary Ventilation ( MVV ) , can be estimated directly by measuring the ventilation when a patient is made to breathe maximally over a period of 15 seconds ; it is expressed in litres per minute . This method is often distressing to the patient and it has been shown that the MBC can be calculated simply and accurately by multiplying the FEVI.o by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the MBC can also be obtained from tables , and there is the same normal range of ? 20 per cent . The MBC is a test of the overall function of pulmonary ventilation . Provided a diffusion defect is not present , a normal value means that dyspnoea is not respiratory in origin . It is reduced in all respiratory diseases causing impairment of ventilation , but particularly in those where there is airway obstruction . The Peak Flow is the maximum expiratory flow rate achieved during a forced expiration . The Wright Peak Flow Meter ' is one instrument designed for measuring this and has the advantage of being small , portable , and easy to operate . Although the Peak Flow and the FEVi.0 measure rather different aspects of pulmonary ventilation they are reduced by the same circumstances , namely airflow obstruction or general reduction in ventilatory function . Normal values for Peak Flow are also influenced by // sex , age , and size . For example , a man aged thirty-five years , 5 ft. 11 in. tall and weight 11 st. 7 lb. should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gases Efficient ventilation ensures that the inspired air is evenly distributed throughout the lungs . In one test , after a full inspiration of pure oxygen , the patient breathes out fully , and the concentration of nitrogen at the mouth level is measured continuously with a nitrogen meter . During expiration there is a brief period during which the air passages are cleared of the Dead Space oxygen . The nitrogen concentration then rises sharply and by the time 750 c.c. have been exhaled it has reached the steady level of alveolar gas . In the normal , further rise in the alveolar nitrogen concentration during the period of 750 to 1,250 c.c. of expiration should not exceed 2 per cent . This figure is increased in conditions where there are poorly ventilated air sacs and uneven ventilation , and the test has its greatest value in the assessment of emphysema . Blood Gas Analysis Measurements of the oxygen saturation and the carbon dioxide pressure in arterial blood can be used to assess the efficiency of alveolar ventilation . Normally , the partial pressures of CO2(Pco2) and 02(Po2) in arterial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the normal arterial oxygen saturation is not less than 95 per cent . Alveolar hypoventilation leads to arterial oxygen desaturation and retention of carbon dioxide in the blood . This state of affairs may be precipitated by any complication producing severe impairment of ventilation , such as poliomyelitis or respiratory depression from drugs , or it may be persistent in patients with chronic chest disease . The arterial oxygen saturation is also reduced in conditions producing severe impairment of gas transfer and in intracardiac right-to-left shunts . In chronic anoxic states the respiratory centre depends on the anoxia for its stimulation . Relief of severe anoxia by oxygen therapy is an important part of the treatment of cor pulmonale for example , but this may release the respiratory centre from its drive ' and depress respirations further . The patient may thus be relieved from anoxia , but the additional reduction in alveolar ventilation leads to further retention of carbon dioxide in the blood with acidoses . Mental disturbance usually occurs when the arterial pH is less than 7.2 or the Pco2 higher than 100 mm.Hg. , and coma usually supervenes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above 120 mm.Hg . Serial estimations of the Pco2 in arterial blood or the mixed // venous blood by the Campbell rebreathing technique are thus very valuable in ensuring the proper control of oxygen administration to such patients . GAS TRANSFER In certain conditions the predominant physiological defect is one of impairment of the transfer of gases across the alveolar-capillary membrane , and other aspects of ventilatory function may be within normal limits or only moderately reduced . This occurs in such diseases as fibrosing alveolitis , asbestosis , infiltration of the lungs with sarcoid granulomata , carcinomatosis lymphangitis , and pulmonary oedema . In these examples of the so-called alveolar-capillary block ' syndrome impairment of the transfer of carbon dioxide does not occur , as this gas is about twenty times more diffusible than oxygen . Hyperventilation is often present even at rest , and this may indeed produce increased excretion of carbon dioxide by the lungs with reduction in its arterial partial pressure ( PCO2 ) . According to the severity of the condition the arterial oxygen saturation may be normal or reduced at rest , but after exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are various methods of measuring the Transfer Factor , and normal figures vary according to the techniques and the gases used . In one method , carbon monoxide , which is slightly less diffusible than oxygen , is breathed in low concentration and its uptake by the lungs measured . Gas transfer can be shown to be impaired in the alveolar-capillary block ' - syndrome and it may also be impaired when there is a reduction in the area available for transfer of gases , as in emphysema or multiple pulmonary emboli . THE WORK OF BREATHING AND COMPLIANCE The measurement of the work involved in breathing requires the summation of various complicated physiological processes . These include such aspects as the oxygen requirements of the respiratory muscles and the mechanical effects of overcoming airway resistance , tissue resistance and lung elasticity . Most of these are difficult to test , but lung elasticity , or lung compliance , can be measured fairly simply by recording the negative intrathoracic pressure through an oesophageal catheter at the same time as ventilatory volumes . The lung compliance is the inspiratory volume which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cm . H2O , and in the normal is 0.09 to 0.33 litre/cm.H20 . The normal values have been related to the Functional Residual Capacity , as they are influenced by the size of the lungs . The compliance is reduced in conditions which produce abnormally stiff lungs . Examples of such conditions are pulmonary venous congestion from mitral stenosis or chronic left ventricular failure , and diffuse fibrotic or infiltrative lesions of the lungs // BRONCHOSPIROMETRY At times it is of value to assess the function of each lung separately by bronchospirometry . This may be the case when lung disease appears to be unilateral or when pneumonectomy is contemplated and adequate function in the opposite lung is in doubt . By passing a double-lumen catheter down the trachea it is possible to record ventilation and to collect gas samples for analysis from both lungs separately . SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS OF LUNG DISEASE Types of Cough and Sputum A cough is a forced expiration against a closed glottis . A high pressure of air is built up in the trachea and bronchi and the sudden opening of the glottis is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This removes collections of mucus and foreign particles from the air passages . The cough reflex is stimulated by irritation of nerve endings in the larynx , trachea , bronchi , and even the pleura . In the early stages of respiratory tract infections , inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane causes the cough to be dry and unproductive . With the later development of inflammatory exudate , the cough produces clear or whitish , sticky sputum . In whooping cough the exudate is particularly tenacious . The patient gives a series of quickly repeated coughs during one expiratory movement in an effort to dislodge the sputum , and this is followed by an inspiratory whoop ' through a partially closed glottis . The cough typically occurs in paroxysms and is not always associated with a whoop ' . A yellow or greenish colour to the sputum signifies that it is purulent . This occurs with secondary pyogenic infection during respiratory tract infections . Purulent sputum is also expectorated in patients with bronchiectasis . With change of posture when waking in the morning , the patient corg.zs up the infected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night . The quantity of sputum depends on the degree of infection and extent of the disease . It may amount to several ounces per day and is sometimes very offensive in smell due to the action of putrefactive bacteria . Purulent sputum tends to be more fluid than other types as enzymes from the pus cells liquefy the mucus . The cough in bronchial carcinoma is at first persistent and unproductive due to invasion of the mucous membrane . With increase in size of the growth , secretions collect distal to the partially obstructed bronchus so that mucopurulent , often bloodstained , sputum is then produced . In pulmonary tuberculosis there may be no sputum in the earlier stages of the disease . If sputum is produced it is clear or white and very sticky , so that it remains in separate lumps in the sputum mug ( nummular sputum ) . During the early stages of pneumococcal pneumonia the patient may // cough up very viscid sputum tinged with blood which give it a rusty colour . Cardiac asthma ( p. 98 ) is due to acute engorgement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exudes into the alveoli and the attack is associated with the expectoration of a large quantity of clear , frothy sputum , which is sometimes pinkish in colour due to the presence of red cells . In bronchial asthma , however , the sputum consists of firm , whitish pellets , which can sometimes be unravelled in water into spiral ribbons ( Curschmann 's spirals ) . These represent casts of the bronchial tubes in which they have formed . Haemoptysis The coughing up of blood must be distinguished from haematemesis , the vomiting of blood . ( 1 ) Blood from the lungs is usually bright red , frothy , and mixed , with sputum . That from the stomach is usually dark in colour , having been altered to acid-haematin by the hydrochloric acid ; it is often mixed with food . ( 2 ) Many patients can state definitely whether the blood has been coughed up or vomited. ( 3 ) Often there will be symptoms or signs which point to disease of the lungs or the alimentary tract . The common causes of haemoptysis are : Table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bronchus , characteristically the ulcerated area leads to repeated daily blood-streaking of sputum . An early lesion of pulmonary tuberculosis sometimes presents with an haemoptysis of an ounce or more of bright-red blood , not associated with sputum . Blood-streaking of sputum is very common in respiratory tract infections and ulceration of the mucosa in bronchiectasis sometimes produces severe haemoptysis . Every patient presenting with haemoptysis should be fully examined and have a chest radiograph , particularly to exclude bronchial carcinoma and pulmonary tuberculosis . A normal chest radiograph does not exclude an early bronchial carcinoma , and ideally bronchoscopy should be performed to exclude this possibility . However , unless there are good clinical grounds for suspecting a bronchial carcinoma , bronchoscopy is often not justified at this stage and it is sufficient for the patient to be followed-up // carefully with fairly frequent chest radiographs . The majority of such patients do not develop any serious disease and in nearly half of all patients presenting with a small haemoptysis , no definite cause is found . Pain in the Chest Acute pleuritic pain from pleurisy is sharp and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The pain is usually localised to the site of the pleurisy , but it may be referred to the abdominal wall and be confused with an acute abdominal condition . With diaphragmatic pleurisy the pain is referred to the tip of the shoulder , as the skin in this situation has the same sensory nerve supply ( C3 , 4 , and 5 ) . Lesions of the chest wall , such as fractures or secondary deposits in the ribs , may cause severe local pain and tenderness . The aetiology of Tietze 's syndrome is uncertain , but it is a painful condition , usually involving one of the upper costo-chondral junctions . Chest pain may also be referred from the thoracic spine . The seventh cervical nerve supplies the pectoralis major and pain referred from this root may be felt in that muscle as well as in the arm . Intrathoracic structures , other than the lungs , can produce pain in the chest , common examples being the pain from coronary thrombosis and hiatus hernia . Types of Respiration Respiration in men is mainly diaphragmatic in type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more powerful muscular movement than expiration , the latter depending on elastic recoil of the lungs and relaxation of the diaphragm and intercostal muscles . Obstruction to the large air passages produces a prolonged inspiratory phase with stridor , as inspiration is the more powerful movement . The bronchi and bronchioles normally dilate on inspiration and narrow on expiration , so that obstruction of the smaller air passages , as in asthma , leads to prolonged , wheezy , and difficult expiration . Respirations in pneumonia and pleurisy are rapid and shallow , the inspirations being abruptly stopped , often with an audible grunt , as soon as the pleuritic pain is felt . Normally , expiration immediately follows inspiration and there is then a pause before the next breath . In pneumonia this rhythm is sometimes reversed , the pause taking place between inspiration and expiration . The acidosis which occurs with uraemia and diabetic ketosis causes very deep breathing , known as air hunger , or Kussmaul 's breathing , due to marked stimulation of the respiratory centre . Cheyne-Stokes breathing is a characteristic respiratory arrhythmia occurring when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the blood . The amplitude of respiration progressively deepens until a maximum is reached and then diminishes until there is a period of apnoea . During the period of apnoea , the carbon dioxide in the blood rises to a level high enough to stimulate the respiratory centre . There is then an exaggerated response // producing the period of hyperventilation , which washes the carbon dioxide out of the blood until the stimulus to respiration is removed and apnoea occurs . The whole cycle lasts two or three minutes and is then repeated . This type of breathing occurs with left ventricular failure and with various cerebral causes of depression of the respiratory centre . Clubbing of the Fingers The earliest change is a filling in of the angle between the skin at the base of the nail and the base of the nail itself , the skin becoming swollen and shiny . Later increased curvature of the nails occurs and finally the pulps of the fingers become enlarged . Clubbing has many unrelated causes : Cardiovascular ( 1 ) Infective endocarditis. ( 2 ) Cyanotic congenital heart disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Respiratory ( 1 ) Carcinoma of the bronchus. ( 2 ) Chronic suppuration in the chest , such as bronchiectasis , lung abscess , and empyema. ( 3 ) Chronic fibrosing alveolitis . At times clubbing is familial and there is no underlying disease . More rarely it is associated with cirrhosis of the liver , steatorrhoea , or polyposis of the colon . EXAMINATION OF THE CHEST Inspection ( 1 ) The General Contours ( a ) Kyphosis and kyphoscoliosis may be developmental in origin . If gross , they may in later years give rise to severe impairment of lung function and heart failure . Abnormalities of spinal curvature may also occur secondary to intra-thoracic disease . ( b ) Funnel-shaped depression of the sternum ( pectus excavatum ) may occur in varying degrees . Deep depression may displace the heart to the left and lead to the erroneous diagnosis of cardiac enlargement . ( c ) Over-inflation of the lungs , such as occurs with asthma and emphysema , leads to increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the chest and the shoulders are held high . ( d @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or pleural fibrosis. // ( 2 ) The Respiratory Movements ( a ) The respiratory rate is increased in many conditions , including acute and chronic lung disease , cardiac failure , and anxiety . It is decreased with depression of the respiratory centre , as in narcotic poisoning and with various cerebral lesions. ( b ) The accessory muscles of respiration may be used if there is severe respiratory distress , as in an asthmatic attack . ( c ) Decreased movement on one side of the chest indicates disease of the lung or pleura of that side . ( d ) The respiration may have a special character ( see p. 184 ) . Palpation The position of the mediastinum is assessed by determining the position of the apex beat and the trachea . Shift of the mediastinum towards the side of the lesion indicates shrinkage of the lung due to collapse or fibrosis . Displacement away from the lesion occurs with fluid or air in the pleural cavity . Displacement of the trachea alone is more likely with contraction of an upper lobe and shift of the apex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tactile vocal fremitus ( T. V.F. ) is decreased with air or fluid in the pleural cavity and with pulmonary collapse . Increased tactile vocal fremitus occurs with conditions which also produce bronchial breathing . Percussion Normally the lungs are resonant to percussion and there are areas of dullness over the heart and liver . In emphysema and pneumothorax , hyperresonance is sometimes found and cardiac and liver dullness are either diminished or absent . Impaired resonance is found over consolidated , collapsed , or fibroid lung , or with pleural thickening . A flat , dull note is found over pleural fluid . Auscultation ( 1 ) The Breath Sounds The normal breath sounds are rustling , with a long inspiratory phase followed by a short expiratory phase . Over the lung roots the normal breath sounds take on a bronchial character . The breath sounds are diminished or absent with fluid or air in the pleural cavity and with impaired inflation of the lung , as in emphysema and collapse . In bronchial breathing , the breath sounds have a harsher quality and the expiratory phase is longer than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bronchial breathing is heard in the normal by listening with a stethoscope over the larynx or trachea . When bronchial breathing is heard over the lungs , it indicates a pathological process which is enhancing the transmission of the tracheal sound to the chest wall . It occurs with pneumonic consolidation , with fibroid lung ( fibrosis plus bronchiectasis ) , and over a large cavity . It also occurs sometimes above the upper level of a pleural // effusion and over a large pneumothorax . Bronchial breathing is always accompanied by whispering pectoriloquy and by increased T.V.F. and bronchophony . The Voice Sounds Normally , when the stethoscope is placed over a peripheral part of the lungs the spoken voice comes through in a modified form so that the consonants are blurred and indistinct ; the whispered voice can not be heard at all . Transmission of the spoken and whispered voice in an unmodified bronchial form ( such as can be heard in the normal subject by listening over the trachea , though it is not necessarily as loud as this ) is called respectively bronchophony and whispering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances as bronchial breathing . Aegophony is the peculiar nasal quality to the voice sounds heard above the upper level of an effusion . Rhonchi A rhonchus is a musical squeak due to air passing through a narrowed bronchus . It is low pitched if the bronchus is large and high pitched with small bronchi . Rhonchi are most marked on expiration and may be cleared by coughing . The narrowing is commonly due to bronchial spasm or mucosal swelling or exudate . A bronchial neoplasm may produce a persistent low-pitched rhonchus . Roles Roles are popping noises due either to air bubbling through fluid or to the sound of alveolar walls opening . The roles are coarse if the fluid is in large bronchi and fine if the bronchi are small . Crepitations are very fine roles due to fluid in the bronchioles or alveoli . They are sometimes heard at the bases of the lungs in normal people who have been breathing quietly , when they are due to the noise of the partially closed alveoli opening , but they should disappear after a few deep breaths . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very clear cut ( consonating roles ) . Roles are most marked towards the end of an inspiration . There are coarse , crackling roles in bronchiectasis , medium roles in bronchitis , and crepita tions in pulmonary oedema , pneumona or fibrosing alveolitis . DISEASES OF THE UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT HAY FEVER AND PERENNIAL RHINITIS These are allergic disorders characterised by bouts of sneezing , profuse watery nasal discharge , and smarting and watering of the eyes . Hay fever is due to sensitivity to grass pollens and occurs during the months of May to August ; perennial rhinitis is due to sensitivity to a variety of allergens , such as house dust , and may occur throughout the year . // Treatment . Hay fever : A course of desensitisation injections may be given if skin testing ( p. 204 ) reveals specific allergens . Starting in January , weekly injections continue until 14 days before the hay fever usually begins . Alternatively , less frequent injections of a depot vaccine may be used . At least three yearly courses are required for a prolonged effect . Antihistamines are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be found to suit the patient . Among the most valuable are chlorpheniramine , 4.0 mg. twice daily or promethazine , 25 mg. once or twice daily ; the latter often causes troublesome drowsiness which may be counteracted with amphetamine sulphate , 2.5 ? 5.0 mg. in the morning . Betamethasone ( 0.1 per cent ) nose drops also give good symptomatic relief . Disodium cromoglycate inhaled into the nose is a promising new treatment for hay fever . Perennial rhinitis : Precipitants such as house dust , pets , or feathers should be avoided . Skin testing is seldom helpful as the patient is often sensitive to many allergens . Antihistamines may be tried , but are not usually as successful as in hay fever . Surgical treatment , e.g. submucous resection , should be avoided unless there is a very definite indication . VIRUS INFECTIONS OF THE RESPIRATORY TRACT The following are some of the viruses which affect the respiratory tract : Table All the above viruses have a nucleic acid content of RNA , with the exception of the adenovirus which is DNA containing . An increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above viruses ; for example , there are more than 90 serotypes of the rhinovirus and 28 of the adenovirus . The enteroviruses , ECHO and Coxsackie A and B , also produce respiratory infections as well as other illnesses such as pericarditis and meningitis ( p. 521 ) . The influenza virus consists of types A , B and C ; influenza A virus is the cause of pandemics and major epidemics , B virus causes smaller epidemics and is a less virulent type of infection and influenza C is principally endemic producing a fairly trivial respiratory infection . Major changes in the antigenic nature of influenza A virus occur about every ten to fifteen years , but minor changes may occur during the intervening years ? the so-called antigenic drift ' . For this reason effective vaccines against influenza should contain type B virus and the latest strain of type A , at the present time A2/Hong Kong/68 . The development of effective vaccines against the other respiratory viruses has not been possible because of the S.T.M.-II // large number of viruses involved and because there would be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Generally speaking each type of acute respiratory illness can be pro duced by a number of different viruses . A cold , for example , can be caused by the rhinovirus and the adenovirus , and the latter virus may also be responsible for a sore throat , an influenza-like illness or pneumonia . CORYZA ( The Common Cold ) Coryza is an infection of the mucous membrane of the nose and naso pharynx . The majority of cases are due to infection with the rhinoviruses , but any of the other respiratory viruses may be responsible ? in particular the adenoviruses . It is spread by droplet infection , particularly in crowded places such as buses , trains , and cinemas . There is a high level of endemic infection during the autumn and winter and chills and dampness seem to be predisposing factors . After sneezing and profuse watery nasal discharge for a few days , secondary bacterial infection often occurs and the secre tions become thick and yellow . Infection may spread causing : Acute sinusitis , with fever , headache or pain in the face , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sinuses . Chronic sinusitis may result . Acute otitis media with fever , deafness , and earache . Tracheitis , bronchitis , or pneumonia . Treatment . A day or two in bed usually cuts short the course and pre-vents complications . It also helps to limit spread of the infection to others . Soluble aspirin 0.6 g. six-hourly , often alleviates the minor discomforts . Inhalation of tinct. benzoin and menthol , one teaspoonful in a jug of hot water , may relieve the nasal congestion . ACUTE LARYNGITIS AND LARYNGOTRACHEOBRONCHITIS Acute laryngitis occurs with the common cold and in young children with parainfluenzal virus infection . Tracheitis and bronchitis often occur at the same time . The throat is sore , the voice is at first hoarse and then reduced to a whisper and there is a dry , painful cough . In small children , swelling of the mucous membrane of the larynx may cause serious ob struction , the condition known as croup ' ; breathing becomes noisy and laboured and alarming paroxysms of coughing occur . Treatment . If feverish the patient should be in bed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dry . The dryness of central heating , electric and gas fires should be prevented by using a steam kettle . The patient must not talk , since the larynx needs rest . Smoking is forbidden . Steam inhalations containing tinct. benzoin co. , one teaspoon to one pint of boiling water , given for ten minutes three times a day , often give great relief ; hot gargles // and frequent hot drinks make the throat more comfortable . Linctus codeine , 4.0 ml. , will suppress an irritating cough . CHRONIC LARYNGITIS It is more common in men than in women and is particularly liable to occur with untrained over-use of the voice . Hence the term clergyman 's throat ' , though costermonger 's throat would be more apt , as excessive use of tobacco and alcohol are often predisposing factors . Chronic sinus infection may also play a part . Clinical Features . The voice is hoarse and weak . Examination of the larynx shows congestion with thickening of the vocal cords , either generalised or confined to the posterior third . Persistent hoarseness for more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be due to papilloma , carcinoma , laryngeal palsy , or more rarely tuberculosis or syphilis . Treatment . Complete rest of the voice is important . The patient should not speak above a whisper for several weeks . Nasal infection should be treated if present and tobacco and alcohol forbidden . DISEASES OF THE BRONCHI ACUTE TRACHEITIS AND BRONCHITIS Acute tracheitis and bronchitis may complicate colds , influenza , measles , and other virus infections , and are particularly liable to occur in cold , damp and foggy weather . After the first few days , secondary bacterial invasion commonly occurs . Broncheolitis in infants is due to the respiratory syncytial virus . Clinical Features . Acute tracheitis causes a dry , painful cough with soreness behind the sternum . Spread of infection to the bronchi produces tightness of the chest , with wheezing and difficulty in breathing . At first there is a little sticky , mucoid sputum , but secondary bacterial infection soon makes it yellow and more profuse . The severity and duration of the fever and of the general malaise are very variable ; usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days . It may be serious and lead to pneumonia in young children , in the elderly or debilitated , or in patients with chronic bronchitis . The signs of acute bronchitis are moderate fever , raised respiratory rate , particularly in children or in those with underlying lung disease , widespread rhonchi and often riles . Treatment . The patient should be kept in bed . The room should be warm and the atmosphere not too dry . A steam kettle or steam inhalations reduce the soreness and aid expectoration . A dry , troublesome cough is helped by linctus codeine 4 ? 8 ml. t.d.s . or elixir diphenhydramine 4 ml. ; the latter also aids sleep . // After a few days the fever settles and the cough disappears . Convalescence is advisable after an attack of acute bronchitis , as early return to work with exposure to cold and a smoky atmosphere may delay complete recovery . Antibiotics are not required in mild , uncomplicated acute bronchitis . They are required where the risks of bronchopneumonia are greater : ( 1 ) In a patient with severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elderly and infirm . ( 3 ) In the presence of complicating disease , such as heart disease . ( 4 ) In patients with chronic bronchitis or bronchiectasis . In these circumstances ampicillin or tetracycline ( 250 mg. four times daily ) , or co-trimoxazole ( Bactrim or Septrin ) two tablets twice a day are usually effective . CHRONIC BRONCHITIS Great Britain has a higher mortality rate from chronic bronchitis than any other country in the world . It is a major cause of chronic disability and death , particularly in men over middle age . It is related to air pollution , cigarette smoking and the liability to viral respiratory tract infections , and is most common in outdoor manual workers in urban districts . It is a complication of the pneumoconioses ( p. 229 ) , and obesity is an aggravating factor . In the early stages there is hypertrophy of the mucous glands of bronchi , even when there is no inflammatory cell infiltration of the mucosa . In addition goblet cells replace the normal peripheral bronchial epithelium . Later , inflammatory changes in the mucosa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the sputum is mucoid bacteriological study is unrewarding . With persistently purulent sputum , and in acute exacerbations of bronchitis , haemophilus influenzae and the pneumococcus are the most common pathogens isolated . Clinical Features . The earliest symptom is probably the smoker 's cough ' , with the early morning production of non-infected mucoid sputum . This causes no disability and the patient is unlikely to seek medical advice . Later the patient complains of a winter cough with sputum , often with wheezing . At first these symptoms may only occur in episodes after a cold , which is slow to clear . Later they persist throughout the whole winter and eventually during the summer as well . These is usually a moderate amount of sputum , which may be mucoid or purulent ; the latter nearly always occurs during an acute exacerbation of bronchitis , but sometimes the sputum is persistently purulent . A large volume of sputum should arouse suspicion of concomitant bronchiectasis . After some years increasing dyspnoea , due to diffuse airway obstruction and the development of emphysema , becomes an even more urgent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally becomes completely disabled . There is considerable variation in the degree of disTHE // ablement as many patients go throughout life with chronic cough and sputum and little dyspnoea , whereas others may become complete respiratory cripples within a few years . Examination shows generalised rhonchi due to narrowing of the bronchi by spasm , mucosal swelling and exudate . Rates may also be heard particularly at the bases . As emphysema develops it produces additional signs ( p. 195 ) . A chest radiograph in chronic bronchitis may show no abnormality until emphysema is present . Treatment . This is generally disappointing , but in certain cases considerable symptomatic improvement can be achieved . The progress of the disease may be slowed by preventing , as far as possible , acute exacerbations of bronchitis and by treating them vigorously when they occur . This is more rewarding in the early case where lung destruction is not advanced and symptoms are minimal . General Management . The smoky atmosphere of the city and dusty work should be avoided . This ideal is difficult to achieve as most patients , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healthier district or change their occupation . They can give up smoking and should be strenuously urged to do so . They should be advised to sleep in a warm bedroom , with the windows closed in the winter and they should stay at home in foggy weather and when they have a cold . A cold must be taken seriously , and the patient should retire to bed and be given a prophylactic antibiotic ( see below ) without delay . Bronchodilators . Some degree of bronchospasm is often present and may be relieved by ephedrine ( p. 204 ) , aminophylline ( p. 204 ) or inhalers containing isoprenaline , salbutamol or orciprenaline . Prednisolone may be tried in some severely disabled patients in whom persistent bronchospasm is thought to be an important feature . Eosinophils in the sputum and a family history of allergy may be useful guides . This steroid therapy should be continued only if there is striking improvement within a week ; it is then given on the same lines as for chronic asthma ( p. 204 ) . Expectorant mixtures aim at loosening and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the dosage usually prescribed they have no effect on the volume or characteristics of the sputum expectorated . Whether they have any effect on secretions deep in the bronchi is not settled . However , many bronchitic patients and doctors find such mixtures helpful and they continue to be prescribed . The reader is referred to the National Formulary for suitable prescriptions . Sedative cough mixtures are used to suppress a troublesome cough at night , or to enable a patient to attend a social meeting in comfort . Examples are linctus codeine ( N.F. ) 4-8 ml. and linctus pholcodine ( N.F. ) 4-8 ml . Prophylactic antibiotics do not prevent colds , but are used to prevent the secondary bacterial infection and to cut short , or prevent , acute exacerbations of bronchitis . In a small group of patients with persistent purulent sputum considerable improvement can be achieved by prolonged treatment // with antibiotics , from November to March . However , the majority of patients are best treated by giving them a supply of antibiotics so that they can start a course , on their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As haemophilus influenzae and the pneumococcus are the common pathogens , tetracycline 1 g. daily , ampicillin 1 ? 2 g. daily , or co-trimoxazole ( Bactrim or Septrin ) in a dose of two tablets twice daily , are preferred to penicillin . Breathing Exercises Heart failure in chronic bronchitis is quite common ; it may be due to concurrent hypertension or coronary artery disease , or to true cor pulmonale ( p. 197 ) , or to a combination of factors . EMPHYSEMA Emphysema may be defined as a condition of the lungs in which there is pathological enlargement of the distal air spaces either from chronic dilatation or from destruction of their walls . Emphysematous bullae , which are cystic spaces of varying size , may develop and at post-mortem the lungs appear bulky as they fail to deflate . The numerous pathological classifications of emphysema are both complex and confusing . There are two main types : Pan-acinar emphysema . There is a dilatation or destruction of the acinus . This is the lung tissue distal to the terminal bronchiole and includes the respiratory bronchioles , alveolar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dilatation or destruction is more proximal and involves the respiratory bronchioles . The emphysema is present in the centre of the lobules with the more distal part remaining unchanged . Bronchiolitis is probably the main causative factor . Aetiology . Emphysema most commonly occurs with long-standing disease of the bronchi , namely chronic bronchitis or chronic asthma , or a combination of the two . At times it may be related to an occupational cause such as exposure to dust , and in coal miners ' pneumonoconiosis ( p. 230 ) there is characteristically a centrilobular emphysema ( focal ' emphysema ) . Occasionally it develops as a primary disease without any previous history of bronchitis and familial cases of mainly basal emphysema are now recognised where there is a deficiency of a1 anti-trypsin in the blood . The actual mechanism of production of emphysema is debated ; airtrapping ' due to widespread narrowing of the bronchioles , and weakening of the respiratory bronchioles and the alveolar walls from inflammation are both likely factors . Effects on Lung Function . Emphysematous lung loses its elasticity and thus expiration requires a muscular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the increased work involved , the forced expiration produces early closure of the diseased respiratory bronchioles and thus enhances the diffuse airflow obstruction already present . The chronic over-inflation of the lungs also leads to increase in the fixed volume of gas in the lungs , the // residual volume , with the result that the mixing of inspired air in the lungs is less efficient . These two factors lead to alveolar hypoventilation . In addition , over-ventilation of the under-perfused alveoli ( where there is atrophy of the pulmonary capillaries ) , under-ventilation of normally perfused alveoli ( producing a right to left shunt ) and reduction in the total surface area of the alveoli all lead to deficiency in the transfer of gases between alveoli and the pulmonary capillaries . It is now recognised that blood gas abnormalities and cor pulmonale are less likely in pure ' emphysema ( pink puffers ' ) , but do occur if there is accompanying chronic bronchitis , being a particular feature of this disease ( blue bloaters ' ) . Clinical Features . The major symptom is dyspnoea . When emphysema @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderate shortness of breath on exertion . With progression of the disease the patient eventually becomes unable to walk more than a few steps . Quite frequently the breath is exhaled through pursed lips . The rate of progress of the disease is variable . Frequently it is slow , the patient reaching old age with only moderate disability . Sometimes it is rapid , the patient becoming a complete respiratory cripple by middle life . Occasionally the onset of severe disability is apparently sudden . This is usually precipitated by fog or a respiratory tract infection , the patient not admitting to significant symptoms beforehand . With well-established emphysema , the chest appears over-inflated , with thoracic kyphosis , increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the chest , and horizontal ribs . Chest expansion is diminished , the chest being lifted up by the accessory muscles of respiration rather than expanded . The percussion note is hyper-resonant and the areas of cardiac and liver dullness are diminished . The breath sounds are faint , often with prolonged expiration . Rhonchi and rales may be present , indicating bronchial disease . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 178 ) , increased residual volume ( p. 178 ) , uneven ventilation ( p. 180 ) , and impaired gas transfer ( p. 181 ) . In advanced cases with associated chronic bronchitis hypoxia causes cyanosis , and the presence of cor pulmonale produces additional signs ( p. 197 ) . The chest radiograph may be normal unless emphysema is well developed . In such cases the lung fields appear unduly translucent with atrophy of the peripheral vessels . The main pulmonary arteries are large and the heart thin and vertical . Bullae may be visible as localised areas of increased translucency . The ribs are horizontal and the diaphragm depressed and flattened . Treatment ( 1 ) To improve the airways and prevent progression of the disease . Treatment of bronchial infection and bronchospasm are dealt with under chronic bronchitis ( p. 193 ) and asthma ( p. 203 ) . ( 2 ) To make full use of the remaining lung tissue . This is best achieved by breathing exercises . Most subjects with emphysema breathe with the upper part of the chest and hardly use // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use the diaphragm and lower ribs more efficiently . ( 3 ) Heart failure from cor pulmonale . For treatment see p. 198 . Compensatory Emphysema When a section of lung contracts by fibrosis or collapse , or is removed surgically , the rest of that lung expands by over-inflation to fill the space . This is known as compensatory emphysema and is not usually associated with any defect of function . Unilateral Emphysema Unilateral translucency of a lung may be due to a large bulla or cyst , or be due to compensatory emphysema as a result of a totally collapsed lobe in the lung on that side . It also occurs when there is over-inflation of a lung due to partial obstruction of a major bronchus ; this can produce a ballvalve ' mechanism so that air enters on inspiration but is trapped in the lung on expiration . This is likely to be due to a bronchial neoplasm in an adult and to pressure from tuberculous glands in a child . Unilateral emphysema ( Macleod 's syndrome ) may follow an obliterative bronchiolitis occurring in early childhood ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the age of 8 years . The affected lung has both diminished ventilation and poor perfusion ; the chest X-rays shows attenuated vessels and an expiration film will show failure of the lung to deflate with shift of the mediastinum to the opposite side . RESPIRATORY FAILURE The function of the lungs may be so impaired by various diseases that oxygenation of the blood becomes seriously deficient ; this is respiratory failure . It is associated with central cyanosis and with low oxygen and with high carbon dioxide tensions in the arterial blood , and with respiratory acidosis ( p. 406 ) . It may be due to depression of the respiratory centre by poisons , drugs , anoxia or cerebral disease ; to failure of the respiratory muscles as in poliomyelitis , acute infectious polyneuritis and myasthenia gravis ; to loss of functioning lung as in extensive pneumonia , pulmonary collapse , pneumothorax or following surgical lung resection ; to obstruction of airways as in status asthmaticus or severe bronchitis . Patients with chronic lung disease are especially prone to respiratory failure with any of the above complications , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur independently of cor pulmonale , although it may precipitate it . Treatment is directed at the underlying cause . Respiratory stimulants ( p. 198 ) are indicated when there is depression of the respiratory centre . Oxygen therapy ( p. 198 ) and some form of assisted respiration may be essential to maintain life . Tracheostomy may be required . It improves ventilation by // reducing dead space and airway resistance and enables sputum to be sucked out of the air passages in a patient unable to cough adequately . It may be combined , using a cuffed endotracheal tube , with positive-pressure ventilation , but such treatment needs careful management and it is only feasible in specialised units . One of the disadvantages of assisted respiration is that it may not be possible to wean patients with chronic lung disease from the respirator or the tracheostomy . COR PULMONALE This is cardiovascular disease secondary to disease of the lungs . It occurs most commonly with chronic bronchitis and emphysema ; also with chronic asthma and with diffuse fibrosis of the lungs due to such diseases as sarcoidosis and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severe kyphoscoliosis or gross obesity . It is mostly precipitated by a respiratory tract infection , which increases the severity of respiratory failure causing hypoxia and carbon dioxide retention ( hypercarbia ) . The abnormal blood gases produce impairment of renal function with retention of sodium and water , increase in blood volume and at first a rise in cardiac output . The systemic arterioles are dilated with warm extremities and bounding pulse , and dilatation of the cerebral vessels may produce headache and even papilloedema . The effect of the hypoxia on the pulmonary arterioles , however , is to produce active vasoconstriction . This , combined with obliteration of these vessels by disease and with the increase in cardiac output , produces pulmonary hypertension . It is only in the later stages of the disease , if pulmonary hypertension becomes severe or if the heart muscle is seriously affected by anoxia , that the cardiac output falls . Clinical Features . The patient is cyanosed , with signs of chronic bronchitis and emphysema . The extremities are warm but cyanosed , and the pulse full . The venous pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is dependent oedema . The heart sounds are often difficult to hear due to the overlying emphysematous lung , but it may be possible to detect triple rhythm . With gross enlargement of the right ventricle a right ventricular heave may be palpable and the systolic murmur of functional tricuspid incompetence be heard , with systolic pulsation of the neck veins . Proteinuria and a raised blood urea may be present . If the cardiac output falls , the extremities become cold and the pulse small ; venous congestion and oedema increase and signs of right ventricular hypertrophy and dilatation are more obvious . An electrocardiogram shows the large sharply pointed P waves of right atrial hypertrophy and there may be signs of right ventricular hypertrophy . The heart is usually vertical . Radiography shows dilatation of the main pulmonary arteries with cardiac enlargement . The lung fields may show evidence of emphysema. // Treatment is primarily directed at improving alveolar ventilation . Bronchial infection is treated with an effective antibiotic , such as ampicillin or tetracycline 250 mg. four times daily . Bronchospasm is best treated by aminophylline , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corticosteroids may be indicated . Oxygen therapy is required for acute respiratory failure and highest concentrations can be achieved by using an oxygen tent or B.L.B. mask . However , in patients with cor pulmonale and chronic carbon dioxide retention the respiratory centre may depend on oxygen lack for its stimulation and treatment with high concentrations of oxygen may produce respiratory depression with increasing CO2 retention ; the patient becoming drowsy or comatose . For this reason it is best to use oxygen in a concentration of 28 per cent by a mask using the Venturi principle ( Ventimask ) or a Venturi head tent , or by using a nasal catheter with a flow rate of 4 litres/ minute . This method should produce a pO2 level of above 50 mm.Hg. , which is usually considered safe . Even this method of oxygen administration can cause increasing CO2 retention during the first few days , and a watch must be kept for CO2 narcosis ; estimations of blood gases and pH are invaluable ( seep. 180 ) . If respiratory depression does occur , respiratory stimulants should be used . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coughing . Nikethamide is effective , and is given intravenously , either by intermittent injections ( 2 ml. ) , or by continuous infusion ; too large a dose may produce twitching or convulsions . Physiotherapy is important to assist the patient to clear the air passages of secretions . Assisted positive pressure ventilation with cuffed endotracheal tubes or with tracheostomy may be lifesaving for the patient with some chronic lung disease whose air passages fill with mucopurulent secretions due to an acute respiratory infection ; they should seldom be employed for uncomplicated chronic lung disease , as it may be impossible ever to wean the patient from them . Diuretics ( p. 103 ) should be given for dependent oedema and may improve alveolar ventilation by eliminating pulmonary oedema . Digitalis is disappointing in cor pulmonale but is indicated if atrial fibrillation is present . Polycythaemia . In patients who develop severe secondary polycythaemia with a PCV of 60 or more great clinical improvement can occur after adequate venesection to lower the PCV to normal levels . This is best done with simultaneous infusion of dextran or Hartmann 's solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the circulating volume at the time of the venesection . Sedation . All hypnotics are potentially dangerous because of the liability of producing respiratory depression . Morphia is contra-indicated . Treatment should be directed at relieving anoxia which is the cause of restlessness and mental confusion . However , when these symptoms are severe chloral hydrate or intramuscular paraldehyde are the safest drugs . // BRONCHIECTASIS The essential pathological change in bronchiectasis is dilatation of the bronchi . It usually results from pulmonary collapse or as a complication of various types of pneumonia . In many patients the disease follows an attack of pneumonia complicating one of the childhood fevers , particularly whooping cough or measles . Plugging of some of the bronchi by sticky mucus lends to absorption collapse and dilatation of the bronchi in the related portion of the lung . At this stage the process is reversible if the obstructing plugs of mucus are removed by vigorous physiotherapy , that is by firm percussion on chest wall combined with postural drainage and assisted ' coughing . If the bronchial plugging is allowed to persist for any length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walls of the dilated bronchi and lead to permanent bronchiectasis . Bronchiectasis also develops distal to a chronic bronchial obstruction , such as bronchial carcinoma or bronchostenosis . Pressure of tuberculous nodes on a bronchus , from childhood primary tuberculosis ( p. 221 ) , may lead to bronchiectasis in later life . This most commonly affects the middle lobe , producing the middle lobe ( Brock ) syndrome . Pulmonary infection which heals by fibrosis , particularly tuberculosis of the upper lobes , commonly leads to associated bronchiectasis . Sometimes an infective bronchiolitis results in a progressive form of the disease in the absence of pulmonary collapse . A similar widespread bronchiectasis commonly develops from a suppurating bronchiolitis in patients with fibrocystic disease of the pancreas . Clinical Features . The clinical features of bronchiectasis are variable and depend on the extent of the disease and the degree of infection in the affected bronchi. ( 1 ) Classical Bronchiectasis . There is a history of recurrent episodes of pneumonia in childhood the first often occurring after an attack of whooping cough or measles . The patient has a cough productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain blood . In the winter there are exacerbations of the condition with increased cough and sputum and with fever , and recurrent attacks of pneumonia may occur . Examination shows a thin patient who looks ill . Dyspnoea and cyanosis are present if sufficient volume of lung is involved . The fingers are often clubbed . Examination of the chest usually shows signs of fibrosis ( see p. 187 ) and of retained bronchial secretions over the affected lobe or lobes . The physical signs may be few , perhaps only an area of persistent rates , if healthy lung separates the diseased segments from the chest wall . If the patient is encouraged to cough , large quantities of foul sputum are expectorated , and his breath may , in addition , always smell foul . Such is the picture of classical bronchiectasis which is nowadays rare , and the majority of patients with this disease present in less dramatic form . ( 2 ) Other Types of Bronchiectasis . Some patients with bronchiectasis have no symptoms at all , particularly those with bronchiectasis of the upper   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         