@@774324

txt  | commission is still undecided which of several alternatives it will follow iii establishing the Willamette Greenway . One proposal is outright purchase of 320 acres along each mile of river at a total cost estimated as high as $304 million . The least expensive approach would rely on zoning to keep the riverbank in farm use or recreational development . The Tennessee Valley Authority has helped a number of cities and towns in developing or converting flood plain areas for recreation use . Examples are Oliver Springs , Tullahoma , and Dayton , Tenn. , and St. Paul , Va . TVA also regulates the flow of reservoir waters at its powerhouses to enhance boating and fishing . The Soil Conservation Service provides assistance to communities and to landowners in planning and applying soil and water conservation measures . Its small watershed and multi-county resource conservation and development projects have helped to build many local parks and recreation areas with facilities that can withstand flooding . The Land and Water Conservation Fund administered by the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation has assisted a total of 141 park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with grants totaling almost $18 million . Many others not identified as flood plain projects have aided acquisition and facilities development in flood plains . An example of designated flood plain projects is 253-acre McFarland Bottoms Outdoor Recreation Area at Florence , Ala. , in the Tennessee River 's flood plain . The city , TVA , and the Bureau worked closely in designing the park for expected flooding . In 1973 after the park was completed , almost the entire 253 acres were flooded . No major repairs were required , but massive cleanup was necessary . A coat of silt on the area 's 18-hole golf course was considered beneficial as a top dressing for the fairways . Another series of disaster-related grants have assisted areas , notably Rapid City and the Wilkes-Barre , Pa. , area . The Fund also is providing matching moneys for Anchorage , Alaska , to acquire greenbelts along 2 ? miles of Chester Creek and 3 ? miles of Campbell Creek . Both will provide trails and other facilities in the flood plain . Sioux Falls , S. Dak. , has a flood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River which loops through the entire city . Boise , Idaho , is developing an 8-mile greenway along the Boise River . Seven Land and Water Conservation Fund projects there have totaled $687,980 . The greenway will include hiking , biking , and horseback trails , picnic areas , play areas , water access points , golf , and fishing along the river . In Texas and New Mexico , the U.S. Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission cooperates with local interests to provide recreation along some 400 miles of the Rio Grande River . Flood plain areas include a 9-hole golf course at Anthony , N. Mex. ; several courses in the Magic Valley below Falcon Dam in Texas ; a 75-acre park south of Mission , Tex. ; Jack C. Vowell Park near El Paso , Tex. ; and several park and recreation areas developed by Dona Ana County on 90 acres of floodway . These Commission-administered flood lands are made available through long-term leases or contracts . The Miami Conservancy District of Dayton , Ohio , owns or controls 6,340  | acres of flood plain along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that was retained at five major flood control dams constructed from 1915 to 1921 . The District also has over 44 miles of channels through nine cities in the river valley . Its officials cooperate with cities and counties in development of parks and recreation areas suitable for the flood plain . The Kingswood Project is an 11,200-acre residential development located northeast of Houston , Texas . Approximately 27 percent of the area lies below the 100-year flood line . The Friendswood Development Company , developers of Kingswood , is proud of the fact that this flood plain was identified and will largely be used for outdoor recreation . Already the area has two parks and an I8-hole golf course for residents . Initial cost of these facilities was borne by the developer . Maintenance will be turned over to local community associations . Fairfax County , Va. , in suburban Washington , D.C. , has contracted with a consulting group to develop a countywide flood control and drainage program . This includes decision-making tools , engineering studies , storm sewer inventories , and a multiple flood plain use study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their channels will be kept in as natural state as possible . Neighboring Arlington County , Va. , almost completely urbanized , has a program to re-create stream beds . Turbulence from regular rapid runoff in the county has destroyed the natural condition of many of its streams . Stream re-creation consists of placement of box culverts below streambed level to carry li most of the flood water runoff . The stream is then allowed to carry normal flows along its restored channel . Dams and other control structures prevent massive streamflows by diverting most floodwaters into the understream culverts or storm sewers . At least one stream , Little Pimmit Run , survived the heavy rainfall of Hurricane Agnes in 1972 . Public outdoor recreation activities have been successful along the re-created streams . The site of the National Forum on Flood Plains , the Minneapolis-St . Paul , Minn. , area , is located at the confluence of the Mississippi and Minnesota Rivers . It is the site of a long-term project to reclaim the flood plains . Recent acquisition of most of the city of Lilydale for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi River from the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis to downtown St. Paul . Fort Snelling State Park is a 2,500-acre area lying almost totally within the Minnesota River flood plain in Minneapolis . Upriver from Fort Snelling is the new Minnesota River Valley Wildlife Refuge , approximately 17,500 acres of flood plain and riverway . In all of these activities , Federal , State , County , and city officials and the Metropolitan Council have cooperated . It is a success story that serves as a good example for other local areas with similar flood plain preservation possibilities . Upriver from the Twin Cities , a new program has been initiated which may he a model for all future flood plain action . Called GREAT , for Great River Environmental Action Team , this program draws together the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service , the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation , the Corps of Engineers , the Soil Conservation Service , the States of Wisconsin , Minnesota , and Iowa , the Environmental Protection Agency , the Department of Transportation , and members of the conservation community . GREAT is coordinated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include opening up backwater areas that have been deprived of water flow ; reducing the volume of material dredged from the river ; heightened sensitivity to fish , wildlife , and recreation in all navigation of projects , and flood plain management . Nathaniel P. Reed , Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Fish and Wildlife and Parks , says , " I look for GREAT to develop a resource management plan for the Upper Mississippi that will be emulated all across the country . " WATER QUALITY Reports from a number of rivers and streams indicate that fish populations are rising as water pollution control programs have their effects . The latest comes from the Monongahela River in West Virginia and Pennsylvania . Fred McLucky , Mayor of Charleroi , Pa. , 40 miles upriver from Pittsburgh , says , " Maybe someday we will have another Coney Island along the River . " Some may smile , but he is not joking . Many residents remember the old swimming hole down at the river . But river pollution over the years bred indifference to the river and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changing now . They catch bass , bluegills and catfish now at Charleroi . In fact , last August they had a fishing contest . Nearby in Monesson , they have had fishing contests each of the last 2 years . Both towns plan to have contests during the Bicentennial year . It takes time to change old attitudes . But Charleroi and other towns along the Monongahela have made a start . In order to get ready for their fishing contests last year , town leaders called upon the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for permission to clean up the flood plain 's debris . Supported by the Corps and the Pennsylvania Fish Commission , citizens groups have prepared the river banks for fishing for years to come . Other towns and cities have established parks and recreation areas , angling access , trails , and other facilities . Boaters and rafters are flocking to the rural stretches of the river in West Virginia . A " Coney Island " along the river may not be possible or even desirable , but the citizen interest and support appear to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State or local official interested in preserving flood plain . He also can make a strong point that healthy flood plains kept in natural condition aid in cleaning and purifying stream waters . RECREATION 'S FUTURE IN THE FLOOD PLAIN " Outdoor Recreation : A Legacy for America , " the Nationwide Outdoor Recreation Plan , noted that areas adjacent to rivers , streams , and other water courses or bodies that may be subjected to flooding often contain superlative outdoor recreation qualities . " Flood plains are well adapted to low density recreation uses which require only minimal facility development , such as bird watching , hiking , biking , camping , and fishing . Many types of regulations and public policies for flood  | protection ? zoning , channel encroachment lines , subdivision regulations , and tax Incentives ? share the principles of using flood plains for compatible open space purposes such as recreation , agriculture , and other low density uses , and discourage commercial , industrial , or residential development , " the plan states . It specifies : " The Federal Government will encourage all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plains wherever feasible for park and recreation purposes . " Financial programs , such as the Land and Water Conservation Fund , offer effective flood plain management tools . Through administration of the Fund , the Department of the Interior will encourage acquisition of flood plain lands with high recreation value and potential . " Federal grant , loan , and mortgage insurance programs will not be provided for new residential , commercial , industrial , or other high density use within flood plains unless no prudent or feasible alternative locations exist . In cases where new construction in the flood plain can not be required to obtain adequate flood damage insurance to reduce the necessity of Federal relief expenditures . " State and local governments should take the initiative in evaluating flood plains and in developing and applying the necessary land use controls and authorities by which to prohibit , wherever possible , high density development of such areas . " GOOD TRENDS NOTED Some officials believe that flood plain management in the United States is in a period of transition . Massive construction programs date principally from 1936 when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction , and channelization which have modified many flood plains . Undoubtedly , in some instances these programs have encouraged unwise building in the flood plains by giving people a false sense of safety . Recent indications , are that despite all the construction by some estimates totaling as much as $25 billion , annual flood losses continue to accelerate . Also , there is a recognition that areas subject to flooding in most cases will be " wider and deeper " in the future . Across the country , support is growing for comprehensive planning . There appears to be a change in philosophy by governments and the public . Cities , counties , and States are initiating flood plain preservation programs such as greenways ; they are located in every section of the Nation ; and some extend to lengths unheard of a few years ago . Most spokesmen acknowledge that combinations of methods including both structural and nonstructural approaches will have to be used in future flood control . However , flood plains are more and more being considered as a valued natural resource , not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears not to be so much Do we regulate ? but rather How do we regulate ? Cooperative projects are now underway all across the Nation , drawing on the strengths of Federal , State , and local government programs , aided by private II  | interests . At Rapid City , the Minneapolis-St . Paul area , Wilkes-Barre , and many others there is a team approach some regard as the most promising news ever in flood control .  | THE GROWING CRISIS ON OUR PUBLIC LAND Bob Milek From atop a narrow hogback that thrust itself above the timber , I looked out over the sparkling white winter wonderland spread before me . A gentle breeze whispered through the pines , occasionally dislodging a small avalanche of new snow from where it clung heavily to the branches . From far off , a hunting coyote 's mournful call pierced the stillness . A multitude of elk tracks slashed through the deep snow on the valley floor ; and one of the majestic animals , a huge bull , pawed for food near the timber 's edge . Low-lying fluffy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drifted in the sky . I looked with contentment at the magnificent country stretched before me and felt a twinge of pride in the fact that this was mine ? not mine alone , but in partnership with every American ? for this was just a small portion of the vast public domain system that constitutes about 50 percent of the total land area in eleven of our Western States . Only two weeks before I 'd enjoyed a hunt on an entirely different piece of my land , the rolling , barren plains and badlands of Wyoming 's finest pronghorn country . All of this land is of tremendous value to sportsmen like myself ; for here conservationists can manage our game , fish , and recreation resources to provide the most for the greatest number of people . But , will it always be this way ? Will we always have the public domain where we can hunt , fish and partake of other outdoor sports free from private shooting preserves , trespass fees , and No Hunting , Fishing or Trespassing signs ? The history of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested Federal retention of certain public lands . National forests , parks , wildlife refuges , and the vast areas administered by the Bureau of Land Management form the public land system . Our National forests and parks had their beginning back in the 1800 's , but those lands administered by the BLM were not officially set aside until passage of the Taylor Grazing Act of 1934 , which recognized management of the land for domestic livestock grazing only . Over the years , scores of laws and regulations governing the public domain and its use by other interests have come into being . Many of these are contradictory to each other or fail to meet the land use needs of today . The result has been a growing confusion among administrative agencies and land users , which in turn has brought about sub-par management practices . Recognizing the deplorable state of public land administration , Congress in 1964 passed three acts designed to create order from the confusion of present laws and policies . All three terminate in 1969 , at which time it is hoped a new Reprinted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pp. 10-12 , with permission from author and publisher .  | plan for the future of public lands will be consummated . The terms and purposes set forth in each law must be carried out in order to achieve this goal . Public Law 88-606 established the Public Land Law Review Commission and pertains to all Federal lands . Serving as permanent chairman ' of the committee of six senators , six representatives , and six presidential appointees from private life , is Representative Wayne Aspinall of Colorado . The Commission 's job is formidable . It is to study and review the present laws and regulations and present to Congress , no later than December 31 , 1968 , a plan that suggests how the public lands should be retained and managed , or disposed of , to " provide the maximum benefit for the general public . " Public Law 88-607 pertains only to those lands administered by the BLM under the Secretary of Interior and provides for their classification . Here , for the first time , wildlife and recreation are recognized as important factors in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth the following ten categories to be considered in such management : " domestic livestock grazing , fish and wildlife development and utilization , industrial development , mineral production , occupancy , outdoor recreation , timber production , watershed protection , wilderness preservation , or preservation of public values that would be lost if the land passed from Federal ownership . " Much of the land ca n't be managed for all of these interests , but is suited for use by one or several of them . The land classification called for in this act is necessary in helping the Review Commission formulate its recommendations . Public law 88-608 is a companion to the land classification act and provides , pending the Commission 's report , temporary authority to the Secretary of the Interior for the sale of certain public lands if they qualify as " . . . required for the orderly growth and development of a community valuable for residential , commercial , agricultural ( exclusive of lands chiefly valuable for grazing and raising forage crops ) , industrial , or public uses or development . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be classified , in a way satisfactory to both public and private users , the Commission has been holding public hearings throughout the West . However , to date these hearings have n't accomplished their intended purpose . A typical example is the recent hearing held in Billings , Montana . Following it , headlines in the Billings Gazette read , " I Want ' Dominated Public Land Law Review Hearings , " The accompanying article explained : " The hearings , in terms of sheer numbers of witnesses , were heavily weighted toward ranchers and other extra-active users . But wildlife and recreation people were heard from , too ( sometimes a bit obscurely ) . . . " The " I Want " syndrome is nothing new , for as long as the public domain has existed , private users have been far more vociferous in their demands for increased use of it than have the conservation and recreation groups . As recently as 1960 , stockgrower organizations launched a drive toward more private control of public lands . They failed in their efforts , but were undaunted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open to question , all commodity users have combined forces in working toward this goal .  | The face and character of our country are determined by what we do with America and its resources ... . ? Thomas Jefferson Let 's look for a moment at just what these groups are now demanding . Stockgrowers want tenure on their public grazing leases , a guarantee that they will have their permit for a certain length of time , especially if they put improvements on the land such as cabins and fences . They 're also asking for fewer regulations . At the Billings meeting , the Montana Farm Bureau blamed the decreased carrying capacity of public range on the administrating agencies . They completely ignored the fact that the rancher whose stock overgrazes his permit is the guilty party . Such conditions often exist because the Forest Service and BLM , suffering from antiquated laws and political pressure , do not have the power to banish abusers from future use of the public land . In 1960 a group of stockmen petitioned the Secretary of Agriculture to dismiss from service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forest permits be cut because the range was being overgrazed . In this instance the Secretary backed his employees , but many times such is not the case . Timber and mineral companies generally object to the creation of wilderness areas which they claim " lick up " the resources within its boundaries . These interests want incentive laws which will encourage increased exploration on public lands . Liberalized leasing regulations and lower rental rates in certain areas have been asked by oil and gas companies . Mining interests have expressed the desire for more voice in reclamation regulations . Far be it from the politicians to remain silent when there are " I Wants " to be presented . Topping their list are greater flexibility for commercial users and an increased tax base , supposedly accomplished by selling public land to private citizens . At their 1967 convention held in West Yellowstone , Montana , the Western Governors adopted a resolution asking for an immediate halt to withdrawal and classification of public lands until after the Review Commission makes its recommendations . This resolution was forwarded to the President and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of BLM lands , the Review Commission would be unable to present a true picture of the situation . In the heady political atmosphere of the Billings meeting , the Governors of Wyoming and Montana indicated that they wanted more private and state participation in public land management . Since local governments are presently being encouraged to establish zoning boards to help classify BLM holdings in their area , it appears the Governors made a lot of unnecessary noise over the state and local participation aspect . . . . Amid the clamour and bluster dominating the public land studies it is hard to look at the problem from a calm , realistic viewpoint . However , this must be done , and soon . The Commission is still looking for facts ? good , solid suggestions regarding future management of the public domain . One thing is certain , we can not allow these lands and their management to continue at the status quo.  | Many changes are necessary if they are to go on producing the wildlife , recreation , timber , minerals , and food so necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of the suggestions made by commodity users are wrong . There are small , isolated sections of public land that do little more than raise the cost of management . These should be sold off to private interests , preferably the rancher who holds the grazing permit on them . Also , fragmented areas , where public land is interspersed with private holdings , should be blocked up into more uniform parcels . Blocking up has been started by effecting trades of public for private land and this can be very successful as long as the trade involves sections of equal value . It is also a fact that in some areas the public land immediately adjacent to communities hinders their residential and industrial growth . Such lands , under proper planning by the local governments , should be released to municipalities for their betterment . Adequate safeguards are contained in the law to prevent this type of transaction if it is challenged and the general public desires that the land be retained by the Federal Government . While granting these concessions , sportsmen must vehemently defend their interests in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that grazing permit holders should have the right to control their permit areas . This would completely eliminate recreation from the multiple-use concept . In all cases where land is being retained for multiple use , recreation must be given prime consideration . There is no reason why some form of recreation ? hunting , fishing , boating , hiking , camping , photography , rock hunting , and so forth ? ca n't be enjoyed on every piece of public land right along with commercial uses . Tenure or incentives of any kind should not be given on public lands . If a commodity user wishes to make lease improvements , within the law , and continue to care for the land properly , he will have no trouble in keeping his permit . Tenure would make management regulations ineffectual because a permitee would then be guaranteed use of the land for a certain length of time regardless of how he treated it . Sportsmen must strive to obtain equal representation on the district BLM advisory boards , which are presently controlled by livestock grazing interests . A multiple-use board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy making and would benefit all users by bringing them together where they could talk over and try to understand each other 's problems . Clearly defined laws and regulations for commodity and public use of the land must be set up and administrating agencies given the power , free from political pressure , to enforce them to the letter . They must be able to prosecute and/or immediately eject any user , whether commodity or recreational , who abuses the public lands . The BLM has recently initiated a program whereby the boundaries of public lands are conspicuously marked , making it easy for users to know when they are on public domain . A speed-up in this program should be urged . In conjunction with this , every effort should be made to hasten the distribution of the grazing  | district maps which are in production . A few of them have been released but more are needed , and soon , as statewide maps which indicate the location of such lands lack the necessary detail for pinpointing one 's position . At this moment the future of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be retained in Federal ownership , or be sold off to private interests ? Will recreation on public land continue as we know it today , or play second fiddle to commodity users ? One tiny blade of grass , multiplied by millions , makes a Great Prairie . One simple act of conservation , multiplied by millions , makes a Great Environment .  | AMERICAN TRAILS ? REDISCOVERED G. Douglas Hofe , Jr . The story of the American trail starts with the story of America itself . No outdoor resource is more imbedded in this nation 's heritage and history . First there were the animal trails . Then came the Indian trails . Finally , the trails which carried the explorer , the pioneer , and the adventurer clear across a continent ? forging from a frontier links which united a nation ; literally , from sea to shining sea . Until recent years , most Americans looked upon our trails with a mixture of historical awe and nostalgia . The city dweller and the suburbanite rarely identified himself with this outdoor asset . Most Americans knew that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were being used , they reasoned ? by someone . And they were nice to have ? they supposed . But how trails translated into the recreation and renewal plans for the urban American eluded them . Today , the American trail has been rediscovered ? almost with a vengeance . Once again , the trail molds and meanders in the destinies of America 's outdoor traditions . It is no longer the sole possession of the hiker , backpacker , camper , fisherman , camera buff , or birdwatcher . This newfound awareness of the American trail has been caused , in part , by " The Leisure Explosion " ? shorter work days , shorter work weeks , longer vacation periods , and more spendable income . And too , as more and more of us move into bigger and bigger cities and suburbs , there grows a need for something which almost borders on the spiritual . The pessimist would say we need to " get away from it all . " At the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation , we prefer to think of it as a need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FOR EVERYONE By its nature , the trail takes its traveler from one place to another . And what things there are to see and do along the way ! In a matter of minutes the casual walker can often leave behind his office worries ? incubated by the impersonal suffocations of the city 's concrete canyons . In minutes he can rediscover how nature fashions its intricate weavings in tapestries of trees and vegetation . In minutes the jangling of a telephone is forgotten as the walker " tunes in " to the warble of a bird or the serenade of a cricket . He can touch a leaf and trace its veins and patterns . What is more , the trail walker can share his experiences with a few others . Or he can be alone . To walk or ride a trail requires no particular skill or stamina . For the walker , footnote Reprinted from Parks and Recreation , Vol. 6 , March 1971 , pp. 41-48 , with permission from the National Recreation and Park Association .  | u comfortable and scuffable pair of shoes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bike trail ? just a bike and some legwork . More exotic and specialized trails , of course , do exist and are increasing . In the Virgin Islands and elsewhere swimmers can explore undersea trails . There are more opportunities for the handicapped person to share outdoor experiences with his family , thanks to trails which are graded for wheelchair use . And , while the sightless American can not " see " the wonders found along a trail , he can hear , smell , and touch them along a growing network of " Braille Trails . " NATIONAL RECREATION TRAILS The new National Recreation Trail concept of bringing trails closer to people is highly significant . The concept is being turned into reality through Public Law 90-543 , the Act which established the National Trails System . The first federally administered trail to bear the designation " National Recreation Trail " came into being last summer in Angeles National Forest near Pasadena , California , when a representative of the Department of Agriculture snipped a ribbon opening up the 28-mile-long Gabrielino National Recreation Trail . Only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowd gathered a few hundred miles up the California coast in the hills which command a sweeping overlook of the East San Francisco Bay area . There , a personal representative of the Secretary of the Interior addressed the crowd and presented a special document . The document was a certificate declaring the East Bay Skyline Trail , administered by the East Bay Regional Park District of Oakland , to be the first non-federal National Recreation Trail in the nation . Thus , a 14-mile trail administered under criteria prescribed by the National Trails System Act and the Department of the Interior was dedicated and plans are underway to extend the trail 25 miles to further enhance the varied recreation opportunities of the East Bay area . URBAN TRAILS In addition to their designations as National Recreation Trails , the East Bay Skyline and Gabrielino Trails share something else in common . They serve large urban areas . And here lies the most challenging aspect of all who are concerned with America 's outdoor recreation destinies : bringing the outdoors closer to the frontdoors of urban Americans . High on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a creative and innovative determination to provide an " escape mechanism " for our metropolitan dwellers ; many of whom are virtually captives of the city . Not only are they demanding outlets to fill their increasing leisure hours , but their quest includes " breaking the ranks " from contemporary regimentation . Millions of our citizens who feel regimented at their offices or factories must fight the regimentation of traffic , only to end the day in crowded and regimented housing patterns . At present , the city dweller is often dependent on the automobile to get  | from his home to a place where he can commune with nature , walk , hike , ride horseback , or pedal along a bike trail . But many city dwellers do not have cars . In fact , it is estimated that some 50 million of us of driving age do not have automobiles . This is especially true of many inner-city inhabitants . The very people who most need outdoor experiences and exercise stand the least chance of getting it . IN SEARCH OF SPACE A film produced recently by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probes into the problems of urban open space needs . The film 's title , " In Search of Space , " quickly summarizes its thrust and character . Its message tells us that outdoor space in and near our large cities is there ? if we look for it . Unused or ill-used rights-of-way can be found in almost every urban area ; often complete with built-in and welcome green space . These include abandoned railroad lines , canal banks , and utility rights-of-way . Flood plains also offer an exciting recreation resource . Because of their straight-line characteristics , these rights-of-way can become links and extensions ? tying together parks , leading into existing trails , or bringing together a city 's cultural facilities . Additionally , these rights-of-way can sometimes form greenbelts which encircle a city , or that wind serpentinely throughout a city . The potential recreation use of abandoned railroad rights-of-way and similar trail opportunities in and near our cities is receiving full attention from the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation . A report which includes an inventory of railroad abandonments over the past 10 years ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be released soon . Criteria for determining the range of recreation potential of these abandonments ? especially trails ? will be included also . The report suggests that it is the responsibility of the public ? interested individuals , trail clubs , private recreation associations ? to maintain a running balance sheet of recreation opportunities in their states and communities . They will have to evaluate rights-of-way ; pursue the legal aspects ; promote community interest ; deal with , persuade , and generally pester state and local officials to acquire these rights-of-way . If we want more and better trails in our cities ? some of which may eventually become National Recreation Trails ? it is necessary to pinpoint trail opportunities and ignite citizen-official action . SUCCESS STORIES It is encouraging to note that many city dwellers are taking the initiative and pushing ahead on their own to establish recreation trails . Such perseverance and determination are paying off .  | More than 300 members of the nonprofit Buckeye Trail Association are working diligently to extend the Buckeye hiking trail from Cincinnati to Toledo , including side trails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year for a " Citizen 's Walk-In " ? dramatizing the need to acquire a railroad right-of-way for recreation ' rail use . The route was being considered for abandonment . In New York State , the residents of cities and villages who cooperated in the establishment and initial maintenance of the Old Groton Trailway are to be commended . This urban trail extends 26 miles from New York City to Grotonville . The title for this trail passed to the state in 1968 . Everyone was pleased when President Nixon signed into law the bill to preserve and enhance the C &O; Canal by making the canal and its adjacent trails an addition to our national park system . But possibly overlooked was another excellent illustration of urban cooperation among federal agencies , local governments , and a private organization to establish a recreation trail in the Washington , D.C. , area . In this case the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation and the National Park Service teamed with the American Youth Hostels organization . Various local governmental agencies representing the District of Columbia , Maryland , and Virginia also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of an area-wide , loop-type system of biking and hiking trails ? along which will be situated overnight hostels . The same team is looking into the possibilities for bicycle commuter trails . THE TRAILS ACT The National Trails System Act of 1968 stresses the importance of the establishment of three types of trails : ( 1 ) Trails in or near urban areas ? particularly National Recreation Trails ; ( 2 ) connecting and side trails ; and ( 3 ) a system of National Scenic Trails . Urban oriented National Recreation Trails are designated by the Secretary of the Interior ( or the Secretary of Agriculture , on lands administered by his agency ) , but only Congress can establish National Scenic Trails . Recreation and Scenic Trails may offer a wide range of trail-type activities , or , they may be restricted to a single use , such as walking . Motorized recreation vehicles , such as snowmobiles and trail scooters , may be allowed on some National Recreation Trails although they are barred from long-distance National Scenic Trails . NATIONAL SCENIC TRAILS The first National Scenic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Appalachian Trail and the Pacific Crest Trail . Since passage of the Trails Act , work has progressed steadily to select rights-of-way and to develop procedures and guidelines for the operation of these two splendid trails . The proposed route of each has been remapped ? in the case of the  | Appalachian Trail , by the overall federal administrator , the National Park Service , with significant and welcome assistance from the Appalachian Trail Conference ; and the Pacific Crest Trail by its administrator , the Forest Service . As required by law , route selections were given public exposure through publication in the Federal Register . Both trails receive protection through cooperation of the states involved ? primarily by use of various land acquisition methods , notably scenic easements which do not require landowners to give up their property . Under the terms of the Act , though , land acquisition can not take place immediately . And , both trails have the advantage of advisory councils to assist in formulating trail policies . Their membership is drawn from public and private sectors . One of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbol representing each trail on the uniform marker of the National Trails System . POTENTIAL NATIONAL SCENIC TRAILS Bestowing national status upon the Appalachian and Pacific Crest Trails is a sound beginning ? but merely that ? a beginning . The Trails Act lists 14 routes for consideration as National Scenic Trails . Five of these studies are underway , directed by the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation . They are the El Camino Real , Mormon , and Mormon Battalion Trails , the North Country Trail , and the Oregon Trail . Of these five , only the El Camino Real is less than 100 miles long , most are thousands of miles . Bureau studies of the Continental Divide and the Potomac Heritage Trails are nearing completion and will be submitted to the Secretary of the Interior for review . At various intervals during the next three years , studies of the seven remaining trails will be started : Alaska 's Gold Rush Trails , the Chisholm Trail , Lewis and Clark , Long , Natchez Trace , Santa Fe , and Kittaning Trails . During such studies , every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both government and private . Their ideas and perspectives play a prominent role in the decision-making process of each report . A healthy cross section of opinions is generated through personal contacts , public meetings , letters , telephone calls , and the media . OTHER TRAIL ACTIVITIES Recreation trails are included as integral elements of other studies conducted by the Bureau . Another federal agency , the Department of Housing and Urban Development , is considering incorporating trails in its model cities program in the hope of satisfying some of the recreation needs of those they serve . States , too , are playing a more active role in recognizing the recreation potential of trails . Last year , the State of Washington passed legislation establishing a state trails system . And other states are considering similar measures . California is trails conscious . That state recommended that trails be  | established within the California State Park System and elsewhere to serve its growing urban population . To coordinate this , the governor appointed a California Recreational Trails Committee . California law now bans construction of state highways which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternate route is provided for the trail users . Thanks to the same law , designers of freeways on the state highway system must now incorporate pedestrian paths and bicycle accommodations . And , new trail associations , such as are found in Florida , Tennessee , and Virginia are also making their presence felt . THE PRIVATE SECTOR Private industry is very much on the trails scene . Bicycle manufacturers and other related private organizations , for example , have long worked cooperatively toward establishment of new bike trail systems . Bicycle manufacturers ' sales charts reflect growing sales and profits . And with the mounting sales of bikes must come a call for more bike trails . Since the 1962 comeback of bicycling as a popular adult pastime , it is estimated that more than 10,000 bicycle trails have been established . Furthermore , the Bicycle Institute of America reports that the demand for new trails keeps growing . The Institute offers advice and planning assistance to those interested in community bikeways . One dramatic concept ? shared by federal agencies , city governments , and the Bicycle Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial answer to car-clogged freeways . THE FUTURE : PLANS , ACTION , MONEY The three ingredients : plans , action , and money are essential to the success of any trails program . With this very much in mind , a National Trails Symposium is scheduled for June 2 , 3 , and 4 in Washington , D.C. Hosting this vital meeting will be the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture , and Open Lands Project , a Chicago-based private conservation organization . A broad range of individuals and groups , both governmental and private , will be contributing to the symposium . Their common interest will be an enthusiasm for trails and a determination for more and better trails . As envisioned , the symposium will sidestep pep talks in favor of head-on confrontations about problems , legalisms , and those ingredients which have translated themselves into success stories . The federal role must evolve along these lines : 1 . Working with private groups to bring together clubs , groups , and individuals into compact , influence-wielding confederations ; 2 . Serving as a clearinghouse for the latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trail expertise to citizens groups ;  | 3 . Financial assistance for establishing trails , including acquisition and development costs . The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation administers the Land and Water Conservation Fund , through which states and communities ? on a 50-50 costsharing basis ? can be assisted in acquiring and developing lands for trails . The Open Space Land Program of the Department of Housing and Urban Development provides grants of up to 50 percent to state and local public bodies to assist in acquiring and providing basic development of lands for park , recreation , and open space purposes . Trails on lands purchased for these purposes are an eligible project cost .  | WILDERNESS AND THE AMERICAN Anthony Netboy Since the beginning of white settlement some three and a half centuries ago , wilderness has played a large role in shaping American thinking and the American character . In the beginning America was mostly wilderness . The European explorers who stepped on our shores , such as John Cabot , Hendryk Hudson , Ponce de Leon and Captain John Smith , coming from lands where wild country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They had never seen anything like it . Forests covered the undulating valleys and hills and often soared to the very mountains . The forest stretched from Maine to Florida and from the Atlantic coastal plain to the middle western prairies . Here and there were sand barrens , swamps , savannas , balds , beaver meadows and burned lands , but the dominant feature of the terrain was the forest . Beyond the Great Forest were the grasslands embracing some 850 million acres . Seas of grass met the traveller emerging from the eastern forest into the open prairies . Grass stood six and eight feet high . Men and horses were lost to sight in it . " Who would believe , " said Castenada , historian of the Coronado expedition of 1540 , " that 1000 horses and 500 of our cows and more than 5000 rams and ewes and more than 1500 friendly Indians in travelling over these plains would leave no more trace where they had past than if nothing has been there ? nothing ? " Beyond the grasslands were forbidding mountain ranges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coastal chain , all clothed with huge , sky-reaching trees , interspersed with valleys , and plateaus and " badlands , " formidable wildernesses , virtually impenetrated by man . In the arid southwest deserts were equally hostile . Lakes and rivers fissured and veined the continent . Primitive America probably sheltered more species of wildlife and in greater numbers than any other continent except perhaps Africa . The mere listing of some of the more important species sets our imagination aflame these days when wildlife has so radically diminshed . The lordly elk moved in great herds through the eastern woodland and westward to the Rockies . White-tail deer browsed everywhere in the eastern timbered regions while stately moose and woodland caribou , lovers of wintry landscapes , roamed the forests of New England and New York . Bison and elk were found as far east as the coastal savannas , and wolves , foxes , cougars and coyotes were familiar ? and dangerous ? neighbors of the colonists . Our waters proliferated with furbearers , such as wolverine , marten , fisher and the ubiquitous beaver . Game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Forests , Vol. 75 , April 1969 , pp. 12-15 , with permission from the American Forestry Association .  | grouse , prairie chicken , heath hen , and the savory turkey , and others . North America probably supported more wildfowl than any other continent . In the autumn rafts of diving and dabbling ducks and cackling geese as well as pelicans , cranes , swans curlew , gulls and other species filled up the marshes , potholes , sloughs and lakes , lined the estuaries and seashores . It is almost impossible to imagine the- plethora of birdlife . The passenger pigeon roosted in numbers running into the billions in the eastern part of the United States . As late as 1821 Audubon observed millions of golden plover in a flight near New Orleans and almost as many curlew . In a two day trip down the Ohio River he saw 30,000 to 40,000 woodcock . The prairies and plains were among the greatest big game preserves in the world . Millions of shaggy-maned buffalo wandered in vast herds from the Appalachian Mountains to the Great Basin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bighorned sheep , mountain goats , bear , elk , deer , mountain lions and other animals in plenty . When the white man came to America the infinitely varied flora and fauna had been virtually undisturbed except in areas of concentrated Indian settlement since the last Ice Age about 10,000 years ago . There were probably no more than 500,000 Indians scattered over the continent and their impact on the land was on the whole but slight . They burned patches of woodland or prairie to round up animals or sow maize , but since they were mainly nomadic the land was soon abandoned and returned to wilderness . This was the continent Americans inherited . The colonists and pioneers usually regarded the wilderness with hostility . In the dim forest lurked wild animals and sometimes unfriendly Indians ; movement was made difficult by the tree belt . In fact , civilization could only be developed at the expense of the frontier ? wild country had to be tamed . On the trans-Appalachian frontier the settlers attacked the wilderness with savage fury in order to clear the land for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhabitants of the forest . This process continued as the tide of settlement swept westward , across the Mississippi , into the far west . By the end of the 19th century Americans realized with something of a shock that the frontier had largely vanished , and with it went some of the values of primitive life they cherished . The white pine forests of New England and New York and Pennsylvania , parts of the South , the fisheries of the Lake States had been decimated , picked clean under the prevalent cut-out and get-out mode of timber operation . Wildlife was becoming scarce in many areas , particularly east of the Mississippi . When Abraham Lincoln was a boy in Illinois a man could bag all the game he needed for the family 's winter supply in a day 's shooting , but now there were so few deer or elk that hunting became a sport , not a means of subsistence . As the frontier receded a kind of nostalgia for the primitive life began to sweep over the nation . The historian Frederick Jackson Turner and Theodore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a wilderness cult . Turner claimed that the wildness of our country was the essential formative  | influence on the American character . " Out of his wilderness , out of the freedom of his opportunities , he fashioned a formula for social regeneration , " he said . The American was a " higher type " of person ? this is Turner 's phrase ? because he had struggled with and conquered the frontier . Roosevelt , an urbanite with a passion for wilderness experience , applauded Turner . He too lamented the passing of the frontier . " As our civilization grows older and more complex , " he wrote , " we need a greater and not a less development of the fundamental frontier virtues . " The " overcivilized man " is in real danger of losing " the great fighting , masterful virtues . " Nobody trumpeted the preservationist view better than Roosevelt , but the wilderness meant to him not vistas of esthetic delight but places to be ? or rather act as ? a frontiersman . Here the overcivilized citizen could recharge his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Roosevelt with wonderful foresight put into the national forest system , were difficult of access and could be of use to only a small number of people , did not bother the President . He was thinking of their usefulness to future generations . The preservation movement was joined by a vociferous group of romantics who were not so much interested in bolstering the manly virtures Roosevelt eulogized but who saw in the wild country , especially the mountains , living examples of Henry Thoreau 's gospel that " In wildness is the preservation of the world . " This transcendentalism became a mystic faith with Thoreau and his late 19th century followers , especially John Muir . Like Thoreau , Muir was a free spirit , a genteel tramp , so to speak , to whom the mountains and rivers and glaciers were a religion . He liked to romp alone in the Sierra Nevada , " mountains of light , " as he called them , and when he returned home wrote paeans to them . Ile was a wilderness-intoxicated spirit though he lived near the city of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicated and thoughtful stewardship of this Nation 's resources and environment will determine mankind 's future to a far more meaningful degree than armaments and diplomacy . ? Julia Butler Hanson , congresswoman from Washington MUIR , A DOER Like his friend Roosevelt , Muir was a doer as well as writer , and in 1892 he pounded the Sierra Club dedicated to " exploring , enjoying and rendering accessible the mountain regions of the Pacific Coast . " It adopted the motto , " In wildness is the preservation of the world . " From the start the club , which Muir headed for 22 years , exerted considerable influence in saving California 's beauty spots from the ravages of intruders . Muir broke with his friend Gifford Pinchot because the latter was not  | enthusiastic about putting large areas of the public domain into a non-use status . When the city of San Francisco acquired , by an act of Congress , land from Yosemite National Park to build the Hetch Hetchy reservoir , Muir was furious ? Pinchot was one of the proponents of the bill which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had donated a magnificent redwood tract to the nation and called it Muir Woods . Kent appreciated the wilderness but he also felt that San Francisco needed a water system which the average citizen could afford . Kent told the congressional committee at the hearings , " I hope you will not take my friend , Muir , seriously , for he is a man entirely without social sense . " This description of Muir 's failing has often been applied to his followers in the Sierra Club . In response to various pressures , primarily the growth of population and disappearance of wild country , the preservation movement gained considerable momentum in the first half of the 20th century . A new breed of romantics appeared to propagate the mystique of wilderness as the salvation of the American people , if not the world . Chief among them were the foresters Aldo Leopold and Robert Marshall , men who were cast in the mold of Muir and Thoreau but with a somewhat greater sense of social need . Leopold , like Turner and Roosevelt , believed that the frontier had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Many of the attributes most distinctive to America and Americans , " he said " are due to to the impressive wilderness and the life that accompanied it . " In his book , A Sand County Almanac , which I have noticed wilderness travellers sometimes carry in their knapsacks , he listed many of the virtues of wilderness at times using almost theological language , and denigrating European civilization because true wilderness experience is hardly possible in such a well-developed continent . Leopold hated mechanized recreation ? a theme song often repeated by preservationist groups like the Sierra Club , National Parks Association and the Wilderness Society , and believed that wild country should be left as God made it . Like many other apostles of the wilderness cult , Leopold personally only used the wilderness as an escape , for he lived for many years in Madison , Wisconsin , and partook of all the comfortable benefits of civilization . Leopold 's writing exerted a certain influence among the devoted but his most important achievement was to persuade his employer , the U.S. Forest Service , to designate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tracts would provide , he said , " the opportunity for successive generations of ' Americans to acquire the characteristics and to acquaint themselves first hand with the conditions that shaped their culture . " Just how the masses of people in cities , far from wilderness areas , could have their pioneer experiences Leopold did not make clear , but he assumed that one should put a pack on his back and trudge into the high and remote areas on foot . In 1929 the Forest Service issued the L-20 regulations establishing an official policy of preservation of primitive and wild areas in the national forests . Marshall followed in the footsteps of Leopold . As head of the Forest Service 's division of recreation and lands for a few years before his death , he was  | responsible for the famous U regulation restricting roads , settlement and economic development of some 14 million acres of national forest . Gathering around him a number of acolytes , Marshall organized the Wilderness Society in 1932 which became , thanks to his endowment of some $400,000 and later contributions from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major role in getting the Wilderness Act passed by Congress in 1964 ? a landmark in our conservation history ? despite the opposition of oil , grazing and mining interests , most professional foresters , some governmental bureaus and proponents of mass recreation . The Wilderness Act created a Wilderness Preservation System which gives legal protection , after certification by Congress and the President , of numerous tracts comprising 14 million acres of Forest Service land classified as wilderness areas and 22 millions acres of national park lands . This was a smashing triumph for the preservationists but it did not satisfy them . Since 1964 they have fought for additional set-asides and succeeded in getting the Redwood and North Cascades and other lands added to the National Park System and ultimately to the Wilderness System . MONUMENTAL GREED A friend who attended with me the last wilderness conference in Seattle , remarked , " The greed of these people is monumental . " It is their constant agitation for locking up more areas that has seriously aroused not only those who want to see mass recreation in our high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the cattlemen and sheepmen 's organizations . It is pointed out that the wilderness enthusiasts are spreading their network into almost every state , though they are most active west of the Mississippi . In my state of Oregon , the nation 's leading producer of forest products , they have started to agitate for a Volcanic Cascades National Park that would cut deeply into Forest Service holdings . In 1967 they persuaded Senator Wayne Morse , in need of support for a tough re-election campaign but not known as a friend of wilderness or national parks ? he killed the Oregon Dunes Seashore Act in the Senate after it was passed by the House of Representatives ? to introduce a hill in the Senate calling for a study of the Oregon Cascades to determine whether portions are of national park caliber . Since Morse 's defeat last November nothing has been heard of the proposal . As the wilderness agitation increases the opposition is also mounting . leading the fight , at least in the west , is the forest products industry through its various associations . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Products Association told the Portland , Oregon Chamber of Commerce last March : Nature has its own way of limiting the land base for producing forests , but in recent years nature has suddenly acquired some ardent helpers . These are the enthusiasts who , in the name of creation , or wilderness , or wildlife , or parks , would set aside vast areas of both public and private forest land and deny them forever to providing of  | jobs and community stability . They have set in motion an accelerating series of programs which are steadily eroding the forest land base available to supply the , necessities of human life and to support the communities dependent upon the forest industries . . . Tragically , " preservationists , " unrestrained by logic or personal property considerations or community responsibility , wage effective warfare to achieve their ends . They persuade politicians , they persuade public officials , they persuade editors and the intellectual community to support their causes . . . . and they win a discouraging number of times . It is my candid opinion that the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " locking up of lands psychology , " or we shall be denied the flexibility of resource management now assured through the concept of multiple-use for the benefit of all . What is the future of the wilderness movement ? All discussions of land and resource use in the United States now begin with a consideration of the population explosion . There will be at least 300 million people by the end of our century and maybe 400 million by 2050 . California now has 19 million persons , for instance , but it will have 40 million by the year 2000 . " It is difficult at the moment to visualize California as another India , " said the Chicago Tribune " but common sense should warn us not to dismiss the idea too lightly . Let us try to visualize our country at the turn of the next century only 31 years away . A large part of the Atlantic coast from Maine to Florida , the Pacific coast from Bellingham to Eugene or perhaps Rosebury , Oregon , California from Sacramento to San Diego , most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lakes rims as well as the Gulf coast will be solidly packed with cities ? one megalopolis after another . Density of population in these areas will be comparable to that of the most crowded sections of Japan , India and Indonesia . RE-EVALUATION OF LAND POLICIES When this picture materializes there will be doubtless a re-evaluation of some of our public land policies . The demand for outdoor recreational facilities , which already is resulting in overcrowded parks and scenic vacationlands , will by then be greatly intensified . One of the first areas for reconsideration , I believe , will be the national parks . Today the National Parks Act of 1916 , passed when the nation had only about 100 millions people is woefully obsolete . By the end of the century it will be a tragic anachronism ? if it has not by then been modified to suit the needs of the nation . The national parks , according to many people , are not overcrowded ? they are underdeveloped . The slums of Yosemite , Yellowstone , Shenandoah and other parks are basically the result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be destroyed . The parks will have to be opened to more visitors in carefully selected areas , for the masses who can not or do not wish to go on foot have as much right to enjoy the high mountain scenery as the  | relatively few hikers and trail riders . The building of fast roads , many of us think , has already gone too far . They should be restricted to cross state highways and the crowds brought into the park by mechanical transportation . In addition to opening up park areas for scenic enjoyment , skiing , and other forms of recreation , as is envisioned in the Mineral King development in California just approved by the Forest Service , it is riot unlikely that in the future there will be a reconsideration of other aspects of national park policy . When Americans are paying astronomical prices for every stick of wood they use , when water becomes much scarcer than it now is in California and the southwest and other areas , when hunting and fishing spots are much more jammed than they are now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fret into Yellowstone or Yosemite ? then the American people will doubtless no longer tolerate the waste of enormous timber stands , nor permit herds of big game to die of starvation or be shot by park personnel , nor accept the idea that only tiny bits of parklands be accessible to the general public . Meadows will be grazed , timber stands will be cut , visitor areas and camp grounds will be extended , hunting will be permitted , and reservoirs will invade the parks to supply thirsty cities and farms . These radical changes must occur in a nation of X00 to 400 million persons with a high standard of living . The preservationists of today are horrified by the idea ? but in a half century or so their descendents will think nothing of it . Multiple use of national parks , as described in my article in American Forests of February 1969 , will be probably as taken for granted here is it is now in Britain . It is even conceivable that the wilderness system itself will to some extent become an economic assest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is certainly open to discussion whether some of our best Alpine lands should forever remain locked up . Europeans have shown the world that alpine scenery can be used for the profit and pleasure of the masses without destroying their ecological values . Japan too has been able to develop some of its ; ilpine terrain for recreation on a mass basis without any appreciable loss ? so far s we could see in our visit in 1963 ? of esthetic or ecological values . The upper slopes of the wilderness system should remain untouched ? of that there is no question . Like the higher reaches of the Himalayas , they are the natural preserves of the rugged mountaineer and trail rider . But dedicated wilderness suitable for mass enjoyment , like Mt . Jefferson , the Three Sisters , and ether tracts in Oregon , may eventually be removed from the network . One can foresee some of the Cascade mountains , like the Jungfrau in tiwitzerland or Mt . Blanc in France ? to take but two examples ? graced with cog Always and teleferiques taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will provide facilities for skiing , fishing , horseback riding , , sniping , hiking , etc . One can only hope that when these developments come they will be carefully planned , that the wild areas will retain their beauty , and that there will be no wastelands left by loggers , no overgrazed meadows , no scars on the land .  | STILL LOTS OF OPEN SPACE IN THE U.S. U.S. News and World Report More and more a view is developing that this country is being despoiled ? its forests cut down , its wilderness areas nearly gone , its wildlife slaughtered . Yet it this true ? Will generations of Americans to come live with little natural beauty , its mountains bare of trees and its lakes and streams polluted ? The facts support a conclusion entirely different from that being reached by many citizens , particularly those in the Eastern U.S. One third of the land area of this nation ? some 760 million acres ? is in the public domain and under control of the Government in Washington . Much of this is untouched wilderness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE WEST As shown on the accompanying map , most public land is in 11 Western States and Alaska . Development of any kind is barred on millions of acres . Where use is permitted , it is controlled by federal rules and regulations . Nearly half of Arizona and California , two thirds of Idaho and Utah , and 86 per cent of Nevada are in the public domain . In Alaska , which is more than twice the size of Texas , 97 per cent of the land is federally owned . Of ' the 760 million acres of public land , the National Park Service oversees 27 million acres . From establishment of the first national park , Yellowstone , in 1872 , the National Park System has grown to include more than 250 other installations . There are 33 national parks containing a total of 14 million acres of land . Of this total , it is estimated that no more than 700,000 acres have been developed for roads , campsites , visitor centers and other facilities . The great majority of land in national parks is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or by horseback or bicycle . The National Park Service also administers 81 national monuments covering about 9 million acres . These areas are set aside for their geologic , scientific or historic interest . Any development , such as mining or grazing , that is under way when a national monument is created is gradually phased out . Also in the National Park System are 5 million acres in recreation areas , seashores and lakeshores . Many of these parcels , such as the Cape Cod National ' Seashore established in 1961 , have been reserved recently in more-populous parts of the U.S. footnote Reprinted from U.S. News &; World Report , Vol. 66 , April 14 , 1969 , pp. 102-104 . Copyright 1969 , U.S. News &; World Report , Inc.  | COLORADO RIVER CASE Over the years , the Government has been able to bring protection to large expanses holding natural wonders . Take , for instance , a long stretch of the Colorado River in the Southwestern U.S. Here , the Grand Canyon National Park of 675,000 acres was set aside in 1919 . In 1932 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added . Next , in 1936 , came the Lake Mead National Recreation Area of nearly 2 million acres . In 1958 , the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area of 1.2 million acres was established upstream from Grand Canyon National Park . Above that , in 1964 , was created Canyonlands National Park . Finally , early in 1969 , the Marble Canyon National Monument of 26,000 acres was created . Now more than 600 miles of the Colorado River , starting above its confluence with the Green River and extending below Hoover Dam on the Arizona-Nevada border , is protected by the National Park Service . Much of the nation 's most beautiful and productive land is in the charge of the U.S. Forest Service . The 186 million acres in national forests not only provide 24 per cent of total U.S. output of wood products but also serve as public playgrounds . TIMBER HARVEST The timber in national forests is harvested by private industry for the most part , under contracts with the U.S. Forest Service . Only mature or damaged trees are felled , giving remaining trees a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly . Alongside this economic development in the national forests goes recreation of all kinds ? camping , hiking , fishing , skiing , snowmobiling and white-water river ( rips . The ski slopes at Aspen , Colo. , for example , are on national-forest land . Some of the world 's most exciting white water , such as the Salmon River in Idaho , is in national forests . Also in the national forests are 58 wilderness areas that have been set aside under a 1964 act of Congress . These are lands left practically untouched by man . Within them are no roads , only trails and waterways . No lumbering , mining or other development is permitted . Wheeled vehicles are barred . In 58 wilderness areas in 14 States , there are more than 9 million acres . Another 32 " primitive " stretches of land , holding about 5 million acres , are being studied for inclusion in the wilderness system . Congress has also acted to preserve some of the nation 's picturesque streams ti orn further encroachment of civilization . Portions of eight rivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1968 . The rivers involved are the Wolf in Wisconsin , Saint Croix in Minnesota and Wisconsin , Eleven Point in Missouri , Rio Grande in New Mexico , Salmon and Clearwater in Idaho , Rogue in Oregon , and Feather in California . Twenty-seven other rivers , ranging from the Penobscot in Maine to the Skagit in Washington , have been designated for study to see if they can be restored to their natural condition and brought into the system of wild and scenic rivers .  | TABLE An additional 28.5 million acres of the public domain is in wildlife refuges administered by the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife . There is at least one wildlife refuge each in all but four of the 50 States . One of the best known is the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge , an island off the Gulf Coast of Texas where the whooping cranes winter . On a number of these refuges , buffalo continue to increase in number after their near extermination at the turn of the century . The largest refuge for buffalo is in the Wichita Mountains of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with elk , Texas longhorn cattle , deer , wild turkeys , bobwhites , ducks and Mississippi kites.  | Wildlife refuges , for the most part , are closed to hunting , but fishing is usually permitted . Camping is not allowed , but hiking and boating are encouraged . Wildlife abounds , too , on other public lands . Elk are so numerous in Yellowstone and Grand Teton national parks that their numbers must be reduced from time to time to prevent overgrazing of wintering grounds . In Grand Canyon National Park , there are a thousand species of plants , 220 of ' birds , 67 kinds of mammals , and 32 kinds of amphibians and reptiles . On federal land in the Bighorn Basin of Wyoming , wild mustangs roam . One of the most exciting roundups anywhere is that of wild ponies in the Chincoteague Wildlife Refuge off the coast of Virginia . Every year , to keep the herd from getting out of hand , a number of ponies are rounded up , and then sold at auction . CONTROLLED ACREAGE The largest part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Management , known throughout the Western States simply as BLM . This agency oversees 481 million acres , of which about 305 million acres is in Alaska . Much of this land is what remained after the original public domain had been picked over for farming , ranching , railroads , townsites , school grounds , and for national parks and forests . Some of it is wasteland which is so poor that , according to one historian , the settlers said it was put there only " to hold the world together . " Today , the land administered by the Bureau of Land Management is known to hold great wealth ? more than a trillion barrels of shale oil , vast coal reserves , crude petroleum , natural gas , uranium and almost every mineral . These lands also are being opened up for recreation . TOO MUCH SPACE If people in the Eastern U.S. fear that the nation is running out of open space , Westerners complain there is too much open space in their States . Government ownership of these lands , say Western officials , often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking to the lands controlled by the Bureau of Land Management . While national parks , forests and wildlife ranges are locked permanently in Government ownership , the BLM lands still are available for transfer to private ownership or to State and local governments . Laws governing the passage of BLM lands out of federal ownership , or their use through leases , are described as chaotic by many Westerners . A Nevada official complains that federal land laws have " practically strangled us . " He says that it took seven years for the State to get title to 15,000 acres of federal land needed for urban development in the Las Vegas area . " If we run out of land in a State of 110,000 square miles and about 500,000 people , it 's pretty ridiculous , " says this Nevada official .  | In Utah , Governor Calvin Rampton says : " Suddenly , the lands around the Great Salt Lake are quite important to us for industrial uses of the brine . For 70 years , we did n't care who owned them . Now we do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden is that only 50 per cent of the land in our State belongs to us . This narrows our tax base so small that our property rate has to be twice the national average , " A Utah rancher camplains : " This State is fast becoming a playground for Easterners . " The source of his complaint was the taking of thousands of acres for a national-monument area in southern Utah . This land has been available to ranchers for grazing stock under lease from the Government . What Westerners want is a federal policy that will free some public land for private ownership and for use by State and local governments , and encourage more economic development of areas that are retained in Federal Government hands . To bring order out of the maze of conflicting laws governing the public domain , Congress created in 1964 the Public Land Law Review Commission . It is to " recommend changes in laws and administration which will enable the general public to realize the maximum benefit from the public lands . " This Commission is made up of 13 Congressmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report is due by June 30 , 1970 . Then it will be up to Congress to act upon the Commission 's recommendations . LAND FOR ALASKA Westerners themselves say they have no intention of trying to pry great amounts of the public domain from Government hands . Some 90 million acres controlled by the Bureau of Land Management remains to be turned over to Alaska under provisions of its statehood act . That leaves close to 400 million acres of BLM land . Much of this is barren mountains and desert . Much is in arid and semiarid regions where water for any kind of development is not available . Westerners ' goal is a Government policy that will make available to their States enough land in strategic areas to permit growth and development . When those needs are met , Easterners are assured , there will still be hundreds of millions of acres of wide-open spaces for future generations of Americans to enjoy .  | FACTORS AFFECTING THE PRESENT U.S. DEMAND FOR OUTDOOR RECREATION North Star Research and Development Institute The most comprehensive study of outdoor recreation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission ( ORRRC ) in 1962 . The Commission had three main purposes : ( 1 ) to determine the outdoor recreation wants and needs of Americans in 1960 , 1976 , and 2000 ; ( . ' ) to determine the recreation resources of the country available to satisfy those needs in 1960 , 1976 , and 2000 ; and ( 3 ) to make recommendations to ensure that these needs are met . The ORRRC final report was supported by 27 individual studies covering a variety of topics related to outdoor recreation . Because many trends affecting outdoor recreation in the U.S. are also pertinent to the Upper Midwest , the more important ones will be cited in this report . FACTORS AFFECTING THE PRESENT U.S. DEMAND FOR OUTDOOR RECREATION In general , the personal characteristics of an individual determine the degree to which he participates in outdoor recreation . The ORRRC study cited the following factors as being of major importance : Age of participants . As would be expected , the older a person is , the less he tends to engage in outdoor activities . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and swimming ? decline more with older groups , others ? such as sightseeing and walking for pleasure ? often last a lifetime . Income of participants . In general , participation in outdoor activities increases with income , a fact to be anticipated for those activities requiring significant amounts of money and time ? boating , camping , and horseback riding . Rather surprisingly , however , upper-income groups also do the most walking . Education of participants . As with income , the more education an individual has , the more he participates in outdoor recreation . This is especially notable for swimming , playing games , sightseeing , walking , and driving for pleasure ; it is not pertinent to most other outdoor activities . Occupation of participants . Although related to income and education , the occupation of an individual has an important effect on the degree to which he takes part in outdoor recreation , perhaps primarily due to the amount of paid vacation he receives . Farm workers enjoy the least recreation ; professional people , the most . Self-employed individuals and their wives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of paid vacations. footnote Reprinted from Developing and Financing Private Outdoor Recreation , October 1966 , with permission from Upper Midwest Council , Minneapolis , Minnesota .  | Degree to which families may participate together . Although men participate in hunting and fishing far more than women , in other activities ? swimming , driving , and picnicking ? women participate as much or more than men . Families having children at home seek . activities in which the entire family can share ; a majority of American families indicate that the whole family enjoys at least two of the same outdoor activities . Region of US. in which participants live . Although there is not much difference in the total amount of recreation an individual would take part in if he lived in different regions of the country , there is considerable difference in the kinds of activities . For example , people in the Northeast participate more in swimming , walking , and winter sports ; in the North Central States , more in boating ; in the South , more in fishing and hunting ; and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hiking , horseback riding , and sightseeing . Opportunities to participate . Ease of access to the natural or man-made facilities required for the outdoor activity is also a significant determinant of the tendency to participate . Thus , suburbanites and people who live in the country take part in these recreational pursuits more than city dwellers . Factors Tending to Increase the Demand A variety of factors will probably cause the demand for outdoor recreation to increase through the years 1976 and 2000 , the years for which projections were made by the ORRRC . Increase in population . The most significant factor influencing demand will be the increase in the number of Americans , from 180 million in 1962 to about 230 million in 1976 and 350 million by the year 2000 . A related factor , the change in the age distribution , will also be important , for persons in the most active age group ( 15 to 24 years of age ) will increase from 13 percent of the total population in 1960 to 17 percent by 1976 . Increase in disposable income . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's disposable income is often taken as a measure of its ability to buy goods and services . Disposable consumer income ( $354 million 1960 ) is expected to double by 1976 and quadruple by 2000 . Thus , more money will be available to Americans for recreation expenditures . Increase in higher-income families . The distribution of income will also favor recreational expenditures . In terms of constant 1959 dollars , 14 percent of the consumer units had more than $10,000 income in 1960 ; 40 percent and 60 percent will have this income by 1976 and 2000 , respectively . Such affluence will permit many additional families to participate in the more expensive activities from which their income excludes them at present . The importance of this is illustrated by data for 1961 on mean expenditures on vacation trips as related to family incomes : $30 per trip for families with incomes under $3,00 ( 1 per year , to $260 and $610 for families with annual incomes from $10,000 to $14,999 and over $15,000 , respectively . Increase in leisure time . In the future , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is due to several causes : ( 1 ) an increase in the length of annual paid vacations and the number of paid holidays , ( 2 ) a  | decline in the number of hours worked per week , and ( 3 ) earlier retirement coupled with longer life-spans . In 1960 the standard scheduled work week for the entire industrial work force averaged 39 hours ; in 1976 it is estimated to be 36 hours ; and by 2000 , 32 hours . In recent years , longer paid vacations have given rise to an increasingly important phenomenon ? multiple vacations . In 1964 , about one-fifth of the American families took two or more vacations . About 57 percent of all families had at least one vacation , but 78 percent of those families with incomes over $10,000 vacationed at least once . Increase in mobility . To participate in many outdoor activities , individuals must be able to travel to the recreational areas . Americans , already the most mobile people on earth , will enjoy even greater mobility . For example , by 1976 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80 percent over the 1959 level ; and by 2000 , about 80 percent over the 1976 level . More automobiles , coupled with more and better superhighways and jet planes , will make many parts of the country accessible to more people than ever before . Factors Tending to Decrease the Demand Although the earlier factors stimulating the demand for outdoor recreation are significant , there are some deterrents to increased demand . Some of these potential negative factors affecting the demand for more traditional outdoor recreation activities , such as resort vacations , include : Competition for discretionary dollars . Outdoor recreation activities and resorts face a variety of competitive demands for the consumer 's dollar . Some are related to recreational activities , and some are not . Foreign travel , swimming pools , and country-club memberships are examples of the former ; new cars , improved appliances , and a college education for the children are examples of the latter . Thus , though discretionary income will increase in coming years , many of these dollars will go into activities that are only distantly related to outdoor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased mobility and income have given rise to vacations involving lengthy trips or do-it-yourself camping . In both cases , the vacationers avoid extended stays in rented overnight accommodations , such as dude ranches and lake resorts , accommodations in which the tipper Midwest abounds . Further concentration of population in metropolitan areas . By the year 2000 , almost three-fourths of the U.S. population will be in metropolitan areas , the very places where land for recreational use is at a premium . Thus , the ability to participate in such activities will be limited by the supply of readily accessible land and facilities . Preference for increased income rather than more leisure . A variety of factors indicate that , by choice or necessity , many Americans have elected to have larger incomes rather than more leisure . Four examples illustrate this fact : ( I ) an increase in overtime work in periods of prosperity , often resulting in workers foregoing their vacations to work and accept their vacation pay ; ( 2 ) over 3.5 million individuals , holding more than one job , each averaging 53 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of professional , technical , and managerial  | employees who prefer work to leisure-time activities ; and ( 4 ) an increasing number of employed wives and mothers . PREFERENCES IN OUTDOOR RECREATION ACTIVITIES Americans enjoy a diversity of outdoor recreation activities , all of which will grow in the years to come . The participation in these summer activities is indicated by the ORRRC findings summarized in Table I. Two points stand out in the ORRRC study on what Americans like and want : Water is central in most outdoor activities . Most Americans seeking outdoor recreation look for water to swim and fish in ; to boat on ; to walk , picnic , and camp by ; and to look at . Most outdoor recreational activities are relatively simple . As indicated in Table 1 , most of the recreational activities enjoyed by Americans are not elaborate ? walking and driving for pleasure , playing outdoor games or sports , swimming , sightseeing , and picnicking . In summary , from 1960 to 2000 the U.S. population will double , but the demand for outdoor recreation will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even though recreation is for the people 's enjoyment , its assets are not limited to that alone . It also has great economic significance , among other values . The recreation business is the great hope for economic improvement of certain depressed areas of the nation . Further , the manufacturing and marketing of recreation equipment and the provision of recreation facilities have a major impact on our economy . Think of what is involved in the manufacturing , marketing , and use of sporting arms , fishing tackle , camping equipment , pleasure boats , winter sports equipment , camp trailers , recreation roads , resort hotels , lodges , and dude ranches . Economists estimate that those leisure pursuits ordinarily considered recreational account for a 35 to 40 billion dollar per year expenditure . This represents a little over five percent of the population 's income , and that seems to be a conservative estimate . Much of this large expenditure , say about one-half , is for outdoor recreation . This expenditure is represented in the buying of both goods and services for skiing , boating , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , outdoor photography , and many other activities done in the out-of-doors . The above-mentioned amount is direct expenditure by the American people , but the effects of the direct purchases filter all the way through our complex economic system , causing the total effect to be greater than the amount of the direct expenditure . 134  | // U.S. News and World Report Affluent Americans , with more time on their hands and money to spend than ever before , have boomed leisure into an 83-billion-dollar business this year . That figure tops the current annual outlays for national defense . The money going into travel , sports equipment , campers , boats , summer houses and a host of related items reaches into almost every aspect of the nation 's economy . Manufacturers of everything from croquet sets to cabin cruisers are finding business profits in the leisure-time market . Today , quite literally , pleasure is business . And it 's the fastest-growing business in the land . WHERE THE MONEY GOES Largest item in the leisure budget is recreational equipment ? boats , camping vehicles , color-television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill for these and add to it the money for admissions to sporting events and you get a whopping 38 billion dollars . By comparison , this is 11.4 billion more than the U.S. spent on the same things in 1965 . Growth in such sales is attributed in part to rising demand for such relatively new items as color TV 's , campers , snowmobiles and surfboards . The surge to the great outdoors has put sales of vacation vehicles on a skyrocket course . Travel trailers , motor homes , truck campers and camping trailers grossed nearly a billion dollars in 1968 . According to the Recreational Vehicle Institute , the total of such units in service today is about 2.5 million . Travel trailers ? which attach to and are pulled by automobiles ? hold a commanding lead over the others . Production in 1968 reached 161,530 units ? about 40 per cent of the recreation-vehicle market . Self-powered motor homes rate as the mansions of the highways . These are built directly on a truck or bus chassis . They offer comfort , convenience and ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure up to 36 feet in length and vary in cost from $5,000 to $20,000 ? depending on the owner 's taste and pocketbook . Motor homes became big business in 1968 with a sales volume of S157,148,000 . That represented an increase of 158 per cent over 1967 . The production of motor homes this year is expected to climb to about 50,000 units . RISE OF SNOW BUGGIES Another emerging giant is the snowmobile . Industry officials predict that a million snowmobiles will be in use in the U.S. and Canada by winter . This footnote Reprinted from U.S. News &; World Report , Vol. 67 , September 15 , 1969 , pp. 58-61 . Copyright 1969 , US . News &; World Report , Inc.  | all-purpose snow vehicle can carry two persons at speeds up to 50 miles an hour ? and tow a sled behind . Average cost is $1,000 , although some models can be bought for as little as $650 . The snowmobile has many uses . Ski lodges maintain fleets of them for nonskiers . Businessmen and housewives commute by snowmobile to and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Racing with these ski-track , motor-powered vehicles is fast developing an avid following . Commercial trappers use them to get into remote areas . So do the National Park Service and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police . Industry spokesmen make this forecast on snowmobile sales for the 1970 fiscal year : 350,000 units with a total retail value of 380 million dollars . Affluent Americans , with more time on their hands and money to spend than ever before , have boomed leisure into an 83-billiondollar business this year . That figure tops the current annual outlays for national defense . WINTER HARVEST The rapid success of the snowmobile is explained by Willard E. Frazer of Billings , Mont . " Too long has our crop of winter gone unharvested .... The development of the snowmobile , with its capacity to open up areas that in the past were beyond the ready reach of mankind during the winter months . . . may well be as significant to Montana 's future as was the Whitney cotton gin to the pre-Civil War South .... " Another sport enjoying an upsurge this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and hand over more than 27 million dollars a year on rackets , balls and accessories . Americans pay out 28 millions annually on water skiing . Surfers are getting big in the market , too . They bought 9 million dollars ' worth of surfboards last year . Snow skiers ? now 4 million in number ? rank as lavish spenders . They plank down around 900 million dollars each season getting to the ski slopes , and for equipment , lodging and entertainment costs . Highly popular with an increasing number of Americans is the pleasure boat . Americans now own more than 8 million boats , which tie up at approximately 5,500 marinas and docks across the nation . LURE OF FAIRWAYS There are some 12 million golfers in the U.S. , playing regularly on about 10,000 courses .  | figure When you consider the greens fees , club memberships , sales of golf equipment , rental of electric carts and spin-off sales of sprinklers , fairway owers and ball retrievers , golf stands out as a king-size business . In addition , there are the tours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fashionable hotels . It 's not unusual for a vacationing couple to nd $50 to $100 a day on a luxury golfing vacation . More modest are the family float trips down broad rivers , the bargain travel ubs which offer tours to exotic places . And there are always the packed tional parks , with more than 40 million visitors this year and the attendant otel rentals . FAST-RISING PARTICIPATION The Interior Department reports an impressive increase in all outdoor fcrreation . National parks are jammed to the crisis point , with a fourfold rise in visitors nee 1950 . Sporting " occasions " ? the Department defines an " occasion " as a single participation in any sport by one person in a calendar year ? are running in the Vicinity of 7 billion annually . By 1980 , the Department says , the figure will be 10 billion ? and it is very likely to hit 17 billion in the year 2000.  | Other millions of fishermen , hunters , archers , mountain climbers and joggers contribute to this burgeoning total . Clearly in sight , it seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which supply leisure-time equipment climb into the 50-billion-dollar class . SECOND-HOME VOGUE The vacation mania is spreading to the housing market , too . A total of 1.7 million American families now own second homes . This number goes up by about 150,000 a year . Sales of recreational housing are expected to hit 1.5 billions in 1969 . These vacation homes are of many kinds : A-frames , condominium apartments , townhouses , factory-made " pre-fab " units and standard , year-round models . A typical second home , according to a U.S. Government pamphlet , " Second Homes in the United States , " is a single-story structure with four rooms , valued at $7,800 . Nine out of 10 of these dwellings have electricity ; 6 have running water and inside lavatories ; 2 have central heating . The average owner of the vacation house has an income in excess of $10,000 a year . He is also dedicated to the idea of getting away as often as possible for the long week-end . " FUN OUT OF LIVING " One of these owners , a Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grown now and finished with college . It 's about time I did something with my extra money so that my wife and I can get a little fun out of living . " Fun , in this case , is an $18,000 summer home at Charnita , Pa . That 's within the national average of $10,000 to $20,000 spent on second homes . Some analysts say that by 1970 , one in every five housing starts will be a vacation home . The drive to get away for the long week-end has set off a corollary boom iii vacation-land sales . There are about 900 land-development projects in the U.S. , according to Government figures . Because they deal in interstate commerce , these must be registered . The law provides that the prospective buyer he furnished with a property report similar to a securities prospectus . Many vacation lots start at about $1,500 , and the cost can run as high as $30,000 for an exclusive shoreline site . Developers usually build a clubhouse , golf course , beaches , tennis courts and swimming pool for community use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in total expenditures is travel . Americans spend 35 billions a year in travel , according to the American Automobile Association . This includes vacations , overnight trips and pleasure jaunts of more than 100 miles .  | figure The AAA estimates that Americans will drive 225 billion miles this year , just getting to and from vacation areas . That is 27 per cent of the total estimated mileage for privately owned vehicles in 1969 . Ninety per cent of all domestic pleasure travel involves the automobile . Americans like short trips . About 63 per cent of all auto travel for leisure is loi distances of 200 miles or less . Only 15 per cent are 1,000 miles or more . Each year , foreign travel becomes a bigger item in the leisure budget . The Department of Commerce says that 4.2 million Americans will go abroad this year and spend 5.2 billion dollars . In 1968 , 1.9 million Americans visited Europe and the Mediterranean and spent a billion dollars . Other areas overseas that are highly popular with Americans are the West Indies and Central America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some 1,350 dealers and airports across the nation , is proving highly successful . An important inducement to get beginners off the ground is a coupon which , with $5 , purchases an introductory flight lesson . Veteran pilots say that once a person gets his first taste of handling the controls of a light plane , he becomes a solid flying prospect . From that point , lessons to turn him into a qualified pilot cost anywhere from $750 to $1,000 . Thereafter , if the new pilot wants to buy his own plane , he can get a single-engine job for as little as $7,500 ? or as much as $40,000 . Flying small planes is particularly popular with American women . Typical of this new breed is Dottie Sager , a junior at the University of Maryland , who learned to fly at the Montgomery County Airpark at Gaithersburg , Md . Miss Sager , the daughter of a former pilot , completed her first cross-country flight in mid-August . She says this : " It costs me about $15 an hour to fly this two-seat trainer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm studying interior design at Maryland and I hope to have my own plane some day to fly important clients around . It 's really not as expensive as a lot of people think . " In the U.S. , there are about 750,000 licensed pilots and 250,000 student pilots . More join the ranks daily . SUPPORT FOR THE PLAYERS What it all adds up to ? the fliers , the boaters , the campers , the travelers , the tourists and the week-enders ? is an astonishing picture of America at play . Behind the scenes , serving the ever-increasing demand for the trappings of leisure , are the muscle and sinew of American industry .  | figure  | LEISURE INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES IN A $150 BILLION MARKET Merrill Lynch , Pierce , Fenner and Smith Leisure , as defined in Webster 's New World Dictionary , is " free , unoccupied time during which a person may indulge in rest , recreation , etc . . . . " Surprisingly enough , the number of hours spent at leisure is exceeded only by the amount of time needed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , more than one-third of the lifetime of most Americans is free , unoccupied time . And the ways in which they spend that time are almost endless ... . Today Americans are pursuing pleasure , or ways to use their leisure , at an almost furious pace . In the process , they spend billions of dollars . . . . All things considered , we believe that the leisure market in all its aspects is rapidly approaching the $150-billion mark . Leisure is also a very complicated market . Certain leisure-related services , such as food , lodging , and transportation , are needed regardless of the activity pursued ? although the point of consumption may change with the activity . In the case of some forms of recreation ? boating , for example ? demand for supporting services , such as marinas , is created by the sale of goods . An increase in a particular leisure activity is not necessarily followed by an increase in expenditures for that activity . More television-watching , for example , will not necessarily lead to greater sales of television receivers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and repairs . Another complication is that while time and money have an important effect on what people do in their leisure , the ultimate choice may be determined by habits , social customs , or fads that have little or nothing to do with either time or money . In any case , the sharp rise in leisure activities and spending is possible only because Americans have time and money to pursue their interests . Since the turn of the century , automation and greater productivity have reduced the average workweek from 60 hours to about 40 hours . In the last four decades , the workweek has been reduced by only four hours , but that reduction gave Americans the five-day workweek and in doing so drastically altered their pattern of leisure . Of greater significance in recent years has been the phenomenal gain in " time off with pay . " According to a study by the National Industrial Conference Board , 67% of the manufacturers surveyed gave their employees four-week maximum vacations in 1965 . Americans are also getting more holidays with pay ; 31% of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holidays in 1965 . The workweek will probably shrink further in the years ahead . Some observers expect a 37-hour workweek by 1975 . Others foresee a 30-hour week footnote Reprinted with permission from Merrill Lynch , Pierce , Fenner &; Smith Inc. , 1968 , New York , N.Y .  | by the year 2000 . A stronger possibility is a further increase in paid leisure . That possibility is suggested , for example , by extended vacation programs , in which certain industries give their employees vacations for as long as 13 weeks every few years . If the recently enacted Monday Holiday law sets the pattern for individual states , millions of Americans may be getting more of their paid leisure in large chunks . The new law assures Federal employees of five three-day weekends . Beginning in 1971 , Washington 's Birthday , Memorial Day , Columbus Day ( which will become a Federal holiday for the first time ) , and Veterans ' Day will be celebrated on Monday , as is Labor Day . The growing affluence of American consumers , probably more than anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market of today . A spectacular rise in discretionary income ? that portion of income over and above the amount needed for the essentials of everyday life ? has been accompanied by an upsurge in the number of families that can afford nonessential goods and services . A detailed study by the editors of Fortune shows that 21-million American families , or 34% of the total , had after-tax incomes of $10,000 or more last year . In 1959 only 10-million families , or 17% of the total , were in that income bracket . By 1975 the number of families with more than $10,000 is expected to total 34 million , or almost half of all American families . According to the Fortune study , the greatest increase will occur in the number of families with incomes of $10,000-to-15,000 . The number in that bracket climbed from five million in 1959 to 14 million in 1967 , and is expected to reach 22 million by 1975 . Between 1967 and 1975 , total real income is expected to rise by more than a third . With the incomes of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go entirely for the necessities of life , however , discretionary Income is expected to expand by much more ? 56% . Spending for leisure and leisure-related activities rises rapidly as discretionary income increases . A University of Michigan Survey of Consumer Finances indicates that the percentage of people buying products for recreation and hobbies rises with income , and so does the size of the expenditure . The survey found , however , that the most frequent buying occurs not in the top income group , but among consumers with annual incomes between $10,000 and $15,000 ? the group that is expected to expand most in the years ahead . All indications are , therefore , that in the future Americans will have more free time and more money to spend as they choose . Ironically , students of human behavior have come to view the increasing amount of free time available as a problem rather than a blessing . They question whether Americans can learn The growing affluence of American consumers , probably more than anything else , has been responsible for creating the mass leisure market of today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and especially with the prospect of much more . The apparent reluctance to accept leisure seems to be a holdover from the Puritan work ethic that urged the earliest settlers in America to use their time productively for the benefit of the community . Not until 1918 did the National Education Association declare that learning to use leisure well was one of the aims of education . Even today , however , most people who are not engaged in economically productive work ? those with time on their hands ? tend to feel guilty ... . One encouraging sign is that the problems of leisure are recognized and discussed ; business itself is becoming more aware of leisure values . At the turn of the century few companies , if any , paid attention to what their employees did in their spare time , although some did arrange " company picnics . " Now recreation facilities for employees are coming to be regarded as fringe benefits that can attract and retain valued personnel . Some companies arrange business meetings in resort areas ; others offer trips abroad as incentives for dealers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertaking programs that can help their members prepare to use more leisure well . Attitudes , too , seem to be changing ? if only very gradually . Leisure is being accepted as a meaningful , necessary part of life , and the frequently substantial expenditures made for leisure suggest that Americans are gradually shifting from Puritan standards of self-denial to more self-indulgence . There are indications , too , that Americans in their middle years view retirement , and thus leisure , somewhat differently than did their parents . One observer notes that Americans have already survived a doubling of their free time in the past few decades , and the adjustment has been made so readily that most of them - are hardly aware that they have made one . He sees no reason why Americans should not he equally adaptable in the future .  | PRIVATE ENTERPRISE REACTS TO RECREATION DEMANDS Ernest J. Hodges An answer to the growing demands for more space for public activities may he found in the privately owned forests and timberlands around the country , many of which have opened their scenic and spacious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities . They are a fine example of private enterprise serving the needs of the expanding urban areas . In many places there is rarely a waiting line for picnic tables , fireplaces , fountains and camp sites . If it 's summer , a swim can be enjoyed in some of the few remaining clean water lakes and streams in the country . If it 's spring , wild flowers covering a meadow or forest floor may be admired . In the winter , ski enthusiasts can participate in their favorite snow sport . To a person who enjoys nature for its Intrinsic value , a day in a forest during any season can be truly stimulating . Most of the facilities are free , or cost very little . And , some of these forests ? which rank among the finest in the world ? are located within short driving distances of the largest cities in the country . To find them , check the city or county telephone directories for the nearest large timber company . These are located all over the country and one may be only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interesting facts concerning recreation facilities provided by privately owned forest lands were uncovered recently by a survey conducted by the American Forest Institute of Washington , D.C. : ? A total of 61.4 million acres of privately owned forest land is open to the public for recreation . ? Within these lands there are more than 86,000 miles of company roads open to visitors . ? Another 700,000 acres of natural and artificial lakes are available to the public . ? Fishing farms dot the countryside on private lands which may be enjoyed by the public . RECREATION FACILITIES EXPANDED TO MEET DEMAND This willingness to welcome the public is not new ; hunters have enjoyed these privileges for many years . However , the owners of the lands recognized the pressing demands being made on municipalities and counties for more parks and , consequently , have greatly expanded the recreation facilities on their lands . In Reprinted from Parks and Recreation , Vol. 5 , December 1970 , pp. 36-38 , with footnote permission from the National Recreation and Park Association .  | effect , their actions have reduced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas . During his chairmanship of the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission , Laurance Rockefeller viewed this type of development as a goal for the country . He noted : Outright acquisition of recreation land may not be the only answer for new recreation sites . Indeed , in many cases , it may not be the best one . Scenic easements , purchase of rights-of-way , tax abatement programs , hunting and fishing rights , and the sale-lease back arrangements offer an array of tools we should use . Sometimes bureaucratic inertia has blinded us to these opportunities because they seemed like too much trouble or simply because they had never before been used . These forest lands are serving a dual purpose : benefitting the public as recreation areas while meeting the growing needs for forest products . Forest lands are vital to our way of life and to our economy . America uses more than 5,000 forest products , a demand that is far greater than in any other nation on the globe . Each year the average U.S. citizen uses 250 pounds of paper , 208 board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have their origin in the forests . Products of the industry 's mills and plants are valued at $37 billion a year . The forests provide full-time jobs for more than one-and-a-half million people with an annual payroll of nearly nine billion dollars a year . FORESTS HAVE DOUBLE ROLE Too often the forest 's active role is not fully understood . The vast timberlands not only provide the raw materials that we need during our lifetime and for future generations , but also skillful management has provided a place for solitude so desperately needed by man if he is to cope with the growing complexities of urban living . More than a billion new trees are planted each year to assure more healthy forests for the future , and nature plants still more . Botanists believe that only in a forest is the life cycle of birth , growth , maturity and the inevitable decay seen in its fullest display . On finding the entrance to the timberland , check in with the forest headquarters . The foresters on duty can give full information on the facilities available . Maps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centers may be available . A LABORATORY FOR PERFECTING NATURE Admiring the scene amidst the trees , consider the research that has been conducted to improve their growth . Foresters and other scientists of the U.S. Forest Service and private companies have accomplished many biological wonders in their search for better trees . They have taken the branches from superior trees and grafted them to root stocks and established seed orchards to produce seed that will develop into super trees which will have a better form , faster growth and resistance to insects and diseases . The forest can be considered  | i laboratory for perfecting nature 's works and its results will benefit many generations . On hiking trails within the forest the never-ending efforts to protect the hillsides from erosion by careful logging and water runoff devices are obvious . Care is also taken to keep runoff from roads and skid trails from silting the streams . Trees are felled so protective cover may be left along the streams to keep brush from clogging the water . One company , Bowater Incorporated of Tennessee , is reserving a waterfall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Sequoia National Parks . Wildlife is a great American heritage that can be appreciated on a walk through the forest . Along the trails many animals ? birds of all types , elk , geese , deer and other species can be seen . The tender sprouts and limbs of young forest growth , created by timber harvesting , provide the browse for the deer herds and other wildlife . Another company , International Paper , recently won the warm-hearted praise of the Arkansas Chapter of the National Audubon Society for protecting trees that are used for nesting by the rare red-cockaded woodpecker . The old growth pine trees with soft red hearts were allowed to remain standing in wooded areas , and as a result , the red-cockaded woodpecker is increasing in number in that state . Many of the fresh water lakes are stocked with fish , and , of course , the streams are natural spawning areas . Fishing is permitted within the season and the catch you take with you depends on local regulations . Power boats are welcome on some lakes as are sail boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down a rapids in a forest stream . Horseback riding , hunting , skiing , swimming , skating , sledding and many more activities can be , ? njoyed in these tree-covered lands . It all adds up to an endless array of free-time fun . The welcome mat is out , come and enjoy it .  | THE RISE IN LAND PRICES Bureau of Outdoor Recreation 1 THE BASIC PROBLEM The cost of acquiring land in existing and authorized Federal recreation areas is becoming increasingly higher and , in some cases , startlingly so . This poses a very real threat to the future of Federal land acquisitions for recreation and to the basic funding sources for such acquisitions , such as the Land and Water Conservation Fund . In some instances , owing in part to price escalation , the authorized ceilings for the purchase of lands for Federal recreation projects have been reached before the needed lands have been acquired . For example , a ceiling of $14.0 million was established by the Congress in the enabling act for Point Reyes National Seashore , California . Recently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the National Park Service supported a request to raise the ceiling to $57.5 million , an amount over four times the original authorization ceiling . As a stopgap measure , the Congress raised the ceiling by about $5.1 million . A ceiling problem also is encountered in 18 other National Park Service projects . Ceilings on still other projects , particularly those recently authorized , may soon be reached and , in many cases , long before projected land acquisition programs are completed in the areas involved . No simple answer to the land escalation problem exists . The underlying causes are both varied and complex . Some of the more important ones are examined below . GENERAL LAND VALUES AND TRENDS It is clearly evident that there has been a steady upward trend in land values almost everywhere in the Nation . On the basis of the best available information , land values are rising generally throughout the Nation at a rate of from 5 percent to 10 percent per annum . This general range of increases in land values over the past several years is indicated by various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is clearly evident that there has been a steady upward trend in land values almost everywhere in the Nation . On the basis of the best available information , land values are rising generally throughout the Nation at a rate of from 5 percent to 10 percent per annum . There is , of course , considerable regional , State , and local variance from these national trends . This is borne out in the data on the value of farm real estate published periodically by the Economic Research Service , Department of Agriculture . Figures 1 and 2 tabulate and summarize the relative changes in the farm real estate index by major farming regions and by States . Figure 1 , for example , shows that , during the 1960-1966 period , California increased 71 percent ( 10 percent annually ) ; Texas increased 65 percent ( 9 percent annually ) ; Wyoming increased 48 percent ( 7 percent annually ) ; and Indiana increased 44 percent ( 6 percent annually ) . Since farm real estate is quite often the kind of land which is being sought for recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may at least be indicative of the general trends in recreation land values throughout the country . The only readily available data on the per-acre value of land for recreational purposes are also provided by the Economic Research Service . As shown in " Fable 1 , the estimated value per acre of recreational land having direct access to water was about $1,370 nationally in March 1965 . At the same time , the value of recreational lands without access to water was $530 . The range of waterassociated recreational lands was from $450 per acre in the " Spring Wheat " r region to $4,410 in California . It is against this background of general land value rise that all levels of government and private interests are acquiring land for recreation purposes . Assuming that the price of lands for outdoor recreation purposes follows the same general national trends indicated above , it would double every 12 years at ( , percent compounded annually ; every 10 years at 7 percent ; and every 3.5 years at 20 percent . Hence , these so-called " normal " price increases in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , seriously deplete or throw completely out of kilter programed or authorized funds for land acquisition or even estimates made a number of years earlier . LAND SPECULATION A second factor causing higher costs for recreation land is land buying for speculation purposes in proposed or newly authorized Federal recreation areas . Ior example , an advertisement appeared in the August 28 , 1966 , issue of the Newark Sunday News entitled " How YOU Can Make Money at Blue Mountain Lakes . " Blue Mountain Lakes is a new subdivision in the newly established Delaware Water Gap National Area in New Jersey . Prospective buyers were being enticed to purchase lots with the expectation of earning a profit . The advertisement stated , " Persons purchasing land now may expect to earn a profit between  | figure  | ( heir purchase price and the fair market value ' which the Government may pay at the time of acquisition . Land prices have been going up throughout Sussex County and are expected to continue this upward trend . " But what about speculation ? At precisely what moment does it have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Federal interest first becomes public knowledge , when bills are first introduced , when legislation is enacted authorizing a new Federal recreation area , when the first land purchases are made , or at what stage ? Appropriate counter measures to minimize or prevent land speculation will depend , to a large extent , on answers to these questions . One of the contributing difficulties to analyzing the impact of " speculation " is the lack of a clear-cut definition of what constitutes speculalion . Speculation means different things to different people ; there is no recognized legal or administrative definition of the term ; and in real estate transactions it often connotes unethical practice . Unfortunately , there are few data and well documented case studies to pinpoint the timing or substantiate the real impact of this type of activity on the cost of Federal land acquisitions . Large Federal land acquisitions for recreation are still too new or recent to have developed a meaningful body of data as to the real role speculation plays in these areas , nor have Federal agencies concerned endeavored to gather and analyze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most areas have at least some tracts of land which have undergone a series of changes of ownership and land use over a period of years and on which sales data and other information are available . Although scattered and often only a few acres in size , such tracts at least illustrate some of the basic characteristics and trends of land escalation occurring in these areas . One such example is a 309-acre tract of land in the Ashley National Forest in Utah , an area now within the proposed Flaming Gorge National Recreation Area . The sequence of events outlined below relates the sale of this property to the expression of Federal interest over a period of years . figure  | December 1965 The State paid $13,187 for 14.2 acres at an average value of about $929 per acre . April 1966 Forest Service a5praised remaining 99 acres at $42,500 or about $429 per acre . The above data show that the average value per acre of this property has increased from about $39 at the time of the original appraisal by the Bureau of Reclamation in January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase , at the time of the last appraisal by the Forest Service in April 1966 . In fact , a small section consisting of 14.2 acres was actually sold to the State in 1965 at an average price of $929 per acre . Obviously , this particular tract of land has experienced a tremendous increase in value . Actually , the best documented case study of land escalation in a recreation area discovered during the course of the study was a non-Federal recreation area  --  the Pearl River Reservoir , near Jackson , Mississippi . The study , " An Analysis of the Influence of the Pearl River Reservoir on Land Prices in the Reservoir Area , " dated May 25 , 1964 , and prepared by a private contractor , was made for the Pearl River Valley Water Supply District , an agency of the State of Mississippi . It illustrates a well documented price increase following the announcement of a public recreation project . It also shows how a public project ? in this case a local reservoir ? can greatly affect land values outside but adjacent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involving some 25,310 acres of land adjacent to or with good accessibility to the reservoir project between 1950 and May 1964 . Analysis was also made for the same period of 101 sale transactions covering 11,141 acres in a comparable area not influenced by the project and which served as a " control " area . The average price paid per acre of lands adjacent to the project showed an average annual increase of slightly less than 9 percent prior to announcement of the project in March 1959 . After the project was announced , prices increased 165 percent the first year , 191 percent the second year , 216 percent the third year , 236 percent the fourth year , and 258 percent for the first half of the fifth year ( through May 15 , 1964 ) when the study was concluded . The sales prices per acre for the control area from 1950 through 1964 continued to follow a normal price trend line . The speculative influence of the project upon prices paid per acre within the immediate area is clearly indicated ... . This points up one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not speculative in the ordinary sense of the term . The unique qualities which make lands attractive for inclusion in proposed Federal recreation areas also appeal to private investors and developers irrespective of Federal interest in them . The demand of private citizens for vacation home sites and for lands directly associated with water-based recreation opportunities is well known . This strong demand and competition in the market place for prime recreation lands also are causing prices to spiral . The Federal Government 's entering the picture adds to the competition . Result ? even higher prices . A study made by the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation about 2 years ago on the tourism-recreation potential of the West Virginia Eastern Panhandle area  | noted the very strong competition and resultant price escalation for prime recreation lands in that area by private individuals and developers from the nearby urban metropolitan areas of Washington , Baltimore , and Pittsburgh . A study in depth of land price trends in this area , particularly as they may relate to the newly established Seneca Rocks-Spruce Knob National Recreation Area and the pressures of large urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in gaining needed insights in this aspect of price escalation , as well as the role of the Federal Government in meeting outdoor recreation needs of this nature . figure The Department of Housing and Urban Development provided the ommittee informally with data on the problem of land inflation as it affects the velopment of Housing and Urban Development-assisted open space programs urban ureas . It reached the following conclusions : Prices paid by those agencies for open space land in the suburban and urban fringe areas of eight metropolitan areas rose approximately 15 percent over the original estimates of value made prior to acquisition . The cheapest land ( usually located in the urban fringe ) tended to rise in price faster and at a steeper rate when plans for large acquisitions became generally known . On the other hand , higher priced land in the more immediate suburban areas tended to show only a gradual inflation , following land price trends in the same general area , but not reflecting large price increases due to the acquisition plans of the acquiring agencies .  | These agencies which moved most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are firm ) acquired land more cheaply than agencies which staged negotiation over a long period of time . Among the most spectacular and widely known examples of rising land costs are those which have occurred along ocean frontage along the Atlantic Ocean . A prime example is Ocean City , Maryland , which lies just to the north of the newly established Assateague Island National Seashore . Here is what happened to just two lots : figure CONCLUSIONS Despite the fragmented and incomplete nature of the data on rising land costs in proposed and authorized Federal recreation areas throughout the country , basically , the following conclusions can be drawn with respect to the land price escalation problem . 1 . Land price escalation is primarily the result of : ( a ) A rising trend in land values generally throughout the Nation ; ( b ) Keen competition between individuals , developers , and public agencies for prime recreation lands , particularly those which are water-oriented ; and ( c ) The upgrading of lands as a result of change in land use , i.e. , in many cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water frontage or easy access thereto . 2 . The impact of Federal interest on land prices varies considerably from area to area , from little or none in wildlife refuges to moderate or high in some proposed national recreation areas . 3 . Generally , the point at which Federal interest has the greatest effect upon land values appears to be at about the time of authorization of a project . However , no sharp , well defined pattern of price changes was evident from the data provided by the various Federal agencies .  | PRIVATE INVOLVEMENT IN OUTDOOR RECREATION Douglas P. Wheeler 1 In the past , Americans have viewed her vast natural resources as being in endless abundance ; however , the 20th Century has brought with it the stark reality that this is not the case and that we can no longer find nature 's solitude in our back yard . Some of the most urgent recreation and natural area needs are within the Nation 's sprawling urban and metropolitan areas . But the pastoral rural life of 50 years ago has disappeared with the cutting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas which just a few years ago were " out in the country . " In recognition of the Nation 's need for outdoor recreation in natural and wild areas , State Legislatures and the Congress in the last 10 years have enacted programs and appropriated funds for preservation of lands to meet present and future needs . Private organizations like the Nature Conservancy , the Sierra Club , the Wilderness Society , and the Izaak Walton League , as well as smaller conservation groups are also contributing their time and money to this preservation effort . Much has been accomplished . Many natural areas have been preserved in National Parks and wilderness areas have been set aside under provisions of the 1064 Wilderness Preservation Act . Areas in National Forests have been designated as primitive areas . These are moves in the right direction , but they are not enough to meet increasing needs for natural areas . Also , this land is not dispersed so that it is reasonably available to many urban areas where needs are so great . What can we do ? We can expand efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide them within reasonable proximity to the centers o population . But government can not do it all . We believe Federal , State , and local governments will have to have some help . Governments and large landowning private industries must work cooperatively to meet these needs . The timber industry has long been proprietor of vast areas of America 's woodlands . Their sound timber husbandry has enabled the labeling of timber as the Nation 's renewable resource . The timber industry has responded to the public 's request to use its lands for fishing , hunting , camping , picnicking , and hiking . However , as the use of industry lands has increased , management problems and expenses have also increased . These factors have caused many large landowners to reevaluate their land management policies with regard to inReprint of a speech given at a conference sponsored by the Southern Forest Institute and the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation , November 1 , 1974 , Asheville , North Carolina . footnote tMr . Wheeler is deputy assistant secretary of the Interior for Fish and Wildlife and Parks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for timber products . Industry can manage lands for optimum timber production and still be responsive to public needs for outdoor recreation areas by setting aside certain areas for public use . Contained within the larger forest lands are numerous small tracts which are as wild and secluded as some larger areas in National Forests and National Parks . Good access is often available to these smaller tracts , providing an opportunity for people to enjoy a " wilderness experience " on a day-use basis . By setting aside small areas , users are directed to an area the land manager has selected and will manage for this purpose , either as an exclusive use or in concert with compatible timber management practices . This has proven successful on both Forest Service lands and on private timber lands . The initiation of fee recreation areas is possible and could prove advantageous ; however , many benefits will be reaped from good public relations and a better public understanding of the timber industry . Such a program can be educational , too . If opportunities for a " wilderness experience " are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserve small areas well dispersed throughout the Nation . We can no longer think of a wilderness merely in terms of vast acreage . The timber industry has the opportunity to make a significant contribution to outdoor recreation resources by dedicating appropriate areas to this goal . The future benefit to quality of living will be immeasurable . Perhaps this idea was best summed up by Aldo Leopold when he stated " the richest values of wilderness lie not in the days of Daniel Boone , nor even in the present , but rather in the future . " Some may ask , " Will small areas really help meet our natural or wilderness area needs ? " The answer to this was stated by James B. Craig , writing in American Forests in October 1970 . Mr. Craig gave his impressions of an experience on one of the " Pocket Wilderness " areas of the Bowaters Southern Paper Corporation . Mr. Craig wrote of the Bowaters area : " Children , or adults who had never been West , could get the whole wilderness bag here . Children 's needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we need all kinds of wild areas ? both the big ones and the little ones ( particularly ) close to centers of population in the East and South . This is our greatest recreation need , and the pocket wilderness ' areas are big enough for their purpose . The Bowaters ' pocket wilderness areas are little jewels in the Nation 's necklace of wild places and big enough to serve their worthy purpose . " In conclusion , all are aware of the outdoor recreation needs of America 's growing population . Much has been done and continues to be done to encourage both government and private interests to work together in meeting the outdoor recreation challenge the Nation now faces . Together government and industry can meet this challenge and foster a growing legacy of outdoor recreation opportunities for all Americans now and in the future .  | PUBLIC RECREATION ON PRIVATE LANDS James G. Watt The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation has embarked upon several projects designed to increase public use of private lands . These include negotiations and conferences with major landholders ; planning and technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We in the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation think it is wrong to look to overnments ? Federal , State , and local ? to provide all the needed public outdoor creation . Meeting America 's recreation demands is a cooperative job which can best be shouldered jointly by governments and private interests . Across the Nation , forests , farmlands , reservoirs , rights-of-way , and other private properties have basic purposes of material production which leave them suitable and available for multiple use . Public recreation is compatible on these nds and waters though they produce timber , food , fiber , electricity , and ransport . Let us never forget that the role of the private sector in America is to ? rovide needed products at a profit . The role of government is to see that there the proper environment so that the quality of life can be improved through avorable economic and social climate that encourages growth and development the private , profit-making arena . Recreation in many instances can be the ? asic profit-making use ; in others , it can be a paying by-product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed at a break-even level with little or no hindrance to the downer . Today , we face challenges to America 's resource-based economy . The nergy crisis has already altered lifestyles , motives , attitudes , and operations ; already it has had dramatic impacts upon recreation . Visitation to rural parks , forests , and recreation areas has dropped drastically . The economic impact has been tremendous , but recreation use is greater at close-to-home , energy-saving places , because people are changing their lifestyles to fit economic necessity . Of America 's 204 million people , 140 million live in metropolitan areas ranging from central cities to suburbs . Clearly they must have recreation opportunities and the closer to home the better , because the energy problem could be with us for many years . A recent survey in Washington , D.C. , found that 42 percent of the people sampled had either cancelled , shortened , or altered their vacation trips to be closer to home because of the economic and energy situations . The numbers of people visiting remote ski resorts , guest ranches , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staying longer . In the past , rural outdoor recreation to most people meant hunting and skiing . Today these activities are accelerating in interest ; in addition , fully as footnote Reprinted from Outdoor Recreation Action , No. 35 , Spring 1975 , pp. 1-2.  | many people are enjoying recreation lands for bird-watching , scenic drives and hikes , nature photography , backpacking , and the list goes on . Those who are custodians of America 's lands and waters , both public and private , must cope with this changing use of the environment and recognize that natural resources are going to be used year round ? not just during hunting and fishing seasons . In the 1960 's , Congress wrestled with the wilderness concept ; the resulting legal description of wilderness required large virgin areas to remain untrammeled by man . Today , we have the Eastern Wilderness Act preserving smaller areas which may have been managed for commercial timber production in the past . The trend even includes private dedication of pocket wilderness consisting of a few hundred acres or less . And , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harvestable size , the trail can be rerouted through nearby uncut timberlands . Changing needs require changing methods . Only recently has recreation been recognized as a reservoir purpose equal in value to flood control , irrigation , and power production . Reservoirs today play an important role in providing high quality outdoor recreation opportunities , frequently within short driving , cycling , or hiking distance of urban areas . Close-in private lands can provide city children a " wilderness " experience of managed trail use . Utility rights-of-way and abandoned railbeds can become trails , gardens , or playfields . About 65.6 million acres of land owned , leased , or controlled by private forest industries are available for outdoor recreation . More than 95 percent of these companies offer at least limited use of land by the public on such diverse facilities as athletic fields , ice skating rinks , picnic , camping and trailer park areas , and ski lifts . Hunting , fishing , hiking , swimming , boating , and trapping are among the many activities available , mostly without charge to the public . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conventional hydroelectric facilities and 10 private pumped storage hydroelectrical facilities under license by the Federal Power Commission . In addition to reservoirs and related land resources of public utility companies , thousands of miles of electrical and natural gas transmission lines provide opportunities for many outdoor recreation activities . About 1 million farms with a total of about 400 million acres of land are open to hunters and fishermen . ? " Outdoor Recreation : A Legacy for America , " The Nationwide Outdoor Recreation Plan , 1973.  | TIMBER MANAGEMENT AND RECREATION ON FOREST INDUSTRY LANDS Donald W. Smith Forest industry lands in the South include approximately 35 million acres of woodlands owned by companies ? mostly in the pulp and paper business ? and located throughout 13 States from Virginia to the timber belt of Texas and Oklahoma and from Kentucky to Florida . With only a few exceptions , these lands serve as a base for production of the timber those companies need to supply their mills . These mills , incidentally , produce 30 percent of the Nation 's plywood , 34 percent of the finished lumber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 percent of the Nation 's total wood products . With this objective , it is obvious that growing the maximum amount of timber in a given period of time dictates the type of management practiced . In many areas , this means the lands are intensively managed to produce the best specimens of the species for the growing site that the companies utilize . It also means doing everything we can to increase the utilization of each tree . These companies are also doing quite a bit to encourage more intensive ; ientific forest management on 150 million acres owned by farmers and other on-industry individuals as well as on lands controlled by Boy Scouts , Girl Scouts , banks , and other investment groups . Research projections call for the growing of twice as much timber on ubstantially less land by the year 2000 . As much as 15 million acres could be ost to agriculture , water impoundments , super highways , rights-of-way and urban sprawl . By the late 1990 's southern timber managers expect to be called on to provide 55 percent of the Nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lot sooner to meet this need if additional restrictions are placed on harvesting on National Forests . Now , well managed lands already grow an overage of twice as much per acre as unmanaged lands . Foresters know how to Improve this average , and will . There are ways the reader can help the effort ; there are benefits all interests can reap if successful . At the same time that timber growing is the primary objective , industry has smother important management goal . That ambition lies in winning public appreciation for good forest management as equivalent to good stewardship . In Ilect , we hope to keep the public aware of the role that wood and fiber play in ieeting daily needs . We also want to help the public understand that uses of cas left to the whims of nature ? areas often described and glorified as ilderness areas " ? are a luxury we can only afford in some sort of balance with toviding wood for public necessities , health , and comforts . footnote Reprint of a speech given by Donald W. Smith at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asheville , North Carolina .  | Worlds of statistics elaborate on wood supply and demand . We can build a good case . The fact remains that we need an informed and sympathetic public if we are to provide the products and the recreation opportunities they want and need . In addition to the success with timber management on company lands in the last 30 years , we have also made an important impact on some types of recreation in the South . Game management and hunting may be the most conspicuous , though certainly these are not the only places timber industry efforts have struck pay dirt . Most of you know that many paper and lumber companies employ game biologists on their staffs . Millions of company acres are available for hunting in a number of programs . Perhaps one of the most overlooked aspects of industry 's impact on improved game and wildlife habitat lies with the control and management of fire in the forests . For several decades during the early 20th century , forest wildfires were a way of life . Old timers ? and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for days and left their mark on thousands of acres of timber . Clouds of smoke hung on the land as farmers " greened up " their pastures and cared little that the fires also swept through their woods . In some cases , this may have been beneficial , but in hardwood stands the effects on timber values and habitat were devastating . When industry came back to the South and began to provide a market for young timber , the trees assumed a value they had not had for years . The forests became a resource deserving protection , and state forestry agencies came into being . As the forest improved , many types of habitat improved and today the deer population , for instance , is eight times as great as it was in the 1930 's . There were other benefits to wildlife , too . And , of course , there were benefits to fish and game agencies and park departments . In addition , industry tried to be a good neighbor by letting the general public use its lands for fishing and hiking and nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems , but that is another story . There may be a lot of things not done , but most readers can think of many things accomplished : Things like the Bowaters Pocket Wilderness Areas , the Texas Woodland Trails , the Kirby Company Primitive Area and 50-mile Hiking Trail , company donated parks in hundreds of cities and counties over the South , school forests and outdoor laboratories , boat launching ramps , and 247 company forest recreation areas . Perhaps the most impressive example of industry 's contributions is found in Union Camp Corporation 's donation of 50,000 acres of the Great Dismal Swamp to the Nature Conservancy . Certainly , there are more things industry can do in the future . And there are ways in which the reader can help assure those things . Bear in mind that a company 's primary objective is to make an attractive return on its owners ' investments . Growing more wood and making more paper or more lumber or plywood is part of the company 's approach to that goal . Winning and keeping the good will of neighbors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to industry 's approach , too . One of the things a lot of people forget or do not really understand is that trees are a renewable natural resource , and we  | do not have many of those ; I can only think of two more ? wildlife and top soil . Most people have no idea of plant succession or what difference it makes whether a tree is a tolerant or intolerant species or that different species of trees are best suited for different sites and for different products . In addition , many people have no concept of what raw material the product they needed or wanted was made of . We have the cry : " Save trees ; save trees ; use plastic , concrete , aluminum or steel . " Yet wood uses only solar energy to grow ; uses less fossil fuel to manufacture ; is often recyclable ; in most cases is biodegradable ; and , above all , is renewable . Millions of Americans want to go into the woods for recreation . Many companies are increasingly interested in helping those citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the things the reader can do to help industry help the public . For the most part , they all fit comfortably under the umbrella of education . First of all help educate industry to what it is doing wrong . I do not think there was ever really a time when the best way to educate industry was by taking officials to court , or trying them in the newspaper , though a lot of that has been done . There is still a lot to be accomplished by the " drawing-bees-with-honey " approach . Surely reasonable , educated people who sit and reason together will come out with reasonable answers and reasonable solutions that can be more satisfactory to both groups . Second , the reader can help educate the public to what industry is doing right . Having editors of game and fish publications , private and public ; and conservancy , conservation , or preservation magazines , newsletters , and ads take companies to task in order to win favor with a select group may be regarded by some as good business . Industry would like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " method in our madness " would be equally good husiness . You can help educate the various legislatures to the need for liability statutes that will protect landowners who admit or invite or who would admit or invite the public onto their lands . The time may even come when those who charge for such use should be protected better than they are today . We all need to work together to make citizens more careful and thoughtful . 1 here is no magic to doing this , but it is vital that wildfire and littering ? call it trash dumping ? and vandalism be stamped out . Stronger laws and better enforcement are not enough . Education is primary . And of course , better appreciation of the many benefits to be realized from good forest management is essential . There is much more to do together . Give it your best thought . Share those thoughts with industry leaders , individually and collectively , to help make forests more productive of both timber and recreation for the Nation now and in the future . Industry will listen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not do . owever , it is much easier to respond in a positive way to constructive uggestions , imaginative and realistic alternatives , or well-thought-out , positive plans we can study and apply .  | CAMPING SPREE IN AMERICA : IT 'S A BILLION-DOLLAR MARKET U.S. News and World Report Nearly 50 million Americans ? with trailers , tents and sleeping bags ? will go camping this year in public and private parks from Alaska to Mexico . Estimates are that this record number of outdoorsmen will spend more than 1 billion dollars on equipment ranging from lanterns to $20,000 air-conditioned " motor homes . " They will have a wide choice of accommodations ? from free tenting sites to posh resorts with yacht basins and private airstrips . " Camping has become a national way of life , " says William B. Pond , executive officer of the National Recreation and Park Association . The group conducts research and educational activities for park and recreation interests . Recreation experts say the camping " industry " has grown at least 500 per cent.in the past decade . Sales of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million dollars in 1961 to upward of 1 billion last year . The number of private campsites ? spaces for single tents or vehicles ? has grown by leaps and bounds , surpassing 425,000 in 1970 . A typical site is about 15 to 30 feet square , set among trees , and costs from $2 to $5 a night . Reservations are advisable at some locations . The main reason cited for such expansion is that camping , to many people , is relatively cheap fun ? an important factor when thousands of families are watching their pennies . At a typical private park , a family of four can get by for $10 a day , including food . Another reason , says Mrs. William Kuipers , co-owner of the Hiawatha Farm campground near Crete , Ill. , is that people want to get away from the pressures of everyday life . She explains it this way : " Imagine a doctor and his family ? they want to be away from the telephone . We have a furnace man who comes in the winter . He wants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effort by many to cut corners on expenses , there is also a trend by other campers toward more and more luxuries ? from campgrounds with riding stables to self-contained motor homes that have bathrooms and wall-towall carpeting . A California forest ranger cites the example of a recent group of visitors to one modern campground who were scattered on folding chairs watching ; i portable television set . A woman nearby had a small electric sewing machine at which she was making a dress for her daughter . footnote Reprinted from U.S. News &; World Report , Vol. 70 , May 10 , 1971 , pp. 39-41 . Copyright 1971 , U.S. News &; World Report , Inc.  | Recreation experts say the camping " industry " has grown at least 500 percent in the past decade . OVERCROWDING TROUBLES The boom has created enormous problems for many of America 's public parks , operated by the federal , State and local governments . The National Park Service , for instance , registered in excess of 175 million visits by individuals last year ? counting some people several times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the most crowded national parks were the Great Smoky Mountains In North Carolina and Tennessee , Grand Teton in Wyoming , Acadia in Marne , and Shenandoah in Virginia . Each had more than 2 million visitors . Many camping areas in public parklands are so jammed , especially in midsummer , that they have been described as " wall-to-wall tents . " Rest rooms , picnic areas and parking lots are so overcrowded in the late afternoon that rangers have to turn away thousands of would-be-campers . Mr. and Mrs. Charles Steele , owners of the Deerpoint Campground near Mount Royal , Va. , recall the day not long after they had opened their resort when the sheriff came knocking at their door . " We 've found 125 people along the highway who ca n't find a place to camp In the national park , " the officer said . " Have you got room for them ? " They squeezed the visitors somehow into their pine-covered hillside park ? and business has been booming ever since not only for the Steeles but also for thousands of private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough campgrounds to fill the growing demand led to the creation of the biggest private camping chain , Kampgrounds of America , Inc. ? KOA ? with headquarters in Billings , Mont . The first of its parks was opened in 1962 by David Drum , a member of the Billings chamber of commerce , which was bombarded with requests for camping sites by motorists planning trips to the World 's Fair in Seattle . There were few private camps in many parts of the West at that time . Mr. Drum hung out a sign saying " Campgrounds " on a tract along the Yellowstone River , and the park was immediately filled ? and remained so all summer . Operating mostly under franchises , there now are 525 Kampgrounds of America open or under construction in 47 States , Canada and Mexico . About 8 million people a year stay at KOA facilities , which have a combined total of camping sites exceeding either the national parks or the U.S. Agriculture Department 's Forest Service . Industry sources say there are now more private than public sites in Aiiierica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campgrounds  | and parks , says there are nearly 10,000 private parks and better than 450,000 camping sites in the U.S. compared with about 7,000 public parks containing approximately 240.000 sites . CAMP " ON EVERY CORNER " ? At one private park , a 65-acre KOA " camper hotel " near Valdosta , Ga. , manager Fred Cook says business has never been better . The park started with 67 campsites , increased the total to about 400 , and plans to add at least 200 next year . " Every year 's a peak year , " Mr. Cook says . Eventually , he believes , growth may flatten out . He observes : " There 'll be more and more competition . It 's going to soon be like service stations ? one on every corner . Not everybody is going to make it . But there 'll be a lot of growth for several years to come . " Several big hotel and motel chains also have entered the camping business . Among them is Ramada Inns , Inc. , of Phoenix , Ariz. , which plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Forty other units are scheduled for construction later . The first will be in Key Largo , Fla . A typical Camp Inn will include underground utilities , heated swimming pool , indoor and outdoor recreation , coin-operated laundry , lounge , and a small store carrying groceries and camping accessories . In southern California , the industry has grown so explosively that visitors often rent camping spaces for the entire year in order to guarantee a site when they want it . At Marrone 's Lost Frontier resort , located on the shore of Big Bear Lake , a lot rents for $175 to $600 a year , depending on the type of vehicle occupying the space . Of 257 sites in the park , fewer than a dozen at one time are ever occupied by tents . Operating a campground is " not all gravy , " one industry veteran notes . Ile says that hundreds of small , out-of-the-way parks are only marginally profitable ? especially those in colder climates that do not operate the year around and some are losing money . At the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land-office business . One location in Arizona is reported to gross $700,000 a year . Among the fastest-growing businesses in the industry are firms which specialize in selling or renting camping equipment , including trucks and trailers . Diana R. Dunn , research director of the National Recreation and Park Association , says 472,000 such vehicles were produced in 1970 . Scott Eckert , co-owner of a camping-vehicle firm in the Chicago suburb of Bensonville , predicts " a fantastic year " this season ? perhaps double his 1970 sales . Mr. Eckert says about 70 per cent of purchases made from his firm are on credit , and that banks are actively seeking to finance these deals . Sales have zoomed from 1 or 2 motor homes a month two years ago to from 6 to 10 units monthly . Prices for the camping vehicles range from $8,000 In $14,000 each .  | At Harvey 's Camping Center south of Atlanta , owner Harvey Fogg reports sales were up 295 per cent last year , and " 1971 will be another record . " Prices at his store for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tents range from $699 to $15,000 . The average purchase is about $2,500 . It is not necessary to spend large sums on camping gear . At stores such as the A to Z Rental Center in Annandale , Va. , for example , a camper can rent a pup tent for $3 for the first day and $1 a day thereafter . Robert Brennan , manager of the store , reports that most campers progress in a very short time from the barest minimum of camping equipment to more elaborate outfittings . " Once they get the bug , " he says , " they 're off . " For 50 million Americans , that 's the way it will be this summer .  | FINANCING OUTDOOR RECREATION Russell W. Porter It goes without saying that if one is to make money on an outdoor recreation subdivision , it will be made on the sale of land . Few if any subdividers are going to do speculative building and expect a profit through the construction and sale of homes . Since the sale of land is uppermost in the developer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed and sold as quickly as possible . Recreation property developers , however , tend to buy too much land . If the total project is terminated , the developers may go into bankruptcy . If he can not sell his lots quickly enough , interest and taxes may eat up his profits . It is better for the developer to buy only a portion of the land , taking an option on the remaining parcels until he is assured the market is ready and after he has realized some return on his first sales . The whole secret of economic success is in the purchase of the land . There are some notoriously bad examples of recreation property development . Lou Cannon , in Cry California , the journal of " California Tomorrow , " a non-profit , educational organization , wrote : " The typical developer , obsessed by the need to keep some of his promises to old buyers as a means of attracting new ones , will sell off more and more lots to keep up the payments on his bonds . Usually he gives little thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to preservation of wildlife , to the roads , shopping centers and transmission lines which these overpriced subdivisions will create . This is because the counties do not demand it and there is little in-state subdivision policy which requires them to . Thus , the backwoods subdivisions . . . with a few commendable exceptions , would almost assuredly mean a network of shacky and unbroken development which ruins the very recreation setting it celebrates . " MORE SOPHISTICATED CUSTOMERS These days people demand more . If they are going to buy their second home and start their second life , they are looking for quality . Even though the old sales tactics still exist , the quality of the developments is much better than the early " get-in-get-rich-get-out " operations . If the quality and customer satisfaction have increased , so has the more positive attitude of the lending institutions developed toward the outdoor recreation subdivision . Today 's buyer may be more affluent , but he is also more sophisticated . No longer will he want to be a part of a shoddy development , nor will the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will make loans to purchase land . Banks make land loans only to operative builders , not to develop land for sale . footnote Reprinted from Parks and Recreation , Vol. 4 , November 1969 , p. 23 , with permission from the National Recreation and Park Association .  | Most of the current outdoor recreation subdivisions are financed by big land companies capable of absorbing losses of one operation in another activity . Whether you 're seeking money from individuals , banks , savings and loan companies , pension funds or the federal government , there is no easy path to capitalizing an outdoor recreation subdivision . Money is where you find it . When a developer applies to a bank , an insurance company , or a savings and loan association , the cost of financing his project will be related to the risk involved as well as to supply-demand relationships in the capital funds market . Since outdoor recreation projects are relatively risky ventures , the cost of financing will be high compared to other types of ventures . The attitude of private investors will be similar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a share of the enterprise in return for the funds they provide . Some developers are concerned only with obtaining financing for recreation facilities . On this subject Scott Durdan , associate professor at Portland State University , says in a recent paper : " If the security offered for a loan is comprised only of the recreation facilities to be developed , financing will depend on whether the project may be expected to generate sufficient income to amortize the principal sum of the loan as well as meet regular interest payments . ' I'Ihe financial strength of the developer as well as his skill and competence as operator will also play a significant part in the lender 's decision . Where the developers are in a position to offer security over and above that provided by the recreation facilities , they will have a better opportunity to secure financing . " QUESTIONS THAT MUST BE ANSWERED One piece of advice to bear in mind is that the developer is competing for linancing with others representing projects with little risk . So he must put his host foot forward . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state universities , federal and state agencies , trade and other professional associations . He should have a prospectus or a financial feasibility study prepared in order to pave the way for easy financing . The Bank of America says that financing can come more easily when the following points can be answered with a strong " Yes ! " Does the recreation enterprise have real public appeal ? Is it accessible year-round ? Is the project leadership strong , experienced , capable and well regarded ? Has the project been thoroughly researched to test practicality ? Is the planned development a balanced and workable one ? Does the project have lull local support ? Will it receive all necessary promotion at the start and on a ontinuing basis ? Will management be thoroughly professional in every way ? Will design and construction be in harmony with the area and project ? Is management prepared and equipped to overcome the initial and growing-pain problems that plague new developments ? There are a number of pitfalls that can usually be predetermined when the oject is still in a conceptual stage . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is closed a major portion of the year , you have cleated an economic problem of significant proportions whenever the recreation  | project requires a high ratio of improvement values relative to land values or where a substantial investment in land is required . The amortization of improvement and land costs is a difficult enough matter even where the project operates the year round . The added burden of recovering costs in a small portion of the year frequently dictates that the owners will receive no return on their investment during the amortization period ( Scott Durdan ) . Another problem concerns the location of the recreation project . If it is too remote from a mass market , then a substantial investment of private capital is not feasible . Land tenure , of course , is no problem to a developer who acquires land title . However , many private land owners who are willing to lease the land exhibit little understanding that an adequate amortization period is necessary to justify the expenditure of funds for the construction of capital improvements . What about the future for outdoor recreation subdivisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accelerate and diversify , the outdoor recreation subdivision will flourish . On the national scene there 's already evidence of this . Hilary Bachen of Bank of America in a report on outdoor recreation and tourism says of second homes : " One of the fastest growing sections of the recreation industry is second homes and cabins . Some 1.7 million American homeowners now own one , and it is estimated by 1970 one in every five homes built will be a second home . The greatest demand for these will be within two- to three-hour driving time from the first ' home . " Ingenuity and customer satisfaction will be the keys to success . The developer who strives for quality in concept and design , who is sensitive to public recreation tastes , who protects and enhances the natural setting of the subdivision and who gives " after sales " services ? will attract and keep his customers . He 'll attract financing as well .  | Preserving the Recreation Environment Americans were privileged to start their national life on virtually an unspoiled continent . The country was vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plains and drained by one of the world 's most generous systems of water . Here were resources of beauty beyond measure and beyond destruction , so it seemed . Yet within a few generations we have fouled the streams , marred the landscape in almost every conceivable manner , built sprawling cities for convenience and not for beauty , and have generally degraded the sources that were so generously willed to us . We have generated nd perpetuated the problems of ugliness and pollution and have . raven beyond a doubt that a truly splendid environment does n't ust happen except in untouched wilderness . Wherever there are . eople , constant care is needed to guard against people . Only by icing our own sternest taskmaster can we keep from being our own Worst enemy . Among the more refreshing forms of outdoor recreation is to experience natural beauty , or to be in a place of solitude where only nature abides . This kind of recreation serves its best purpose when it is close to home and involves the everyday living patterns of people . But to many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A large proportion of our people now live in areas where the natural scenery has been destroyed , where noise from one source or another constantly rings in their ears , and where the air is not clean and fresh . The environment of many Americans has become ugly and polluted . It is a dismal fact that we have marred our landscape , polluted our streams , destroyed the freshness of our air , and even prohibited many people from enjoying solitude and serenity . Our surroundings can either enrich or impoverish our lives ; thus conserving , protecting , and improving our e nvironment can add immeasurably to our satisfaction and happiness . 171  | AMERICA THE ( FORMERLY ) BEAUTIFUL James Nathan Miller Now , more than ever , the efforts of private citizens and conservation organizations are required in not only preserving what remains of our natural heritage , but also in restoring some of what we have lost . ? Thomas H. Kuchel , senator from California Forty miles up the Hudson River from New York harbor there is a magnificent gorge so striking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the most precious spots in America . Here the Hudson , reaching the end of its wide avenue between the sloping apple orchards and dairy farms of the old Dutch patroon country , gathers itself into a channel between two 1000-foot granite cliffs ? Storm King Mountain on its west side , Breakneck Ridge on its east . Only an hour 's drive from New York City , this stretch of river remains as unspoiled as it was in the early 19th century when Karl Baedeker , the German travel-book publisher , called it " finer than the Rhine . " Today the survival of this stretch in its unspoiled state is trembling in the balance . The Consolidated Edison Co. , in need of more electric-generating capacity to serve the growing metropolitan area , has requested government permission to put a storage reservoir either on top of Storm King , or close by , and to build a generating plant into the side of the gorge . Whether it will he allowed to do this is now being decided by the Federal Power Commission in Washington . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind it lies the story if how we , the American people , are ruining the landscape and destroying natural resources at a dangerously accelerating rate . Two main " villains " are involved . CARS AND BABIES One is the incredible growth of the U.S. population , which is almost literally blotting out the land . On Long Island , so much of the land is now covered with concrete and houses that certain areas have to be fenced off for special sump pits , to collect rainwater and give it a chance to soak into the earth . In Wisconsin , it is estimated that each year 150 square miles of rural land are being plastered over with roads and houses . New Jersey , the " Garden State , " gives perhaps the best picture of where we are heading . Today it 's the garden-apartment state , with 807 people per square footnote Reprinted with permission from Reader 's Digest , Vol. 94 , February 1969 , pp. 179-8 I. Copyright 1969 by Reader 's Digest Association , Inc.  | mile ? twice the population density of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New Jersey " ; the Regional Plan Association of New York estimates that between 1960 and 1985 the New York metropolitan area will have reached out and consumed as much additional undeveloped land as it has so far occupied in the 340 years since the purchase of Manhattan from the Indians . In 1960 there were 13 million people in our urban areas ; by the year 2000 there will likely be 280 million . Superimpose on this population growth the enormous increase in the demands that each person is putting on the land . In electricity , for instance , the average American home is expected to increase its consumption some 2% times between 1960 and 1975 . Thus we are already beginning to build dams and power plants on rivers that only a few years ago had seemed safe forever . The magnificent 100-mile-long Hells Canyon on the Snake River on Idaho 's western border , the deepest gorge in the United States , is now under threat of partial flooding by a big hydroelectric dam . Or take the increased demand for road space . The 41,000-mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several hundred miles still under consideration , threatens redwood forests , and sweeps through suburban lawns and parks in many places . Yet it is only 65-percent built , and when it is completed it will almost certainly be inadequate to our surging traffic needs as we continue to produce twice as many cars as babies and become a nation of two-car , even three-car families . To run these cars we need more oil . Thus , on the Banana River in Florida , and on Narragansett , Delaware and San Francisco bays , local citizens now have to fight to keep oil companies and other industries from building docks and refineries in the estuaries where fish and game birds have rested and bred for centuries . The Bureau of Sport , Fisheries and Wildlife estimates that by 1980 , the Connecticut shoreline ? a vital stretch of the great Atlantic flyway ? will have virtually no salt marsh suitable for wildfowl . THE NARROW VIEW The second villain of the piece : the government agencies assigned to manage our resources . The best way to save Storm King , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a construction license . But this is a dim hope . Indeed , four years ago in its first decision on Storm King ? before conservationists appealed to the courts ? the FPC unhesitatingly gave Con Ed a go-ahead to build . For in the Commission 's mind , if a plant is economically and technically sound , it is justified . Only once in its 44-year history has the FPC denied a power-plant application on aesthetic grounds . That , then , is the crux of the matter : the narrowness of view we have assigned to the government agencies involved . We are managing our resources like a department store ; we have appointed dozens of managers for the Individual departments ? electricity department , road department , flood-control department , irrigation department , forest department ? but nobody is watching the store as a whole . The result is a chain reaction of narrow-interest decisions that block any overall look at what we are doing to the land .  | In planning the route for a new road , for instance , state-highway engineers think mainly in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have to shift gears on a hill , or the ton-mile cost to move a cargo from Point A to Point B. Scenic resources and local desires are rarely part of the equation . The Tennessee Valley Authority has among its assignments the production of the cheapest possible electricity for its area . So it is forced to get half the coal for its power plants from companies that practice strip-mining ? the cheapest but also the most destructive method . Gigantic power shovels leave exposed great white lumpy deserts of substrata called " spoil banks " which , because of their high acidity , are extremely difficult ? sometimes impossible ? to reclaim with tree plantings . RIVALRIES AND LOBBIES Narrow-interest agencies frequently become such fervid publicists of their own particular view of how to handle the land that all objectivity is lost . For instance , for years the Fish and Wildlife Service ( in the Interior Department ) promoted the sale of duck stamps to buy new duck-nesting areas and flood them . Simultaneously , the Agriculture Department , through special payments to farmers , was causing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Park Service ( Interior Department ) has developed a hard-sell pitch to local chambers of commerce aimed at taking land away from the Forest Service ( Agriculture Department ) . The pitch : forest land does your community little economic good , but a park will bring tourists and dollars . The Soil Conservation Service ( Agriculture ) , Army Engineers ( Defense ) and Bureau of Reclamation ( Interior ) all have elaborate competitive presentations " how to get the federal government to build you a better watershed . " And lined up behind each of these agencies is a powerful group of private " clients , " whose lobbies fight hard and effectively to perpetuate the rivalries . Behind the FPC are the advocates of private power ; behind Reclamation and TVA are the public-power supporters . Behind the state-road departments are the trucking , road-building and gas-and-oil lobbies ; and behind the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is the most powerful lobby of all ? the huge dam- and harborbuilding contractors . WHAT PRICE THE PRICELESS ? What happens when the conservationists try to intervene and bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swamped by an imposing stack of " user-benefit " formulas and " cost-benefit " ratios that invariably " prove " that the new road ? or harbor or power plant or dam ? serves the public interest . Can " public interest " be completely defined in dollars-and-cents terms ? Of course not . But this is precisely what we are trying to do ? to put a price on the priceless values of beauty , relaxation , historical significance , wildlife . In the process , we are destroying these intangibles faster than in 19thcentury robber-baron days . Soon , possibly in 10 or 15 years , we may wake up and realize that we have ruined our great national heritage .  | Should we , then , stop building roads and dams and harbors ? Certainly not . We will continue to prosper only as our economy expands . This will inevitably involve hard sacrifices of precious natural areas . What we must do is put an end to the present wasteful kind of helter-skelter , hit-or-miss expansion . Conservationists ask two things , specifically : ? That we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary , they ask , that a country as rich as ours give up an unspoiled Storm King Mountain or stretch of Hells Canyon , or sacrifice an irreplaceable grove of redwoods , in order to save a fraction of a percent in the cost of electricity or in a truck 's gas and tire bills ? ? That , when a road must be built or a valley flooded , we make sure that the best possible , least damaging site has been chosen . Today there is no such assurance . Can " public interest " be completely defined in dollars-and-cents terms ? Of course not . But this is precisely what we are trying to do  --  to put a price on the priceless values of beauty , relaxation , historical significance , wildlife . LET 'S DE-FRAGMENTIZE Some hope stems from a court decision in the Storm King case ? a decision that may still save the mountain . When conservationists took the case to court , on December 29 , 1965 , the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York issued a powerful statement : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is only one of several factors to be considered " ; the Commission should also take an " active and affirmative " look at the intangible cost . The court ordered the FPC to re-hear the case and to bring to the hearings a totally new perspective : " a basic concern for the preservation of natural beauty and of national historic shrines . " Legal authorities believe that this decision may be a landmark in federal regulation of natural resources . Indeed , it has already forced Con Ed to make important concessions in the plant 's design . Even more needed is legislative reform to bring coordination to the conflicting agencies . For if the Engineers propagandize for dredging and damming instead of building irrigation systems , and the Bureau of Reclamation vice versa , it is because such are their assignments . You ca n't put a man in a position where his career depends on doing one thing , and expect him to recommend doing something else . A bill before Congress , sponsored by Sen. George McGovern of South Dakota , would create a high-level Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council would be made up of three Presidentially appointed resources experts without bureaucratic ties ; dominated by no one interest , it would provide a balanced overall view of what we are doing with the land , air and water . The bill would also create in Congress two select committees  | on natural resources , made up of members of the four separate committees in each house that now consider resource matters . Unfortunately , opposed by strong lobbies and vested bureaucracies , this bill has little chance of passage at present . But the need for such action grows daily . For unless we stop managing our resources in the present fragmentized way , we will soon run out of things worth fighting to keep .  | WRECKREATION IN OUR NATIONAL PARKS Robert B. Ditton Recreation is usually considered an unlimited opportunity , the economic ckbone of many states , the frosting on the American Dream , and rarely a problem . Yet the impact of providing for people 's reaction activities has left d continues to leave its mark on our already beleaguered environment ? often ilh the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many recreation resources have been acquired by the federal governent with little thought as to how they will sustain the massive human impact u which they are being and will continue to be subjected . Second , we find that many federal resource development schemes sold on heir recreation values are in fact ecological disasters . The true recreation values of many of our natural resources are being misused today in the brutal process of project justification . As a result , regional grassroots organizations are springing into existence to prevent further destruction of the environment in the name of leisure and recreation . It may be difficult to consider recreation as a pollutant , because we have been saying all along that recreation is the first to suffer from water pollution end other environmental degradations . But the increasing numbers of recreators engaged in diversified recreation pursuits ( many with a high environmental impact such as camping , snowmobiling , all-terrain vehicle use , powerboating , and trail-bike use ) , together with many of the developments specifically planned for their use , are actually furthering the deterioration of natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertising organizations , ecologically-insensitive resource planners , communities bent on economic windfalls from our public lands , conservation groups with narrow self-satisfying objectives , and the development-minded public are all actively promoting the leisure misuse of our natural resources . They are unknowingly encouraging over-use or improper use . In everyday language , we are encouraging people to love our natural resources to death . This was first recognized and reflected in the policy of the American Waterworks Association ? a group of water supply administrators who restrict the Iecreation use of water supply reservoirs , regardless of treatment and enforcement levels . They recognize the leisure impact on water quality , but do not have the means to mitigate the impacts . In his 1970 State of the Union message , President Nixon proposed new financing methods for purchasing open space and parklands " now before they footnote Reprinted from Parks and Recreation , Vol. 6 , June 1971 , pp. 22-26 , with permission Iron the National Recreation and Park Association .  | are lost to us . " In light of present " pork barrel " management of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources , or making those lands now in public ownership more accessible , is not the answer but often the beginning of the problem . Our nation 's 200 million-plus population with more leisure on its hands is beginning to exert physical pressures on our natural resources that are beyond the comprehension of many resource planners . In the past , federal acquisition has helped to spare many of our natural resources from exploitation by private enterprise . But this is only part of the story . A number of areas have been spared defilement at private hands only to endure exploitation by the public resource management agencies to whom they have been entrusted . While unanimously supporting public acquisition , environmental protection groups have nevertheless become disheartened with many of the development and management activities being carried out by federal agencies . The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has probably received the greatest attention in the past because of its impoundment procedures . The emerging trend of the National Park Service toward mass recreation development has been recognized . Court actions have involved the Federal Power Commission and the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Management is even beginning to come under scrutiny . TRUST IN FOREST SERVICE IS MISPLACED But what of the U.S. Forest Service ? Until recently , this agency has not received the attention accorded the other agencies . Through this agency 's historic beginnings with Gifford Pinchot to its present day use of such altruistic images as Smokey Bear , the Friendly Forest Ranger , and the Lassie television program , people have been led to believe that the Forest Service is the ultimate protector of our public lands , woods , and waters . But recent experience has shown that such thinking is naive and the trust misplaced . Because of their inability to predict and eliminate the environmental destruction of their holdings , environment protection groups have brought several federal court actions against the U.S. Forest Service . If we are to sustain the magnificence of the public domain , federal management of recreation resources must insure ' that they survive the onslaught of being too accessible to humans . The Forest Service misses this point altogether and counters with " you are trying to lock up our resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our delicate resources , they need to be managed in such a way that unique ecologies are sustained . ( The word " preserved " is avoided here because of the recognition that unique ecologies are naturally dynamic . ) Resources can be sustained by determining the human carrying capacity of each natural area . Regulation of these human carrying capacity levels can be done , hopefully , through a management plan that recognizes man 's collective impact on our natural resources ? or the hard way , by restricting the number of users to an area and closing it daily when this limit is reached . The latter approach is particularly unsatisfactory in light of the dramatic increase in outdoor recreation predicted for the future . But we may have to endure this  | , approach because many planners lack the imagination and tools to correlate cumbers of people with the environmental qualities of our natural areas . In addition to these increasing physical impacts , the Forest Service has shown little concern for the impact of their development and management decisions on people 's recreation experiences . Many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can be pursued . Many management and development procedures have been conveniently tied to the wishes of majority interests rather than the maintenance of a wide number of user-groups , each with predictable recreation experience requirements . The results indicate that the public domain is being slowly fitted solely for those recreation pursuits involving the greatest numbers of people . The impact of these majority-focused management decisions on the recreation experiences of particular user-groups , such as wilderness users , has not been recognized to date . POPULARITY VERSUS VALUE Popularity of an activity should not be confused with its value . The fact that several federally funded studies indicate that driving for pleasure is the number one recreation pursuit in the country does not mean that we need more roads in our National Forests . Many planners , however , rely too heavily on these national trends as their development barometers . Providing facilities for the most popular recreation activities is in itself a safe guarantee that they will be used . Even more so , it is a crass promotion of these very pursuits . With more demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is much of present recreation development closing environmental alternatives but , just as importantly , it is narrowing the breadth of people 's available leisure opportunities . Many people are having to conform to the recreation developments provided because of lack of diversity . The impact of this " leveling process " on people 's leisure opportunities is yet to be fully determined . Federal agencies must interpret recreation and their authorized responsibilities for providing recreation opportunities for a variety of user-groups , e.g. , hikers , snowmobilers , primitive campers , convenience campers , nature enthusiasts , hunters , canoeists , picnickers , motorboaters , fishermen , etc . These usergroups can not be lumped together in the site planning process if resource management agencies expect to provide quality recreation experiences for any one group . Areas need to be planned for complementary user-groups if recreation is indeed to be a human outcome of resource use . With the United States rapidly becoming a nation of congested , frustration-ridden urban centers , it is imperative that our recreation resources maintain their ability to provide people with satisfying recreative experiences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sufficient goal for the federal government . They must insure through user-resource planning that 1 ) .1 balanced variety of human recreation needs are met , and that 2 ) environmental degradation of these resources is minimized if not totally prevented . A review of ill-conceived federal recreation resource development projects reveals the growing role of the U.S. Forest Service in environmental destruction :  | ? While not necessarily thought of as a reservoir builder the Forest Service has warmed to the task because " the need for water-oriented recreation opportunities is important in providing essential benefits to the public . " But in providing for the public well-being , we should know what is being sacrificed . In the Shawnee National Forest ( Illinois ) the U.S. Forest Service has development plans which would sacrifice the unique ecology of Lusk Creek , a cool , clear free-flowing stream which contrasts sharply with the many other murky bottomland streams found in this locale . Lusk Creek is presently used for a number of recreation pursuits , mostly of an environmentally compatible low impact nature . With the wide variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one more unique stream and woodland resource need be inundated to provide the same recreation experience that is now a common commodity . The future of Lusk Creek is presently in the hands of the Forest Service , but more importantly , Congressional appropriations . ? In 1968 the U.S. Forest Service seriously considered a Disney-inspired resort area in the Mineral King Valley in the Sequoia National Forest . Planning was carried out in anticipation of 1.7 million visitors annually . To place this in perspective , we should note that Yosemite Valley in Yosemite National Park receives about 1.7 million visitors annually ? only Yosemite Valley is seven times larger . With problems of environment impact readily apparent in Yosemite , the Sierra Club brought legal action against the proposed resort development ? and won . Recently , however , the Sierra Club 's right to bring this suit against the Forest Service has been challenged by a California Federal Court of Appeals decision and the battle continues . ? With pressure from a number of national conservation organizations , the Sylvania Tract in Michigan 's Upper Peninsula was acquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wilderness qualities and its ability to provide people with a unique experience . Today the tract is knowingly or unknowingly being developed for high impact recreation pursuits with little concern for the environmental implications of access and resulting human impact . Ecologically inappropriate and uncontrolled use is being encouraged creating further enforcement problems . Development is threatening the habitat and solitude of a rare but reproducing population of bald eagles in Sylvania . Even with partial restrictions instituted , remaining use ( and management ) of snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles threatens to negate all previous conservation efforts in behalf of the vanishing bald eagle in the north country . Timber is being cut on the tract by the Kimberly Clark Corporation of Neenah , Wisconsin ? further detracting from the quality of the wilderness experience . The uniqueness of Sylvania is being destroyed by the very thing it is capable of providing ? recreation opportunities . It is being destroyed by the access roads that not only have led to the silting of boglands , but also make it overly accessible . Sylvania 's destruction is entangled with the political process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low priority on wilderness .  | It is not enough to merely consider the recreation resource planning activities carried out singularly by the U.S. Forest Service . There are a number of other federal agencies who seek to sell their public works projects to the great silent majority on their incidental ability to satisfy leisure needs : ? Federal roadbuilding efforts have recently sought to bring people to unique areas with little realization of the ecological dangers accompanying the roadbuilding process . Roads have a way of reducing uniqueness rapidly ? you have seen a hundred examples of roads which swallow up the views you were supposed to see . The Department of Transportation is cooperating with the U.S. Forest Service in the construction of the Ellis Loop Road that will render the Sandia Crest Recreation Area in the Cibola National Forest ( New Mexico ) more accessible . The present low-standard road to the Crest follows a less objectionable path than the proposed road and also serves as a buffer against over-use of the area . If the proposed road is constructed , recreation use of the Crest will certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be needed . Secretary of Transportation John Volpe justifies the construction of this super-blackway through the northern Sandias with simplistic wisdom : " In the early 1960s the President 's Advisory Council on Recreation conducted an intensive nationwide study of recreation activities of the American public . This study revealed that driving for pleasure is the nation 's most important outdoor activity . " If the road is to be built , it will be done over the documented objections of a number of conservation groups . ? In 1936 the Secretary of Agriculture dedicated 3,800 acres of virgin forest in Western North Carolina to the memory of Joyce Kilmer , author of the well-remembered poem " Trees . " The area was " to be preserved in its natural state and to include only the simplest recreation facilities . " But today this forever-wild designation is threatened by the bulldozer and bureaucratic doubletalk . Working with the U.S. Department of Transportation , the Forest Service has proposed the construction of a scenic highway through the Joyce Kilmer Memorial Forest . Originally the highway route was scheduled to run south of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want the road to cross the high peaks in the northern part of the Forest because of the extra-scenic view and the promise of added tourist dollars . The proposed intrusion involves more than unsightly road cuts , turbid waters , and the destruction of a virgin forest ; it violates a 1936 commitment to all Americans to maintain this tract in its natural state amid development and urbanization pressures whatever they may be . Probably an easy commitment to make in the thirties ; it is seen today as a landmark decision in the wilderness-short eastern United States . If the commitment is broken , the future security of many of our other recreation resources , however designated , is uncertain . ? Even the U.S. Navy 's proposed Project Sanguine is being billed by its leading Congressional proponent as potentially one of the greatest tourism and recreation attractions in the country . What is Project Sanguine ? The project  | is described by the Navy as an ultra low-frequency antenna buried six feet underground to transmit one-way messages to Polaris submarines at sea . The antenna will underlie the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Once again , the U.S. Forest Service is involved ; this time with the U.S. Navy . The project , if completed , would require that 30-foot swaths be cut in a grid pattern every two-to-six miles throughout the Chequamegon National Forest ( Wisconsin ) . Aside from Sanguine 's not-tooapparent tourism value , planning authorities are quick to point out that the project will conveniently create snowmobile trails and more deer browse . Concurrently , environmental studies conducted by the Hazelton Laboratories of Falls Church , Virginia , have demonstrated substantial environmental impact at power levels far below what the proposed 1.5 million dollar project will ultimately require . To date , the Forest Service has demonstrated little public response to these environmental study findings . Aside from the development damage involved , can we expect our National Parks and Forests to be openly vulnerable to defense hardware testing and military fortifications in the future ? Sanguine 's disposition will give us a clue to the answer insofar as the U.S. Forest Service is concerned . RECREATION PLANNING CLOSELY TIED TO ECONOMICS Why does much recreational resource development continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an answer lies in the fact that much federal recreation planning is more closely tied to economics than ecology . Ecological disasters begin with the nationwide trends projected for leisure activity . Improperly so , these national participation projections guide the extent and type of development at local development projects . Regardless of delicate or atypical natural conditions , a site 's development plan is usually geared to meet these projections and then justified on the basis of their attendant economic benefits to the immediate region . With economic justification a prerequisite , recreation resource planners must play the " numbers game " . . . even if the " numbers game " disregards good ecological savvy . Maximum recreation resource development is much easier to justify economically than optimum development because the value of sustaining a resource in high quality condition is difficult to express in dollars and cents . This dysfunctional planning process has a number of inherent weaknesses : 1 ) Concepts of human ecology are generally ignored ; 2 ) There is usually more concern with bringing large numbers of people to an " attraction " than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Little consideration is given to such nonproduction oriented intangibles as aesthetics ; and 4 ) There is failure to conceptualize all the factors involved in environmental quality and the related quality of human life . Management plans are needed that will keep open recreation alternatives for the future , and that will insure a sustained yield of high quality indigenous recreation . Working counter to this goal , however , are the economic incentives encouraging increased development which return 25 percent of all National Forest production ( including recreation ) receipts to local county government .  | Many resource economists , therefore , support a system whereby local government units are compensated for losses in their tax base due to government purchase of recreation lands with in-lieu-of-tax payments for an agreed upon number of years . Without such legislation , recreation resource planning , based entirely on economic impact will continue with critical repercussions for our National Forests . The singular planning concept of economic impact or a " local-get-rich-quick " philosophy stands to be rejected by federal agencies . They must begin to believe that a good ecological decision will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A typical example of such thinking already employed by the U.S. Forest Service is the decision to employ sustained yield production rather than the uncontrolled clearcutting of yesteryear . MORTAL MEN ARE PREOCCUPIED WITH PRESENT Why ca n't the Forest Service perceive the potential environmental degradation that may result from their plans and actions ? Such agencies are staffed by mortal men who , along with most other Americans , are preoccupied with the present . Concerns for the quality of tomorrow are not only difficult to express , but difficult to put into practice in today 's government maze that places high-priority on project justification in short-term economics . " Planning for today " is also encouraged by the irrational pressures of many " conservationists " with narrow objectives who argue for maximum development as a means of " making areas public . " While these " conservationists " are familiar with concepts of ecology and use them freely when concerned with water and air pollution , they generally ignore this man-environment concept in dealing with recreation planning . In catalytic fashion they play into the hands of resource planners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests than the maintenance of unique ecosystems . All federal agencies involved in recreation planning and development have a clear responsibility to predict and be sensitive to the environmental consequences they may initiate . To wait for resource deterioration to begin before taking remedial action to restrict or modify use pressures is no longer acceptable . Many of the over 200 university departments specializing in recreation are preparing professionals capable of this prediction responsibility . Yet their graduates are still excluded from employment by the U.S. Forest Service . A new set of employment qualifications for recreation resource planning positions ( Series GS-023 ) has been developed by the U.S. Civil Service Commission . But these are only qualification standards . They are as yet no assurance that recreation graduates will be employed along with foresters and landscape chitects to deal comprehensively with the ecological complexities of recreation Planning . The American people must also become more sensitive to the intricacies of environmental quality management if the environmental 70s is to be more than a decade . We need to respond to more than the popular and easily visualized environmental degradations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resource planners to do so . With increasing population , more abundant leisure , and subsequent user-resource pressures , the public as well as their congressional  | representatives must begin to recognize that recreation resource development ( when over-developmental or when incompatible recreation pursuits are promoted ) can be as great an exploiter of the environment as industries that dump their wastes into our nation 's rivers . Just as industry needs to be curbed , so too must the U.S. Forest Service lose its taste for pork and begin to recognize and respect the long-term public interest . In doing so , they will genuinely demonstrate that " they are as concerned as we are . "  | LAW AND ORDER IN PUBLIC PARKS Frederick L. Campbell , John C. Hendee and Roger Clark 1 Camping and picnicking in public campgrounds are important leisure time ? tivities for millions of Americans , and their popularity is increasing . Each eekend , campgrounds are transformed into migrant communities ranging in ze from a few families to several thousand people . These communities , like . thers , have problems of law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are tmmon in most parks . A surprising range of major crimes is found in some of e larger campgrounds . These activities depreciate the recreation experience and often violate the rights of recreationists . Maintaining law and order in public arks is a serious problem in recreation management . STUDYING BEHAVIOR PROBLEMS Last summer , we studied behavior problems in public recreation areas in the State of Washington.2 Three intensively developed campgrounds were studied ? one each in a national forest , national park , and state park . The campgrounds were all large , water oriented , well developed , and frequently drew overflow crowds . Camping in each campground , our team of observers deliberately looked for depreciative or deviant behavior . Our activities included informal talks with users , daily inspection tours for new damage , periodic observation of congested locations , and briefing sessions with campground personnel . We recorded every deviant act observed or reported to us and , when possible , informally interviewed the parties involved . Although the study will continue for two more years and our data is necessarily incomplete , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public parks is much more extensive than we were led to expect from interviews with recreation managers and campers . Because we looked harder and more systematically , we saw more problem behavior than the average camper . Although we observed many depreciative acts , our attention was drawn to a continual series of major and minor violations carried out by people who were either unthinking or considered footnote Reprinted from Parks and Recreation , Vol. 3 , December 1968 , pp. 28-31 and 51-55 , with permission from the National Recreation and Park Association . 1Dr . Campbell is assistant professor of sociology , University of Washington ; Dr. Hende c recreation research project leader , Forest Service , Pacific Northwest Forest &; Range Experiment Station ; Mr. Clark is research assistant , forestry , University of Washington . 2The research was sponsored by the Pacific Northwest Forest &; Range Experiment Station , Forest Service , U.S. Department of Agriculture .  | themselves above a particular rule . Such incidents included theft , damage , and violations of campground rules . In the following discussion , we illustrate these behavioral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underlying causes and possible approaches to solution . THEFT Theft in particular seemed much more prevalent than is generally supposed . Most recreationists and managers seem to feel that the fellowship of campers holds no thieves . Consequently , trailers are not locked , and expensive equipment is left unguarded ? or even out in the open . Under these conditions , the rate of theft is remarkably low . Yet , theft does occur , and we found that much of it goes unreported for one reason or another . Most thefts fit one of two patterns . The first , stealing of camping equipment and food , occurred most frequently during periods of heavy use . The culprits were often teenage males who had come to the campground only for the day or weekend . Usually ill-equipped , they made up for their shortages by stealing . Ice chests filled with beer and pop were especially favored targets , particularly in beach-area campsites . Most victims did not bother to report their losses to the authorities and thereby complicated law enforcement . Greater care on the part of recreationists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate of such incidences . The second type of theft was more serious and involved systematic stealing of valuables such as cameras , binoculars , watches , radios , and purses from locked automobiles . These robberies were usually performed by noncampers who came to the park for that express purpose . Once this summer , we woke to find that our locked auto had been broken into , and a tape recorder containing much of our information on theft had been stolen ! But we were not the only victims . Eleven others had also been robbed that night . The thieves made off with more than $1,000 worth of property . In most cases , the locked autos had been parked no more than a few feet from the sleeping owner and , after being burglarized , were relocked by the thieves . We have no idea how many other autos were broken into that same night because many campers did not immediately notice their loss and others simply did not bother to notify the authorities . The pattern of this crime was typical of several other incidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loss of our tape recorder was only a foretaste of things to come ? we were robbed three more times during the summer . RECOGNIZE THE PROBLEM Interviews with the victims of theft proved interesting . All had previous camping experience but had never been robbed before . None were really angry about their loss but philosophized that it could happen to anyone and regarded it as merely a lesson in tighter security . They continued to view the campgound as a relatively crime-free community and were not at all willing to redefine it . In no case did they blame the campground authorities for their loss , nor did they  | The most casual picnic may restore to children a sense of belonging . feel that anything could be done to retrieve their property . Many who did notify authorities were interested only in legitimizing their insurance claims . Others mentioned their loss only in a casual manner while conversing with authorities for some other purpose . Some reported their loss only after learning that others had also been robbed . Campers , it appeared , tended to discount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justified . The legal powers of varying agencies differ significantly , but their enforcement capabilities are equally impotent . Lack of adequate manpower and training and the unwillingness of campground rangers to view themselves as policemen contribute to the ineffectiveness of enforcement . Police tactics , however , can not completely solve the problem without a greater degree of public awareness and cooperation . In one campground , a 10 o'clock curfew was strictly enforced , a thorough search was made for noncampers , gates were guarded , and patrols were walked , but still thefts occurred . The costs in personal freedom to the average camper would be too high if we took all necessary measures to completely eliminate theft . But theft can be reduced if security measures are backed by public recognition of the problem and individual willingness to exercise some degree of care , caution , and involvement . VANDALISM Vandalism is a concern for all agencies maintaining public campgrounds . Wherever we went , we were given detailed accounts of the latest damage done in the particular park . Sinks pulled off walls , mirrors smashed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fireplaces destroyed were all reported as seasonal occurrences . The blame for such activity was often fixed upon noncampers who came into the park for the specific purpose of creating trouble . More stringent law enforcement and patrols directed at the offending groups are often regarded as the best way of controlling vandalism , and we would agree . But these measures would not completely solve the problem , for we found that actually a broad segment of the camping public shares the responsibility for needless damage . DESTRUCTIVE PLAY A great amount of damage is carried out by preteenage children as a part of their play activities . Many parents regard the campground as a place where children can play in a healthy environment . The dangers of the city are left behind ; nothing can hurt the children , and there is nothing the children can hurt in return . The burdens of parental supervision can be traded for quiet hours of  | privacy as children run off to play by themselves . And the children are alone , much more so than in their own neighborhoods . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are exchanged for indifferent strangers dutifully following the rule of noninvolvement that prevails in public places . Pre-adolescent children probably feel no sense of responsibility toward park facilities , and their predominantly urban upbringing provides few lessons in behavior appropriate to the natural environment . Under these circumstances , it is almost inevitable that damage will occur . Two boys we observed this summer provide an example . These boys , approximately 12 years of age , came to the campground accompanied by their mother and three younger siblings . Their father remained in the city and visited only on weekends , a fairly common arrangement . Upon arrival , the boys immediately left their mother , who was quite happy to . be relieved of entertaining her two children . During the first two days in camp , the boys wrote obscenities on the wall of one washroom , plugged the toilets in a second , broke bottles in the beach area , chopped down a tree , tore down eight metal signs on the nature trail , and became lost overnight in the woods . Other than their overnight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or campground personnel . One should not conclude , however , that these boys were naturally malicious . When one of the park rangers suggested they use part of their free time picking up trash and litter , they plunged into the activity with equal enthusiasm . For destructive play , the old adage , " blame the parent , not the child , " has more than a grain of truth . Considerable money could be saved each year if parents assumed greater responsibility for the activities of their children while in public parks . UNTHINKING ADULTS Adults often exhibit irresponsible behavior . Much damage can be attributed to unthinking but well-intentioned recreationists . For example , the persistent scarcity of firewood was sometimes solved by theft from other campers or by cutting down a nearby tree with no thought to the conservation implications of the act . Nails were hammered into trees to store camping equipment off the ground ; cars and trailers were driven off parking pads and into vegetated areas for the sake of convenience ; fires were built outside fireplaces by persons unaware of danger to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations clearly marked " closed " or " full " as people sought short-run solutions to their immediate problems . The point is that basically responsible but ill-informed and temporarily inconsiderate people create many problems in public parks . RULE VIOLATIONS In every campground , we found a posted list of rules designed to bring order to the community of recreationists . And in every campground violations of these rules persisted . The most noticeable violators with little regard for rules  | and the rights of others were usually teenagers , as we previously discussed . We found , however , that the great majority of violators were adults whose depreciative behavior stemmed from ignorance of the rules , a lack of understanding , or more commonly , a willingness to selectively disregard rules that stood between them and some desired activity . Consider , for example , the camper who has been visiting a particular area for many years . Back in the days when camping was more of a dirty , strenuous , uncomfortable , and challenging activity , he was likely to be one of only a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made the enforcement of rules relatively unnecessary . He could camp almost where he pleased , cut down his own firewood , drain waste water onto the , ground , permit the dog to run loose , and in general , conduct himself largely as he pleased . Today , however , the same camper has much more company . Activities that the environment once tolerated from a few now create serious impacts as more and more campers swarm over the area . Old rules are now enforced , and new rules have been added . The camper finds that what he has been doing with impunity for years now may bring a stern warning from the ranger or even a court summons . Many campers view this as unjust and , as a result , feel few pangs of conscience when breaking campground rules . ILLEGAL CAMPING The violation that best exemplifies violations by basically well-intentioned campers is illegal camping . As campgrounds fill and competition for space increases , people move into areas which for some reason unknown to them are declared off limits by campground officials . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed to camping because of over-use and erosion . Throughout the summer , the people who had previously camped in this area , or who had arrived late and found no vacancy , would nod at the no-camping sign and begin to set up camp . The morning would bring argument , temper , and eviction . Interviews with the offenders seldom disclosed an appreciation or understanding of the violated rule . Campers failed to comprehend the ecological reasons for closing the area but attributed more Machiavellian motives to park authorities : closure was a means of driving out tenters in favor of trailer people , said the renters ; it was a means of driving out the trailer people in favor of the tenters , said the trailer campers ; it was foolishness by the park authorities , agreed all ; and letters of complaint were written and stern lectures given to hapless seasonal attendants . These campers were , of course , well-intentioned people ; but each such violation complicates the growing problem of regulation . RANGERS VERSUS USERS Violations also occur when park rules interfere with what recreationists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To some extent , the conflict points to an inherent difference in the goals of park administrators and users . Campground administrators are oriented largely towards preserving and interpreting the natural environment . A common attitude among them is  | that the park represents a place of natural beauty where the public comes to enjoy the benefits of nature . Unfortunately , many users apparently come with a very different orientation . In examining daily activities , we found that , although people were seeking and enjoying a change in scenery , they had little direct contact with and showed little appreciation for the natural environment . Most people stayed close to camp , visited with friends , took short walks , prepared meals , or played organized games . As a result , the self-guiding nature trail in one park was one of the least-used facilities , and even many regular users had never taken the trouble to enjoy its beauty . In contrast to that of the manager , the focus of most campers was social rather than environmental . Rules intended to regulate the relationship between man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of camping . Such situations set the stage for violations . For example , two or more parties often crowded into one campsite ; family gatherings would result in illegal parking ; late night gatherings violated quiet hours and often led to altercations between campers . LITTERING No account of violations would be complete without some discussion of littering , an expensive problem in public parks . All segments of the camping public share the blame for littering . Children learn to throw candy wrappers and pop bottles onto the beach as they watch their parents deposit beer cans and newspapers . Full garbage cans are an excuse to throw trash into the woods , and no excuse at all seems necessary to throw cigarettes , orange peelings , or bottle caps onto the ground . However , we did find some patterns in littering behavior . For example , many people on arriving would make an effort to clean their campsites and would conscientiously deposit their trash in cans during most of their stay . On the last day , however , their concern would wane , and papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often left a fireplace full of unburned garbage as a final gift to the new occupant . Clearly , as these recreationists ' involvement with an area decreased , during the latter stages of use , their propensity to litter increased . UNDERLYING CAUSES We feel that many of the problems discussed are related to some broad changes that are occurring in the American society . First , the population has been growing at a rapid rate for several years . The combination of more people with more leisure time , greater prosperity , and improved equipment has resulted in an unprecedented number of campers . By sheer increase in the number of campers , many small annoyances have grown into major problems . Second , not only is our population growing , it is also becoming more urban . Today , nearly 80 percent of all Americans live in urban areas . Although the urban shift may not have reduced our society 's basic appreciation of nature , it has reduced opportunities to learn behavior appropriate to natural areas .  | A third factor may be called the " norm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are continuously thrown together in public places , privacy is often created by a studious disregard for other people . While creating privacy through anonymity , it also frees the individual from responsibility for the plight of others or their behavior . The " norm of non-involvement " is very much in evidence in the public campground . We frequently saw campers passively stand by as their neighbor or their neighbor 's child violated campground law , damaged park facilities , or created a public nuisance . It is impractical and impossible for authorities to monitor a camper 's every move . Some means of increasing the sensitivity of recreationists to the propriety of other campers ' behavior is crucial to long-range solutions . We intend to explore such a possibility in later stages of our study . In addition , consider a popular topic today , general disrespect for the law . We did observe many deliberate violations . Some people flaunted rules and regulations purely for entertainment . But many other deliberate violations could he attributed to what some call the " illusion of central position . " Translated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control others , but nothing should stand between me and my immediate goal . " Such an attitude was typical of many adults , but in balance , naked disregard for law and order represented only a small amount of the depreciative behavior we encountered . SOLVING THE PROBLEM It is one thing to point to problems and quite another to provide workable solutions . We do not know , at this point , how to solve all of the problems we observed . However , certain broad guidelines may be useful in some situations . To begin , administrators must recognize that managing the people who use public parks is a challenge of the first magnitude. - Camping has become a social experience ; we must begin basing policies , rules , and the training of rangers on this fact as much as we currently do on the necessity for preserving the environment . In addition , the trend in many parks is to reduce the amount of contact between campground rangers and the public . This trend should be reversed and the visibility and availability of uniformed personnel increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across agencies would help to remove some of the confusion that exists regarding appropriate behavior . Campground design should strive to recognize the social aspects of camping . More group areas , open spaces for organized games , and separate areas for users with different recreational goals are needed . Our urban population needs more education in the care and use of the natural environment . Are we concerned enough to spend the money for It is one thing to point to problems and quite another to provide workable solutions .  | appropriate courses in school curricula ? This is the long-run solution , but more information and interpretive programs in the public parks may help in the immediate future . Perhaps most important , the opportunity to educate uninformed but well-meaning campers during personal contacts should be exploited by park rangers in a pleasing but systematic fashion ? a job they should be intensively trained to perform . We should recognize that the campground community , like all communities , contains a broad range of deviant behavior . Problems arising from these behaviors will increase and become more complicated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , management policies , and approaches will become obsolete and outgrown . Recognition of the problems and new efforts to cope with them are imperative . RANGER POWER If strengthening the police powers of park authorities is not the complete solution , it is certainly an important ingredient . Most campground rangers seem to resist the role of policeman and find it difficult to confront the public in an authoritarian manner . Yet the enforcement aspect of their job will become increasingly important . Future recruitment and training should recognize this fact . In addition , the legal authority of personnel in most agencies is extremely limited , and unfortunately this weakness is recognized by the worst offenders . Cooperating law enforcement agencies , such as the sheriffs , are often overworked and unavailable ? particularly during periods of peak use . Legal changes whereby campground rangers could be made more effective should be explored . PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY ? THE KEY Above all , the individual camper must himself shoulder much of the burden . The norm of non-involvement can no longer be tolerated . We must begin treating deviance in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yards . We must take on the burden of direct intervention by vocally stating our disapproval of wrongdoings and , if necessary , summon campground personnel . No amount of police tactics can prevent the type of depreciative behavior we have been discussing without individuals taking some personal initiative . Even if we do all of these things that are needed , some depreciative behavior will still occur in public campgrounds . The campground is a type of community , and deviance exists to some degree in all communities of men . This we must recognize . Camping in intensively developed recreation areas is not an escape from the fetters of civilization . Rather , it is a social experience shared by many people interacting in a limited area . If deviance is to be kept at a low and tolerable level , we must recognize the need for laws and actively work towards their support . Only in this way can the values of the outdoor recreation experience continue to be realized .  | WHO HAS SEEN THE WIND ? Darwin Lambert Breathing is more intimate than talking , than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our inner quick , and we die in minutes without its gift of oxygen . The word " spirit " comes from breathing . Breath is life , is body , is soul , is a relationship with nature most of us want to continue . Who has seen the wind ? In mid-summer 1968 , too few ? neither you nor I , but when the smog is swept away , the wind is passing by . . . My wife and I camp with a **25;194;TOOLONG and a natural-scene photographer in Nevada in the central Great Basin , least populated part of the contiguous states . " Air 's too thick around Wheeler Peak , " the photographer complains , " but it 's bound to improve . " / " Wrong ! " the professor says . " It 's smog from California . " / I ca n't believe . I recall a hiker telling how , atop old Wheeler , he mounted a telescope on a tripod and saw the Wasatch Range over 100 miles away in Utah , then turned it and saw the snowy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week , but the air does n't improve . On westward it muddies the lines between mountains and sky . Over the Sierras into the great valley ? eyes burning , watering . . . San Jose , evil brown streaks intermixing  --  a nightmare .. . Seeking a southern flee-way , we only get in deeper ? smog smothering the desert . .. settling in gorges . . . sliding across the ranges . . . soiling snowy peaks near Flagstaff . . . obscuring colors on the Painted Desert . . . St. Louis ? no surprise the great new arch is lost in smog ? but must we , really must we breathe this gray shroud over the farmlands of Illinois , Indiana , Ohio . . . into West Virginia and Pennsylvania ... ? The nightmare refuses to yield ; it expands . . . Hikers in Shenandoah National Park smell hydrogen sulfide like rotten eggs . . . Apollo 10 crew watches the Los Angeles plume from outer space . . . Scientists find more than a hundred million tons of air-pollutants released each year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carbon monoxide . . . A school playground sign warns , " Do not exercise strenuously or breathe deeply . . . " " It is becoming apparent , " reports the Secretary-General of the United Nations , " that if current trends continue , the future of life on earth could be endangered ... " Frightened man grabs for fundamentals , for meanings , for relationships .. . " When God began to create ... the earth was a desolate waste , with . . . a tempestuous wind raging over the surface of the waters . . . " In the beginning , writes biologist Colin S. Pittendrigh , oxygen was scarce or absent . " Evolution of photosynthetic autotrophs produced the great bulk of the oxygen in the present atmosphere and thus created the opportunity for a more effective , aerobic form footnote Reprinted with permission from National Parks &; Conservation Magazine , Vol. 44 , December 1970 , p. 19 , which assumes no responsibility for its distribution other than through the magazine .  | of respiration ... " " Organisms appeared , " writes ecologist Barry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to new organic matter ? thus closing the loop and transforming what was a fatally linear process into a circular , self-perpetuating one . . . " Earth 's oxygen-filled atmosphere is unique in the solar system ? a gift , a privilege , a happy circumstance . Who has seen the wind ? In mid-summer 1970 , most of us , quite knowingly ? even I and you , for when the smog is traveling , the wind is passing through .. . Hour after hour , day after day , New York 's air monitors report " unsatisfactory " . . . " unhealthy " . . . Washington , D.C. , is on the verge of its first smog alert . . . In Japan children collapse on a school playground , traffic police wear gas masks , more than 8,000 people in Tokyo alone are treated for smog poisoning in just five days , the menace spreads from island to island . . . In Sydney , Australia , residents are outraged by the rotten-egg stink of hydrogen sulfide . . . Trees become skeletons in Saigon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Ruhr carry a sulfuric-acid storm to Scandinavia . . . Soviets begin moving factories from their cities . . . In South Africa smog colors the sun blood-red , then blots it out ... In South America similar human venom curtains the snowy Andes . . . The nightmare will not yield to power-proud man 's conflict-weakened prodding . It worsens , worsens . . . " Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet . . . The horses ' heads were like lions ' heads , and fire , smoke and sulfur poured from their mouths . One third of mankind was killed by these plagues ? the fire , smoke and sulfur that poured from their mouths . " Breathing is more intimate , more immediately fateful , than talking , than eating and drinking , than sex . Today 's atmosphere poisons our physical and spiritual vitals . Wo n't the nasty insult , if not the threat , create incentive to make us men instead of mere suckers at the tits of technology ? When will we let earth 's winds blow clean again ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment-related organizations have begun with a single , quite specific concern ? saving redwood forests , for example , or duck habitat or trout streams . Often , this concern was primarily esthetic in nature , motivated by a sheer desire to preserve or restore the beauty of one chunk of the environment . But with the passage of time , more and more of these organizations have begun ranging farther and farther afield . An almost inevitable process of evolution has led them to concern themselves with activities seemingly distant from their original purpose . A case in point was a meeting held in Washington , D.C. last September , concerning a Federal Appeals Court decision on clear-cutting in one of our national forests . Present at the meeting were representatives of four congressional staffs , of two timber-related conservation groups , and of the timber Industry . But in addition , there was a representative from the Izaak Walton League ? an organization originally founded to protect fish habitat . One might logically question the purpose of his attendance . In point of fact , there were excellent reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? unless it is carefully managed ? can lead to soil erosion , because trees anchor soil . The loosened soil , in turn , can be carried by rain into streams , blocking or degrading them with silt . If the stream is a trout habitat , the soil can even prevent hatching of trout eggs deposited during the spawning season . Trees , underbrush , and the insects associated with them also provide food for fish ; hence , if the trees lining a stream are cut down , the food supply can be significantly reduced . Finally , trees also shade streams from sunlight ; if solar radiation raises the heat beyond a certain point , the stream will become uninhabitable for certain species . Thus , the concern of an Izaak Walton representative at a meeting about clear-cutting made excellent sense . ENVIRONMENT IS INTERRELATED COMMUNITY A concern with any aspect of the environment quickly leads to a concern with others . Our environment is not a random array of separate pieces ; rather , it is an interrelated community , in which an impact on one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic law of the science known as ecology : " Everything depends on everything else . " Man 's failures to understand the dynamics of his ecosystem have threatened his health and welfare since the beginning of human life . In Spain , Greece , and North Africa today , there are desolate areas ? practically deserts ? which , in antiquity , were densely forested and carpeted with grassland ; excessive timber-cutting and cattle-grazing ruined footnote Reprinted with permission from Catalyst , Vol. 5 , No. 2 , 1976.  | Our environment is not a random array of separate pieces ; rather , it is an interrelated community in which an impact on one member affects every other member . the land , destroying its carrying capacity and ruining the communities it supported . Man 's capacity to injure the earth is not new . Yet there is something new about man 's relationship to his planet these days , something that makes our era unique in our long residence on this planet . It is the speed with which man can do extensive , lasting damage to his life-support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not fully surface until after World War II . The earth has a prodigious capacity to absorb man 's garbage , break it down into life-sustaining components , and re-cycle them back into the ecosystem . EARTH 'S NATURAL RESILIENCE But this natural resilience of the earth is not infinite . It depends on three conditions : first , the human population had to remain relatively small , and slow to grow ; second , man 's products had to be relatively simple in composition ; third , man 's tools had to be relatively small in size and limited in scope . As long as those three conditions held , the earth could take all the punishment man could hand out , and come back smiling . None of those three conditions holds true any longer . As to human population , there are now four billion of us . Within 35 years , at present growth-rates , there will be eight billion of us . Those numbers may have more significance if we reflect that man 's population did not reach one billion until the year 1830 A.D. ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are alive today . The present birth rate means that 200,000 human beings are brought forth to compete for the Earth 's finite resources every day . While it would seem impossible not to notice two new arrivals on the planet every second , this phenomenon is virtually ignored world-wide . Population , the world 's most pressing problem , is its forgotten crisis . The second condition for preserving the ecosystem 's resilience is that man 's wastes be relatively simple in composition . But man 's products are now incredibly varied and strange . About two million chemical substances are known , and hundreds more are developed each year . We have created synthetic compounds which nature can not break down , and we pour thousands of troublesome chemicals into our skies , our water , and our soils with little understanding of their long-term effects . Currently , the Council on Environmental Quality is concerned about chloroflurocarbons ? a group of supposedly inert gases . Americans are most familiar with them under the trademark Freon . A number of highly qualified chemists and other scientists fear that Freon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be drifting up into the stratosphere , erasing the ozone shield that circles the globe , and exposing us to dangerous levels of solar radiation . At the momemt , this proposition is theoretical ; that is , the possibility of a reaction between  | Freon and ozone in the stratosphere makes chemical sense , but we can not be sure of the extent of such a reaction until we more adequately sample the stratosphere . We do know , however , that the production of aerosols using Freon has increased almost exponentially since their introduction in the early 1950 's . In 1954 , according to one estimate , 188 million cans were produced in the United States ; by 1974 , U.S. production had jumped above three billion cans ? equivalent to 14 for every American citizen . Even this total , staggering as it is , represents only about half of world production . Finally , the impact of our works and our tools has become massive . Modern technology so multiplies the . effort of one man that he can perform more work ? and do more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could a century ago . At the end of World War II , the largest tankers had a capacity of 18,000 deadweight tons ; today , oil tankers of 250,000-ton capacity are commonplace , and several tankers of 540,000-ton capacity are under construction . The loss of just one of these tankers , fully loaded , would thus dump as much oil into the sea as 30 of the largest tankers operating in 1945 . SUPERTANKER SPILLS In January , 1975 , we had four supertanker spills . According to current projections , the amount of oil moving around the world will double every ten years . By the year 2000 , therefore , we will have six times as much traffic . We must expect that tanker accidents , groundings and spills will increase . It is true that the oceans and estuaries can reduce much of the oil to harmless materials ? but this takes time , and huge , sudden discharges far exceed the environment 's ability to repair itself . What will happen to that self-repairing capacity if the January , 1975 , rate of spill were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have 24 spills in a month instead of four ? Through spills and normal refinery operations , we are pouring more than a million metric tons of petroleum into our oceans , rivers and estuaries annually . Some of the costs ? bird-kills and disfigured beaches ? are known to us because they are so obvious . We have good reason to suspect others . For example , potentially irreversible damage to food-webs that have sustained the seas for eons ? but we can not easily measure them . These three factors ? population growth , the complexity of man 's products , and the massive impact of man 's tools ? represent significant and rapid change in man 's ability to injure the earth . Taken together , they not only add to each other 's impact , but multiply it into unprecedented , hammer blows at the earth 's resilience . The present birth rate means that 200,000 human beings are brought forth to compete for the Earth 's finite resources every day ... Population , the world 's most pressing problem , is its forgotten crisis .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new development in man 's long dependence on the earth , I think oft-heard charges of environmental extremism take on a new character . Who are the extremists ? Is it those who argue that economic and technological development can outstrip man 's ecological budget ? Or is it the advocates of unrestrained growth who seem to believe that there is no end to the largess of nature ? In the early 1950 's , an American geologist , King Hubert , warned that oil production in this country would peak by 1970 . Had we heeded his warning , this nation would have begun trimming back its consumption of oil then . But we did not ; like a fool who inherits a large but nonetheless finite fortune , we went on spending our bank deposit of oil as if there was no end to it and , consequently , became indentured to the economic servitude of oil . I hope the U.S. will learn something from this experience , for resourcedepletion of other kinds has been proceeding at a spendthrift rate : ? Water consumption in the U.S. doubled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Survey , it will double again by the year 2000 ? not because of population-growth , but to meet new demand from the minerals and manufacturing industries . ? During the entire decade from 1960 to 1970 , 2,000 acres of rural land were converted to urban use in the United States every day . This is land permanently removed from the possibility of agricultural production ? in a world that is short of food , and in a nation that depends on crop-sales overseas to maintain a balance of trade . ? In 1950 , the U.S. consumed two billion tons of new materials and minerals , or about 26,000 pounds per citizen ; by 1972 , consumption was up more than 50 percent , to 40,000 pounds per capita . ? The world harvest of finfish , reflecting more nations fishing , more boats , and more efficient fishing technology , jumped from 21 million tons in 1950 to 64 million tons in 1970 . Since then it has declined . By 1973 , the annual catch had dropped to 59 million tons , reversing a 25-year trend of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will learn , in time , that the resources of the earth are finite , and that environmental degradation respects no national boundaries . It is this point of view , this essential dependence of man on a common environment , that we must strive to convey , for the fact is that we do have the power to destroy the earth . If man recognizes this dependence , however , he can arrest his accelerating degradation of the planet and set about restoring its capacity to support future generations . MUST GO BEYOND ESTHETICS While we set about repairing past damage , we must awaken in this country an ecological conscience that will prevent new damage ? for it was an ignorance of ecological principles that encouraged us in our environmentally harmful ways . Though it was a concern for esthetics ? for the simple beauty of our incredibly  | varied nation ? that originally motivated widespread popular support for environmental protection during the last five years , now we must go beyond esthetics to ecology . Sentiment is not enough ; now we must buttress our environmental concerns with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet its principles were intuitively grasped by some people long before that ? among them , the first residents of our nation . For example , here are some thoughts from one of our early residents which were published in a Grange magazine last year . They are taken from a letter written to President Franklin Pierce in 1855 by a Chief of the Duwamish Indians named Sealth . From his name we derive Seattle , the city built on the land his tribe inherited . In the 120 years since Chief Sealth wrote these words , his letter has been transformed into disturbing prophecy : " We know that the white man does not understand our ways . One portion of the land is the same to him as the next , for he is a stranger who comes in the night and takes from the land whatever he needs . " The earth is not his brother , but his enemy , and when he has conquered it , he moves on . He leaves his fathers ' graves , and his children 's birthright is forgotten . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redman . But perhaps it is because the redman is a savage and does not understand . " There is no quiet place in the white man 's cities . No place to hear the leaves of spring or the rustle of insects ' wings . But perhaps because I am a savage and do not understand , the clatter only seems to insult the ears . " The Indian prefers the soft sound of the wind darting over the face of the pond , and the smell of the wind itself cleansed by a mid-day rain , or scented with a pinon pine . The air is precious to the redman . For all things share the same breath ? the beasts , the trees , the man . The white man does not seem to notice the air he breathes . Like a man dying for many days , he is numb to the stench . " What is man without the beasts ? If all the beasts were gone , man would die from great loneliness of spirit , for whatever happens to the beasts also happens to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth befalls the sons of the earth . " It matters little where we pass the rest of our days ; they are not many . A few more hours , a few more winters , and none of the children of the great tribes that once lived on this earth , or that roamed in small bands in the woods , will be left to mourn the graves of a people once as powerful and hopeful as yours . " The whites , too , shall pass ? perhaps sooner than other tribes . Continue to contaminate your bed , and you will one night suffocate in your own waste . " When the buffalo are all slaughtered , the wild horses all tamed , the secret corners of the forest heavy with the scent of many men , and the view of the ripe hills blotted by talking wires , where is the thicket ? Gone . Where is the eagle ? Gone . And what is it to say goodby to the swift and the hunt , the end of living and the beginning of survival ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the white man  | The words economics and ecology stem from the same Greek root : oikos , meaning house . Economics is the management of the house . Ecology is the study of the house . The house is the earth . dreams , what hopes he describes to his children on the long winter nights , what visions he burns into their minds , so they will wish for tomorrow . But we are savages . The white man 's dreams are hidden from us . Working in a most unscientific way , with nothing but intuition and love of the land to guide him , Chief Sealth wrote an environmental impact statement which ? 120 years ago ? embodied the basic ecological insight : " All things are connected . Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth . " The words economics and ecology stem from the same greek root : oikos , meaning house . Economics is the management of the house . Ecology is the study of the house . The house is the earth . It is our turn now to discover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as this American who called himself a savage .  | ENERGY POLICIES TO PROTECT THE CONSUMER Ralph Nader Here is my list of energy policies which would protect the American consumer as well as be in the national interest . 1 . There should be a break-up of the monopoly structure of the energy industry to enhance competition . If a company produces coal , that 's all it should produce . It should not produce coal , oil , uranium and geothermal energy . And no company should control production , refining , transportation and retail istribution. 2 . There should also be mandatory conservation measures . I sometimes wonder how a nation such as ours can be taken seriously in talking about an energy crisis of insufficient supply when it is engaged not just in waste but in gluttony . Look at the World Trade Center , which is designed to maximize sales of ( ' onEdison . Look at the design of our architecture ? uninsulated , poor heat retention , overventilated , overlit , overheated . Look at our automobiles . We 're now finally turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13.5 miles per gallon average coming out of Detroit . Can you imagine , it 's now alledgedly 14.5 miles per gallon ? ! If we had an average per vehicle mile consumption efficiency of 26 or 28 miles per gallon in this country , we would save about 15 per cent of our present petroleum consumption , reduce pollution , enhance consumer welfare , and fight inflation . Some industry representatives charge that if we reduce oil consumption by 1.4 or 1.5 million barrels a day and curtail imports , this will lead to unemployment and a reduction in the GNP . They are in fact saying that if we conserve oil domestically we 're going to have these kinds of dislocations . This is nonsense . To say that we have to continue to waste to keep our GNP and employment levels up is to confess a suicidal economic course . The fact is , of course , if we had a million-and-a-half less barrels of oil to consume per day , we 'd find ways to save and we 'd have a more efficient and productive economy as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal policies . We can not possibly leave the pricing of energy in this country to the market system when there are private monopolies . Why does the price of coal or natural gas suddenly rise to the equivalent of the price of imported oil in the absence of cost increases ? Monopoly power is the answer . We must maintain the 20-year-long price regulation over interstate natural gas . We must not take the controls off for domestic old oil . We must not allow the entire domestic energy reserves which now give us 85 per cent of our energy , footnote Reprinted with permission from Catalyst , Vol. 5 , No. 1 , 1975.  | to increase to OPEC levels . Because , if there are financial strains on the economy already , what would we expect from another $20 billion dollars a year of higher energy prices ? 4 . The states have a role to play , and a very important role . They should be very cautious about accelerating off-shore oil and gas leasing . Even the oil industry admits they have n't got the equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And why should it be leased in such large amounts , so precipitously , with so little public participation , and in such a way as to concentrate the leasing power in the hands of the giant oil companies instead of the independent producers ? Perhaps , more basically , these lands belong to the people in this country . Most of the new oil and gas belong to the people because these resources are found and are going to be found on Federal lands . I think we should seriously consider developing an alternative supplier of last resort in terms of Federal command of these oil and gas resources found on our land , rather than engage in a massive giveaway which will further secure the monopoly of potential supply and drive prices still higher , or permit the companies to engage in contrived shortages . The states have an important role to play in energy efficiency labeling of appliances , autos , heating and cooling systems , if the Federal Government does n't move on this . The states have a role to play in terms of energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public works projects , electric power plants . Electric power plants are the biggest wasters of all . You 'd think their prime purpose was to heat the heavens the way they waste their heat . The states and municipalities can also encourage car pooling and reduce auto use , through municipal surcharge on downtown parking . 5 . We should also have low cost and accessible financing for insulation and weather proofing improvements in existing houses and apartment buildings . The states can lobby the Federal Government to do that . There 's not enough of that kind of lobbying . 6 . The states can also start models of alternative energy resources . In the ' 60s , when New York State started an experimental research program to develop a safe auto , that provoked the Federal Government to develop an experimental car program . They did it in New York State by a $34 million budget from the State Legislature , which was contracted to a Long Island aerospace company . Why ca n't the states begin experimenting with wind power and other sources of power that permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think it 's important to institutionalize the consumer perspective in Washington with some sort of force . We need a consumer advocacy agency ? with engineers , economists , lawyers , accountants , health specialists ? to challenge , to provoke , to petition government agencies which are deciding energy policy . This consumer agency must make government agencies get the facts out , stop letting the oil industry collect information for them , and continually analyze energy policy in terms of consumer interests . What such a consumer agency does for or to the consumer and future consumer ? in terms of consumer dollar value , health ,  | safety , and capital investment ? would depend on its having the power to take government agencies to court . Such a bill passed the House by a margin of 3 to 1 in April 1974 . It was blocked and broken by one vote because of a filibuster in the Senate in September 1974 . There 's still another chance to get this structural change in the countervailing forces in Washington , passed . It 's a symptom , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animosity toward consumer rights that there has not been a word out of the White House or from President Ford favorable to this bill even though he voted for a similar measure in 1971 , in the House of Representatives . ( Support in Congress for the bill has been by large majorities , and in 1975 will be sufficient to stop a filibuster in the Senate . ) The Litmus paper test of an energy policy is how many times it is discussed , deliberated , and decided in terms of consumer well-being , present and future .  | WATER POLLUTION Tom Cofield While American statesmen and military leaders strive to protect the nation from nuclear attack , an equally sinister enemy from within threatens our safety and future and that of unborn generations . That enemy is water pollution . Unchecked , its destructive potential is no less lethal , no less final than radioactive fallout . Water pollution does not trumpet its threat as stridently as Russia 's missile rattling , or declare itself with the chilling inevitability of published post-blast survival predictions . The enemy , thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ignore impending disaster until , like Pearl Harbor , it spits in our faces . Water pollution is an orphaned subject . It inspires no anger , no patriotic zeal and is usually an unacceptable topic of conversation at social functions . To the bulk of the American public it is nonexistent . Except for individuals who work with it daily , the nation would rather not discuss it . What can we do to defeat once and for all this cowardly enemy prone to sneak attack ? We need to get angry immediately so we can fight back while something is still left to fight for ? and with . Few Americans really understand and believe how important clean water is to our daily lives . The attitude expressed by one well-educated person following a lecture on water pollution was : " Bosh ! America out of water , indeed . We 'll never use all the water we have . There are thousands of miles of it , millions of acres . We are not children to be so easily fooled . " Regardless of what one thinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrated is far more ? dangerously far more ? typical than rare . Instead of having an abundance of unpolluted water , we are perilously close to having none at all . And in many sections of the country the problem is aggravated by natural arid conditions . It ca n't happen here ? It already has happened . The future has become the present for many sections of the country plagued by water shortages . The continental United States is drained by 18 major basins . Most of the water for some 200 million people and a $490 billion industrial empire comes Few Americans really understand and believe how important clean water is to our daily lives . footnote Reprinted from Sports Afield , May 1969 , with permission from author and publisher .  | om the rivers , lakes and streams in those basins . And , all wastes not burned , buried or released to the atmosphere , go back into them . No major river basin is local to one state and five of them extend beyond international borders . The issues at stake thereby form a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adds unimaginable complications to solving the problems . In 1900 , the nation 's daily water use was a mere 40 billion gallons , 15 billion of which went to industry , 22 billion to irrigation and only 3 billion to municipal uses . By 1960 , the daily use of water had risen to 323 billion gallons , of which industry used 160 billion , irrigation used 141 billion and municipalities took 22 billion . In only 60 years , industrial use of water took up nearly half the nation 's daily consumption . The total maximum supply of fresh water in the United States today is 600 billion gallons per day , and that is unevenly distributed . According to estimates of the federal government , we will be using 597 billion gallons per day by 1980 , leaving a mere three billion gallons of water per day to stand between America's. strength as a nation , the welfare and standard of living among its people , its industrial empire , its agricultural complex ? and a critical shortage of vitally necessary water . Those estimates unhappily are predicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that desalination of sea water will help regardless of cost . By 1980 , industry will be using fully two-thirds of the total water supply ? 394 billion gallons per day ? and will be crying for more . If we are to maintain the high quality of food for this country and those starving nations we are feeding abroad , the 1980 's will require 166 billion gallons per day for irrigation purposes . Municipal needs by then will have risen to 37 billion gallons with nothing but more of the same increases in sight . Of that staggering daily usage of water , only an insignificant percentage will he fit for any secondary use , unless national leadership gets its head out of the sand and faces facts . To do otherwise will be to court disaster of a kind this country has never been asked to suffer ? a critical shortage of nearly everything needed to support life as we know it . With only three billion gallons of water per day as a hopeful buffer against real suffering ? and that unequally divided across the country ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the deeply hidden water-pollution history of the United States ? safely entombed in governmental archives at city , state and federal levels where it will be least likely to suffer the cold light of public revelation ? is enough to make the most disinterested persons gasp with astonishment as they learn that while they slept , ate and worked in everyday peace of mind , forces of ignorance , selfishness and apathy were destroying the environment . The simple facts reveal that abysmal ignorance , greed and political profiteering were responsible for blocking all the attempts of farsighted men to stem the rise of water pollution . Pollution-abatement efforts , plugging the leak after the bucket is empty , have suffered a parallel fate ... .                     