@@774323

txt  | The establishment of the ORRRC grew from increasing public interest in and use of outdoor recreation resources . The act 's preamble explains the purpose of the Commission : " In order to preserve , develop , and assure accessibility to all American people of present and future generations such quality and quantity of outdoor recreation resources as will be necessary and desirable for individual enjoyment , and to assure the spiritual and cultural and physical benefits that such outdoor recreation provides . " The Commission made a nationwide inventory and evaluation of outdoor recreation directed toward providing answers to the recreation wants and needs and the resources available to meet those needs for the American public in 1976 and 2000 . Also , it raised questions concerning the policies and programs of various governmental agencies and offered recommendations to assure citizens that their future in outdoor recreation interests will be adequately and efficiently met . The ORRRC reports had a tremendous effect upon legislative matters and provided the impetus for more federal-state cooperation in the planning and developing of recreation and park resources . Without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducted by the federal government on leisure behaviors . The Commission was terminated in 1962 with the filing of its final report . Bureau of Outdoor Recreation . Growing out of the recommendations made by the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission , the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation was established in the Department of the Interior in 1963 as an agency to spearhead the overall development of outdoor recreation resources . It serves as a focal point for coordination of recreation policy , planning , programs , or management , as they relate to the more than twenty federal agencies with services involving some aspect of outdoor recreation . The Bureau assists the Secretary of the Interior in carrying out his federal outdoor recreation coordination responsibilities , sponsors and conducts recreation research , conducts recreation resource surveys , develops a nationwide recreation plan , disseminates outdoor recreation information , and implements federal outdoor recreation policies . There is an Outdoor Recreation Advisory Council made up of the heads of federal departments and agencies principally concerned with outdoor recreation . The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation administers the Land and Water Conservation Fund , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through them to political subdivisions and other units of states , for planning , acquisition , and development of public outdoor recreation areas and facilities . This program is financed by ( 1 ) proceeds from entrance , admission , or user fees and charges at federal recreation areas ;  | ( 2 ) receipts from the sale of surplus federal real property through the General Services Administration ; ( 3 ) taxes from the sale of motorboat fuels . In order for states to qualify for Land and Water Conservation Fund monies , each state had to prepare an outdoor recreation plan . Regional offices were established to assist states in this endeavor . Hundreds of municipal park and recreation systems have benefited from the BOR grants and have added significantly to the outdoor recreation opportunities of their residents . To date , this remains as the single federal program that has had the most direct bearing on local recreation planning , development , and thinking . It is a significant departure from the traditional federal approach to recreation services and it remains to be seen if other programs will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The great dams of the United States , such as Hoover Dam , Grand Coulee Dam , and Bonneville Dam , are outstanding resources for many kinds of recreation . They are of particular interest to the tourist , sportsman , and camper . Bureau of Reclamation dams and canal systems bring irrigation water to over eight million acres in seventeen western states . The Bureau encourages fishing , boating , camping , picnicking , swimming , hiking , riding , travel , and other activities in the 4.5 million acres of land and 1.5 million acres of water under its management . The Bureau works jointly with the National Park Service and state bodies in planning and developing outdoor recreation facilities . State or local governmental organizations may administer and develop recreation resources at the Bureau 's reservoir areas , which are receiving increased attention . Extensive studies for recreation land and water use are undertaken . Fish and Wildlife Service . The purpose of the Fish and Wildlife Service is to protect and increase fish and wildlife resources , to educate the public with respect to these resources , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Sports Fisheries and Wildlife , a part of the Fish and Wildlife Service , administers National Wildlife Refuges and National Fish Hatcheries in most of the fifty states . The refuges protect a variety of wild life , including migratory waterfowl , migratory birds , and big game . The fish hatcheries are devoted almost entirely to the preservation and development of freshwater game fish and salmon . The refuges make their greatest contribution to the nation 's recreation in the production and protection of wildlife . Migratory fowl supply the game for millions of hunters , just as fishermen benefit from the hatcheries . The refuges are also used for observing and photographing wildlife , fishing , boating , and picnicking . They arc visited by millions of people  | each year ( 17 million day visits in 1968 ) . Some recreation facilities are provided by the Bureau , while others are accomplished through concessionaires or agreements with local governmental or civic groups . Through this service , the federal government finances up to 75 percent of the total cost of state wildlife and fish projects . Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various congressional acts such as the Endangered Species Act of 1966 , which provides for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals and wildlife conservation practices . The Federal Aid in Fish and Wildlife Restoration programs give financial assistance to state fish and game departments for projects to restore , conserve , and manage fish and wildlife resources . The programs are supported by excise taxes on sporting arms , ammunition , and fishing tackle . Funds are distributed to states by prescribed formulae ; approvable activities include research , development , management , maintenance , and coordination . National Park Service . By administering the National Park System , the National Park Service plays a prominent role in serving the outdoor recreation interests of the nation . This system includes national parks , historical parks , national memorial parks , national battlefields , parks , and sites , national monuments , national cemeteries , national parkways , national recreation areas , national seashore recreation areas , and the National Capital Parks system . The operations of the National Park Service are administered through the central office , four regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including a superintendent of each area . Recreation facilities of the national parks are quite extensive . They include hiking trails , bridle paths and stables , museums , facilities for picnicking , camping , and outings . In these parks are also found tourist facilities , restaurants , hotels , information stations , cottages , and cabins . In certain areas there are opportunities for mountain climbing and other adventuresome outdoor sports . Opportunities for swimming , boating , and nature study are plentiful . During the summer season , naturalists conduct tours and automobile caravans , take visitors on nature hikes , and present illustrated lectures and demonstrations . Other functions of the National Park Service include : 1 . Interpreting the national resources and historical implications to the public . 2 . Cooperating with other federal agencies , such as the Fish and Wildlife Service and Forest Service , in developing outdoor recreation facilities . 3 . Managing reservoir recreation areas . 4 . Surveying historic and archeological sites .  | 5 . Studying public park , parkway , and recreation area programs , park problems , charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawings for the Bureau of Reclamation . 7 . Consulting with the states in the development of state parks . The National Park Service has a State Assistance Program under which technical and advisory assistance may be furnished to state and local governments . This technical and advisory assistance is generally on a programmed and reimbursable basis on such matters as park agency organization , administration , planning , and the operation and maintenance of park systems or units , personnel training , historical and archeological programs and general development planning . Other specific areas of assistance are design , facilities , land acquisition , standards and zoning . 8 . Investigating federal surplus properties requested for park use . Although the Service 's two major legislative authorizations are in the 1916 Act establishing the National Park Service , and the 1936 Park , Parkway , and Recreation-Area Study Act , various other acts and programs have influenced their effort . Among them are die Mission 66 plan and the Historic Preservation Act . Conceived in 1956 , " Mission 66 " was a response to the increased use of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were 50 million visitors to these areas ; in 1970 that number had almost quadrupled . Without Mission 66 to expand the camping facilities , the visitor centers , the access roads , etc. , it is highly doubtful the National Park Service would have been able to respond to the increased outdoor recreation pressures , nor would the American public have enjoyed so much of its natural heritage : The Historic Preservation Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to expand and maintain a national registry of districts , sites , buildings , structures and objects significant in American history , architecture , archaeology and culture ; to grant 50 percent matching funds to states ( based on need ) for preparing comprehensive statewide historic surveys and plans , and for the acquisition , preservation ( i.e. , protection , rehabilitation , restoration and reconstruction ) and development of such properties by state and local governments . Each statewide historic plan must be coordinated with the state 's outdoor recreation plan ( prepared in accordance with the Land and Water Conservation Fund program ) . The respective state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of continued maintenance , repair and administration of approved projects . In order for an area to be designated as a national park , it must possess certain unique ecological or geological features that suggest the need for conservation and preservation . National parks are established  | by the Congress ; national recreation areas are designated by the Department of the Interior . With the expanding demand for recreation areas , the National Park Service has increased the number of recreation areas within its system . This policy has come under attack by such conservationists groups as the Conservation Foundation , which in 1973 , at the At the same time these demands are being heard , the Park Service is to return to its traditional role of administrator and preserver of our unique natural areas . Other groups have asked that the National Park Service close certain sections of our national parks to motorized vehicles and restrict the number and type of camping units permitted in the park . At the same time these demands are being heard , the park service is being beseiged to modernize its camping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lighted areas to reduce vandalism and related crimes . During peak periods of activity , our national parks exhibit most of the characteristics of urban America , including the concern for convenience and security . The role of the national parks will continue to be debated in the coming decade as conservationists and manufacturers of recreation equipment intensify their concern for " the right of use . " National Park Trust Fund Board . This Board is authorized to accept and administer gifts of personal property for the benefit of the National Park Service , its activities , or service . Gifts which entail expenditures not met from the gift may not be accepted without the consent of Congress . Department of Transportation Bureau of Public Roads . The Public Roads Administration comes into the recreation picture because much of the travel on the public roads is for recreation purposes . This Bureau works not only with the Forest Service and the National Park Service in constructing roads into forests and parks , but also with state highway departments in developing major and secondary roads which serve recreationally motivated traffic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and camps , to winter sports areas and to golf courses as well as other recreation centers , depends upon an adequate , safe , network of highways . Roadside parks , off-road parking facilities , turnouts for scenic , historic and rest points , foothpaths from roadways , and roadside erosion planting are all a part of such service . The several Federal-Air Highway Acts are the authority for the Bureau 's program . Under Title III of P. L. 89-285 , The Ilighway Beautification Act of 1965 , the Secretary may approve as a part of the construction of federalaid highways the cost of landscape and roadside development , including  | acquisition and development of publicly owned and controlled rest and recreation areas and sanitary and other facilities reasonably necessary to accommodate the traveling public . These are funded up to 100 percent . The selection of individual sites acquired for the restoration , preservation and enhancement of scenic beauty adjacent to the highways continues to be the prerogative of the state highway departments . OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES AND PROGRAMS The President 's Council on Recreation and Natural Beauty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problems of restoring and maintaining the quality of the environment . Recreation has a recognized role in this concern . The work of this Council includes the study of ways in which federal property can be used to increase outdoor recreation services , regional recreation planning to help meet the increasing visitor pressures at recreation attractions , and scenic roads and parkways . President 's Council on Physical Fitness . Following the recommendation of the Conference on Fitness of American Youth , the President 's Council on Physical Fitness was established by Executive Order 10673 , June 18 , 1956 , to stimulate the advance of fitness . The Council consists of the Secretaries of the departments of the Interior , Defense , Agriculture , Commerce , Labor , and Health , Education and Welfare , and the administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency . The Secretary of the Interior serves as chairman . The President 's Citizens Advisory Committee on the Fitness of American Youth advises the Council . The Council attempts to work with existing agencies and organizations ? official , voluntary , and private ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially with regard to physical fitness implications . The Council 's staff of four full-time professionals provides consultative assistance in the areas of programming , public relations and research , prepares publications and visual aids , conducts advertising campaigns , and carries out other services . Tennessee Valley Authority . As a by-product of its major purpose ? producing electrical power ? the Tennessee Valley Authority exerts a strong influence on the development of recreation resources in that region . TVA develops recreation facilities on its shorelands and reservoirs . These facilities are operated as concessions at twelve of the major dams . Among the facilities are more than fifty boat docks , fishing camps , and small resort sites , better than two dozen group camps , and over a thousand lots for cottages , which are either leased or sold . In these areas , the Fish and Wildlife Service maintains more than 100,000 acres of game refuges.  | TVA through its recreation resource development program encourages recreation development by making land available to other federal agencies , state and local agencies , private organizations , and individuals through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Reservoir lands with identified recreation potential are made available through transfer or lease to state and local agencies for park , recreation and other purposes . TVA has also made lands surplus to its needs available to private organizations for related purposes such as club sites or group camps , through sale at public auction . Since its creation in 1933 , over 200,000 acres have been transferred to various governmental authorities for recreation use . The services and assistance provided by TVA are primarily oriented to the Tennessee Valley region . As a part of its total program for economic development in the Tennessee Valley , TVA actively encourages utilization of surrounding shorelines . It conducts studies and demonstrations in the use of land and waters in the region for recreation purposes and provides technical assistance toward achieving optimum use and development of these resources . The Land Between the Lakes recreation area in western Kentucky and Tennessee is such a project . Veterans Administration . The Veterans Administration , through its Recreation Section in the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Service , operates a program at each VA hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entertainment , radio , motion pictures , social recreation , arts , crafts , special events , hospitality services , and hobbies . The purpose of the recreation program in Veterans Administration hospitals is to provide , as an integral phase of the total medical program , a comprehensive , well-balanced , and professionally executed range of recreation activities to meet the needs , interests , and capabilities of all patients . All activities offered by the recreation program require medical approval . The recreation program is planned to assist the doctor in getting his patients well and to make life as satisfying and meaningful as possible for those patients who must remain in the hospital for long periods of time . The diversified activities which constitute the program are designed to accomplish the following objectives : 1 . Assist in facilitating patients ' adjustment to hospital life and medical treatment . 2 . Provide doctors with opportunities to observe patient behavior and response to activity . 3 . Assist in orienting patients in their physical limitations and potentialities. 1 . Contribute to the development and maintenance of normal physical condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 . Develop interests and skills in so-called " carryover " activities ; that is , activities in which patients may participate safely and beneficially during their stay in the hospital as well as after their discharge from the hospital . 6 . Contribute to the total social and psychological readjustment of patients ? In order to develop and maintain a recreation program at each hospital and center , the positions of recreation director , assistant recreation director , recreation technician , sports technician , music technician , radio technician , projectionist , and similar positions have been authorized . Employee Recreation . The federal government and its agencies employ hundreds of thousands of people . Consequently , a number of federal agencies and departments conduct recreation programs for their own employees as part of their personnel services . In many ways , these recreation programs are not unlike the programs conducted in private industry for employees and their families . The scope of these federal employee recreation services varies with the degree of recreation opportunities available in the community , the location of the federal work , and the amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants in isolated spots of the nation , has had to help build entirely new communities and include recreation along with schools , hospitals , sanitary facilities , and the like . Practically all of the major departments of government provide recreation opportunities of some kind for their employees . Numerous federal programs in addition to those previously described have had impact upon the organized recreation system . For example , many of the manpower projects of the Office of Education and Labor Department have enabled recreation departments to employ disadvantaged youth , thereby providing them with income as well as expanding the resources of the department in the provision and maintenance of recreation facilities and programs . The Office of the President has established a variety of commissions and advisory bodies to assist in the promotion and expansion of various beautification and environmental quality programs . The efforts of the Rehabilitation Services Administration ( formerly the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation ) in establishing a scholarship program to prepare recreation specialists to work with the disadvantaged and handicapped populations in the 1960s stimulated the development of community therapeutic recreation programs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actively influencing the organized recreation-parks system . The role of the federal government in recreation is extensive . Unmet Need . At present the federal recreation involvement in organized recreation is fourfold : to provide technical assistance to other  | governmental units , private industry , and commercial recreation enterprises ; to provide recreation experiences through the development and management of recreation areas and facilities , including air and water spaces ; to offer financial assistance to state and local governments by providing grants-in-aid for planning , acquisition , and development of recreation areas and facilities ; and to enact and enforce regulatory programs to insure the continuation of our natural resources , including both flora and fauna , with particular attention being given to endangered species . In addition to these functions , it is felt by some recreation authorities that a federal agency , primarily concerned with recreation and leisure expressions , should be established . Despite all the programs and services that currently exist , there is no single agency uniquely concerned with recreation . Possibly a cabinet position should be established ; legislation has been introduced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past twenty years calling for the establishment of a federal recreation service . Others argue that the present system of many federal agencies involved in recreation is ideal . It guarantees a variety of opinions and support , although the problems of duplication and overlap are acknowledged . With the growing concern for the preservation of our natural resources and the acceptance of leisure as a major economic and social force , the issue of the appropriateness of a federal recreation service will increase in importance . Should such a service develop , it should emphasize technical assistance , planning , coordination , research , and information dissemination . STATE GOVERNMENTS AND RECREATION AND PARKS State government is a foundation stone of the American way of life . It functions as a vital factor in the social well-being of all the people . Stateways along with folkways tell the story of citizenship in social correlations , social control , and social services . The voice of the people through state-delegated authority comprises the federal pattern . Thus , from the local community on the one hand and from the federal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Granting authority to the local unit and building federal responsibility , the state stands as a bulwark to help balance the rights and responsibilities of individuals and groups . It is true that the federal government is larger with its political sovereignty in the entire people , but in many respects the work of the state conies closer to the individual 's family , home , and business , including the establishment and control of local government .  | Development The most significant development of state government in recent years has been the multiplication of public services . The upsurge of these social services can be attributed to no one cause , but rather to the composite effects of modern civilization . The state is busily engaged in promoting the public well-being . The promotion of education , the protection of health , the acceptance of responsibilities for the socially pathologic through modern social work techniques , the improvement of living and working conditions , the expansion of communication and transportation are a concern of the modern state . The states are beginning to accept their responsibility with regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early philosophy of government , responsibility for education and health was left largely to the individual and to voluntary philanthropic organizations . Today , government at every level recognizes its job in the fields of health , education , and welfare . Recreation and parks are following the same pattern of development as older public services , and many outstanding leaders recognize these services as a major responsibility of state government . The states have multiplied their recreation resources and services in many ways and administer them in a variety of methods and jurisdictions . Some state agencies are responsible for parks , forests , wayside picnic areas , winter sports facilities , game preserves , monuments , institutions , museums , and waterways . Some provide consultative recreation assistance to their political subdivisions , and others furnish services ranging from promoting the tourist trade to preparing young men and women for careers in recreation and related fields . In addition to the existence of recreation services and facilities made available by state agencies , other significant developments in the states show the increasing trend toward state participation in rendering advisory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among these are the following : 1 . Establishment of state recreation , or state recreation and park commissions , boards , departments and divisions . 2 . Examination and analysis of recreation resources and needs on a statewide basis through studies and surveys . 3 . Employment of recreation and park personnel in state departments and agencies whose responsibilities are broader than recreation , such as Youth Commissions , ' State Park Departments , Departments of Public Instruction , and Departments of Natural Resources . 9 . Era trnent of laws making available broader perrnissive legislation to  | enable communities to mobilize their resources for recreation services ? commonly referred to as state recreation enabling acts . 5 . Appropriation of public funds not only for administering state recreation services and acquiring , developing , and operating state-owned recreation areas and facilities but also for giving supplementary financial assistance to communities . 6 . Advertisement and promotion of recreation resources and attractions by state tourist bureaus and development commissions . 7 . Acceptance of responsibility by state universities toward helping communities establish , improve , and develop their recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel on a full-time or part-time basis to assist in recreation in rural areas through agricultural extension services . 9 . Acquisition , development , and increasing use of land and water resources for conservation and outdoor recreation purposes . These state recreation developments can be summed up in four major categories : 1 . The states are enacting better and broader permissive legislation to enable the local governments to use and develop resources for recreation . 2 . State agencies to provide advisory and consultant recreation services for the political subdivisions are becoming an accomplished fact . 3 . The states are surveying their recreation potentials with an eye toward expanding recreation developments . 4 . State universities and colleges are assuming more responsibility for helping to improve recreation , especially through the enrichment of activities as the extension services . Traditional State Services . With the creation of the National Park Service in 1916 and the formulation of the National Conference on State Parks in 1921 , the legitimacy of state government in outdoor recreation was established . In fact , the White House convened a conference on outdoor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide outdoor recreation areas ? forests and parks ? and enacted laws and agencies to manage these resources . Divisions of tourism and recreation were soon to follow . In addition to their concern with outdoor recreation resources , state governments have offered a variety of cultural and social opportunities for their citizens . There are state symphony orchestras , state museitnrs , state zoos and botanical gardens , and recreation services in state hospitals and schools .  | Each state operates a network of parks and other outdoor recreation facilities and resources . Their total expenditure for capital expansion and operation approaches half a billion annually . In 1966 the voters of New York approved a $200-million bond issue for park and recreation development . In 1971 , the state of North Carolina appropriated $2 million for the creation of a state zoo . California recently acquired 300 acres for a new state park near Los Angeles , and Michigan has approved a $435-million bond program for recreation and water pollution control . Beyond the operation of the state park system , states have traditionally been responsive to local recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of state and enabling legislation . They have also served as protectors of wildlife and game through their departments of Sports Fisheries , Wildlife Management , etc . More recently , states have furthered their interests in recreation services through the establishment of recreation divisions and commissions . STATE RECREATION ADMINISTRATION Despite the traditional services which the older agencies of state government have been providing , which amount to a valuable contribution to beneficial use of leisure , great deficiencies remain . It can not be said that the states have fully developed even long-existing services , and it can not be assumed that if all the traditional services were developed to the limit , the total need would be met . Hundreds of communities are seeking help in appraising their physical and human resources , organizing their recreation and park systems , developing broad and attractive programs , finding funds , selecting and training leaders , and planning facilities and areas . They want to know how to interpret what they are doing in terms the layman can understand , how to project efficient and productive plans , and how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These communities are looking for standards which they can understand , apply , and use as a basis for demanding action . The Problem The problem is how and by whom state recreation services can be most satisfactorily provided . It is unlikely that a formula will be found which can be applied to all states . There are , however , tests to determine how state recreation services should be administered . The primary consideration is to provide the opportunity for every man , woman , and child to engage irr leisure pursuits that are most appealing and satisfying to  | them . Underlying this premise is the assumption that recreation experiences are indispensable to the lives of everyone and to the enhancement of community life . It is probably a mistake to assume that any agency which has a stake in recreation , or which contrbiutes to it , can ipso facto adequately and satisfactorily provide technical advisory services on total community rec-I-eation problems . Alternatives need to be evaluated in terms of the following considerations : I. Which possibility gives recreation the independence of action it needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Under what auspices can recreation best continue to grow as an important public service with the status and prestige its contribution to society demands ? 2 . Of the several alternatives , which is most likely to bring together all the departmental resources of the state and rally the interest of public and private agencies and commercial , industrial , institutional , religious , and civic groups ? 3 . What kind of administrative state machinery will allow unhampered flow of services to the communities through the many different types of local managing authorities ? 4 . How can the continuity of state recreation services best be preserved and strengthened ? It is common knowledge that some state departments are subject to major policy changes for a variety of reasons , sometimes political and sometimes functional . Recreation should be ready to face policy changes when they deal directly with recreation , but should not be exposed to arbitrary policy changes more directly concerned with other functions of state government . 5 . What instrument will best promote , stimulate , and coordinate recreation services without actually entering into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and coordination are not likely to exist side by side under the direct operation of the same administrative authority without arousing competition between major and minor political subdivisions. 6 . Which type of administration can best provide the soundest understanding of recreation by the electorate ? Under what sponsorship can the nature , place , and function of recreation be most easily comprehended ? Where can the recreation issues and claims be best judged on their own merits ? 7 . Most important , under whose jurisdiction will recreation services be assured steady and adequate financial support and sound , stabilired fiscal policy ? Where will recreation find full and sustained , rather than piecemeal administrative understanding , support , and encouragement ? The significance of recreation in contemporary society has en-  | hanced its political values . No longer are political candidates timid or frightened about mentioning recreation as a platform of need and progress . This is shown at every level of government and constantly growing in popularity year by year . It is not reasonable to suppose that state advisory recreation services can be efficiently divided among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , education , or law enforcement . If they are , the recreation function is likely to become everybody 's business and , consequently , nobody 's . Any state may make its own choice of whether the service is to be delegated to an existing agency or provided by a new one . If it is assigned to an existing agency , there should be the largest possible amount of independence of action for recreation , and the funds appropriated for recreation services should be protected against diversion to other purposes . State recreation trends are directed toward service to the total community , toward expediting the unhampered flow of recreation services to the communities , providing for permanency and continuity , and guaranteeing that recreation services will have well-grounded , stable fiscal support . North Carolina was the first state to establish an independent recreation service in 1946 . Within twelve months , both Vermont and California established similar commissions . Today , most states have at least one agency whose primary function is recreation , but with the trend toward the reorganization of state government , most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic resources , departments of recreation , parks and tourism , and departments of local affairs . The presence of independent state recreation commissions in the ' 50s and ' 60s helped stimulate state interest in organized recreation . Regional and state planning as well as the stimulation of local recreation services were enhanced through the efforts of these agencies . They influenced the legislative processes , provided both federal and local departments with needed data , and increased the public 's awareness of the recreation and parks field as a profession . Their efforts are continuing even though the pattern of independent commissions of the 1950s has been altered . The need for an independent state recreation service has been proven ; the question is now one of organizational structure . ( Note the organization charts of the North Carolina and California approaches to the provision of these services . ) State , Federal Relationships . During the summer of 1970 , the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation conducted ten public forums on nationwide outdoor recreation planning . 3 Some 600 individuals and organizations were asked to respond to such questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective of the federal , state , and local governments in providing recreation opportunity ? ( 2 ) What are the principal outdoor recreation planning and facility needs of the American people and what are the major problems hindering provision of adequate recreation opportunities ? ( 3 ) At each level of government , what specific criteria should be used to establish priorities among recreation proposals in the allocation of available public funds ? ( 4 ) What should be the role of the private sector at each of the several levels of service in providing outdoor recreation opportunities and how should these be coordinated ? ( 5 ) What types of federal assistance should be helpful to state and local governments and the private sector in improving their capabilities to provide outdoor recreation opportunities ? The response to these questions reflects the public 's concept of government 's role in recreation and its expectations for the future . Although the questions dealt basically with outdoor recreation facilities and opportunities , the implications for all recreation services is there . Several general themes did emerge . The primary one concerns the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and between government and the private sector so that recreation opportunities for citizens of all ages , economic situations , and physical conditions could be provided . Widespread support for these services came from both the conservation and natural resources groups and industries and from municipal officials and urban-oriented action groups . Another common issue was the need for increased federal funding and greater flexibility of funding . A number of state government officials favored consolidated or block grants , while some urban- and minority-group interests pleaded for more federal supervision of these programs . Several other concerns were expressed . Many considered leisure and environmental education to be a vital necessity and felt government should recognize recreation and leisure as fundamental to a better life . Representatives of the poor , the minority , and the elderly asked for policies and programs that would increase the availability of outdoor recreation opportunities for them . Recommendations for funding of the construction of indoor facilities and the transformation of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation into the Bureau of Recreation were expressed . Conservationist groups petitioned for the acquisition and protection of recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1962 the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission , as a part of its final report , suggested the role each level of government might play in providing outdoor recreation opportunities . States were encouraged to assume the pivotal role by assisting local governments in the expediting of their responsibility as well as by acquiring , developing , and maintaining facilities of a state or regional nature . No mentioning  | was made of grants-in-aid by states to local communities . The assumption seemed to be that this was the responsibility of the federal government . However , in recent years , consideration has been given by state governments to the establishment of state grants-in-aid to local communities and counties for the activation of recreation services , particularly in rural areas . The creation of regional planning commissions and councils of government might be the first step in the development of a recreationparks system with state funding much in the mold currently used for the support of public education and public welfare . The enactment of the General Revenue Sharing bill in October of 1972 ( The State and Local Fiscal Assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " new " money to be spent in a locally determined manner . During the first two years of revenue sharing ? federal tax money being returned to the local communities for use ? over four percent of the funds were spent on parks and recreation services . Regardless of the role the state and federal governments assume in recreation and parks , their involvement and acceptance as a necessary ingredient in the recreation system is established . The third element of public responsibility , that of the local government , is discussed in the next chapter . FOOTNOTES 1 . The final report of the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission was a 27-volume work published by the U.S. Government Printing Office . The summary volume is entitled , Outdoor Recreation for America ( Washington , D.C. : U.S. Government Printing Office , 1962 ) . 2 . Special Services Pamphlet 6-3 , Recreation Services , Veterans Administration ( Washington , D.C. : U.S. Government Printing Office , n.d. ) . 3 . Bureau of Outdoor Recreation , America Voices its Recreation Concerns ( Washington , D.C. : U.S. Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SERVICE THE COMMUNITY When we use the term community , there comes to mind a group of people living in the same area under the same local government and laws . These people are bound together by a common environment and are held together by psychological as well as economic , social , and cultural bonds . Because of their common interests , needs , and concerns , they create for their own use institutions of a governmental , educational , economic , recreation , and religious nature . The population identifies itself with the community , which may take the form of a town , city , or some other political subdivision of the state . Although public services , including recreation , are a responsibility of the state and federal governments , they are not a substitute for those which can be provided in and through local government and the community 's nongovernmental resources . As mentioned earlier , beyond the efforts of the individual to provide recreation opportunities for himself , the primary responsibility for community recreation belongs to the community itself . It is in the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are best determined and served . " There is a feeling among some political scientists and planners , how-  | ever , that , particularly in large metropolitan areas , the cities may have to look to the larger political subdivisions to provide , for example , open space for recreation . Apparently , the people of the city and suburbs often can not or will not act to meet the need . Such factors as class distinction and discrimination , entangled jurisdictional tax problems , and the inability to act " in time " push the responsibility on the larger unit of government ? state or federal . Yet when the community can and will act , the community recreation services it establishes often express themselves in patterns unlike those of other communities . This is as it should be if recreation is to serve the varied interests , needs , and conditions of those residing in a given locale . Indeed , the specific organizational pattern to which community recreation is shaped is less important than the assurance that the system is sound and appropriate . This means an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a continuing basis , to serve the recreation needs of the people in the community . It means the acceptance and identification of a recreation system which is interlocked with other social systems and affected by them . Also , it means the acceptance that recreation has impact on all other systems and is a factor in community organization and development . In this chapter attention is focused on the local community and its efforts to provide recreation services through governmental structures . The role of private organizations and the nongovernmental mechanisms used to coordinate community services will be discussed later . THE URBAN SETTING The growth of cities is the outcome of industrialization , of our once largely agricultural nation becoming industrial . Since the Industrial Revolution , people have migrated increasingly from the rural areas ( agricultural needs could be met with fewer workers ) to the cities for employment . Cities , however , were located and developed more for reasons of economic expediency ( e.g. , accessibility of raw materials , manpower , and markets for industry ) than for proper living conditions . At first , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For while they offered more jobs , sometimes at better pay , they were also noisy and dirty , and bred discrimination and social unrest . These centers , with their dense populations and congested living quarters , became the substitutes for the isolation and open space so common in rural areas . Gradually , however , after much hardship and disillusionment , some people became aware of the tragedies of city life and took steps to make their brick and mortal habitats more safe and attractive , while others abandoned it for  | the suburb and a new form of country living . Consequently , divisions of philosophy and thinking occurred and today we have many cities in revolution . The ghetto dwellers are seeking expression , the politicians are reassessing the political forces , and community and civil leaders are charting new legislative and organization patterns to assure the future growth of Urban America . Recreation is one of the factors under study , for the opportunity to engage in a wider variety of recreation has always been one of the attractions of the city . The rise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only have the cities grown far more rapidly than the rural areas , but there has also been a marked tendency for the population to be concentrated in a relatively small number of areas . By the first half of the twentieth century , 56 percent of the population in the United States was located in 168 standard metropolitan areas ( i.e. , counties or groups of counties surrounding cities of 50,000 , or more ) . According to the Census Bureau today , more than 70 percent of the citizens in the United States live in urban areas . ( The Bureau defines an urban area as one which has a population density of at least 1500 persons per square mile and is a densely settled city suburb , or a town with more than 2500 persons . ) Six out of ten Americans live in or near the 212 cities with more than 50,000 people . This is in contrast with the situation in 1880 when seven out of ten Americans lived not in the cities but on the farms and in small towns . Some social scientists predict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of the United States will be urban dwellers . With the growth of cities has come a great transformation in the living habits of society . The city has affected all phases of man 's life . The customs , moral codes , behavioral patterns , and cultural conditions of a people revolve around it . New communities , new groups , new ethnic relations , and a multitude of classes make of the city an intricate and complex unit of modern society . As society becomes more urbanized , its controls become more impersonal and group-centered . Its members become more dependent on each other and the social organizations it creates to meet its needs . It requires constant evaluation of its efforts and areas of concern , and as its members become more heterogeneous , its forms of service take on new dimensions and structures . Along with the problems of meeting health , safety , social welfare , and educational needs in the population centers , there is also the need for adequate recreation and open-space opportunities . There must be places where people can participate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be management and leadership . The operation and maintenance of these resources must be financed . Some of the recreation which the city dweller or suburbanite wants and needs can be provided by himself for himself and his family and friends . In other instances , coin-  | mercial recreation enterprises can satisfy his tastes . Many of his needs , however , must be met through community recreation provision , and a large share of these needs must be served through public recreation . The complex , tension-arousing patterns which the stress of work and overcrowding develop in population centers call for various recreation opportunities to help offset these threats to the inner stability of the urban dweller . Recreation of the right kind can provide not only the chance for sociability , but also for quiet contemplation , solitude , and relaxation . It can provide diversion from a routine and regimented existence , thereby releasing us , temporarily , from the burdens of frustration and worry . It can be a means of sparking our physical development in an environment which tends to keep our large muscles inactive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to the past , and give us a true sense of freedom . Parks , historical sites , recreation areas ? all are important to our general well-being and emotional health . It is interesting to note that in recent years a large number of city residents have sought to return to the more spacious , if not less complicated , living of the suburbs . For example , although the population of the United States grew from 151 million in 1950 to 185 million in 1961 , during that same period , the population in the great cities , such as Boston , New York , Cleveland , Chicago , and San Francisco , began to decrease . People moved to the suburbs ? the twilight zones between city and country ? until the concentric circles of residences which ring the cities began to touch one another . Consequently , in some places it is now difficult to tell what is part of one metropolitan area and what is part of another . The suburbs , conceived to be open-space areas with plant life and plenty of refreshing air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them have become extensions of the city ; the dream of an intelligently planned and developed community with shopping facilities and schools fell victim to urban sprawl . Suburbia was a natural setting for recreation and park services . Fortunately , some communities have maintained their quality and have provided " a pleasant place in which to live . " More recently , efforts have been made to develop instant cities ? new towns ? with stringent building codes , open space and an adherence to an optimum man/land ratio . The results of this effort have not been fully determined but there is increasing evidence that suburbia has not solved the problems of urbanization . In some instances , it has increased them . Often , those who live in the suburbs use the recreation facilities of the city yet contribute no taxes , are unable to exercise voting rights and assume little leadership in the support and direction of the municipality 's recreation and park service . These people may be the best educated , affluent and energetic members of the community , but because of their place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the city 's limits are asked  | to assume support of a service for which they are less prepared but desperately need . The result of this defection by the more affluent to suburbia is obvious and suggests a redefinition of the community and its area of legal jurisdiction . PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION OF A RECREATION AND PARK SERVICE Purpose of Administration If the recreation and parks system is a responsibility of government , it is first the responsibility of local government . Local government is closest to the people ; it is in the local community where recreation is most closely wedded to the interests and needs of the people . Local government , then , is faced with the problem of how to administer public recreation and park service . Gilbert Y. Steiner 's concept of local government is " as an agency which serves , regulates , protects , administers , democratizes , and employs , " although there may be differences in opinion as to the relative importance of these roles . ' Recreation and parks as a public service fits into a number of these roles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resources directed toward providing recreation opportunities for the people is what constitutes administration . Facilities and areas must be acquired , developed , maintained , and controlled . Recreation centers and services must be planned , promoted , operated , and managed . Personnel must be employed and supervised . Responsibility for establishing policies and regulations , as well as spending public funds and accounting for them , must be fixed . A managing authority , legally constituted , must be established . Variety in Public Administration of Recreation and Parks Local administration of a recreation and park service in one sense is shaped by permissive state laws . Reference is made to the state recreation laws , state park codes , and the like . Insofar as the state laws represent the desires of the people , it can be said that the local people themselves decide how recreation and other public services are to be administered . Unlike local public education in the United States , the administration of local public recreation has not held to a single pattern . I'tiblic  | school systems , with few exceptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so with local public recreation and park systems . In some places , local recreation and park services are administered as a separate function of government , each independent of the other . In other localities , public recreation and parks are administered jointly as one board , department , or district . Some communities administer recreation in conjunction with schools through local boards of education , school districts , and the like . Still other cities and towns administer the public recreation and park services in a variety of ways other than the three most extensively used that are mentioned above . Of the larger metropolitan cities , Washington , D.C. , is a fine example of the " recreation as a separate function " type , Minneapolis the " park " approach , and Milwaukee the " school-sponsored " effort . Some of the larger cities administer public recreation under more than one authority . Examples are Chicago , with its Park District and Board of Education , and Los Angeles , with its Recreation and Park Department and Board of Education . Some idea of both the diversity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be ascertained from the fol-lowing : figure The number of recreation and park departments has increased greatly since the end of World War II , and when scanned from a national point of view , with no focus on any particular section of the nation , it is apparent that there has been a clear trend in the administering of local park and recreation services under a single authority .  | This is best typified at the national level with the 1966 merger of the five major park and recreation societies and organizations into the National Recreation and Park Association . Although there are many methods for administering local public recreation and park services , the pattern of administration must be consistent with the provisions of the state laws . The choice of one type of administrative vehicle over another should be made in terms of local conditions . Often the resources of a department of government or the attitudes , interests , and capabilities of those associated with it are the determining factors in deciding which type of managing authority is likely to be the most effective . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the people responsible for its progress are uninterested , unwilling , or unable to make it work . Conversely , the " right " people can often make an inadequate administrative structure succeed . The pros ' and cons of the most extensively used types of managing authority are as follows : Authorities Which Administer Recreation or Parks as a Single Function ( Recreation or Park Commissions and Boards ) This type of managing authority has as its single function the provision of public recreation or park services . When recreation services are being provided as a single function , the emphasis is usually on programs and leadership rather than on the acquisition and maintenance of property . More often than not , the independent recreation board will attempt to use the resources of other local units of government , such as parks and schools . It is not unusual for school board and park board members to also be members of the local recreation board . In instances in which the park system is operated by a separate park department , the focus is generally on land acquisition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Landscaping and environmental protection receive much attention ? conservation is generally a major concern of independent park boards . Arguments for authorities which administer either of these services as a single function contend that under such circumstances recreation or parks receive the undivided attention they require , and that their progress is not likely to be hampered by the time and effort required for other functions . It is believed that the budget is less likely to he threatened and that the chances for its receiving more adequate financial support are improved . It ' is held that a managing authority which has representation from the several local departments whose resources arc  | needed is in a more favorable position to coordinate the total effort . Finally , it is argued that because the range of service and number of people served are great , recreation or parks affairs should be managed by an authority easy to identify when it comes to placing responsibility for the success or failure of the service . Arguments against this type of authority point out that it simply adds to the overhead and burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device whose function can be served by an existing one ; that it would seem better to strengthen existing resources rather than adding new ones . Independent recreation boards must depend upon the parks and the schools for their facilities or run the costly risk of duplicating them . Under no circumstances can the school and park resources be controlled by authorities other than their own . It is said that difficulties of jurisdiction , responsibility , and administration arise , and that interfunctional representation does not necessarily result in unity of action . An appropriate balance of facts would include the observation that the largest single advantage of the recreation or park board or commission is that it recognizes the importance of each as an essential function on a co-relative , if not a co-equal status ( in terms of financial support ) with such other vital public services as education and health . Recreation does require a wide variety of resources and the kind of administrative machinery which will coordinate , mobilize , and use them effectively . Neither recreation or parks should be relegated to a niche of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dependency and cooperation with other groups are always present with this type of authority , and its success is often determined by them . Board or Single Department Head If a community decides that it wants to establish a separate recreation or park service , it is then confronted with the problem of whether to place responsibility in ( a ) a board or commission or in a department head who , in turn , is responsible either to the mayor and council or ( b ) the city manager . City managers favor the single department head as against independent boards , while recreators and park administrators frequently take the opposite point of view . Those who are for boards say that for a function that serves the entire public , authority is better placed in several persons than in a single individual , that group thinking is preferable in policy making , and that policies so made are more acceptable to the public . They say that an unpaid board is in a better position to reflect public opinion , serve as a board of appeal , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained by members serving overlapping terms , and some also believe that a board tends to discourage bureaucratic tendencies . Those who stand against the board and for the single department head say that single administrators can act more quickly , more economically , and more efficiently than boards . They say , too , that the advantages of group thinking without any of the disadvantages of an official board can be secured through using an advisory committee . With one leader , responsibility is more readily placed , political interference is less , and there is more policy flexibility . Authorities Which Administer Recreation in Conjunction with Schools ( Boards of Education , School Districts ) In some states , school laws make it possible for boards of education to administer public recreation services . Large cities such as Newark , New Jersey , and Milwaukee , Wisconsin , and smaller cities such as Flint , Michigan , Pasadena , California , and Great Neck , New York , have provided public recreation opportunities successfully in this way for quite some time . Arguments for encouraging school authorities to administer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the responsibility of education alone , education must take the lead in advancing it . The point is accurately made that it is virtually impossible , even if desirable , to separate education from recreation , because learning opportunities and values are so common to both . If learning is not the work of the educator and teacher , to whom does it belong ? The proponents of this approach say that the modern school , unlike its predecessor , serves the entire population and not just children , that the educational process is no longer confined just to the classroom during the school day , and that because of extracurricular activities and adult education programs , schools are well equipped with staff and facilities to inculcate leisure interests and skills . Schools are accessible and include many of the facilities needed for some recreation activities ( e.g. , gymnasiums , swimming pools , facilities for music , drama , the graphic and plastic arts , etc . ) . Schools have the advantage of being universal , of enjoying the respect of the public , and of having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any community service . Arguments against using the board of education and the schools as the center of local public recreation administration say that the school authorities already have more than they can handle properly iu meeting  | the formal educational needs of the school population ; that school districts are pressed for money , space , and personnel for regular educational purposes ; and that adding the recreation function can only make more irritating the ever-increasing cost of education . Those who oppose the school-centered administrative device say that the very nature of formal education , with its traditional disciplinary approach to learning , is incompatible with the infor , nal and pleasant characteristics of the recreation experience . Recreation leadership has its own techniques ; the able teacher is not necessarily the able leader ; recreation should not be handicapped by pedagogical methods and control . There is fear that the recreation service can only play a secondary role to education in the school setting , that the schools have only some , by no means all , of the resources that are needed . They have the auditoriums @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ golf courses and beaches . It is also said that when the schools administer recreation , the program is often heavily weighted along physical education lines at the sacrifice of the cultural arts and other popular leisure pursuits . To balance the facts . Local public school systems do have responsibilities in helping to meet the recreation needs of the people . Whether or not a board of education or school district should assume the task of administering public recreation services depends upon the adequacy of the state school code with respect to their function , the interest and willingness of school authorities to give recreation attention and support equal to that of formal education , and staff competency in matters of recreation . In any event , the role of the school in community recreation includes : Education for living . Schools can teach individuals how to make creative , expressive , satisfying use of leisure . In the schools tastes for music , drama , literature , and the arts , as well as games and sports , can be nurtured . Making school facilities available for community recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported ; they are well located and easily accessible . They include the very kinds of space and facilities , including shops , libraries , classrooms , gymnasiums , and auditoriums , that are required for community recreation . Thus , in planning and designing schools , it is desirable to provide for community needs as well as for those of the school itself . It is equally important to see that school facilities are open to the community . Providing recreation through extended school services . Boards of education should be willing to undertake recreation activities on school property after school hours and ( luring vacation . These programs should be varied in scope . If provided in a community where a public recreation  | system is operated , both services should be coordinated . An extended school service can not be successfully provided with volunteers alone . It requires paid professional leadership . Cooperating closely with other departments , agencies , and organizations . Community recreation requires the resources and help of many groups . Boards of education should coordinate their efforts ? plan and act jointly ? with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ councils of social agencies , churches , and other local groups toward the common goal of providing a community-wide , year-round recreation program . Authorities Which Administer Recreation and Parks as a Single Administrative Unit ( Boards , Departments , and Districts ) Although there are excellent examples of independent park authorities and independent recreation commissions , the trend is toward the combining of the two into a single administrative unit . The result : more recreation opportunities and better coordination of recreation activities and spaces for the municipal resident . The strengths of each traditional service ? programming , design , and maintenance ? have advanced the opportunities for free-time expression and added to the significance of park and recreation movement . The arguments for the combined administration are numerous and stress the natural relationship between programs and facilities . It is surprising that it took a major recreation revolution , the outdoor recreation movement , to bring park and recreation officials together . After all , recreation expressions require space and exist for people 's pleasure . Recreation practitioners are professionally prepared to create programs and services . Park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas and facilitate their use . The marriage of parks and recreation was inevitable . When park and recreation services are administered jointly , coordination of maintenance and program scheduling is enhanced . Traditionally , park departments have enjoyed a long record of performance and public support . When the social concerns aspect of the recreation unit is brought into play , facilities take on new meaning . Consequently , a broader base of public support is achieved . Arguments against this form of administration indicate that under such auspices one of the two elements ? programs or facilities ? will receive secondary consideration . Generally , it is the program component ? the problems of land ' acquisition , development , and maintenance arc more visible and seem to be more pressing . When this occurs , the " hu-  | figure monistic " side of recreation diminishes , especially in relationship to the disadvantaged segment of the population . Then , too , there is the danger that funds needed for recreation services may be diverted for park purposes ( leadership funds , for example , may be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other hand , failure to properly support the maintenance functions or to devote enough attention and funds to planning and design of resources may severely handicap program quality . Another argument offered deals with social issues . It is felt by some that the merger of independent recreation and parks units negates the ability of park officials to function effectively as conservationists . The utilization of recreation spaces seems to run counter to the desires and beliefs of preservationists . On the other hand , it is argued that the recreation element , with its concern for the disadvantaged and their social plight , might sell short the long-range objectives and action as Advisory Committee  | they search for immediate solutions . They appear to be too crisis-prone . Leadership is the key . When park and recreation administrators and board and commission members fully understand the interdependence of programs and natural resources , the critical balance is protected . Many park authorities have demonstrated their ability to administer public recreation services effectively . Likewise , many recreation administrators have furthered the importance of a quality environment when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning , relevant programming , and sound financing are essential to the success of the park and recreation mission . When park and recreation interests are combined into a single unit the potential of this understanding and support is increased . intergovernmental Cooperation In recent years recreation and park authorities , school officials and public housing agencies have demonstrated the value of interagency cooperation . For example , recreation and school authorities are now using , rather extensively , the park-school concept . This popular device brings park and recreation and school authorities together for the purposes of planning , acquiring , developing , and operating their respective facilities at a common location . Each supplements and complements the facilities of the other , thereby giving the community more for its money . Public housing authorities are now providing space , particularly in their highrise facilities for the elderly , which is utilized by the recreation department in providing programs for the Senior Citizens . In some instances two other agencies ? departments of health and welfare ? are included in this multidimensional effort . A good example of this may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urban recreation programs take place on public housing property and are administered by recreation departments , with an adult educational component and with nutritious lunches provided by health agencies for those who are there to play . To accomplish this , coordination of efforts is essential . Innovative Administrative Structures . The need for more coordination of governmental services at the local level has stimulated interest in a new design for administering recreation and leisure services . This approach brings together those agencies primarily concerned with informal education , cultural programs , recreation , and related free-time expression . Such agencies are called departments of community services or departments of public amenities . They administer the libraries , park system , cultural arts programs , and special recreation areas such as golf courses and marinas of a given community . The primary function of these  | agencies is to provide recreation services , but the word recreation is not a part of their title : There are some problems with this approach . The traditions of the various departments and their vested interests make it difficult to facilitate such a merger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential for a bureaucracy that is unresponsive to the public 's needs . Then , too , there are concerns about program and facility priorities and the inability of one agency to gather as much support for the total effort as would be achieved through several agencies , each appealing to its own constituency . The viability of this trend toward the merger of these services is unknown . The concept has some support but the uncertainty of the future may discourage some communities from moving in this direction . There are always problems related to modification of any system , but the changing nature of our social structure suggests that the future will not be a mirror image of the past . COUNTY AND DISTRICT ORGANIZATION FOR TOWN AND COUNTRY Today the term rural is an ever-expanding concept , including more and more interrelations between city and country and calling for everbroadening views in rural and urban planning . It is often difficult to differentiate between rural and urban , for the two are constantly blending . This is especially true in the case of village and town life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be distinctively rural . Special forms of community life and social institutions , agricultural occupat ions , the composition of the rural population , its cultural heritage , and its relation to land , nature , and the out-of-doors create distinctly nonurban patterns . Whereas the pioneer farm family made its own recreation ? the home was the center ? the new age seeks much of its recreation elsewhere . Organized activities and programs are becoming more universal . The possibilities of developing and maintaining a recreation program that yields true compensatory values and thus helps to meet some of the rural needs is there . But although the purposes of urban and rural recIration may be the same , the approaches are different . Hence , if urban recreation were transplanted to rural areas without modification , defeat of the primary aim would probably result . The rural population is rapidly improving the development of public school recreation facilities . True , the district school has always been something of a local community center . In addition to providing  | opportunities for children of the neighborhood to play together during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the local recreation activities ? box suppers , lectures , debates , singing schools , political rallies , spelling bees , and the " exercises " of the pupils to which parents were invited on special occasions . During recent years , this recreation function of the rural school has been greatly increased . Consolidated schools have brought together larger numbers of people and given opportunities for play that were formerly out of reach of rural communities . The larger staff of teachers in such schools has facilitated specialization in recreation supervision in athletics , drama , glee clubs , orchestras , and bands . And yet in spite of this advance , many of the popular urban forms of diversion are still regarded in the country as luxuries for which no considerable expenditures should be made . In small towns and the open country the establishment of parks , playgrounds , athletic fields , golf courses , and tennis courts lags far behind . At one time the county courthouse and the county fairgrounds were almost the only county properties that served any recreation purpose . The courthouse site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in-town " park for the people of the local community and the surrounding country . Now , however , in many communities the county fairground is being used for athletics , civic celebrations , and other forms of community recreation . A few of these areas have been transformed into genuine community parks . Establishment of county recreation and park systems is on the increase . County Parks and Recreation At the outset in county recreation there was an emphasis upon parks rather than program . In some areas , separate boards were established in the same county , one known as the " park " board , the other as the " recreation " commission . The trend today is to combine both functions in one board . County managing authorities in 1966 were : figure In the five yeses prior to these data , the type of managing authorities fur p ; u ks and recrcat ion were : ( ; onchi necl Palk and Ret reation  --  ? 111 dcpat t-  | ments or 63.5 percent and Separate Park ? 13 departments or 20.6 percent of the 63 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other 10 departments . Other Public authorities consist of conservation , highway , welfare , and youth departments , and forest preserves . With the many villages , towns , and small cities making up rural and suburban life , the county has been found to be a logical political unit for the promotion of public recreation programs . To meet these needs , the counties will have to hurry . Rural areas , particularly those within fifty miles of our metropolitan centers , are feeling the impact of the " decentralization of industry , " the " urban sprawl , " and the " population explosion . " County parks are useful to urbanites and are important links between city-owned parks and parks owned by the states and the national government . They are , nevertheless , most useful to those from the rural districts . The number of communities of under 2500 population which have adequate parks is limited . Many rural people have no parks or playground space . They have open fields and vacant lots , but anyone who knows village life appreciates how inadequate these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program conducted by a county park or recreation system is not unlike that found in the large metropolitan cities . Suggested Approaches for Advancing Rural Recreation The problem is essentially one of organizing local resources . Land , structures , and other facilities , and the interests , skills , and enthusiasms of the people need to be used for the enrichment of leisure . Voluntary and private agencies can be of assistance , but there can be no adequate program without public organization and support . Boards of county commissioners , boards of supervisors , district or county boards of education , park districts , county park and forestry departments , or other agencies of this nature must see their responsibilities and act . There should be a permanent county or district recreation and park authority . County government in the United States was established to carry out certain administrative functions of the state . Programs of education , health , and public welfare are illustrations . Most state enabling laws permit counties , or districts , to provide a recreation and park service . The adoption of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature was one of the most significant legislative achievements in  | the history of the public recreation movement . Not only did it make possible the establishment of the first county park system in Essex County , N.J. , in the same year , but it paved the way for general recreation- enabling legislation for tax-supported municipal recreation . This occurred first in 1915 , also in New Jersey . At present there seem to be at least six administrative alternatives for providing recreation areas and programs in rural communities : 1 . There is an overwhelming trend toward creating a combined county department of recreation and parks . 2 . Separate recreation and park departments continue to be established with a combined total about equal in number to the number of new combined recreation and parks departments . 3 . Special districts usually result by default of local governmental units who have not accepted their responsibility . 4 . School districts can be found in the Mid-Atlantic , Great Lakes , and Pacific Southwest regions ; the Southern and Pacific Northwest regions report no school districts . 5 . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region . 6 . The multigovernmental concept of regional cooperation , city-county combination , cooperation with schools and cooperation with the private sector offer other administrative alternatives . County Organization With the growing interest in recreation , boards of county commissioners are beginning to accept recreation as a responsibility of county government and are organizing county units . The pattern and arguments for and against the creation of county departments of parks and recreation are very similar to those given for the establishment of an independent recreation and park commission at the municipal level . The need for sound financing , professionally trained personnel , and an administrative structure which allows the park and recreation department or board to plan , administer , and implement its programs of services and facilities is the same . Public Recreation Through Contract Another workable plan is the " contract " system . This method has been used successfully in the field of health , and it could be adapted for recreation and parks . " hhe contract plan is a method whereby municipalities enter into a contract with the legal recreation authority of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community for an annual fixed sum . The problems of small communities , especially those adjacent to larger cities , are inescapably bound to one another . Moreover , in attempting to meet local recreation needs , it is not always possible to follow and adhere to corporate lines ; hence the need for administration under the larger political subdivision . The contract system has many advantages . Services and needs can be met on a wider scale . There is uniformity and coordination of administration . Through the pooling of all local resources , the tax dollar can purchase more . The contract system means progress through the sharing of experiences and through joint effort . It tends to encourage and not impede progress , which is often not the case where needs cut across political boundaries . Moreover , individual local initiative is retained and autonomy preserved through local financial participation and opportunity to decide annually whether participation is warranted . Special Districts In sections of the country where county government does not exist , or is inadequate , yet where there is a need for some type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district has provided this service in a most satisfactory manner . The organization of special recreation taxing districts within rural areas has increased within recent years . The district establishment , among other things , overcomes the objection of providing rural recreation out of general county funds raised in large part through taxes assessed on city property . Recreation or park districts , or a combined recreation and park district , might well include all incorporated areas in the county , particularly in smaller counties , or two or more districts in larger counties . This function can be administered by a district board similar to municipal recreation and park boards . These districts need not be confined to the boundaries of a single county . In fact , the provision of regional parks and recreation areas serving several counties or districts oilers a possible solution to the financial plight of these rural areas . They may attract federal and state monies , they have tourist potential , and their maintenance costs are shared over a larger base of financial support . Special recreation taxing districts make it possible for small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give to their people individually . As many as a dozen communities , sometimes located in adjacent counties , can pool their facilities , funds , and leadership .  | The County or District Recreation Council For various reasons it may not always be practical to establish a county government recreation and park authority . In such instances , consideration might be given to creating a quasi-public recreation and park council which would have representatives from each community or town in the area served . The council could function as a coordinating and planning agency or administer a recreation system with the funds coming from various governmental and private sources . Its presence may stimulate the public 's interest in recreation as a governmental necessity and it certainly enhances the recreation opportunities for rural residents . INTERRELATIONS In addition to the county recreation authority , there exists in each of the larger municipal units managing authorities with tax funds operating independently of the county recreation agency , but cooperating with it . Where good leadership prevails there is no conflict , and the county board assists by conducting training institutes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promotion of local activities as well as county-wide programs . This is particularly true in terms of the larger facilities such as swimming pools , golf courses , playing fields with stadiums , trailside museums , riding stables , shooting ranges , artificial skating rinks , boating areas , picnic groves , and day camp sites . With the constant population increase , nonurban areas assume greater significance . People desire close-at-hand recreation areas and facilities . Hence there is an urgent need for county-city cooperation in all matters relating to the organization , administration , planning , and supervision of recreation areas . While the federal government must accept responsibility for areas of national interest , and the state government for areas of statewide use , the close-at-hand areas are largely the responsibility of the county , district , and municipality . Parks , parkways , camping sites for weekend and day camping , swimming facilities , golf courses , and hiking trails should be within easy reach of both urban and rural dwellers . Recreation behavior is dynamic behavior . If the recreation and park system is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be in harmony with their rhythms and their utilization of new technologies and organizational behavior . The presence of such federal grant programs as revenue sharing and the Land and Water Conservation Fund are having an impact on their programs and services . Social issues ? the concerti for the disadvantaged and disabled ? have stimulated new efforts  | to reach the ghetto resident , the elderly , and the physically handicapped . As these services develop , the role of the park and recreation agency becomes less defined . Should parks and recreation provide hot lunches for senior citizens ? What is the responsibility of the recreation professional in dealing with drug addiction and other social issues ? Recreation and park agencies provide not recreation , but opportunities for the recreation experience . By bringing to the public an awareness of the importance of its free-time expression and the opportunities available for recreation , the recreation and park system fulfills its mission . The need to coordinate its efforts with other services providing recreation opportunities is well-documented . The acquisition of regional parks , the merger of county and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grants-in-aid are causing the system to consider new techniques in administration and organization . Provincial thinking and " single-purpose " programming are things of the past . Cooperation , coordination , and innovation are today 's words . FOOTNOTES 1 . In Lois M. Pelekoudas , ed. , Illinois Local Government , Final Report and Background Papers , Assembly on Illinois Local Government ( University of Illinois : Institute of Government and Public Affairs , 1961 ) , p. 21. 2 . Recreation Magazine , June , 1941. 3 . Recreation and Park Yearbook , Mid-Century Edition ? A Review of Local and County Recreation and Park Developments , 1900 ? 1950 ( New York : National Recreation Association , 1951 ) . 4 . Letter , George D. Butler , National Recreation Association , December 5 , 1961. 5 . Recreation and Park Yearbook , 1966 ( Washington , D.C. : The National Recreation and Park Association , 1967 ) . 6 . " Local Parks and Recreation , " Parks and Recreation , VI , No. 8 ( 1971 ) , 18. 7 . Recreation and Park Yearbook , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SERVICES As stated earlier , the organized recreation and parks system is comprised of many elements , each drawing support from the differing sources of revenue and tradition , each serving specialized interests , and all together providing a wide range of opportunities sought by the public as recreation . Considerable attention has been given to the public sector of the system in the previous two chapters . Now we will discuss those organizations and groups that have a public character and yet are dependent basically upon voluntary financial support or serve a specialinterest or membership group . Historically , these private and quasi-public agencies were the first to offer organized recreation services . Today , the contribution is varied . In some communities they supplement the public recreation offerings ; in others , they provide the basic community program . Among the many groups comprising this system are the youth-serving , voluntary agencies ; industrial and labor groups ; religious organizations ; private recreation associations ; educational institutions ; and those facilities and services provided by families and individuals . Each of these groups and their contribution to community recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a discussion of the need for community organization of recreation and park interests and resources and the current attempts by government and private groups to coordinate these efforts .  | COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION The process of mobilizing , organizing , and using the various resources of a community toward reaching predetermined objectives is known as community organization . It involves a variety of efforts and devices , coordinated and focused at a single functional purpose . Community organization does not occur in a vacuum . It is organization for something ? for better education , for better health and sanitation , for improving the lot of dependents , or for strengthening recreation services . It is not an end in itself and is only effective when it has a functional purpose . Through a variety of organized efforts to improve local life , community organization has gained wide use in the United States . More recently these efforts have involved national direction and legislation . For example , the Office of Economic Opportunity . was assigned a major role in community organization ; its personnel were often charged with the responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Also , the Model Cities Act , passed by the Congress in 1967 , required comprehensive planning at the local level prior to the awarding of federal grants . Community organization brings people together , as individual citizens or as representatives of groups , not only to determine needs and plan ways of meeting them but also to mobilize and use the resources to accomplish their objectives . Nowhere , perhaps , has the community organization process been developed to a finer degree than in the field of social welfare . It has been used particularly to coordinate and integrate the social services of local communities by devices such as United Community Services , Welfare Councils , Councils of Social Agencies , Planning Councils , and United and Community Funds . The process is a technique of democratic leadership and involves scientific method . To achieve the ends of community organization , facts must be obtained , resources and services analyzed , representatives of the various interests involved , agreement and consensus of views obtained , priorities established , consequences of decisions determined , and action taken . The latter step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success only when the prior steps have assured broad support and involvement . Whether the machinery for community organization is highly refined or not , at the heart of the effort is coordinating various resources and actions in a way that will set them in motion in an integrated effort to accomplish desired ends . If there is another key idea in community organization in addition to the terns coordinate , it is totality . This refers to totality of resources , totality of function , and totality of need . It is the  | consideration of the totality which reminds us that communities have organizations quite apart from and more fundamental than the structures that find expression in formal institutions and other organized forces . A deeper and broader concept of community organization would include the folkways and mores of the people , attitudes and interests of individuals and groups , the situations in which they interact , procedures by which their behavior is regulated , the conceptions which people have of themselves and their fellowmen ? all vital factors in community living . Often these forces are the determining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organizations ; their actions shape the designs of community organization . Coordinating Organizations A brief description of some of the coordinating organizations ' functions in the community will indicate community opportunity for cooperation in social services . United Community Council ( Council of Social Agencies ) . In communities where a number of social agencies function , there is frequently a United Community Council . It is composed of public and private agencies working together to meet total community needs through coordination of services , consultations on policy and program , and joint planning and study . Often , the United Community Council divides its organization according to functions and clusters of service , such as health , dependency , recreation , and social group work . United Fund ( Community Chest ) . The major agency for cooperative , united , federated financing of social groups is the United Fund , which raises and disburses money through one united campaign . Experience has taught that in communities above a certain size , this method is the most economical way of raising funds for social agencies . Although most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies , public and quasi-public agencies sometimes participate . Often recreation and park departments obtain supplementary funds from chest sources . The fund is concerned with community recreation opportunities as well as with other social activities and can be of effective service in interpreting the recreation program to the public . Social service exchange . In many communities welfare agencies form a social service exchange as a clearing house . The exchange is made up of public and private groups interested in social work among individuals and families . A card index is kept of all names of individuals and groups needing and receiving assistance . The exchange refers cases to the proper agencies and sees . to it that necessary action is taken . Such a service promotes cooperation among the community organizations , in consulta-  | tion service and coordination of activities . Recreation agencies are usually members of the exchange . Organizing for Recreation Services Included among the resources for community organization in recreation are those of local governing and managing authorities , such as the recreation and park commissions , school boards , etc . In addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and groups of an educational , religious , political , business , service , fraternal , patriotic , and cultural nature . There are also the resources of individuals , whose efforts can be interwoven through the establishment of committees dedicated to accomplishing a given task or series of objectives . Organization of community forces for recreation services includes the establishment of such groups as the community recreation council , community recreation association , neighborhood recreation council , and recreation federation . Many have national counterparts , for all are a part of the recreation system , which has both horizontal ( local ) and vertical ( state , regional , and national ) elements . The names of these organizations vary among communities , but their functions are similar . Some of the more frequently found groups are : Community Recreation Council ( or Committee ) . This is usually an advisory body to an operational unit responsible for providing recreation services . In small communities the community recreation council is responsible for establishing policies and overseeing the actual administration and operation of the recreation program . Its functions usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , relating the needs , services , and developments in recreation to other services and organizations in the community , helping to find and develop recreation leadership , reflecting community interests , attitudes , opinions , and customs , helping to secure better facilities and financial support for recreation , promulgating recreation standards , interpreting the values and need for recreation , and sponsoring recreation projects . Community Recreation Association . This is a nongovernmental , privately organized and supported group . Often it is incorporated as a nonprofit organization , and it is always community-wide in its representation as well as its interests . The association is established to promote , support , and develop community recreation services . Its efforts may be financial ? through contributions , dues , and money-raising projects . Sometimes the association is a member of a United Fund , and membership is open to anyone who is interested . In some instances , the association employs professional recreation personnel and offers a recreation program . Very often , the community recreation association is the forerunner to  | the establishment of a public recreation service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group , as its name indicates , is organized on a neighborhood basis and is mainly interested in improving neighborhood recreation conditions . It may or may not be related to an existing public recreation service . It , too , promotes public support of recreation for its area . It also serves as a means of promoting neighborhood identity and socialization . It often sponsors recreation events and raises money to make neighborhood recreation improvements . It may operate as an independent recreation body or it may be a committee of a larger neighborhood council . Recreation Federation . This organization pools the interests and efforts of a number of groups interested in improving community recreation . The federation encourages interest in total community recreation needs . Each participating organization has one or two representatives in the federation , whose functions are similar to those of a community recreation association . The difference between the community recreation association and the recreation federation is mainly in the manner in which they are organized and not in their objectives . Conservation Groups . Frequently , local chapters of national organizations such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development and/or maintenance of parks and natural resource areas . Often they will form a coalition and work for enactment of legislative programs and policies which protect the environment , thereby adding to the leisure potential of the community . These federations may include garden clubs , conservationists interests , zoological proponents , and the like . Although they are primarily concerned with ecological interests , they should be represented when recreation coordinating bodies are formed . They currently exercise considerable influence in the structuring and development of outdoor recreation programs and resources . How Coordination Works In its broadest sense , coordination is a community organization proposition , going far beyond what one might ordinarily regard as simply establishing cooperation between existing agencies , although this is one of its primary objectives . The following purposes are the business of the organized coordination of recreation : 1 . To encourage and develop cooperation of social , educational , public service , and civic agencies , and to correlate the recreation work in a given area ; 2 . To increase the efficiency of recreation agencies and recreation work nrne ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems ; 4 . To secure publicity of , and to endeavor to educate the public to a better understanding of recreation . 5 . To act as an advisory council to recreation agencies ; 6 . To plan for the meeting of recreation needs ; 7 . To do such other things or to engage in such other activities as may be determined necessary to the general interests of recreation as an essential community service . Every major city in the United States and a number of the smaller ones have a coordinating agency which includes recreation in the scope of its activity . Many counties have developed such organizations and there are an increasing number which are metropolitan-area-wide , in and around the very large cities . In general terms , though perhaps differently phrased , they operate for the purposes stated in the foregoing list . In the urban areas , these councils have staff specialists responsible for recreation , working under various designations , for example , recreation division , informal education division , group work section , youth agencies ' council , or combinations of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations are voluntary associations of many different kinds of social and civil agencies as well as individual citizens who are interested in fostering such unified efforts . The usual pattern is the creation of a delegate body of professional leaders and laymen to constitute the final authority for actions of the coordinating organization . The delegates , usually elect a board of directors which is empowered to establish whatever " machinery " is necessary to carry out the purposes of the organization . There may be divisions or sections , as referred to above , for handling functional fields of service , such as recreation , health , and others , or there may be less highly organized committees to deal with the community 's needs . Much research and discussion are required in connection with the discovery and development of feasible coordination plans and mechanisms for smaller cities and towns . Emphasis is placed upon the voluntary nature of these associations of agencies and interested citizens . As in recreation itself , where the individual 's opportunity to choose his leisure-time activity is the element which makes it truly recreational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is done because agencies and individuals choose to do it of their own free will is the worthwhile thing . It is n't always the quickest way , but in the long run it is the best . But to get down to cases , what do we do ? How do we get these high purposes translated into action ? What are the limitations ? The first and most obvious place to start is with the exchange of information about the recreation services that exist in any given corn-  | each other about the programs of their respective agencies is a good beginning . Extended to a highly organized plane , the luncheon meeting , arranged periodically for interested representatives of all existing agencies , gives an opportunity for more widespread knowledge of services available . In this connection , experience has shown that personal acquaintance with the other fellow is one of the most important single factors in successful and effective coordination . No matter how important an organizational structure itself is , it always depends upon execution . The soundest organization can fail miserably if the individuals acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a truism and not peculiar to the subject at hand , but nevertheless should be borne in mind . Exchanging information has other aspects . The press , television , and radio are very important media . Newsworthy material , of course , is eagerly sought by both , but editorial columns , educational pages , and picture sections are frequently available . It is especially important to make sure that the broad scope of recreation activities is interpreted properly , overcoming a popular notion that organized recreation consists of sports only . The publication of periodical pamphlets , magazines , and directories is another medium for the exchange of information . All agencies conducting recreation programs issue materials advertising their current services , monthly organs of interest to their participants , or annual reports , but the coordinating organization is the one place where information about the work of all agencies may be assembled . The pages of its own pamphlets , magazines , and directories are available to the public as well as the agencies . In one city , for example , almost 1000 inquiries are answered every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some 75 camps is distributed so that parents may make direct contacts with those of their choice . In another city , copies of a quarterly magazine are circulated . In most instances the editorial work connected with such publications is done by a combination of staff assistance and committee direction , the latter determining policy . Coordination is like a fine cut diamond . Each facet contributes to the sparkle of every other one . Countless reflections cross and crisscross to make it into the jewel it is . One surface alone can not be viewed without seeing the effect of all the others . So it is with coordination . It is difficult to analyze each component part separately . Unlike the diamond , there are no mathematical or geometrical formulae to use in analyzing it . So we go from exchanging information about existing services to securing and using facts ' about unmet needs , even though the two are interlocked very closely and involve complicated factors .  | Reference has been made to the broad scope of recreation activities . This is soundly based upon the wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the function of recreation to serve the interests of all ? children , youth , and adults ? in wholesome , constructive activities in their leisure time . It is the function of those involved in the coordination effort to discover the community 's needs for program and facilities and to initiate community action to secure them . Generally speaking , we know through experience what people like to do . Standards for minimum requirements have been developed to serve as guides for the acquisition and development of recreation areas . Legislation has been enacted to insure the preservation of open space and the designation of community land for park purposes . The provision of adequate facilities is a highly technical job involving engineering and architectural knowledge , understanding of the functional use of facilities , legal complications in the acquisition of land , and many other factors . In large measure , the provision of facilities on a community-wide basis is accepted as a public responsibility , although in practice most communities have facilities created through voluntary contributions . It is not the purpose here to discuss the principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together , if both are to be used . Because tax funds are widely used to develop recreation facilities , it is usual to find some public agency responsible for planning them . This may or may not be a planning commission , but in any case it becomes necessary to establish a relationship between the coordinating organization and the planning agency . One successful device has been a coordinating committee on recreation planning . As a recommending body , each representative carries back the findings to his own agency for action . Their recommendations carry weight because they are the result of considered expert experience and joint thinking and sharing . The presence of the representative of the recreation division of the United Community Council ( Council of Social Agencies ) on this coordinating committee affords a full opportunity to bring together the interests of the voluntary and the public agencies . If and when one of the voluntary agencies projects its own plans to create a new facility , it is possible to determine the best location with respect to existing and projected public facilities . Complementary and supplementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , the voluntary agency can not be compelled to consult on its plans for the future , but the logic of doing so is a strong impelling influence . Public support can be mobilized much more quickly and easily for any proposals which come out of such planning . Two facets have now been outlined briefly . A third is coordination of recreation activity programs . It is less tangible than exchanging in-  | formation and planning facilities , though obviously depends upon them . Perhaps a few examples will illustrate the possibilities . In music , a committee , knowing what each of its member 's agencies can and is doing and what facilities are available , arranges a citywide or countrywide Christmas carol sing , or perhaps a music week program . Through the committee , agencies not having music as part of their program but having interested individuals or groups , might learn about skilled leaders who would be available . In a community lacking facilities , such a committee might spearhead the work of securing them . Similarly , committees set up by the coordinating organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which there is interest . The training of volunteer leadership is another reflection of program coordination in recreation . Considerable follow-up is necessary to assure satisfactory placement after training . The coordinating organization must do a skilled job through committee planning of all the arrangements . This will not only make sure that the contents of the training course will meet the needs of the agencies and community , and secure the best leaders , but it will also guarantee that the volunteers are given challenging assignments that will hold their interest . Most of the responsibility for this last will rest , of course , with the agencies benefiting from the placement , but it will help materially if the committee work affords an exchange of experience in handling volunteers . In connection with leadership , two other coordinating functions are feasible and desirable . Files of available positions and applicants seeking employment can be maintained for use by all agencies . Standards of personnel qualifications can be developed , too , through committee study and agreement . The diamond has still another facet , especially in the larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Recreation is a very personal business for the individual . Community-wide , it becomes a neighborhood business . Mobilizing all the forces of the neighborhood to promote recreation is an approach in coordination that is getting considerable momentum . There are at least two ways of going about it . One is through the neighborhood council , which usually is interested in many community services such as health , welfare , recreation , and others . Within it , there might be a recreation committee . Its part would be to serve as a magnifying glass for its particular interest . It creates opportunity for expression under circumstances most conducive to discussion . The people are among those whom they know best , and before whom they can speak most easily and freely . In many cities , leadership is being made available to neighborhood councils through the coordinating organization . It has been found that although they ale usually self starting , they are nut often self-propelling.  | There is a lot of leg work involved and someone , volunteer or professional , who will do it is absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ councils , organized directly around this one interest . The principles are the same as just described . So are the problems , particularly financial ones . Although it is not the purpose of coordination to raise funds , the coordinating organization is usually the one place in a community where there is the overall , community-wide knowledge of needs . Within the sum total of funds available , the coordinating organization can be the best adviser on their distribution . United Funds over the country raise large amounts of money for voluntary agencies . It is the practice to consult the coordinating organization about equitable distribution . Much progress has been made in raising our sights to meet the needs , but there is still much to be done in this direction . Finally , where the coordination of the recreation and park service is being considered , it is wise to look for the existing organization created for the purpose and more than likely already doing a job for the community . If it is n't the best job that could be done , the reason can be , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see things done are not making use of what the community has in its midst . As does the planning of a city itself , with all its physical components , so recreation in all of its manifestations needs sound planning and coordination . VOLUNTEER SERVICES The organized recreation movement began w'ith volunteer leadership . Most public recreation and park systems are the result of volunteer organizations and efforts . Private interests have prospered in proportion to volunteer contributions and services . Today , and for a long time to come , the volunteer will have a significant place in the recreation pattern of the United States in both public and private programs . The organized recreation movement in this country recognizes the volunteer as an essential factor in an ever-expanding field of activity . The need for volunteers is greater now than ever before and the work ahead indicates even greater demands . Democratic society gives liberally of its time , interest , and ability to enrich the recreation hours of the people . It is the full recognition of this social responsibility that makes the field of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in achievement . Each individual is a potential volunteer leader . As recreation becomes a part of each person 's daily life , as recreation illiteracy gives way to literacy , as more and more people learn the art of living and the art of living together , and as more leisure is granted to people there is created  | a powerful reservoir of individuals who become capable volunteers and possess the time to contribute their abilities to social well-being . Professional leadership will find in this potential array of talent its best colleagues for richer programs under efficient and capable guidance . In considering the place of the volunteer in organized recreation services the following general statements are pertinent : 1 . Everyone is a potential volunteer leader and the field of recreation offers opportunity to all . 2 . There is no substitute for a professionally trained leader and the utilization of volunteers does not always mean efficiency of action . 3 . A volunteer is a participator and , hence , swells the ranks of the doers. 4 . The continual growth of the recreation and parks field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep pace with progress . 5 . Budgets of private and public recreation organizations are generally limited ; volunteers are needed to increase the opportunities of services . 6 . Proper methods of recruiting can bring results in the number and quality of leaders . 7 . Know the advantages and disadvantages of volunteer leadership ; stress the former and eliminate the latter . 8 . Volunteer leaders need constant supervision and guidance . 9 . Constantly evaluate the workers ' efforts . Constructive analysis , interpretation , and criticism can improve services . 10 . Give abundant recognition to volunteers for services well done . 11 . Train the leaders . Institutes , workshops , clinics , and conferences frequently help assure a continuous refresher policy . 12 . Develop plans for a constant flow of vigorous leaders who will give time , interest , and talent to the program . Who Is the Volunteer ? The breadth and scope of recreation and parks services make it possible for everyone to have a volunteer job . There are , however , special sources from which to recruit talent : former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retired from active work , specialists , older boys and girls , enthusiastic newcomers , hobbyists eager to teach their hobbies , parents of children participating in the program , school teachers , married women , college graduates experienced in extracurricular activities , students in college recreation courses , church and club workers , professional and business leaders , professional workers engaged in allied fields  --  radio , television , the theater , sportsmen , and others . Volunteers can assist in a variety of ways . They can teach activity-  | skill classes , serve on policy-formulating hoards and commissions , assist the expediting of routine office matters such as the distributing of pamphlets and other informational materials about the department , serve as sponsors or advisors for recreation clubs , provide transportation for the disabled and handicapped to and from recreation centers , and the like . The opportunities for the utilization of volunteers are legion . Their involvement adds vitality to the park and recreation system ; their participation is another form of leisure expression afforded by that system . In addition to individuals , many groups can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some common objective and desires status and recognition . It is often true that a group undertakes too many projects and fails to do efficient work in any of them . Seek to have the group accept recreation as the major project and concentrate the full power of total membership in the undertaking . Often a committee from some group can render numerous volunteer services and correlate general interests . As illustrations : An organization ? the American Legion , the PTA , the Grange ? sponsors the community recreation program . An organization ? the Rotary Club , the Masonic Order , the Home Demonstration Club ? conducts the campaign for the yearly budget , for extra funds , or special assessments . A combination of groups may form the recreation advisory committee , the planning council , or the recreation center board . A club ? a book club , a civic group , a church group , the Junior League , representatives of a business concern ? operates special recreation projects for year-round or summer programs . THE FAMILY Families , like volunteer groups , contribute significantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities and programs for their members , thereby supplementing the programs of the recreation and park agencies . They possess billions of dollars worth of equipment and land for recreation use . No inventory of community recreation resources and opportunities is complete without mention of the family and its contribution . To some extent , the park and recreation movement came into being only when families were no longer able to provide most of the recreation opportunities sought by their members . As the family structure of Western society has changed , so has the function of government and its programs . The role parks and recreation agencies play today in providing leisure expressions for families is quite different from the one assumed  | thirty years ago . Its programs both reflect and influence family structures and behaviors . For example , it encourages segregation of groups by age , skills , and abilities , which may contribute to communication gaps and " generation gaps . " But in doing so , it is simply responding to society 's concern for the young , the aged , the disadvantaged , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Numerous attempts are being made to stimulate family recreation . A number of leaders have , with some success , organized backyard playground campaigns for small children . Homemade equipment plans have been furnished by recreation and parks departments . There are books and pamphlets describing games for home use . Hobbies are becoming increasingly popular , and there is renewed interest in family parties , picnics , camping , and travel . Family-planned automobile trips continue to grow in popularity . Many feel that every effort should be made to revitalize the family as a functional unit of recreation and to encourage new families to establish definite patterns of recreation as an essential part of family solidarity . The family patterns in the United States have changed dramatically during the past four decades . Family size is smaller because young couples have come to accept a zero population growth concept . Seldom are there three generations living in the same household any more , and residential transciency is an everyday fact of life . It is expected that each family may change its residential location at least five times within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change . New concepts of family structure and family stability are developing . In many instances , couples and groups are living as families outside the traditional legal and social definition of family life . Yet their behavior is very similar to that of traditional couples and extended family groups . Recreation and park agencies are being asked to provide a different set of services for families today than they have been in the past . Information about recreation opportunities and the maintenance and care of recreation equipment have become central elements of the recreation department 's family recreation program . Individual family units often possess a variety of recreation equipment which they wish to use . They come to the recreation and park agency seeking information about places and opportunities for the enjoyment of their resources . They do not necessarily wish to have recreation departments plan their activities , but do need information about the available opportunities . Also , they seek information about the care and maintenance of their equipment . For many millions of middle-class families , the home is recognized  | as the basic recreation center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the family 's resources affects the participation patterns and the offerings of the community recreation agencies . In many neighborhoods , playground programs have declined in popularity as children elect to stay in their air-conditioned family rooms , enjoying the equipment and opportunities available to them rather than going to a playground during the heat of the day . Public recreation and park agencies are beginning to accept the home as a recreation center , one that can be used in a decentralized programming approach . Roving leaders , mobile recreation units , and individualized instruction ( packaged programs ) are being taken to the people rather than having them come to a designated place for " recreation . " Parks and recreation agencies should become the catalytic agent for family recreation . The provision of information about recreation opportunities in the community and the importance of recreation in the life of each family is one of the elements of that service . A community family recreation advisory service can be organized to demonstrate any of the classified phases of recreation at a recreation center or in individual homes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require it . It might have available a supply of printed materials written for lay persons , which would include diagrams and space requirements for the full range of recreation activities , suggested family recreation budgets , information about hobbies , guidelines for the purchase and care of toys and equipment , tips on vacation travel , and the like . Strengthening the Family Ties . It is believed by many that wholesome recreation activities can strengthen family unity . They can also contribute to the growth of intellectual , moral , spiritual , social , and informational aspects of the family . This potential is most frequently realized when the activity needs of different stages of family development are understood . Each life cycle has its own characteristics , needs , and satisfactions . Consider the following : ( 1 ) the young couple often in cramped quarters with a meager income ; ( 2 ) the restricted couple with small children ; ( 3 ) preschool children and their neighborhood ties ; ( 4 ) the school years and extended school activities ; ( 5 ) adolescence , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; ( 6 ) the empty-nest stage when the children leave home ; and ( 7 ) the golden years of aging . The family can function only in relation to the larger social order ; each is inevitably affected by the stability of the other . The social values and controls centered in other institutions also influence family life . In turn , modifications in the family structure affect community behaviors . The same is true for other social institutions such as formalized religious groups .  | RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS AND RECREATION SERVICES With over 400 separate denominational organizations , with a membership of over 125 million , and with a corporate wealth of nearly $20 billion , the church is a powerful and stable social institution . The social emphasis of its program has been in three directions : a social gospel , concern for social justice , and social service programs . The place of recreation in the programs of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the United States of America , the National Catholic Welfare Conference , and the Jewish Welfare Board indicates constructive and progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is assuming an increasingly important role in the program of the church . " Progressive leaders in the church ? and by church is meant religious institutions of all creeds and denominations ? see more and more that man 's spiritual life can not be separated from his physical , mental , and social life . Since in the realm of physical , mental , and social activities , recreation , play , and wholesome use of leisure are essential to constructive living , it follows that recreation also holds a major part in the development of the spiritual life . " 1 Recreation experiences are a large factor in developing church fellowship . They create a friendly atmosphere among people and encourage teamwork , both of which are necessary to successful church administration . Those influences are reflected in the community and aid the church in attracting people . As an element in the community recreation system , the church has two definite responsibilities in relation to recreation : ( 1 ) to aid the development of the community recreation and park system , and ( 2 ) to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being implemented in a variety of ways . Role of Church Officials The objectives and purposes of organized religion and the organized recreation service are in many respects similar and complementary . The church is concerned with the spiritual and moral growth of individuals , the recreator with personality development through wholesome and satisfying use of leisure . The compatibility of religion and recreation is perhaps best seen in the dual effort to achieve an abundant , fruitful , and joyous existence for all people . Frequently , the " best " in people , young and old , develops ; utd  | flourishes when they are free to do the things they choose , . with whom they choose , in time . out of school and off the job . It is often during free time that the teachings of religion and the high standards it represents may be practiced or ignored . Consequently , church groups need to know what kinds of recreation opportunities are available to their congregations , where they can find what they should seek , and which activities can be provided to help them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members and their families often look to their clergyman for his opinion and guidance on many community matters which influence their daily lives . Consequently , the clergyman can be both a rallying point and a spokesman for worthwhile civic projects . He can lend his support to securing adequate play space for children in a neighborhood housing development . He can urge his people to support the local music festival and contribute to the Community Chest . He can appear before the city council as an individual , or in cooperation with his colleagues , to plead the case for a youth center . Herein lies the opportunity for the clergyman to substitute positive action for negative admonition . Competition for time , money , and energy between degrading freetime outlets and wholesome recreation enterprise is ever-present . More often than not , the socially undesirable operation is curbed only by offering something more wholesome and attractive . The church is in a unique position to make its influence felt to help that which is good or to pass by that which is unsavory . Many recreation and social activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials can often combine recreation with the education and worship programs . Recreation facilities and activities can and should become integral parts of the clergyman 's efforts and the church program . With the shortage of building space in many communities and the high cost of new construction , clergymen are making more extensive use of their facilities by keeping them open longer and sharing them with others . Many groups such as the Boy Scouts , Girl Scouts , and Camp Fire Girls can use church facilities profitably for recreation . Clubs , teams , organizations , and groups of all kinds which need to be housed might well find the hand of the church extended . Influence of the Religious Environment Although all phases of recreation activities and services can be sponsored by religious groups , the religious environment lends itself to specialized forms of activity . Many of these , such as dramatic and musical Performances , are basic to the public 's total recreation opportunities .  | Probably no group in the community is more involved in music and drama than are the church bodies . Likewise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's recreation fabric . The church 's involvement in recreation services goes beyond its own programs . In some instances , church groups have taken the initiative to establish a local recreation authority , but when so doing , the secular agencies of the community have had to be willing to assume their full share of responsibility for the success of the program . The church can well throw the full weight of its influence into creating positive attitudes toward community recreation . It can help by conducting and supporting discussion groups , promoting an understanding of objectives and values , and participating in all phases of the community program . The church will want to oppose undesirable and negative behavior , but when doing so it should offer constructive substitutes . Condemnation is shallow without positive alternatives . The church can join with other groups in revitalizing family recreation , in encouraging school programs of recreation , in assisting social agencies to serve community institutions , and in providing volunteer leaders for communitywide recreation enterprises . In many communities , churches have become active in providing day-care facilities for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for playschools , Head Start programs , adult education and other social and educational services ? many of which are provided by secular groups . They have also taken an active role in conservation programs , speaking out on the quality of life issue and urging communities to preserve their natural resources . The local ministerial association should be available in an advisory capacity to the community recreation authorities . It should constantly evaluate the community program in terms of sound objectives and offer its resources to help improve conditions . If the community recreation and parks department is promoting leagues , tournaments , and contests , the churches can participate either collectively or as separate units . The church can also be of valuable assistance in sponsoring community-wide recreation conferences , institutes , workshops , and training opportunities . It can render many services in making preliminary plans and in other organizational details and its facilities can be used for meeting places , institute sessions , workshops , clinics , exhibits , and demonstrations . There is a big selling job to be clone . Some church members raise objections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there may be differences of opinion among church leaders themselves . Lack of understanding and lack of knowledge of the field often hinder progress . A realization on both parts ( recreation and ( 11 ( 11 ( 11 officials ) of the need  | to work together , to become partners in service , is vital to the success of both enterprises . A link between church and community exists in the many national , regional , and state organizations which have branch units in churches . Boy Scouts , Girl Scouts , and Camp Fire Girls have many local troops and councils within the framework of the church organization . YMCA and YWCA interests coincide with those of the churches . Quite often the churches do supplement the extracurricular activity program of the public school by sponsoring after-school activities of various kinds . These activities can continue their meetings during vacation periods and , in cooperation with the school , develop the objectives and principles upon which they were founded . Problems Because of the longstanding tradition of the separation of church and state , communities have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social issues . Likewise , they have been hesitant to have their governmental agencies use church facilities and church resources in a secular manner . Although these patterns are breaking down , there still remain many attitudes which affect the role religious bodies may assume in providing recreation and park services both to their members and to the larger community . Among the problems that have resulted from these attitudes are questions of Sunday observance , disapproval of certain forms of recreation activity , the use of church facilities for recreation purposes , the use of recreation programs by the church as a means of proselytizing , and the competition and duplication of programs and services . Extended weekends and longer vacation periods have had their impact upon the church 's activities . Community church groups have responded to the declining Sunday attendance by offering religious services . it times other than on the Sabbath . Many traditionalists are shocked by this behavior . Dr. Daniel Schores , in his study of the resort ministry in the Lake of the Ozarks , reported a wide variety of " new " worship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dockside Sunday morning services for fishermen , midnight religious movies on Saturday evening for young people , and Thursday evening services for those who were planning to be away on the weekend . Not all forms of recreation expression have been accepted as legitimate activities to be sponsored by the church or to be encouraged by religious groups . Some appear to be undesirable ; others are borderline , and there is the question of the church 's participation in worldly issues .  | Some denominational groups have consistently opposed dancing , horse racing , and mixed swimming ; others have spoken out against motion pictures and card playing . Some have strongly opposed the church 's involvement in secular concerns such as civil rights , environmental pollution , and war protests . All of these are not , of course , at the same level of concern . if community and individual practices are not up to the church 's standard of wholesomeness and decency , it has an obligation to object . It serves as society 's moral conscience ; its task is to create a proper environment and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and development . Its actions are as diverse as the number of denominations , geographical and social regions , and individuals who comprise this great nation . The area of proselytizing in any institution or organization is a difficult one to analyze . Every group wants to expand its membership ; that is a healthy sign of growth . If , however , the principal motive of sponsoring recreation opportunities or participation in the community program is to proselytize , there is a question as to the value of the activities involved . The average church can hardly hope to be a community center , recreationally speaking . This is especially true if other churches are nearby . They may raise objections . It can not hope to be a real community center in any case if denominationalism is predominant . Churches finding themselves under pressure to allow use of their property as the only available place for a community recreation program face a special problem . Objections to using church property are numerous . Members may object to normal breakage and wear on buildings and furnishings . Religious traditions may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity . Difficulty may arise in securing the participation of persons belonging to other faiths . There may be difficulty in securing financial support . Although there is a marked tendency today for churches to participate more liberally in offering their facilities to the community whenever an assurance of service exists , the problem remains . In any case , when the church does make its facilities available for community activities , it should avoid duplication of activities . It should not compete with recreation departments , public schools , playgrounds , settlements , youth groups , and other organizations functioning in the recreation field . Such competition is costly in money , leadership , and energy . Programs should be coordinated . Cooperation between community recreation and park departments and churches can not fail to result in benefit to both . It means support , and help from and to the churches in times of emergency when curtailment of budget or program threatens . Church support can strengthen the municipal recreation and park service which , in turn , adds to the " quality of life " of the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and recreation .  | THE VOLUNTARY YOUTH-SERVING AGENCIES Organized recreation services were initiated largely because of our concern for youth . The social welfare movement of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries served as an impetus for its development . Sensitive philanthropists responded by creating agencies and services with a youth focus . Although recreation was not the central reason for the development of many of these programs , it was one of the essential ingredients and has remained a major thrust of the more than 100 national youth organizations which currently exist in the United States . The voluntary youth-serving agency is a major partner in the organized recreation movement . It joins with the public interest in serving that age group which society has deemed to be central to its recreation programming . The voluntary agencies draw their support from private donations , United Funds , and from the budgets of many of their parent organizations . Educational groups , family life agencies , fraternal and patriotic orders , and religious bodies have youth programs . Probably the best-known of these are the YM and YWCAs , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Girls , the Catholic Youth Organization , and the YM and YWHA . There is also a general youth movement stimulated largely by youth itself in an attempt to gain those things it wants and believes it should have . This effort may be a kind of rebellion against the barriers between generations , or an effort to express in some dynamic way the interest of adolescents in freedom and democracy . This is evidenced through the many youth centers and teenage organizations springing up here and there under a diversity of leadership and influences and not affiliated in any way with established agencies . Statistics reveal many real problems related to youth . These are found in the records on juvenile delinquency , broken homes , undesirable environments , and underprivileged children . Here again the youth-serving agencies are prominent in attempting to provide adequately for youth and to ameliorate , eliminate , and prevent pathological or antisocial conditions . Several of the federal government 's efforts in the war on poverty ( Upward Bound , NYC , YES ) stressed the importance of positive recreat ion experiences as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Also , these programs provided service opportunities for the more fortunate as well as occasions for youth of different social classes and racial backgrounds to meet and discover each other as citizens of the same community . " There is a great cry regarding juvenile delinquency . Too much  | emphasis , however , has been negative . We need a positive view ; we need to substitute " youth adequacy " for " juvenile delinquency . " Adequate facilities , adequate leadership , adequate opportunities along all lines may help prevent trouble . There is an enormous amount of goodwill and interest directed toward building adequately for youth . This is true in all fields of community service , recreation , health , education , welfare , religion , and family life . In the total youth program , recreation assumes a prominent place . Many public and private agencies on national , state , and local levels are established for ministering to the recreation needs of youth . Although they may differ in emphasis and structure , their recreation activities are similar . Studies and experience reveal , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youth throughout the years , the sum total of service in relation to need is inadequate . A charge of duplication , overlapping , and unnecessary competition among youth services is frequently made . The accusation may be justified to a certain extent , but by and large the facts show that there is room for multiplied resources . Most youth-serving agencies recently have had large increases in membership , greater numbers of paid and volunteer workers , planned programs of larger scope , more generous donors , expanding treasuries , better areas and facilities . The following material provides brief descriptions of the major types of youth-serving agencies currently providing recreation and leisure services for this age group . ADULT-LED ORGANIZATIONS WORKING WITH YOUTH A number of community organizations devoted entirely to youth are sponsored and operated by adults . These are the groups best known by the public . Although it is impossible to mention all of them , a few are presented to illustrate the potential values and opportunities to community life . In this group are such organizations as the Boy Scouts of America , Boys ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Girl Scouts of the United States of America , the Junior Red Cross of the American Red Cross , Red Shield Clubs of the Salvation Army , and the YMCA and YWCA . American Junior Red Cross The Junior Red Cross is an international organization of elementary and secondary school students in more than forty-five countries . It aims to develop a spirit of service and friendship among young people  | throughout the world . The program of this organization fulfills these aims through such activities as service to veterans and local institutions , the National Children 's Fund , educational gift boxes , and international and intersectional correspondence . Its program is designed to be developed through the school program . Boys ' Clubs of America Boys ' Clubs of America is a national federation of Boys ' Clubs in the United States . The purpose of the organization , which was begun in 1906 , is the guidance of boys in health , physical , mental , vocational , social , and character development through the improvement and expansion of the Boys ' Club movement . The organization furnishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , administration , operation , and expansion , and free service to community groups in the establishment of Boys ' Clubs . It provides an advisory field service by trained men ; studies programs and methods of Boys ' Clubs ; recruits , trains , and places men in Boys ' Club work ; conducts training courses , conferences , and institutes ; provides consultation service in the alteration , expansion , and construction of buildings , furnishings , and equipment , and in the care and upkeep of buildings ; and publishes booklets and bulletins of value to Boys ' Clubs and to the promotion of the movement . The organization is supported by contributions , by income from endowment , and by membership fees . In 1969 , it served over 800,000 boys in some 800 separate centers across the country . It is primarily an urban-oriented program . Boy Scouts of America The purpose of scouting is to promote character building and citizenship training by providing a wide range of activities under trained , volunteer leadership . Its program is adapted to the following age groups : Cub @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 years of age ; Boy Scouting , a vigorous outdoor program for boys 11 years and older ; Exploring , with activities adapted to boys 14 years of age and older . Essential elements in all programs are the ideas of the Scout Oath and Law and service to others . Its magazine is Boy 's Life . The scouting program is varied and involves both youth and adults . Since its conception in 1910 , over 35 million boys have been members of the Boy Scouts of America . Camping and outdoor activities have been its major focus ; more recently the Boy Scouts have given much attention to urban-oriented activities . Merit badges can now be earned in astronomy and landscape architecture as well as in bird study and canoeing . Although the Boy Scouts have been regarded as a middle-class orga-  | nization , they do have an active program in the inner city and have even developed troops for the retarded and blind residing in institutions . In 1968 they launched their " Boy Power 76 " program , a national campaign to expand their offerings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " rural youth . They rely heavily upon voluntary help , as is characteristic of most youth-serving groups . Camp Fire Girls Camp Fire Girls , Inc. , has as its primary purposes perpetuating the spiritual ideals of the home and stimulating and aiding in the formation of habits making for health and character . Girls rich and poor , of every race , color , or creed , between the ages of 7 and 18 enjoy the organization 's leisure program . The organization is composed of three groups : Blue Birds for girls 7 to 10 , Camp Fire Girls for girls 10 to 15 , and the Horizon Club for girls 15 to 18 . The official magazine is The Camp Fire Girl . 4-H Clubs The 4-H Clubs are composed of over 2 million young people engaged in farming , home-making , or community activities under the guidance of Farm and Home agents and local volunteer leaders trained by the agents . Each group elects its own officers , plans and conducts programs based on the needs and interests of the young people , holds regular meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4-H stands for Head , Heart , Hand , and Health development and progress . Demonstrations conducted by the members center around such activities as foodgrowing , poultry-raising , sewing , and industrial household arts . State agricultural colleges and the United States Department of Agriculture provide bulletins , leaflets , and other materials . Girl Scouts of the United States of America The purpose of the Girl Scouts is to help girls realize the ideals of womanhood as a preparation for their responsibilities in the home and community . The organization aims to give girls , through a series of developmental experiences , a program designed to make them useful , responsible citizens . Emphasis is placed on training to develop initiative , self-control , self-reliance , and service to others . The organization favors no creed , party , or sect , but cooperates with any organization which shares its views . The governing body of the Girl Scouts is its National Council with local councils in communities . The basic principles of girl  | scouting are found in the " Promise " and the " Laws . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age range of the four grade divisions of the public schools . They are : Brownies ? primary grades , Juniors ? elementary grades , Cadets ? junior high grades , and Seniors ? senior high grades . YMCA , YWCA , and YHA Basically , there are two types of youth-serving organizations : those which put their major investment in programs , using facilities where they may be found and relying heavily upon volunteer leadership ; and those agencies which construct their own facilities , program therein , and rely heavily upon a professional staff to operate the service . The Boy and Girl Scouts are typical of the first group ; the YMs and YWs are characteristic of the second . The Young Men 's Christian Association is one of the oldest youthserving organizations , having been established in England in the mid1800s . Each agency has its national office , but the programs are managed by local boards . There were approximately 2000 YMCAs with over 6 million members in 1970 in the United States . Although the YMCA and YWCA were begun as Christian groups , primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they no longer function in that capacity . Approximately one-fourth of the membership of the YMCA is female , and a rather high percentage is over the age of 21 . The YWCA now has male members ; and neither group now stresses a sectarian affiliation as a requisite for membership . Both the YM and YWCAs have active youth programs emphasizing health , social activities and educational programs . In some communities , these groups tend to be middle-income-oriented , while in others , programs are primarily for the poor and underprivileged . Among the more active programs for high school youths are the Hi-Y and the Y-Teens . Social and service activities characterize these programs . The Young Hebrew Associations provide similar programs for Jewish youth . Like the YM and YWCAs , the Young Hebrew Associations do not consider themselves recreation agencies but rather community agencies providing a social service with a strong religious component . Social group work concepts and educational concerns may be found in the program efforts of all the Ys . In addition to the numerous nationally affiliated agencies cited , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fund and other local , private interests for support . They are very similar in their purpose : to provide recreation and leisure services for young  | people so that their full potential can be achieved . Many of these have special concern for the poor and the disadvantaged ; others appeal primarily to middle-income groups . All add to the recreation opportunities provided for the community . SUPPLEMENTARY YOUTH GROUPS A large number of groups for youth are sponsored by adult organizations either to recruit members from the youth groups or to promote specific attitudes and standards held by the parent body . Although recreation is not the major basis of the program of any of these organizations , it serves the purposes of the membership by stimulating socialization , interest , and loyalty . Fraternal orders , patriotic societies , labor unions , and religious sects offer the best illustrations of this type of youth group , and it has a significant place in community life . The Junior Order of Elks , the Order of DeMolay of the Masons , the Children of the American Revolution , branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Catholic Youth Organization , the National Jewish Welfare Board , and the Christian Endeavor Society offer illustrations of this type . ADULT COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS INTERESTED IN YOUTH RECREATION There are many community and national civic organizations which , while interested , are not organized to advance primarily the cause of recreation . The following groups are typical : the American Legion , the American Farm Bureau Federation , the Federation of Women 's Clubs , the Federation of Business and Professional Women 's Clubs , the Junior Chamber of Commerce , the Junior Service Leagues , Rotary , Kiwanis , Lions , Optimist , the National Congress of Parents and Teachers , Police Athletic Leagues , the New York City Mission Society , and the National Grange . These programs range from sponsorship of youth recognition days to active support of comprehensive youth service centers and organizations . YOUTH-DIRECTED GROUPS Some youth centers are planned and directed by youth . Although the number and type of programs have varied in recent years , the pattern  | of activity and organization has remained much the same . The emphasis is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing its own leadership with a minimum of adult advice . Adult groups often encourage the establishment of these centers in answer to community youth problems . No community should believe that the establishment of such a center will solve all the problems of youth . That calls for multiple action and the mobilization of the community 's entire resources . The teenage club movement is but one force on the whole front . It has , however , a definite contribution to make and can fill a need and be most constructive in community well-being . The following are some of the characteristics of the teenage club movements : 1 . Many have sprung up independently , sometimes because of initiative of a group of parents , a leading citizen , a civic organization , a particular youth club , police officials , or a family group . Where this is the case , youth centers often do not have adequate and permanent financial backing . 2 . Youth-serving agencies , such as the YWCA and the YMCA sponsor youth centers in their local headquarters , giving the youth group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ club activities . In these cases the club is one phase of the regular agency program . 3 . One of the most popular developments in the teenage club movement is the cooperation between school boards and recreation authorities in arranging a schedule in which the school and its facilities are available to community and neighborhood groups for recreation . Certain rooms in a school are turned over to responsible groups for youth activities . These groups share responsibility for use of the building and for their work with the school officials . 4 . Some churches have opened up Sunday school rooms for teenclub activities . In this case the church board and the recreation leaders work out administrative and program responsibilities . The church center is usually not strictly denominational , but allows the youth of the community or neighborhood to use the facilities . 5 . Public recreation and park departments sponsor youth centers . Facilities are made available in the community center , playground area , or a specific building rented for the purpose . It is certainly a responsibility of a public recreation and park agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly more varied . The program of service entered into by these self-directed youth groups include operating youth employment exchanges , raising funds for community  | causes , conducting radio and TV shows , and serving in advisory roles to local civic , legal , and governmental groups . Naturally , any local community can formulate its own program and may not follow all of these practices . It would , in fact , be valuable to introduce unique and interesting features into the set-up . Experience shows that youth will respond to the challenge of having its own organization . The club should have as much of the teenage flavor as possible . This should , of course , be tempered with understanding adult guidance . Youth needs and expects such guidance , but it wants to be involved in setting its own policies , programs , and course of action . THE SCHOOL AND RECREATION There is a fraternal relationship between learning and recreation . They both stem from man 's desire to understand and master the world around him . The Greek scholars were aware of this relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for exploration . They , too , knew that much of man 's discoveries comes through pleasure seeking and that the memory is enhanced when the learning environment is satisfying . The public and private school system has played a vital role in providing recreation opportunities . Recreation in the schools of the United States is not exactly new . The Latin School in Salem , Massachusetts , opened its outdoor physical educational facilities for recreation use as early as 1821 , and New York City opened school buildings as evening recreation centers in 1888 . Not only have educators accepted the " worthy use of leisure time " as one of the objectives of education , many schools have recognized their obligations in recreation and are committed to meeting them . School authorities have supplemented the programs of physical activity in the elementary and secondary schools with activities in the graphic , plastic , and manual arts , and in music , drama , and social recreation . A variety of recreation opportunities , including the use of such school facilities as the gymnasium , swimming pool , library , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the out-of-school population in a number of public school systems . School laws and codes in a number of states are liberal in their provision for the recreation services of the public schools . This is especially true in Pennsylvania , New York , Wisconsin , and California . Even so , it can not be said that the national trend is toward administering local public recreation systems under the jurisdiction of boards of education or school districts . Effective local public recretit ion and park programs can be found in  | places of varying sizes and locations . In some large metropolitan cities the boards of education sponsor the same type of community recreation programs as do other municipal and county departments . Typical are New York , Chicago , and Los Angeles . Somewhat smaller cities , such as Milwaukee and Newark , have offered extension public recreation services of high quality for decades . Still smaller cities , such as Flint , Michigan , and Madison , Wisconsin , present unique public-school-conducted recreation opportunities for the entire population . Monterey , Pasadena , and Long Beach , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical of school systems which have pooled resources to gain fine recreation programs . In most smaller communities , the population depends upon the schools to meet their recreation service needs . Often in the small town , the school is the only public group which has the facilities needed for recreation . The consolidated school in sparsely settled rural districts is typical . THE RESOURCES OF THE SCHOOLS In addition to the fact that the values of recreation are often the same as those of education , the school has resources which are frequently identical to those which are needed for the recreation experience . A physical plant ? indoor and outdoor facilities ? is needed for recreation programs , and the schools have this . Auditoriums , gymnasiums , swimming pools , shops , libraries , club rooms , and specialized facilities , such as darkrooms for photography , are necessary for indoor recreation . Playing space for games , ball diamonds , tennis courts , gridirons , picnic areas , and facilities for swimming , fishing , and camping are among facilities needed outdoors . There is need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field . Many school systems have such facilities within their jurisdiction ? facilities acquired or purchased , developed , and maintained with public funds . Moreover , the centers of these facilities are properly located for community use because they are planned to be accessible to the school population . The elementary school is in the neighborhood , and if properly planned and located , it may include space for the neighborhood playground . Similarly , the junior or senior high school , serving a given district of the city or county , can be and often is the location of the playfield with facilities for sports and athletics . There is little to be gained in including various kinds of recreation facilities in a school building unless the structure is open and available to the comnluuity . Couununity use can not have a priority claim over  | school use of school facilities ? and this is , admittedly , a clear disadvantage for community recreation ? but there are too many school buildings that have recreation facilities which could and should be available for afterschool recreation and which are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used for the dual purpose of education and community recreation , there is the problem of scheduling and coordinating the uses in a way that will best serve both needs . There are two developments in the modern world of public education which are directly related to the challenges of leisure and , therefore , community recreation . Although they express themselves in the tangible form of facilities , they are quite as much concepts as combinations of space and structure . Because they are not without their proponents and detractors , it is pertinent here to know what they represent . Reference is made to the community-school and continuing education concepts . COMMUNITY SCHOOLS Beginning with the work of the Mott Foundation in Flint , Michigan , the community-school concept has enjoyed modest success . The concept holds the school to be the major governmental institution serving neighborhood areas . As such , the school program should go beyond the traditional formal educational services and provide adult education , recreation programs , and related services . Its proponents state that school facilities should be used as community centers , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its library and its various laboratories for all people in the neighborhood in the interests of community growth and development . They also hold that a separate faculty should staff the community school after the formal hours of instruction are completed . In this approach , the school board coordinates the overall program , which sometimes also includes a health component . Although many local school boards are somewhat hesitant to expand their services or to seek additional funds for implementation of the community-school concept , the concept does have merit and suggests that school buildings , like all other public facilities , should be available to the public at its discretion and not according to the dictates of school officials . Adult Education . The practice of offering special educational privileges to adults is widespread , and many types of instruction are given in continuation schools , night schools , colleges , and by correspondence . Courses include , but are not limited to , citizenship training , parent education , elementary and secondary school courses , vocational courses , and university courses . Offerings may include driver education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as oil painting , sculpture ,  | instrumental music , bridge , dancing , physical conditioning , photography , and sewing are often in the curriculum . Business courses , education , and current events are just a few of the interest areas found in adult education programs . There is no clear line between adult education and adult recreation , any more than there is between education and recreation under other conditions . When the program is guided by definite scholastic requirements , and accredited for diplomas and degrees , it can be regarded as adult education . The difference can not be established in terms of activity or experience . The motive or reason for participating and the attitude toward the activity are more dependable determinants of which is one and which the other . CONTINUING EDUCATION Continuing education is aimed not only at the middle-aged but also at the youth who leave school before they should , the older adult , and the senior citizens . Adult education in the past was provided mainly through the Agricultural Extension Service , college and university extension services , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informal groups have made their contributions . In the future we can expect part of the responsibility to be carried also by public and private agencies whose primary functions are related to the use . of leisure . In fact , almost every responsible organization , local , state , or national , which expects financial support through either tax or private funds will offer some kind of continuing education . This is quite as true of the hospital and family welfare agency as it is of the library and the community college . Continuing education will broaden its interests from instruction in traditional academic subjects , simple occupational skills , citizenship training , and light avocational interests to the highest kinds of knowledge which probe and enlarge the human mind . Consequently , we can expect continuing education to be more extensive , more varied , more innovative , and more flexible . It will also be more democratic , with more two-way communication between student and teacher , and , if carefully planned and executed , it will be more meaningful than any form of organized education the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout life , life itself will be the core of the curriculum ! The United States already has the launching pad in the community service programs provided by Title I of the 1-ligher Education Act of 1965 . Continuing education can concern itself with furthering professional  | education or life enrichment . It is the latter which has grown so rapidly in the last several decades and which will make up the greater part of continuing education as leisure increases . There is already in the United States an insatiable demand for general adult , or continuing , education . There will be phenomenal increase in all forms of it in the future . THE ROLE OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM IN SERVING RECREATION Because the school is an essential and potent institution and force in a democracy , it is not possible to define its ultimate role . The school must change with the changing needs of those it serves . This is evident , if we accept the contention that the school is sound only to the extent that it supports and develops understanding and learning , aids full personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society . With these reservations in mind then , and in terms of the preceding material in this chapter , the role of the local public school system in serving recreation and parks might be set down as follows : To educate for leisure . The school is admirably suited to help people , particularly the young , acquire attitudes and values , develop appreciations , interests , and skills , as well as opportunities to use their leisure satisfyingly and positively . To provide recreation opportunities and services . The school has a responsibility to provide recreation opportunities for the school population and , where needed and feasible , extension recreation services for the entire population . To develop and use its physical resources for recreation . Education is the primary function of the school , and its physical plant must be so oriented . The school , with its areas , facilities , and equipment , also should be designed and used for recreation ( within the school day and after ) . To guide , counsel , and advise . Just as the modern school makes available counseling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vocational considerations , so should it advise and guide on matters related to the recreative use of leisure and professional careers in recreation and parks and related fields . To prepare individuals for serving in leadership capacities . The school is the institution to which society must turn for its manpower in any field . A leisure-centered society needs both professional and volunteer assistance in large numbers . We depend upon the school to prepare such personnel for challenging tasks . To orchestrate its responsibilities , irrtr ? rr ? sls , and res0111rr ? .1 for ter real inn and parks with those of other rurnuruniry instirurinn.c. 1mpu1tant , 111 ( 1  | essential as the school is in serving the recreation interests of the people , in no sense does it have an exclusive responsibility . Therefore , its efforts can bring the best results when they are interwoven with the efforts of other community institutions , agencies , and groups . THE CHALLENGE As Arnold Toynbee has said , " The creative use of leisure by a minority in societies in process of civilization has been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In this sense then , leisure is the finest of all human goods . The school and college of a democracy , while aligning themselves with the needs of all , must meet the challenges of a vast new leisure . Schools and colleges , as cultural institutions , do not stand alone . They stand with the habits , values , and behavior of the society they serve . They stand with what is done in the home and in the community , with what people do to make a living , but also with how people live . Their future program must be shaped accordingly . In a world that places a high premium on science , too often as a means of keeping one nation more powerful than another , it is easy to forget that the most important subject of the human race , and hence of education , is , or should be , man . Not powerful , affluent , and possessive man , but resourceful , selfless , and creative man ? and with leisure , recreative man ! Our schools and colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop interests , nurture values , and sharpen skills which go far beyond those needed in the world of work to those called for in living a full life . These skills will need to be those which aid body development and motor coordination , as well as those which contribute to our safety and survival . They will have to include the qualities which will help make young people articulate , aid them in the social graces , and encourage them to use their hands creatively . Knowledge which helps us understand our universe , savor all life , and come close to nature must also come into the mainland of the school and college program . Add to these the need for youth to learn to create and appreciate music , to express themselves through the written , spoken , and acted word , and make fine literature a living part of their daily lives , and the immensity of the task is cornprehended . The real test of our future schools and institutions of higher learning will be their capacity to help persons prepare not for a work-centered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will eventually have to give themselves up , emotionally and intellectually .  | EMPLOYEE RECREATION The growth of industry and business is one of the most significant phenomena in the United States and Canada . Economic policies and procedures , employment , production , distribution , control of goods , and the operating processes of the economic order are assuming gigantic proportions in the national life . Outstanding in this movement is the growing recognition of the place of recreation in the industrial and business world . Employer and employee are cooperating with the community in providing recreation opportunities for the worker and his family . Although employee recreation is not new , its phenomenal advance through recognition by business and industry , management and labor , is significant . The term employee recreation does not mean any special brand of recreation . It is rather the application of recreation to a particular environment or sponsorship . It is the provision for and by the workers of wholesome leisure interests linked in one way or another to their place of employment . The term does not apply only to large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firms such as banks , insurance companies , department stores , utilities , transportation lines , service firms , and other business organizations . Many of these firms have well-organized recreation programs , sponsor camps , have teams in sports leagues , stage dramatic productions , promote bands and choruses , and serve other recreation interests of employees . Technology has brought with it many problems that call for adjustments in the interests of individual and social well-being ? shorter work hours , specialization , monotony in work , health hazards , absenteeism , strikes , and early retirement . Recreation as an adjunct of industrial life plays an increasingly important , if not immediately discernible , part in helping to alleviate some of these problems . TYPES OF EMPLOYEE RECREATION There are a number of ways in which the industrial recreation program can be administered : ( 1 ) some programs are sponsored entirely by management , which provides all areas and facilities and operates the program with little or no cost to the worker ; ( 2 ) in some cases management provides the capital outlay for areas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employee ; ( 3 ) under the membership plan , the employer provides areas and facilities , and the employees main-  | tain and operate the program ; ( 4 ) some employee recreation programs are planned , financed , and operated entirely by employees ; ( 5 ) under the association type , public recreation departments and organizations such as the Young Men 's Christian Association operate the program for the industries of the community or , as in the case of YMCA , the program is managed by employers and employees who are members ; and there are situations where the company finances the community program , especially in company towns . In a number of communities there is even joint action for the building of areas and facilities and the operation of the recreation program . Several industries pool resources for community programs , especially in industrial towns and cities . The Milwaukee County Industrial Recreation Council , Incorporated , sponsored by a number of plants in that city , is a good illustration of this type . Employee recreation provides direct contact between employees and management by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These men deal directly with management and employees . The Recreation Council holds meetings monthly . At these sessions each firm has one vote . The meetings frequently develop into a problem clinic at which firms just entering the recreation field can obtain answers to their problems . The community recreation program is sometimes utilized by industry . In this case , the industry neither provides areas and facilities nor operates a program . Instead , it makes liberal contributions to the community program in volunteer leadership and finances and expects its workers to participatq in an overall community program . This pattern is most desirable in places where the industry is but a part of the community and where the workers do not live in company houses located in one section of the community . ADMINISTRATIVE FACTORS Leadership Ideally , when a firm decides to undertake a recreation program , there should be within the industry or business a recreation department directed and staffed by professional recreators . Until this stage is reached , however , some program direction can be provided by interested plant personnel , skilled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or a member of his staff may be able to sponsor a few recreation activities with volunteer support . Committees of employees , groups of volunteers , committees of employers and employees , and trade-union committees can be of invaluable assistance . Their conlbiued effort is desirable .  | In some cases , where management provides areas and facilities , the program is operated by employee groups . Although employees should be encouraged to help organize their own activities , full-time paid leadership is invaluable for effective operation . Part-time paid leaders are the next best substitute . Often , the community recreation director and his staff can help the company program . Many tax-supported community recreation and park programs serve industries . Private agency leadership , too , can and does function effectively with industrial groups . But studies show that companies employing full-time paid leaders have large and generally more effective programs . Finances There are many methods of financing industrial recreation . Among these are : a . Company financing b . Employee recreation association dues c . Profits from vending machines , snack bars , canteens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ e . Activity dues or assessments Most programs are financed through a combination of these fund sources . It is wise to have a fixed financial policy . All who are interested in the program and benefit by it should share the financial burden . The socalled " free " program is not satisfying . On the other hand , employees should not be taxed for the total costs . Cooperative , joint financing has many values . Activities that are expensive to operate , which involve awards and prizes , or which call for special instruction , should be selfsupporting . Funds should be budgeted on an equitable basis and proper accounting and auditing principles followed . Areas and Facilities The company may or may not supply some or all of the equipment and facilities . The latter include indoor centers ? skating rinks , bowling lanes , tennis courts , and even country clubs ; outdoor areas ? fields , tracks , swimming pools , and camps . Company facilities are frequently supplemented by public and private facilities in the community and by those operated under the auspices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as bowling lanes , dance halls , skating rinks , swim-  | ming pools , and theaters . Often a facility or an area is a gift or is built as a memorial , with funds derived from contributions and drives . In recent years there has been a trend toward the development of tracts of land on the outskirts of towns as centers for company recreation rather than using facilities adjacent to the plant , or community facilities . Typical illustrations are the employee recreation parks of Frigidaire in Dayton , Ohio , Scoville Manufacturing Company in Waterbury , Connecticut , the State Farm Insurance Companies in Bloomington , Illinois , and International Business Machines in Endicott and Poughkeepsie , New York , 3M Company , St. Paul , Minnesota and Honeywell , Inc. , Minneapolis , Minnesota . LABOR ORGANIZATIONS Labor organizations and their many local branches sponsor recreation services ( 1 ) as an important part of regular meetings ; ( 2 ) by conducting for the membership such activities as picnics , play days , excursions , parties , and dances ; ( 3 ) through cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by encouraging the promotion of a well-rounded community program ; ( 5 ) by serving as representatives on recreation commissions , boards , councils , and advisory committees ; ( 6 ) by participating in training institutes , conferences , and workshops . The International Recreation Department of the United Automobile Workers ? AFL-CIO was established in 1937 . The Department 's stated objectives are as follows : 1 . To provide recreation for all UAW members and their families without racial discrimination ; 2 . To unite the union through the common understanding inherent in leisure-time activities ; 3 . To offset the " spider-to-the-fly " technique of management , which so often catches workers in the web-of-wooing with the offer of enticing recreation programs ; 4 . To provide leadership training opportunities to union rank-and-file members through recreational organization ; 5 . To link the union to the community through the use of community facilities , and through cooperation with community recreation leaders ; 6 . To provide each member and his family with the benefits of professional recreation leadership for a minimum cost to the worker ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all American workers in every industry . Perhaps the best example of recreation programs sponsored by the 1 ' . ' is that provided by the Detroit Area Recreation Council . As the  | need has arisen for citywide instruction on a broad scale , classes have been organized in dancing , sewing , golf , and swimming . Citywide competition has been carried on through leagues and tournaments in softball , basketball , bowling , baseball , and an annual ice skating meet . More recent activities include archery , camping , golf , horseshoes , leadership training , outings , table tennis , and target shooting . As with most private , voluntary agency programs , industrial organizations have had to face the issue of duplication and justify the continuing of their recreation services in light of the expanding park and recreation promotions of governmental agencies . Because industries and their employees are taxpayers , and because the local park and recreation programs are supported by tax funds , why should the industry or its labor groups provide services that are the legitimate responsibility of the community ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an unnecessary expense . On the other side of the ledger , industrial recreation programs generally are not a duplication of the public recreation services . In many instances , they are the basic recreation service of the community , and in others , they embellish the recreation opportunities of their employees . Industrial recreation has been a major element of the organized park and recreation system for several decades . Its role is undergoing change but its advocates are increasing in number . With the need for more programs in which workers can identify with the company and have a sense of partnership and community , the attractiveness of industrial recreation services increases . The National Industrial Recreation Association . In response to the growth of industrial recreation as a bona fide concern , the National Industrial Recreation Association was organized in 1941 . Its major objective is to promote and assist in the development of employee recreation programs . Some 900 major companies are members of the organization . It is estimated that these organizations employ over 1000 industrial recreation directors and administer over 600 park and recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and camps . Only companies can be members of the National Industrial Recreation Association . The Association 's primary services to its members include providing reviews of new developments in industrial recreation ; producing manuals for the establishment and evaluation of industrial programs ; publishing Recreation Management , the national magazine of recreation in business and industry ; sponsoring and conducting research on industrial recreation problems ; providing an individual informational service ; sponsoring conferences for the exchange of ideas among industrial recreation leaders ; conducting national tournaments in such activities as bridge , golf , bowling , etc. ; and sponsoring an annual  | national conference on employee recreation . The Association provides valuable leadership for the industrial recreation movement . OTHER PRIVATE INTERESTS No development of the private , voluntary recreation services would be complete without mentioning the numerous private recreation groups . There is no precise count of the number of country clubs , recreation associations , and special recreation interest groups , such as swim and tennis clubs , that exist in the United States . For many individuals , recreation has always been a private concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreation interests and opportunities . Sociologists tell us there is a relationship between the extent of these programs and the affluence of the society . The presence of the semi-exclusive opportunities is directly related to economic affluence and the desire for activity with selected friends in an association movement . They would see the development of these programs as a divisive factor , a further segregation of people into compartmentalized segments . They hold that the natural extension of this trend will relegate public recreation to serve only the disadvantaged , handicapped , and economically deprived . On the other hand , many individuals who participate in private recreation opportunities also utilize public recreation facilities . The private interest groups tend to be very selective in the kind of facilities they develop and truly supplement the community 's efforts rather than detract from them . Their presence does tend to create an economic conservatism when recreation bond elections and increased recreation taxes occur . The same argument could be offered , however , by the proponents of commercial recreation , who hold that the provision of recreation opportunities is the function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a coordination of the many recreation interests in the community is necessary if a comprehensive recreation-park service is to be provided . Diversity of opportunity is most assured when private , public , and commercial interests are promoting recreation opportunities . Conflicting philosophies and apparent competition for public support does exist when all of these elements are present , but their presence does benefit the community . The question is one of the role and function of each element of the system . To some extent that decision is made in each community each year , as its people contribute to United Fund drives , approve municipal budgets for parks and recreation , and expend monies for personal pleasure .  | FOOTNOTES 1 . Opening paragraph of a pamphlet , Why Church Recreation Programs ? Chicago Recreation Commission . 2 . Daniel Schores , Our Ministry to Resort Areas ( Philadelphia : Board of Mission of the Methodist Church , 1963 ) .  | ECONOMICS OF LEISURE AND TOURISM The United States is a nation of working people who , with the highest standard of living in the world , see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to say that the old Puritanical concept of work as a virtue and play as " being of Satan " does not still prevail in some quarters . However , even though the importance of the recreative expression is gaining the prestige it deserves , its justification has been based largely , and rightly , upon what it contributes to the social , physical , and mental growth of the individual and the well-being and progress of society . As stated previously , the organized recreation system is comprised of three major elements ? public recreation , private agency or voluntary service recreation , and commercial recreation . The latter element affects the largest number of people and is a major force in the economy of the United States . Although many of the organizations and agencies which provide the bulk of the commercial recreation opportunities do not consider themselves recreation agencies , they constitute the backbone of individual recreation services . It is they who provide the equipment and t he home entertainment and recreation travel opportunities for millions of people .  | THE ECONOMICS OF LEISURE One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is little need to produce goods unless they are consumed . Indeed , the final purpose of all economic processes is the use or consumption of goods and services . Unless there is production , there is no supply . If there is no consumption , there is no demand . The economy of a society depends upon production and consumption , supply and demand . If goods and services are to be consumed , people must want them and have the money to purchase them . They must also have the time to use them ? hours available beyond the time needed to produce the goods . This is the leisure time , the consumption time , the time which becomes increasingly significant , economically , in a leisure-centered society . As Frederick Winship , United Press International Senior Editor , wrote : Recreational pastimes had a bumper year in 1972 as Americans with increasing amounts of leisure sought pleasure in boating , tennis , skiing , golf , cycling , snorkeling , snowmobiling , riding , bowling , camping , pool , chess , backgammon ? and just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and games enjoying increased popularity , 1973 promises to involve a record number of persons in good-life activities . The leisure-time market now accounts for a total expenditure of one hundred billion dollars , more than the cost of national defense.I Charged with preparing a public outdoor recreation plan , the California Public Outdoor Recreation Plan Committee had to look not at the economics of leisure , but at the economics of recreation . In this connection , it saw recreation as having three types of financial benefits : ( I ) The value to the area , derived from the introduction of " new " money spent by visitors and the circulation of the money in the area due to the stimulation of the money spent by them ; ( 2 ) the appreciation of the property values due to stimulated business and increased interest in the area ; ( 3 ) the value , appraised in dollars , that could be considered a minimum worth for that recreation to the user , whether or not he has to pay for it.2 In other words , a community or an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Visitors spend money in the places they visit , and this can be a real economic advantage . Also , recreation resources  | have a positive influence on land and property values . The advantages here accrue to those who own property in the area and to the public generally , because property values increase , thus raising assessment revenues . Finally , although measurement is difficult because of the intangibles involved , multiple use projects can add recreation as another function and make it count economically . A reservoir , for example , has its primary economic potential in its usefulness for irrigation , power , and flood control . But if the reservoir is also developed and used for recreation , part of its cost can be allocated to recreation . The economics of leisure and recreation are closely related to our values . George Soule tells us that the economic developments which have brought more leisure to more people in the United States have been the increases in production and in the size of the labor force in relation to the population . He says that whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have resulted from the workers ' deliberate choice of free time ( i.e. , attaining the shorter work week ) over real income ( i.e. , working longer hours for more money ) .3 This choice , of course , is not evident among all of the labor force . Some may choose to " moonlight " ? that is to hold a second job ? while others may choose to spend more time in community services and education pursuits . Whatever choice is made then ? working longer hours for more ircome , or having more leisure , more free time , and perhaps more time in which to consume more goods and services ? will influence the economy . RECREATION AN ECONOMIC FACTOR Recreation also contributes immeasurably to the economy of the nation and the economic stability of countless communities . Aside from the billions of dollars spent on commercial recreation of all kinds , community recreation is recognized as a strong economic factor in our national life . It makes communities more desirable places for home-owners , business investors , and industrialists and creates wider markets for capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States Department of Commerce has said that " towns are held together more frequently by religious , social , and recreational attractions than by plain business transactions . " People want to do business and establish their homes where they can live comfortably and where they most enjoy themselves . Family satisfaction can not be purchased through the paycheck alone . An atmosphere of friendliness and neighborliness is essential . When a family moves out of town because it is unhappy there , it takes its taxes with it . " l'I-e town loses both the people and their financial support . That is definitely bad business .  | Industries try to locate their plants near raw materials and markets , thus lowering costs of transportation . They are interested in locations where their taxes and overhead will be at a minimum . They are also concerned with the availablility and cost of skilled labor and finding places where labor-management problems will be few . Adequate recreation facilities and opportunities , nevertheless , are among the first considerations of industrial management in determining plant locations . Something more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits is needed to attract and keep workers on the job . Recruiting and training workers is expensive . Consequently , anything that can be done to help reduce labor turnover ? such as making available recreation opportunities for employees and their families ? is desirable . Under certain conditions recreation helps increase land and property values , especially if recreation and park areas are properly beautified , maintained , and operated . Many are convinced that recreation services also reduce accident and health expenses by helping to keep people alert and healthy . Law enforcement authorities have for many years believed that if more were spent for wholesome recreation from childhood through adulthood there would be less need to spend public money on juvenile delinquency and crime . Recreation not only saves tax money over a period of years , but through commercial recreation pursuits brings billions of dollars into the treasuries of municipalities , counties , states , and the federal government . Hundreds of thousands of men and women earn their living working for scores of industries which produce materials , equipment , and services designed to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States constitutes an important factor in the nation 's economy and accounts for the circulation of billions of dollars . As the recreation movement progresses it will provide work for more people , from laborers and clerks to skilled technicians and professional workers . It will create new economic wealth , which will have a beneficial effect on our standard of living . Americans now and in the future will have more " time off " than any people have ever had since the advent of the Industrial Revolution . Labor-saving devices , the shorter work week , the increased harnessing of productive energy , automation , better and faster transportation , increased family purchasing power , more liberal working conditions , longer vacations , and a higher standard of living among more people make the opportunity to recreate a reality for most of us . One has only to remember that for many leisure time is " consumption time . " It is during man 's free time that he goes to shows , takes part in sports , reads books , travels , and spends money . Material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if people have time for them . In the United States they have , and this is why recreation is one of the nation 's most valuable economic assets . Recreation Expenditures There is no accurate accounting for the amount of money Americans spend each year in pursuit of pleasure . The estimates range from $60 to $100 billion annually . According to many economists , the United States has been on a recreation buying spree since 1950 . The census data supports this contention , because expenditures for personal leisure goods and services have increased over 300 percent in the past two decades , the greatest gains occurring since 1965 . In 1970 alone , there were over 8 million bicycles purchased ( $300 million ) , 7 million people owned pleasure boats , $3 billion was expended on hunting and fishing equipment , $2 billion on radios and televisions , and there was an unprecedented expansion of the mobile recreation industry . Some idea of how our discretionary money is spent can be best ascertained from the expenditures cited in Table 1 . Notice the shift figure  | toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the declining percentage expended for admission to amusement centers , movies , and the like . The expenditures listed are not complete by any means . The amount of money spent annually in the United States in which recreation is translated into a business transaction is almost endless . Think of the " odds and ends " of expenses for recreation which people seldom ponder but which have their place in the economy . There is , for example , the $500 million spent annually for hobbycrafts ( e.g. , model airplanes , doit-yourself craft kits , etc. ) and the $101 million which hunters lay out each year just for licenses to trap and shoot game . And it is not surprising to realize that during a twelve-month period Americans spend as much as $5.2 billion traveling abroad , and five times that amount at home . Pleasure travel expenditures for 1971 were in excess of $27 billion.4 The race among cities , states , regions , and nations to attract the tourist and vacation dollar is becoming more and more competitive . For a while recreation and park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real estate development . But in one recent year , 323 new golf courses were opened , 400 more were under construction , and the nation 's total in 1971 was more than 11,000 golf courses.5 The unbelievably large impact which leisure , and the recreative use of it , has on the economy can be illustrated in many ways and in connection with many different kinds of goods and services . For this purpose , let us choose one kind of recreation , baseball , in this instance a physical activity , a sport played only in certain seasons , by males alone , and which does not , by any stretch of the imagination , involve either the largest number of participants or spectators . Let us also choose only one piece of equipment in the game of baseball : a baseball bat . First , the timber must be felled . This requires lumbermen , properly equipped , and conservationists , tree farmers , and foresters to replace the trees . The lumber must be transported to the sawmill and processed there , with all that implies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then sent to the factory , where it is manufactured into a baseball bat . Whoever works in that mill ? lathe operator , polisher , janitor , bookkeeper , or typist ? depends on the product for his living . The product is then advertised , distributed from wholesaler to retailer , and perhaps sold to a major league baseball team . Not only the players ' salaries but also the incomes of the groundskeepers , concession operators , club owners , the television cameramen , and the advertisers of shaving cream are economically affected by the bat . Apply this observation to all the goods and services that are used , recreationally , in leisure , and light is shed on recreation 's economic aspects and potentials . The effects of ' recreation and tourism on a community are enormous .  | faction of the local citizenry , they also add to the economic viability of the social institutions . According to one of our state directors of tourism , tourism has the following consequences : the presence of 100 tourists per day has the same effect as increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $78,000 in tax receipts or enough for funds to support 156 school children . The multiplying effect of this creates $1,120,000 in retail sales , an increase in bank deposits of $144,000 , and support for 7 retail establishments . Recreation is good business ! As indicated before , there is no way of accurately estimating how much is spent each year by the people of the United States for recreation . There is no accounting here of beverages and refreshments consumed in moments of leisure . There is no record of the many leisure uses to which people put goods and materials ordinarily thought to be purchased in connection with existing comfortably . There are other unanswered problems ? how do leisure and recreation reflect themselves , financially , in the kinds of clothes people purchase ? sport clothes , casual clothes , and the like ? To what extent do leisure and recreation influence expenditures for housing and shelter conveniences ? summer cottages , cabins , trailers ? Is the money which young parents spend for babysitters when they go out for an evening a recreation expenditure ? How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the biggest deficiencies , however , is the lack of information on how much people spend for all kinds of travel ( not just travel abroad ) , holidays , and vacations . In addition to these and other items involving leisure and recreation spending , the sums spent by government at the municipal , county , state , and federal levels , by the hundreds of voluntary agencies , institutions , private clubs and organizations , and by real estate developers would also have to be added . Even if the estimated $90 billion annual expenditure for recreation is only partially correct , it adds up to a large share of the national economy , one that can not be looked upon lightly when it comes to the ringing of the cash register . Aside from the financial aspects of the rapid expansion of leisure and the growth of recreation , there is much reason for encouragement in the fact that the tremendous increase of recreation expenditures also reflects ever-increasing participation in recreation activity in contrast with spectator interest . INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION When assessing leisure and recreation and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemn commercial aspects of recreation because so many dollars arc spent for watching rather than doing . Actually I:1I : Ininrrnls of nvllleV : nr cuPnf rin fnrnie nt , 1rtiv ; ry 1441 ; 141 l , , .. , . I. , , .  | individual participation . That this is true is evidenced by the facts that within a year in the USA : ? There were 8 ? million pleasure boats with 6 ? million outboard motors in the nation . ? No less than 4 million males and 3 million females belonged to national bowling organizations . ? More than 35 million people went camping ; there were 48 million camper visitor days to the national forest camp areas alone . ? Better than 28 million went sports fishing , while 14 million chose hunting . ( 600,000 of these hunted with bows and arrows . ) ? Travel abroad was popular with 20 million Americans . ? Gardening claimed 80 million hobbyists . ? Golfing attracted 9.7 million players . ? No fewer than 4y million Americans went in for snow skiing . ? Pitching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bicycling.6.7 To be sure , millions of people prefer spending their recreation dollars to watch others perform . Nevertheless , an increasingly large percentage of the population is getting into the middle of the fun . How about the number of people who play bridge regularly ? They must purchase their cards . How many homes have their own work benches , movable barbecues , and ping pong tables ? Millions of people play golf , purchasing their clubs , balls , and accessories . Amateur sailors , musicians , and photographers are multiplying everywhere . Paperback books sell quickly at newsstands throughout the land , and publishers are declaring increasingly large dividends . GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES AND REVENUES According to available information ( many communities do not report their expenditures ) , over $680 million was spent for the operation and maintenance of slightly less than 1200 municipal and county recreation agencies in 1970 . Authorities spent another $288 million that year on capital improvements.8 Combine these figures with the some $600 million spent by various federal and state agencies on parks and recreation and government involvement becomes a billion-plus activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by state legislatures and the Congress for the acquisition and development ( capital expenditures ) of natural resources and parks . Add to them the millions of dollars which are spent for recreation by state departments of public instruction , conservation , highways , welfare , health , and agriculture , as well as what is spent by state colleges and universities , state recreation commissions ,  | tourist bureaus , and youth commissions , and the results are impressive . To illustrate , the 1970 Census reported that state park revenues ( e.g. , from operated facilities , concessions , entrance , and parking fees ) were more than $70 million in 1970 , as contrasted with $22 million in 1960 and $3 million in 1946.9 Agencies of the federal government also spend public funds to serve recreation needs . Such agencies as the United States Office of Education , the Children 's Bureau , and the Extension Service of the Department of Agriculture have been engaged in recreation pursuits of a limited type for a long time . The Veterans Administration has a comprehensive recreation program . The National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Corp of Engineers have billions invested in lands and projects and in addition spend large amounts annually for the maintenance and operation of facilities which have recreation value . The Public Housing Administration and the Tennessee Valley Authority have had both appropriated and unappropriated funds for recreation . The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation has given leadership to the growth and development of outdoor recreation services by sponsoring workshops , research and curriculum development conferences in addition to administering the Land and Water Conservation Fund . Financial connections between recreation and government are not limited to the expenditure of funds . Recreation is also a means of bringing revenue to the local , state , and federal government . Governmental bodies collect taxes from many sources . Recreation yields property taxes , income taxes , corporation taxes , excise taxes , hunting and fishing taxes , and taxes on coin-operated machines . It has been said that the income tax paid by one celebrated professional entertainer would be enough to pay the salaries of all our congressmen ! In 1965 alone the U.S. Internal Revenue Service collected excise taxes of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets , $29 million on sporting goods ( including fishing rods and firearms ) , $35 million on cameras , $96 million on theaters , concerts , cabarets , and clubs , $19 million on coin-operated amusement and gaming devices , and $5 million on bowling alleys and pool tables.10 A good way to get an idea of the extent to which taxes enter into the recreation and leisure expenses of the people is to ask yourself the following questions : How much in the way of tax revenue is involved when a person Drives a hundred or a thousand miles to camp in a state or national forest ( gasoline tax ) ? Returns from a vacation in Europe with luxury goods ( customs and duties tax ) ?  | Takes his family to the local theater ( admission tax ) ? Purchases a radio , television , or piano ( sales tax ) ? Buys a dog for a pet ( dog license ) ? Owns land or property used for commercial recreation ( property tax ) ? Imports a camera or a sports car ( tariff tax ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , building permits , etc . ) ? Operates a corporation to provide recreation goods and services ( corporation tax ) ? Earns a salary as an entertainer ( income tax ) ? Although the influence of recreation on land and property values is discussed later in the chapter , it is appropriate to mention the subject here in relation to their tax yield . An economic study during the same period of Teton County , Wyoming , where Grand Teton National Park is located , revealed that In 1950 , the year in which the Grand Teton National Park was enlarged , total assessment values of real and personal property amounted to $4.7 million . By 1958 total assessment values increased to $8.2 million . The sales and use tax in Teton County amounted to $76,457 in 1950 . Eight years later revenue from this tax had doubled to amount to $153,704 . During the eight years , the population of Teton County increased 27 per cent , retail sales went up by 79 per cent and bank deposits nearly doubled.11 Finally , it should be pointed out that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Land and Water Conservation Fund from 1965 to 1972 , the bulk of the monies coming from federal recreation fees , net proceeds from the sale of federal surplus real property and the federal motorboat fuels tax.12 INSTITUTIONAL , INDUSTRIAL , AND VOLUNTARY AGENCY EXPENDITURES Of the funds spent for social welfare programs in the United States , a large share is allocated to agencies that serve in the social group work and recreation fields . Depending upon the situation , from 40 to 75 cents of each welfare dollar goes to finance the local work of the health agencies , including hospitals , family and child care services , programs for the handicapped , sheltered workshops , institutions for the aging , maternity home care , and social group work and recreation . Many of these agencies and services , of course , are building-centered . Some of the funds they receive  | may be spent for maintaining facilities other than those used for recreation , as in the case of a YMCA which provides rooms for guests . Nevertheless , the amount of money allocated and spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies have been providing recreational opportunities in summer camps for children of low-income families , or year-round leisure-time activities in community centers and boys ' clubs . A growing number of agencies , however , have been providing recreational opportunities to all , regardless of individual or family income . Few reputable institutions for the dependents , delinquents , and defectives in the population are without recreation facilities and services of some kind . These include penal institutions , homes for the chronically ill , aged , dependent , and maladjusted . The Veterans Administration alone spends from $8 to $10 million annually for recreation services in veterans hospitals . There is no way of knowing the increasing amounts spent for recreation in state and local institutions of all kinds . RECREATION AND EMPLOYMENT Recreation and parks provide gainful employment directly to several million persons in the United States and indirectly to untold numbers . Included are all the producers and distributors of recreation products and services , planners , designers , builders , and maintenance and custodial workers of all types . Included also are recreation and park executives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part-time workers , and even teachers . Recreation increases the need for transportation crews , hotel people , restaurant workers , and gas station attendants . Hundreds of thousands of people are employed in the amusement industry alone . Other tens of thousands are engaged in making recreation projects , operating tourist facilities , and running clubs and organizations . Thousands are employed on a full-time and part-time or seasonal basis in public recreation and park departments and agencies at various levels of government ; in voluntary agencies ; industrial recreation ; and public , voluntary , and privately owned resident and day camps ; hospitals ; rehabilitation centers ; and institutions of all kinds . The Office of Economic Opportunity reported in 1967 that over 40,000 of its workers were performing or had been employed in a recreation-related job . The potential of recreation as a field of work for the so-called " less trained " or those at the aide level is relatively unrealized . With our nation 's economy becoming more service-oriented , recreation and parks may be the next major employer . According to the Recreation-Park Manpower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association , over 150,000  | people are now employed in the local public park and recreation sector alone . Over 500,000 are working in commercial recreation jobs . The following table provides a quick run-down of the positions and number of workers at each position for the local public recreation-park specialty. figure * National Recreational and Park Association . Supply/Demand Study ( Washington , D.C. : 1968 ) , p. 62 . LAND AND PROPERTY VALUES There is much evidence to support the contention that recreation frequently has a favorable influence on land and property values . This is true in urban centers and in less-populated areas as well . The increase in property values , of course , is not automatic . Indeed , unless care is exercised , in urban areas particularly , exactly the opposite ? decreased property values ? can result . Real estate operators know that when certain public improvements  | are made in a residential area , property values increase . These increases are reflected clearly in the records of the tax assessor . As the assessment increases , so does the amount of tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the property also goes upward . Thus , if streets are paved , if sewers are installed , or if a school is built nearby , the value of the property in the area is likely to increase . The same is true if a park or some similar , attractive , recreation center is established . But the recreation center must be well-planned , attractive , and well maintained and operated . If it is improperly located , unattractive , causes traffic and parking problems , is noisy , or is a nuisance in any way , then chances are that it will decrease rather than increase property and land values . In some instances the value of property that is not immediately adjacent to an outdoor recreation center , but which is within approximately a quarter-mile radius of it , increases more than that which borders or faces the area . At the same time as surrounding property value increases , so does that of the parks . In one metropolitan county , the land value of some of its major parks increased ten- to fifteenfold within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflation . Real estate dealers draw the attention of prospective customers to parks and playgrounds in the neighborhood . The real estate sections of the Sunday papers are full of advertisements which try to sell real estate on the basis of " country club living , " urging people to move where there are playgrounds , tennis courts , swimming pools , and golf courses . One real estate salesman , in trying to sell sites for homes , said , " This is not just a lot of tract homes . In fact , we 're not building homes at all . This is a recreational development . We 're going to put in a small boat harbor , and later a golf course . There will be a beach club to which all lot holders may belong . " The favorable influence of recreation resources on property and land values is even more pronounced in outlying areas . Unprofitable land areas have been turned to profit through recreation use in countless instances . This was shown during the Depression of the 1930s when the Civilian Conservation Corps , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land that was not useful for agriculture or other utilitarian purposes ? and transformed it into state parks . Often communities in the vicinity of proposed national park and recreation areas fear the loss of tax revenues because the lands are taken off the tax rolls . But experience shows that new enterprises develop adjacent to the parks , and that property values increase . Sometimes , the laud remaining on the tax rolls increases in value 50 to 100 times.13 Nowhere is the influence of recreation on land values more pronounced than along shorelines where plenty of water is accessible for swimming , bathing , boating , and fishing . ' 1'lic value of shoreline lands  | skyrockets every year . A 30-mile tract of land on the east coast , offered to the government in 1935 for $9000 a mile , was appraised 23 years later at $110,000 a mile , an increase of 1100 percent in value.14 In Southern California , when the state bought back property from private owners , it paid $100 per front inch ! 15 That recreation as a positive influence on property and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in recreation increase , is indicated in the following : figure According to the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation , one of the best documented case studies of land escalation is that of a nonfederal recreation area ? the Pearl River Reservoir , near Jackson , Mississippi . It illustrates a well-documented price increase following the announcement of a public recreation project . It also shows how a public project ? in this case a local reservoir ? can greatly affect land values outside but adjacent to the project . Detailed analysis was made of 304 sales involving some 25,310 acres of land adjacent to or with good accessibility to the reservoir project between 1950 and May 1964 . Analysis was also made for the same period of 101 sale transactions covering 11,141 acres in a comparable area not influenced by the project and which served as a " control " area . The average price paid per acre of lands adjacent to the project showed an average annual increase of slightly less than 9 percent prior to announcement of the project in March 1959 . After the project was announced , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second year , 216 percent the third year , 236 percent the fourth year , and 258 percent for the first half of the fifth year ( through May 15 , 1964 ) when the study was concluded . The sales prices per acre for the control area from 1950 through 1964 continued to follow a normal price trend line . The speculative influence of the project upon prices paid per acre within the immediate area is clearly indicated.15  | TOURISM Travel for trade and religious purposes dates back to antiquity . Tourism is a modern activity . Its growth as a major economic force , and as a preferred form of leisure behavior for millions , is in part due to our technological achievements and affluence . It is also an outgrowth of man 's desire to see other peoples and visit other environs that have motivated pleasure travel for generations . However , it has only been in the last 150 years that tourism has become fashionable and we consequently have developed a system to support it . In 1970 , according to the International Union of Official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an increase of 12 percent over that recorded for 1969 . Some 5.26 million U.S. residents traveled abroad in 1970 , almost a million more than in the previous year . The United States continued to lead the world in the number of tourists going abroad , being followed by West Germany and Canada as the second and third most internationally mobile people.17 At home , the situation was much the same . Millions of Americans were on the move . It was estimated by the National Family Opinion Incorporated Research Organization in a survey conducted for Better Homes and Gardens that two out of three American families took one or more vacations during 1971 . The average family vacation , cost $404 with Florida , California , and New York receiving one-fifth of all the vacation dollars spent . To ascertain the scope of significance of tourism , the United States Congress established a National Tourism Resources Review Commission in 1970 and charged it with the task of determining the resources and needs of tourist and tourism for the coming decade . The recognition of tourism as a part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until the 1960s , it was considered a subdivision of the motel/hotel industry , a concern of travel agencies . Today , it is recognized by several colleges and universities as an academic area of study . Tourist specialists , distinctive in their training and commitment , are beginning to appear just as did recreation personnel some forty years ago . Texas A 8c M and the University of Massachusetts have been leaders in the development of programs of professional preparation of tourist specialists . The tourist industry involves a wide range of services , specialists , and governmental approaches . There are those who provide transportation , accmmodations , entertainment , souvenirs and gifts , and , above all , manage the tourist attractions . Nearly every industrial country in the  | world has a national tourist office ; more than a hundred of them are members of the International Union of Official Travel Organizations . In some nations tourism ranks as a full cabinet ministry and is closely tied to governmental policy . In others , such as the United States , the tourist office operates as a clearinghouse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a travel office , and the majority of these are located in state departments of highways , commerce , or industrial development . Only a few are connected with parks and recreation , although the trend is in that direction . The Tourist Attraction People travel for a variety of reasons , among which are the desire to explore , to see how other people live , to see a particular sight , to visit family and friends , to pursue some recreation activity or hobby , to seek a change in weather , or for some health reason . According to Travel Research International , " the leading motives for choosing a vacation destination are beautiful scenery , a chance to get a good rest , good sports or recreation facilities , a chance to meet congenial people , outstanding food . " 1s Rarely does one take a vacation without having a specific destination in mind . It is the site , the attraction , which causes one to select one location over another . According to Dr. Clare Gunn , " visitors do not come to parks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living , because they are coerced by a public power or because they feel obligated to make either Hilton Head or a National Park Service succeed . They go because they are lured by some attracting force . No commercial or public service for tourism or recreation can succeed if visitors are not lured to attraction destinations . " 19 The role of the attraction is changing as tourists become more sophisticated , educated , and experienced . Among the leading trends are : ( 1 ) a shift from the single-purpose attraction to the recreation complex with the diversity of sights . The health spa has given way to Disney World . ( 2 ) The clustering of attractions in a given location . The opportunity to visit several wineries in the Napa Valley of California adds to its attractiveness . Thousands go there each year to partake of the grape and see how the vintages are made . ( 3 ) A trend toward mixed ownership and management . Both public and private agencies have joined to promote and develop the attractions and the necessary support services , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention facilities , and landscaped areas . ( 4 ) No off seasons . Thanks to a technology which allows temperature controls and the creation of artificial environments , seasonal areas are becoming year-round resorts . For example , the beautiful  | golf courses of the summer with their chalets and cottages become ski areas during the winter months . Social and Economic Significance The economic and social impact of tourism on an area is dramatic . It is not unusual to find jet airports on Caribbean islands where the natives can not afford to fly . The facilities are necessary to bring the tourists who , of course , are the lifeblood of the islands ' economies . A change in tourist behavior can cause ruin in any area . A loss of trade can trigger depression just as an increase in popularity can compound the problems of transportation , lodging , food services , and the like . Public and private agencies are finding it expedient to plan jointly in the development and promotion of their areas . Communities adjacent to such national and regional attractions as Disney World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own unique features to keep the tourists in the area for an extra day . The advantages are numerous : ( 1 ) both tourism and park department support depend upon satisfied users ; ( 2 ) both tourism and park use require unique recreation resources ; ( 3 ) both tourism and park use depend upon the same transportation system ; ( 4 ) both tourism and park use depend upon the same services , facilities , and information-direction systems ; ( 5 ) both tourism and park operations require competent management and well-trained staffs ; and ( 6 ) both tourism and parks and recreation are important and allied elements in the social and economic life of the country.20 Tourism , like so many other forms of commercial recreation , is often criticized as being a contributor to delinquency , pollution , moral degradation , urban blight , and related social problems . But it also has the potential for bringing to the public creative and stimulating experiences and esthetic surroundings . The latter conditions can be maxiinized when government and industry work together in a partnership to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinances , some gains have been made . The greatest potential , however , lies with cooperative planning . The need to coordinate traffic flow , to provide protection and control , and to offer stimulating recreation environments necessitates this relationship . Increasingly , recreation complexes are becoming free-time shopping centers and are bringing millions of people into an area for a variety of leisure experiences . When these tourist areas are properly planned and integrated into the life of the community , they become centers of pride . Conceivably , many of our tourist/recreation complexes of the future will he located on public land with the private capital and management coming from free enterprise . They will be used extensively by  | both local residents and visitors . Possibly the Mission Bay Complex of San Diego is the model for future recreation developments . RECREATION IN THE FUTURE ECONOMY A nation 's economy depends as much upon the money that is spent as it does upon the money that is earned . Recreation does not , of course , cure all civic ills , but there is good reason to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , decreasing accidents , and curbing crime and delinquency . If the investment of funds in recreation and parks systems can help young people find meaningful and wholesome ways of self-fulfillment and less need to strike out at society , thereby saving the taxpayer some of the money he might otherwise spend on law enforcement and reformatories ; if it can save a few of the lives of the thousands who are slaughtered on our highways ; and if it can help make our citizenry more physically fit and thus assist in lowering medical and hospital bills , it is wise from the economic as well as the humanitarian point of view to support it fully . Assuming that nations will find the way to live in peace , it is likely that the scientific progress of man will result in increased production and a higher standard of living in many countries . Moreover , it will be possible to produce more of the world 's goods with fewer man-hours of production . In other words , more people will enjoy more free time . This does not necessarily mean that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The number of hours manual workers spend on the job each week may not be reduced considerably , but they will enjoy more holidays , longer vacations and retire earlier . As leisure time increases , we can expect purchasing power and the national net income to increase . Organized labor has made it plain that it welcomes more time off the job ? but not at the expense of the size of the paycheck . Almost every study undertaken shows that the number of a person 's recreation pursuits is related to his income . Usually , the higher his income , the more numerous and varied are the kinds of recreation activities in which he engages . That leisure will loom larger on the economic horizon of the future is certain , barring , of course , wars and depressions . This is so because the leisure market , from the standpoint of what the market can absorb , is practically open-ended . Full employment , in a space age , can not be achieved through the manufacturing , agricultural , transportation , communication , and mining industries alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means that a larger proportion of the working force can profitably be devoted to service functions , among which recreation and r , n-Irc is itU l l'innly ntttnrt:utt ' r.t to , late Iltr ? rr ? is nn field of tttntan  | activity in which our actual accomplishments have lagged so far behind our knowledge and our needs . Let the fields of health , recreation , welfare , and education flourish , and American will have its foundation for sound , lasting economic development . While the percentage of the population working in agriculture and industry in the United States is declining steadily , recreation and education are taking up the slack . We are spending as much on recreation behavior as on food , and those expenditures will increase in the future . While 25 years ago few Americans owned boats , now 12 to 15 percent own them , and the 5 ( plus ) million Americans who travel abroad each year may well reach 50 million in another generation . Clearly , recreation and education seem capable of indefinite expansion because they are not subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The values of recreation and parks are most frequently expressed in social terms , as they should be . However , the line between social and economic values is not very sharp . Recreation and parks has almost unbelievable economic advantages . Its role in helping stabilize and improve the national economy is large and significant . FOOTNOTES 1 . Frederick M. Winship , " ' 72 Bumper Year for Recreation , " Tulsa Daily Record , February 4 , 1973 , p . H5. 2 . California Public Outdoor Recreation Plan Committee , California Public Outdoor Recreation Plan , Part II ( Sacramento : California State Printing Office , 1960 ) , p. 200. 3 . George Soule , " The Economics of Leisure , " The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science , September , 1957 , pp. 16-24. 4 . National Family Opinion , Inc. , The Family Vacation Market , Better Homes and Gardens Survey , 1971. 5 . Statistical Abstract of the United States ( Washington , D.C. : U.S. Government Printing Office , 1972 ) , pp. 200-211. 6 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Interior , 1971 ) . 7 . Statistical Abstract , 1972 , pp. 200-211. 8 . Parks and Recreation , Vol. 6 , No. 8 , August 1971 , p. 21. 9 . Op. cit. , Statistical Abstract ( 1972 ) . 10 . Statistical Abstract ( 1967 ) , Op. cit. , p. 396. 11 . Economic Effects of Establishing National Parks ( Washington , D.C. : 11 . S. Government Printing Office , June , 1961 ) . 12 Selected Outdoor ) lerrr'niinn Stntittirc  | 13 . Economic Effects of Establishing National Parks . 14 . Hearings , Subcommittee on Public Lands , Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs , Eighty-Seventh Congress , United States Senate , Shoreline Recreation Areas ( Washington , D.C. : U.S. Government Printing Office , 1961 ) , p. 8. 15 . Ibid. , p. 36. 16 . Bureau of Outdoor Recreation , Recreation Land Price Escalation ( Washington , D.C. : U.S. Department of Interior , 1968 ) , pp. 10-11. 17 . International Union of Official Travel Organization , International Tourism and Tourism Policy in OECO Member Countries ( New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , p. 23. 18 . Vacation Travel Attitude Survey ( New York : Travel Research International , 1967 ) . 19 . Clare Gunn , " Should Function Policy Dictate Planning ? " Paper presented at the 5th Recreation Management Institute , Grand Canyon , Arizona , April , 1973. 20 . Clare Gunn , " Parkism , " paper presented at the Park and Recreation Administrators Institute , Davis , California , November , 1972.  | RECREATION SERVICES FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS From its beginning , the organized recreation and park movement has stated that its services were for all people . The necessity for activity , for the recreation experience , is well-documented in literature and the pursuit of happiness , the right to recreate , is guaranteed to all of us . Recreation and parks services were never meant to discriminate against any segment of the population . Unfortunately , not all citizens have had equal opportunity to participate in recreation services . Because of a variety of conditions ? economic , racial , transportation , age , physical disability , and the like ? some parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefits of organized recreation programs . Professional recreators and park specialists are now beginning to recognize these special groups and their needs for equal opportunities . HISTORY OF THERAPEUTIC RECREATION SERVICES Although many organized recreation groups were first conceived to provide programs for the economically disadvantaged , recreation agencies soon outgrew their social work image . ' I his was especially true ( luring  | World War II , when much of our effort went into programs for the military , the defense workers , and their children . Recreation services became activity programs for the healthy , the mobile , and the young . Although the National American Red Cross was active during World War II in providing recreation opportunities for the convalescing military , it was not until the late 1940s that programs in recreation began to appear in public hospitals . The VA was a pioneer in this effort , particularly in providing activities for the emotionally disturbed . The first significant effort of recreation for special populations occurred in the veterans ' hospitals and in state institutions for the mentally ill . By the mid-1950s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreation for the preparation of personnel to work in these settings . The University of Minnesota , the University of North Carolina , and New York University each held regional institutes on hospital recreation to further this effort . The term hospital recreation gave way to the concepts of medical recreation and recreation for the ill and disabled . This was largely brought about by the increasing number of therapeutically oriented programs taking place in community mental health centers , sheltered workshops , and halfway houses . Recreation specialists working with the ill and disabled were no longer functioning only in hospitals , but were working in a variety of health-related settings . Consequently , they wanted a title to reflect the broadening scope of their concern . The Office of Vocational Rehabilitation , later to be known as the Vocational Rehabilitation Administration , encouraged this change in 1963 by providing training monies for the preparation of recreation specialists to work with the ill and disabled . Today , the terms therapeutic recreation and recreation for special populations seem to be more widely accepted to describe the specialization concern with recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this area may be found working in the more traditional hospital and medical setting , but they also function as staff members of municipal recreation departments and state recreation agencies . They work with the blind , the retarded , the elderly , the economically deprived ? all of those in the community that have special needs and who are often denied equal opportunities for participation . True , there is a difference in programming for those special populations residing in the community and those who are institutionalized . In the institutional setting , all program efforts must be related to the major objective of the institution whether it be therapy , protection , or rehabilitation . In these settings , activities are often prescribed by medical personnel or approved by correctional officials ; the recreation service  | does not function independently but is related to the activities of other therapies and program services . In the community , recreation for special populations is no different than recreation services for any other citizen . The goals of recreation activity are the same ; these programs are identified as being " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a special understanding of the conditions which result in disability and deprivation . Because of this , the approaches used by recreators working with special populations are more akin to those methods employed by social group workers than are techniques used by other recreators . Several studies have been conducted during the past decade to determine the extent of recreation services for special populations . Among them are the works of Ruth Marson ( recreation services for the retarded ) , ' Yvonne Williams ( play services in pediatric hospitals ) , 2 Nancy Anderson ( national survey of senior centers ) , 3 Doris Berryman , Annette Logan , and Dorothy Lander ( recreation services to disabled children ) , ' and Richard Kraus ( recreation services for the urban poQr ) .5 All have indicated tremendous growth in the number and scope of programs for the ill and disabled by community recreation departments . Many of them reflect a radical departure from the traditional activity concept of park and recreation agencies . They include such services as providing transportation to and from recreation centers for the blind and elderly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational programs for the economically and culturally deprived , and leisure counseling for all who desire it . Recent Findings It should be pointed out that recreation for special populations is still a minor program focus of most recreation and park agencies . Much still needs to be done in making state and national areas more accessible to the physically handicapped , economically deprived , and aged . Some steps have been taken by such agencies as the National Parks Service and various state park departments . For example , the National Parks Service now has nature trails for the blind in some of its recreation areas , and the Georgia Park Department recently developed an area for the physically handicapped , but these are only beginning efforts . To truly make recreation and park programs accessible , recreation facilities must be designed for all people , not just the physically able ; public transportation in recreation areas must be developed ; and public attitudes toward the role of recreation in meeting the needs of the disabled must be modified .  | Until 1965 , recreation services for special populations dealt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Much of our present concern for all special populations in the community stems from the programs initiated during the Johnson Administration ? the Office of Economic Opportunity , Model Cities , and the Administration on Aging . These stimulated concerns for the economically and socially deprived , called for more citizen participation in program planning , and pointed out the necessity to integrate a wide variety of social services and agencies when providing programs for the less privileged . The work of the Vocational Rehabilitation Administration and the Office of Education , Bureau for the Handicapped also gave additional impetus to these program concerns . With these programs came questions of policy and philosophy . As long as recreation services for the ill and disabled remained primarily a concern of medical personnel , the role of recreation was clear ; it functioned primarily as an adjunctive therapy . The recreation service was to assist in the rehabilitation of the ill and disabled ; its programs were both diversionary and therapeutic . Activities were chosen according to individual diagnosis and treatment plans ; in many instances , recreation was both an end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for these special populations began to take place in the community , a variety of questions were raised . Should recreation agencies get involved in programs of social actions and social concern ? At what point in programming does the recreation agency cease to be recreationally oriented and become a quasi-educational , welfare , or health service ? Do recreators have the expertise to deal with such complex problems as narcotics addiction , mental retardation , and the like ? Many recreation and park officials concede that recreation services should be for all people but hold fast to their beliefs that the public recreation and park departments are not equipped or mandated to implement these socially concerned programs . Others have openly welcomed the new role and have actually sought federal and state grants to support their efforts . Recreation services for special populations is an exciting area of professional concern . Frequently , it is in this area that the values of the recreation experience are most often demonstrated . The smile of a physically handicapped child learning to swim says something about the importance of the experience to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that opportunity . Self-esteem is enhanced and many of the negative consequences of handicapping conditions diminish as a new sense of worth is felt . In this chapter , attention is focused on the role of recreation services with a select number of special populations : the hospitalized , the aging , the youthful offender , and the urban poor .  | THERAPEUTIC RECREATION : THE ILL AND DISABLED The Setting It is estimated that there are now about 30 million men , women , and children in the United States suffering from some form of incapacitating or chronic disease and disability , much more than half of these with mental illness . Many of the physically and mentally ill are children and youth . They can be found in the nation 's 7000 hospitals , but as many as 5 million are living in the communities . Much study and attention are being given to the role and function of the recreation service in ( 1 ) helping to promote sound health and prevent ill health , both physical and mental , ( 2 ) helping people regain their health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helping in the rehabilitation of persons who have experienced illness or disability . These efforts of the medical , recreation , and allied professions are observable in a variety of settings . They can be found in camps established to care for the needs of those with asthma and allergies , cardiovascular disease , diabetes , emotional disturbances , epilepsy , lowered vitality , orthopedic handicaps , social maladjustment , speech or hearing defects , visual difficulties , and countless other physical problems , in schools for the retarded and nursing homes for the aged and chronically ill . They are in operation in rehabilitation centers and clinics of all kinds , in establishments for alcoholics and drug addicts , in psychiatric , general medical and surgical , tuberculosis , and other kinds of hospitals and clinics with facilities for long-term and short-term cases . They are reflected in the programs of agencies which provide recreation services for people who , although not in institutions , are " shut in " their homes a greater part of their lives . The counseling which doctors give to their patients includes advice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Disabled Nowhere is the importance of the role of the recreation experience i n the lives of the ill and handicapped more dramatically illustrated than in the environment of the hospital and rehabilitation center , as the following quotations indicate . Dr. Iloward A. Rusk , Director , Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation , New York : " I firmly believe that both individual and group  | recreation for hospital patients have a direct relationship upon their recovery ? these , in my opinion , are definitely adjunctive therapy . " 6 Dr. Alexander Reid Martin , Former Chairman , Committee on Leisure Time and its Uses , American Psychiatric Association : " We can not relegate recreation to a position of secondary importance in the lives of individuals , and in hospitals we can not relegate recreation to a position of secondary importance . " 7 Dr. Joseph B. Wolfe , Medical Director , Valley Forge Heart and Medical Center : " A survey of 1000 patients has shown that carefully selected recreation to suit the patient 's problem and personality resulted in reduction both in drug requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the control group in the institution without the program . " 8 Dr. Paul Haun , Director of Psychiatric Education , New Jersey State Department of Institutions and Agencies : " Contemporary medicine is coming to think less about the disease and more about people with disease . The strength of the recreation movement is that it thinks about people , and in so doing goes beyond the limitations of medicine . " 9 The relationship of recreation to medicine and rehabilitation was also stressed in the findings of the late Prof. Charles K. Brightbill after his study of recreation services in selected hospitals and rehabilitation centers in the United States and Europe:10 1 . It is primarily the free , informal , nonauthoritative and seemingly aimless nature of recreation which makes it medically useful . In play , adults , as well as children , are more truly their natural selves . Moreover , under carefully planned approaches and conditions , particularly with children lacking motor coordination , there are correlations between recreational experiences and physical and emotional performance . Play is also effective in neutralizing the conflicts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ages , recreation is being used effectively during diagnosis as well as in treatment and rehabilitation . Certain forms of recreation , at times , for given kinds of mentally ill persons with ego strength , can help externalize disturbing aggressions and help drain off other undesirable impulses . Recreation is playing an increasingly important role in the controlled environment of the mentally ill . There are medical experts ( with research to support some of their views ) who are of the opinion that recreation , particularly the noncompetitive physical phases , can help reduce medication , nursing requirements , length of stay in hospital , hypostatic congestion , morbidity , and perhaps even mortality among the older patients . 2 . Exchange of scientific information on matters related to recreational therapy is impeded among nations because of ( a ) the absence of standard terminology ( e.g. , the word recreation has totally different defini-  | tions and implications in some languages ) and ( b ) the lack of machinery for the regular exchange of information between professional groups . 3 . Increasingly , the role of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recreation technician working with the large groups and mass activities in the big institutions . Professional preparation of the recreation therapist will also have to place greater emphasis on human behavior in relation to illness and handicaps. 4 . There may be merit in considering the joint professional preparation of recreational and occupational therapists , on one hand , and physical therapists , corrective therapists , and adapted sports specialists , on the other . In recreational and occupational therapy , the possibilities of an integrated core curriculum , to be followed by , specialization , bear careful exploration . 5 . In neuropsychiatric institutions it appears that results are better when work therapy and recreational opportunity are combined with a required program which aids the patient 's physical - and cultural expression in such pursuits as movement ( dance , exercise , sports and games ) , the graphic and plastic arts , drama , and music . 6 . In the treatment of children with physical handicaps and neurological disorders , interspersing periods of learning with periods of play appears to be highly desirable in helping , among other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are medical experts who question whether recreation is of much value in the treatment of the mentally ill patient with a deep psychosis . Their view is based upon the belief that the disease is essentially biological . 8 . In recreation therapy it is not the activity which is important , but rather the attitude of the patient toward it , how the patient approaches it , and what the patient derives from it . 9 . The diversional recreation program in a hospital can be of equal importance to the prescribed program . It is diversional in the sense of taking the patient 's mind off his troubles . 10 . The function of recreation in the day hospital is especially significant in expediting the return of the patient to community life . 11 . In relation to those who are mentally ill , the freedom of choice and pursuit which are essential in recreational therapy must be governed by the amount of the patient 's ego strength . 12 . If recreation is of value in therapy and remedial medicine , it can be of value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raises a very interesting question ? are recreation experiences therapy or therapeutic ? Some recreators have argued that recreation is not therapy because , by definition , recreation experiences are voluntary and self-motivated . " Therapy , on the other  | hand , requires prescription and is entered into on the basis of a desired outcome , an outcome set by the therapist . Consequently , the voluntary nature of participation is minimized or eliminated and the recreational value diminished . Other experts state that any experience may be recreational , that it is quite possible for an activity to be both therapeutic and recreational simultaneously . It does not matter why one participates as long as satisfaction and joy comes from his involvement . To the participant , the experience is recreational ; to the therapist it has been actively selected for desired therapeutic purposes . Although the issue has not been resolved , the trend is toward the latter position . Recreators offer activities with specific limits , requirements , and satisfactions ; participants determine their recreation value . RECREATION IN THE HOSPITAL It is not feasible to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The orthopedic hospital must stand as an illustration . Usually , orthopedic hospitals are for operative and clinical care with little or no convalescent home work . Hence , they have a great opportunity to promote a constructive program of recreation suitable from a therapeutic standpoint . The program usually resolves itself into several parts : ( 1 ) bedside work ; ( 2 ) recreation for convalescents , most of whom are in wheel chairs ; ( 3 ) work with clinical cases who come for further care ; ( 4 ) work with groups organized for special activities from the clinic cases ; and ( 5 ) social affairs for either clinic or hospital cases . Particular activities include : ( 1 ) adaptation of games ; ( 2 ) development of dramatics from such simple forms as play reading among ward patients to the presentation of plays , operettas , and circuses ; ( 3 ) dancing , from which few need be excluded , because rhythm is the object sought , whether it be in social or folk dances ; ( 4 ) handcrafts , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general social activities ? entertaining and being entertained . Recreation is used by the therapist for prevention , furtherance of convalescence , physical and neuromental reconstruction , and for adjustment for social living . Some of the unique features of this type of work form the basis of understanding of the recreation service in the medical setting . First , patients are in the institutions because of some physical , mental , or emotional illness or incapacitation . Whereas recreation services in the community can expect only a small percentage of the participants to be in impaired health , in the institutional setting , one can expect the majority to be . Secondly , the patient population is not a homogeneous one ; there  | are a variety of illnesses and levels of functioning even within diagnostic groupings . Then , too , there are a variety of institutions ? military , state and tax-supported hospitals , private hospitals , etc. ? which cater to particular age and disability groups . Special emphasis must be given to the long-term patient for whom the hospital becomes both life and home . Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusively of patients , there exists the ever-present possibility of irreparable damage to the participant by the use of some ill-chosen activity or method . Because of this , the choice of activities , methods , and techniques can not be left solely to the discretion of either the recreation leader or the patient , except as such choices fall within the limitations of the medical direction . Fourth , there is a continuing need for the adaptation of activities , approaches , equipment , and procedures to the needs , capacities , and interests of the participants . Finally , because the function of the hospital is to treat patients , no activities should be scheduled , without medical approval ; no patient should participate in activities without clearance . It should be remembered that recreation in this setting is an adjunctive rather than a primary service . Doctor Howard K. Rusk describes rehabilitation as " the restoration of the handicapped to the fullest physical , mental , social , and economic usefulness of which they are capable . " Recreation is a necessary part of rehabilitation . All people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no matter what manner of rehabilitation the patient is going through to adjust to his illness or disability , he needs guided or suggested recreation opportunities or experiences . For example , with the tuberculosis patient , rehabilitation may be retarded because he is excessively bored and lacks mental stimulation ; he is concerned for the future of his loved ones and for their financial security , as anyone who is institutionalized might be ; and , he may overconcentrate on his own illness . Also , typically , and for one or more of the above reasons , he may defy the physical limitations of his condition . He may even discharge himself from the hospital without medical approval and jeopardize his chances for an eventual cure . Therefore , the recreation service may play a role in the rehabilitation of the tuberculosis patient by : 1 . Keeping him occupied within the physical range of his ailment while ill ; 2 . Helping the physician in evaluating the potential of his patient 's  | 3 . Teaching the patient how to provide for his recreation hours without endangering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chronic patient , particularly the one permanently hospitalized , recreation activities may be his rehabilitation . He is separated , more or less permanently , from his family and community ; the recreation experience can help compensate for these losses . But , for the neuropsychiatric patient , how can he be rehabilitated if he can not be brought back into the group society ? What better methods are there of getting him to enter into group activities and reestablish contact with his surroundings than his finding self-expression and a possible creative ability in the activities the recreation service can offer him ? Before there can be a successfully rehabilitated neuropsychiatric patient , interests which will be satisfactory to him when he is discharged from the hospital must be developed . The psychiatric patient whose condition is chronic , and who may not be returned to the community , can become active in some form of recreation expression and at least keep from deteriorating further ? even if he is merely making feeble attempts at joining such things as a sports program or perhaps a percussion band . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient differs from the chronic patient in that there is a definite , foreseeable limit to the period of his hospitalization . But while he is in the hospital , he needs something to build his morale . His rehabilitation consists of his learning to adjust to the hospital situation and thus to speed up his recovery . As for the child patient , he has a particular need for happy and healthful play activity when confined by illness or injury . He often suffers an emotional shock when first hospitalized , a feeling of being cut off from his normal world . The problem here is to provide a warmth and understanding to replace loss of the love and security of his home environment , and to alleviate his natural fear of the hospital . Games and toys can be as valuable as an added medicine to a child . It is up to the recreation service to make it good medicine , and thus hasten the child 's physical rehabilitation . After the patient leaves the hospital , there is a transition period in which he must learn to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his return , the recreation service assumes a dual role . It must work both with the institution and the community in providing recreation opportunities . In doing so it often assumes the responsibility of providing services for the patient in the halfway house setting . While the patient is involved in work therapy in his sheltered work situation in the community or undergoing the strenuous process of the " activities of daily living ' ' program which prepare him for the resumption of coin-  | community roles , he needs activities that will relax him when the evening comes . These experiences also serve to negate some of the discouragements which naturally come as a part of the rehabilitation process , particularly when progress does not seem to be as immediate as desired . Finally , it is during this period that he needs to develop the skills necessary to utilize agency resources so that the transition from dependency on the institution to independent living in the community can be fully achieved . Both the institutional recreation service and the community recreation department can help the patient tremendously by teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his self-consciousness through frequent involvement in community recreation events . Recreation for the ill and disabled must be planned in terms of the patients ' interests , needs , and capabilities . For our purposes , we can think of therapeutic recreation as the application of an activity , voluntarily engaged in by the patient during the period of treatment or convalescence , that is enjoyable and personally satisfying to him , even though the activity and the patient 's participation in it are structured to achieve a predicted result beyond the patient 's own personal satisfaction . Recreation , in these terms , should be related to the treatment aims . Treatment aims vary with the types of illness and disabilities and the patient . In a hospital recreation setting , there should be two motivations at work . These are the motivation of the patient ? to engage in what is satisfying and enjoying to him ? and the motivation of the recreator ? to use recreation in a way that will help the patient get well and remain well . The American National Red Cross and the Veterans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They developed different program styles , based upon the objectives and functions of the institutions in which they worked , and set the tone for the specialization of therapeutic recreation specialists . A brief description of their program philosophy and organization follows . The American National Red Cross Because of its unique position as a quasi-governmental agency chartered by Congress , the American National Red Cross has been authorized to maintain recreation activities in certain government hospitals under supervision of the medical officers in charge . To fulfill this obligation , the American Red Cross provides recreators in Army , Navy , and Air Force  | hospitals . In addition to these specialists , there are the regular hospital social workers and volunteers who devote a portion of their time to recreation . Red Cross hospital recreators are responsible for conducting a medically approved recreation program and for accepting and coordinating for the hospital commanding officer appropriate recreation services and programs offered by individuals or groups outside the hospital . This recreation program is part of the Red Cross hospital social service program and is provided as an adjunct to medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trips are planned . In the selection of games the recreator considers adaptations which may be necessary in the hospital setting . Music is provided in many forms , because it offers a release from inner tension and anxiety . Parties rank high on the list of special events popular with the patients . In entertainments , emphasis is placed on programs the patients stage , such as amateur night shows , skits , and stunts . Performances by professionals and amateurs from groups on the post and in nearby communities are frequently offered . Crafts are part of the Red Cross recreation program in hospitals that have no occupational therapy department . Hobbies and special-interest activities have a particular place in hospitals where there are long-term patients . Emphasis is placed on working with the patient who may need or will benefit from special planning . Such planning is often done jointly with the social worker to increase effectiveness of service . Records of such planning serve as a supervisory tool as well as a means of increasing the worker 's understanding of objectives and methods of accomplishment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cross drive . Additional equipment is secured through Red Cross Councils serving hospitals , institutions , and installations , civic groups , and individual donations . An area recreation consultant and field consultants are assigned to each area to assist with programs and staff development . The consultant staff at national headquarters is available for additional assistance . The Veterans Administration The Veterans Administration , through its Recreation Section in the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Service , operates a program at each VA hospital and home . Its program includes sports , music , entertainment , radio , motion pictures , social recreation , arts , crafts , special events , hospitality services , and hobbies . The purpose of the recreation program in Veterans Administration hospitals is to provide , as an integral phase of the total medical program , a  | comprehensive , well-balanced , and professionally executed range of recreation activities to meet the needs , interests , and capabilities of all patients . All activities offered by the recreation program require medical approval . The recreation program is planned to assist the doctor in getting his patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible for those patients who must remain in the hospital for long periods of time . The diversified activities which constitute the program are designed to accomplish the following objectives : a . Assist in facilitating patients ' adjustment to hospital life and medical treatment . b . Provide doctors with opportunities to observe patient behavior and response to activity . c . Assist in orienting patients in their physical limitations and potentialities. d . Contribute to the development and maintenance of normal physical condition during the patients ' stay in the hospital . e . Develop interests and skills in so-called " carry-over " activities ; that is , activities in which patients may participate safely and beneficially during their stay in the hospital as well as after their discharge from the hospital . f . Contribute to the total social and psychological readjustment of patients . Primary consideration is given to the needs of patients as determined by appropriate medical authority . Following this determination , patient interests and capabilities as well as program resources are ascertained so that appropriate activities may be selected to meet these patient needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are developed , organized , and designed to encourage maximum active patient participation . Recreation activities for tuberculosis patients are directed toward passive or mildly active participation to the exclusion of programs which tend to excite , disturb , or cause undue exertion . Recreation opportunities for general medical and surgical patients are directed toward the long-term patient . Recreation activities for domiciliary members are especially adapted for older age groups . Frequently these activities are prescribed to insure for the patient the attainment of full value in physical , social , and psychological adjustment.li RECREATION IN STATE HOSPITALS The need for recreation services has long been recognized in state hospitals , particularly in state mental institutions and in state schools for the mentally retarded . Although there have been fine recreation opportunities iii some state institutions for many years , it has only been  | within the past three decades that these programs have begun to expand . The work of the American Psychiatric Association 's Committee on Leisure Time Activities has aided this movement . Typically , today 's recreation programs in state institutions are designed to stimulate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the establishment of the patient 's ability to return to and live successfully in his community . For the mentally retarded , the stress is on the development of living skills and social learning . In both settings , recreators accept the provision of diversionary activities as part of their responsibility but stress the more therapeutic objectives . In the state institutional setting , recreation services tend to be seen as one of the rehabilitative therapies which include physical therapy , work therapy , occupational therapy , volunteer services , and religious activities . These units provide a wide range of expressions and activities which address themselves to the normal functioning of the patient at home and in the community . Many physicians accept that the major responsibility of the recreation service is to concentrate on the " well side " of the patient . Recreation specialists are in a good position to work with community agencies and to assist with the transitional aspects of the patient 's return to the community ; consequently , leisure counseling has become a part of their responsibility . The recreation services even accept a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in those institutions which promote the milieu or therapeutic community concept . Gone are the days of the isolation of the mental institutions and state hospitals from the rest of society . Two-thirds of the patients currently residing in state institutions will return to their communities within six months . Every effort is made by the professional staffs to return them as quickly as possible to their normal living environments . Because milieu therapy is predicated upon the assumption of immediate return of the patient to his home , the institutions should be as much like the community as possible . Every aspect of the hospital life should be therapeutic and , as far as possible , a replica of the social interactions of normal life . In this context , all personnel become therapists and all program efforts therapeutic . Because the majority of the patients will return to the community within a very short time after institutionalization , and because most people are actually treated in the community rather than in institutions , the concepts of community psychiatry and community medicine have evolved . They were promoted rather heavily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mental health services and a modification of the therapeutic recreator 's role . Recreators in the psychiatric set-  | ting have become more community-oriented ; they have encouraged their community counterparts to become more conscious of the needs of special populations . As Richard Kraus writes , " Today the emphasis has shifted away from . . . clearly recreational activity normally a variety of regularly scheduled programs which patients were assigned to as a part of the regular ward or building unit schedule in the direction of activities which have informal , less structured social-learning kinds of orientation . " 12 COMMUNITY SERVICES FOR THE ILL AND DISABLED The organized recreation movement has always prided itself on the provision of recreation opportunities for all people . Yet in practice , it has been unable to achieve this goal . Of particular concern has been the lack of opportunities for the disadvantaged . According to Richard Strecke , only 16 percent of the community recreators responding to his national inquiry felt that their agencies were adequately responding to the recreation needs of the handicapped . This situation is being corrected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community , the work of AOA and the other great society programs of the 1960s , and the efforts of the Kennedy and subsequent governmental administrations to provide educational services for the mentally retarded have stimulated recreation and park services to do more for the ill and disabled in their communities . At present the retarded , the elderly , and the urban poor appear to be the primary target groups for the implementation of compensatory programs . According to Eric Errickson , community recreation and park officials can only move forward when they accept the premise that the handicapped have a right to their services . This means a philosophical commitment to the establishment or expansion of programs of activities for special populations . Errickson offers some guidelines for the provision of these services , citing the need ( 1 ) to sell a commitment to the public , to the recreation-park advisory board , and to the consumers ; ( 2 ) to establish a coordinating counsel comprised of professional recreation personnel , members of the target groups , and representatives from related health and service agencies to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the populations to be served and to develop strategy for implementation of the program ; and ( 4 ) to begin the program , making sure there is an evaluation component so that continuous feedback and program revelance are provided.13 It would be naive to assume there are no problems associated with  | the implementation of a recreation service for special populations , but these can be resolved . They center on the questions of financing , personnel , facilities , and information about the disabled . Financing . There is a host of local organizations such as the Association of Retarded Children and Adults and national groups like the Bureau of Education for the Handicapped , U.S. Office of Education , available to assist community park personnel and recreators in obtaining funds for special programs . Federal grants are available , and the public seems most responsive in support of highly visible services to its disadvantaged . In many ways , it is easier for a public park and recreation department to get gifts specifically earmarked for programs for special populations than for other interest groups . Of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a part of a general recreation park budget . Personnel . It is advantageous to have a staff member , principally one who is professionally prepared to work with special populations , to coordinate the department 's program efforts in this area of service . There are a variety of national and regional workshops and in-service training programs designed to upgrade the skills of community recreation personnel interested in serving the ill and disabled . Also , there are generally many volunteers available , particularly when services to the elderly or to the retarded are being promoted . Errickson cites that the Cincinnati Recreation and Park Department reported much success in obtaining older persons as recreation aides to work with the elderly in eighteen sheltered institutions in the Cincinnati area . The average age of their seventy-six aides was 60 years.14 Facilities . When architectural barriers such as steps and narrow doorways are removed , all recreation spaces become accessible to the ill and disabled ; and any facility designed for the handicapped can be used by all citizens . The major problems are those of design , construction , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some local parks and recreation departments have purchased buses with hydraulic lifts to transport the physically handicapped to and from recreation areas . Special Knowledge . Many community recreation park experts have expressed concern about their lack of knowledge of special populations . They have been hesitant to implement programs in fear of accidents , liability suits , and the like . Experience suggests these problems are more imaginary than real . The recreator wishing to implement a program of service to special populations is not alone . There is a host of specialists ? psychiatrists , gerontologists , psychologists , special educators , etc. ? who can assist the program in its implementation and operation . As Errickson writes , " To work with special populations does not require complete  | medical , psychological or sociological knowledge of the handicapped . What is required is that the recreator know where to get information necessary to assist the client in meeting his recreation needs . " 15 RECREATION FOR THE RETARDED Prior to the establishment of the President 's Panel on Mental Retardation by John F. Kennedy in 1962 , recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of activities and services were provided in most state institutions but the retarded were a forgotten population , although 95 percent of them ( 5 million people ) lived at home . The efforts of Kennedy and groups who worked so diligently to achieve his dreams after his untimely death made the services to the retarded a popular issue . Rarely can one find a major city in the United States today without a special program for the retarded . It is now accepted that recreation and play opportunities are essential to the physical , social , and vocational growth and adjustment of the retarded and therefore a necessary service . Three groups have had tremendous impact on recreation for the mentally retarded . They are the National Association for Retarded Children , the Bureau of Education for the Handicapped , Office of Education ( HEW ) , and the Joseph P. Kennedy , Jr . Foundation . Of the three , the latter has been most instrumental in the development of recreation programs at the community level . The Joseph P. Kennedy , Jr . Foundation , through its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year-round programs for the retarded and its Junior Olympic Program , has involved thousands of retarded youth in organized recreation experiences . The Bureau of Education for the Handicapped has supported training efforts in recreation and physical education . In 1973 it was the only federal agency offering financial support for the preparation of recreation specialists to work with the handicapped . The National Association for Retarded Children , an organization comprised largely of parents and professionals working with retarded children , has played an advocacy role . It has encouraged and supported programs of recreation services for the retarded at the local level , and actively campaigned for more state and federal involvement in recreation and parks opportunities for the handicapped . At present , most community recreation programs work cooperatively with local school officials . The special education classes are a convenient mechanism for organizing services for the retarded . Summer tamping programs have been extensively promoted , as have been sports  | programs . For the most part , the focus of these efforts has been on growth and development through play . Services for the adult retarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retarded are left to institutions . According to Doris Berryman and her colleagues , Annette Logan and Dorothy Lander , many of the problems of providing services for the disadvantaged , particularly the retarded , can be alleviated through an active research and demonstration program . They call for investigations in the following areas : ( 1 ) determination of strategies for the training and utilization of paraprofessional personnel ; ( 2 ) development of techniques to foster interagency cooperation ; ( 3 ) design and implementation of transportation services ; ( 4 ) institution of community and parent educational programs concerning the importance of play and recreation ; ( 5 ) analysis of the function of play and recreation experiences in the development of physical , emotional , intellectual , and social skills ; and ( 6 ) need for techniques to integrate the disabled with the normal populations and the daily conducting of recreation services and opportunities.16 RECREATION FOR LATER MATURITY With some 20 million persons over age 65 , there is a growing awareness of the significance of later maturity . The facts prove that we are living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further lengthened . Although this is a thrilling achievement , it is accompanied by a big question : How will we live these years ? If the privilege to live is ours ? we must answers these challenges : 1 . To change some of the negative concepts about this period of life , revitalize the social and economic status of the senior citizen , and provide opportunities for enriched living during these later years . 2 . To have adults prepare for the years of later maturity through the utilization of the knowledge we possess , so that opportunities to enjoy the late years may be better assured ; to have these citizens enter the late years with reasonably good health , a fair basis of economic security , individual dignity , and social recognition ; to assure for each individual proper housing in a wholesome environment , and to build effective programs of recreation for enriching their hours of leisure . 3 . To plan ahead for and with the coming generations so that every factor of contemporary life bearing on the welfare of the individual can be utilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when our children reach the years of later maturity , they will he better adjusted , ready and able to live a healthy life , graciously .  | ' There is a real need to establish a definite rhythm between work and recreation throughout all of the life span . At present it is felt that there are far too many who are not prepared and who especially lack the skills of leisurely living . Every effort should be made to have a knowledge of many recreation activities enjoyed throughout the years and carrie d over into the senior years . TI'o obtain maximum results for the recreation life of older citizens there needs to be an effective correlation of the basic areas of life ? health , educa tion , work , religion , and recreation services . As each area is enriched , all the others benefit . Where opportunity in any is denied , the risk o f individual and social pathology increases . A balance of these elements tends to help produce a better personality and a finer environment . For a large number of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The majority live in families consis ting of husband and wife or as widows heading their own households . It appears , based on cursory observation , that the majority of persons are faced with extensive blocks of unobligated time . For some , cliang-e in economic or vocational status may represent only a minimal alteration in their central life interests ; i.e. , they are able to transfer their intere sts from vocational to avocational objectives . For many , retirement represents change to a life with reduced purpose and to a sharp decline in family'and community responsibility and status . The post-vocational years have arrived without the individual having made effective preparation , either psychologically or in terms of developing extendable leisure interests , factors which seem to be essential in the maintenance of dignity and feelings of self-acceptance . It appears that too often the later years are accompanied by boredom which , along with physical and mental deterioration , results in unhappiness and self-devaluation . This may be especi ally true in some institutional settings where the older citizen is often isolated from normal social and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer older persons meaningful opportunities for the development of leisure skills and for social relationships through interaction with a variety of individuals and groups , regardless of age , many persons , because of negative attitudes , dissatisfaction , and inactivity will continue , in increasing numbers , to look to the supposedly " golden years " with fear and frustration . The resultant loss to the individual , his family , and the community will be immeasurable . Therefore , it seems crucial that extensive attention be devoted to the development of programs which are sensitive to the social , as well as the economic , health , and spiritual needs of the older people in our society . The responsibility for these efforts must be shared by various institutions and contntunity agencies . One of the key factors is the need for trained personnel to provide effective leadership for such programs .                     