@@773528

txt // worked until their death . Labor intensive economies , which have few sources of energy available other than manpower , utilize the old in less physically taxing but socially necessary tasks . The burden of caring for the aged who were incapacitated was distributed among the many members of the extended family . Euthanasia was sometimes practiced in societies where life conditions were extremely harsh and brutal . The majority of nonliterate societies , however , did not detach , disengage , or disaffiliate their aged members from the world of the living and the productive . Since the aged were so extraordinary in having survived in these societies , their survival was frequently attributed to the benevolence of supernatural forces . Gentle treatment by younger family members was often sanctioned by the fear of ghostly revenge . The aged were also a socially valuable repository of oral tradition , knowledge , magic , and skills in societies that had no written language . This was another factor that enhanced their prestige and encouraged good treatment by the younger generation . As societies have developed technologically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aged has been less benevolent and has varied largely according to their power and economic status . A close reading of the historical records of the ancient Hebrews , Greeks , and Romans , and of medieval Europe and colonial America , reveals that the ideals of respect , deference , and kindness toward the aged were little more than the official rhetoric of these societies . In fact , only a few old people and largely those who were within the upper strata , were able to command good treatment . The majority suffered neglect at best , and cruelty at times . The wife shared the fate of her husband , and lost her privileged status , if she had it , upon his death . In highly industrialized societies , physical strength and speed become less socially necessary attributes in the population , but social conditions ? increased population and the possibility of operating the economy with far fewer people , for example ? disqualify the more numerous aged from economically productive work . They lose status dramatically upon compulsory retirement , and those who suffer most are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years.36 // It is an irony of modern times that men and women who have been most successfully socialized into the traditional masculine and feminine sex roles during earlier stages of their life cycle experience the greatest stress in old age . Very dependent , nurturing women are less able to redirect their energies into nonfamily activities when their children leave or if their husbands die ; 37 very aggressive and highly achievement oriented men have more difficulty shifting to the affiliative and expressive role that is appropriate to the status of retirement . Definitions of the obligation toward the aged of the family and the state in modern Western societies have varied largely in relation to the course and nature of technological development , the degree of urbanization , and the value placed on economic productivity and success in the society . As the mobile , nuclear family becomes the typical form in modern societies , and as the aged are increasingly removed from the work situation in economies that can not or will not use them , the burden of support of the aged becomes increasingly difficult for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their grown children are not desired by a majority of old people or by their middle-aged children . In America , the pattern exists more frequently in the working class , which has less choice in this respect . A widowed mother may live with her grown daughter . Even here , however , it is an atypical arrangement and is becoming less frequent . The middle class is more apt to provide cash income supplements for their needy aged parents . The role of the state in sharing the responsibility for the aged with the family varies in Western industrialized societies . The United States , in this respect , compares unfavorably with other Western democracies . In England , for example , government-subsidized home service is provided for those who can not perform domestic tasks or who need temporary nursing care . In America , the incapacitated old person must move in with an adult offspring or be disengaged from the household and the community and placed in an institution . A society that values youth and success to the extent that America does is not tolerant of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than daily confrontation with human frailty and vulnerability . Nevertheless , in both societies , only a small percent of the aged live in insti72 THE BIOLOGICAL BASE tutions . A little more than half of the old people in America , furthermore , live near at least one grown son or daughter whom they visit regularly . In Sweden public housing for the aged is extensive and Old Age pensions are tied to the cost of living and provide completely for the material needs of old people . These pensions are granted to all , regardless of private means or the amount of previous tax contributions . England and Sweden industrialized earlier than the United States and are still , at present , more highly urbanized . This explains part of the difference in government policies , but ideological factors have also been operative . The American belief in rugged individualism and individual responsibility for one 's fate , and the concomitant dislike of paternalistic government , also account for some of the relative delay in increased government assumption of the responsibilities toward the aged that the small nuclear family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else , for that matter . BIOLOGICAL SEX DIFFERENCES Differences in hair color are not regarded as having a necessary relationship to behavior and are not accorded great significance in human societies . Differences in skin color , however , are a very important basis for evaluation and behavioral expectations . Biological sex differences have also been a major source of cultural definitions of expected behavior , particularly within family groups . The biological fact of maleness or femaleness has been elaborated into conceptions of masculinity and femininity that have varied greatly in different societies . Almost any personality trait or human activity , even the care of young children ( which was assigned to secondary husbands in polyandrous Marquesan society ) has , at one time or another , been defined as either masculine or feminine or both in various societies . HORMONAL DIFFERENCES In nonhumans , the relationship between the sex hormones and behavior is clear and direct . Injection of female sex hormones intensifies nurturing behavior ; injection of male sex hormones increases aggresTHE // sive behavior . Nonhuman females do not have territorial defense patterns , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typically . The relationship between the sex hormones and human behavior , however , is much more difficult to establish . Culture intervenes , and biological factors are not easily isolated . The cortex , which is most highly developed in human beings and is the seat of memory and learning , can override hormonally based predispositions . Studies of newborn infants , who have experienced minimal cultural influences , have not demonstrated consistent , reliable , or extreme sex differences in such areas as emotional response or sensitivity to various stimuli . Adult males do have a somewhat higher metabolic rate on the average than females , but again , numerous studies that have been conducted have not found typical and consistent differences in the activity patterns of female and male infants . These studies have limited value in relating behavior to sex hormones , however , because differences in male and female sex hormone production do not become pronounced until puberty . By this time , typical differences in the socialization experiences that males and females undergo from the moment of birth obscure the role of the hormones in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high levels of the female sex hormone estrogen are associated with positive mood states and low levels with negative emotions in many women , this does not have crucial implications for sex role prescriptions . The fact that a large number of women seem to be somewhat more irritable , depressed , and anxious just before menstruating , after delivering a child , and during menopause does not mean that women should be excluded from certain statuses . Occupants of all statuses are irritable , depressed , and anxious , at times , whatever the state of their hormone levels , and men also experience mood swings that correspond to changes in their hormone levels , although they are less apt to express vulnerable moods because of male sex role prescriptions which stress fortitude and stoicism . The topic of the relationship between sex hormones and the emotions in men and women needs much more study . Many of the investigations on women that have been conducted up to now have failed to distinguish between the effect of changes in hormone levels and // preexisting personality traits of the women who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the power of suggestion since the subjects of these studies have been aware of the investigators ' interest in their menstrual cycles . The most obvious biological differences between males and females , in physical size and strength and in reproductive functions , have been most clearly tied to sex role definitions , particularly in the past . Hunting , for example , required not only great physical strength but greater mobility and freedom to roam , often great distances , and for weeks and sometimes months at a time . Women , who gestate and nurse the young , have been less available for these activities . On the other hand , in many societies women have been assigned more physically arduous tasks than men . With technological development , the tie between biological sex characteristics and behavior becomes more tenuous and the possibility of modifying sex role norms in more radical ways arises . Push-button technologies and weaponry in highly industrialized societies do not require physical strength . Women are less apt to nurse their young , and biological scientists may yet devise a substitute for the womb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and biological and economic necessity weigh less heavily in modern societies , and individual choice and inclination have freer play . In the past , the differences between males and females in reproductive roles have had highly significant implications for the restriction of the sexual behavior of the female , particularly in economically stratified societies . The reasons are obvious : paternity can not be established if the sexual outlets of the female are unlimited , and it is the female who is directly burdened with an illegitimate child . Advances in the technology of birth control in industrialized societies have been a very important facilitating factor in the decline of the double standard . The recent explosion of a number of myths regarding female sexuality will change sexual practices and attitudes and values even more once they become widely publicized.38 It has been established , for example , that the clitoris and the lower third of the vagina are the primary erotic zones in female orgasmic response . The female-superior coital position has , however , been unpopular in this country and has // been defined as unfeminine . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more direct clitoral stimulation and is thus more likely to be gratifying to the female , notions of the relationship between masculinity and who is on top are likely to be discarded . In the sexual folklore of the West and the East , the size of the penis has long been equated with masculinity and the capacity to gratify women . Recent empirical investigations have revealed , however , that there is little anatomical difference in this respect between males , when the penis is erect . The publication of this kind of information and the knowledge that female sexual response derives largely from external stimulation and does not depend on the depth of penetration is likely to promote more rational sexual techniques , devoid of anxious and irrelevant male concerns about their comparative anatomical adequacy . CHROMOSOMAL DIFFERENCES Other biological differences between males and females have had less obvious effects on sex role definitions and are significant , largely , as they affect the sex ratio . The human female has an XX chromosomal makeup ; the male has XY chromosomes . Genes of the X chromosome have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and noninfectious diseases.39 The greater vulnerability of males to disease results in a higher percentage of male prenatal deaths , higher male infant mortality rates , and a shorter average life span . The sex ratio , however , does not become greatly imbalanced for biological reasons since more males than females are conceived and born . The longer life-span of women , a trait that characterizes the female of the species throughout the animal kingdom , has been enhanced in recent decades by the increased control over deaths during childbirth . The earlier occurrence of puberty in females has enabled them to marry earlier and to marry older males . Combined with their greater resistence to disease and their longer life-span , these biological facts have led to a surplus of approximately five million women in the United States ? particularly in the older age categories . The surplus has implications for female behavior insofar as it encourages competi76 THE BIOLOGICAL BASE tion for males , with emphasis on seductive behavior and beauty aids as secondary consequences . The surplus of females will probably not get out of hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the major noninfectious diseases to which males have been more susceptible ( heart disease and some forms of cancer , for example ) will diminish the consequences of women 's biological advantage in this respect at earlier stages of the life cycle . The upper limits of life expectancy for either sex will not change much , but men as well as women will be more likely to reach these limits . If it becomes possible to predetermine the sex of offspring , and this seems quite likely , the sex ratio may be adversely affected , however . A surplus of males will probably no longer be produced to compensate for their lower survival rates . Most American parents prefer one male and one female child , at least . If the present decline in the birthrate and in the desired number of children continues , two rather than three children will probably become the national ideal . The sex ratio at birth will then be equal , but survival rates will continue to be unequal unless the infant mortality rate is zero . At present , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child first . If this can be realized , incidentally , it will reinforce and promote certain definitions of appropriate male behavior in our society . First-born children are more apt to be self-reliant , independent , and achievement-oriented . They also , on the other hand , have a higher incidence of neurosis and suicide . OTHER DIFFERENCES Males also differ from females in that they do not experience a sudden and dramatic decline in their capacity to reproduce : they do not go through menopause . The desire to father a child can be gratified up to age eighty for some males . This can be disruptive of the monogamous system of marriage , particularly in societies such as ours where the values of loyalty and duty toward marital partners are declining in favor of standards of personal happiness and self-fulfillment . The pattern in which an older male divorces his wife of many years , marries a much younger woman , and starts a new family is becoming more frequent . // Intellectual functioning has also varied typically between males and females , but no demonstrable biological basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighs less on the average , but brain size has not been found to be related to intellectual capacity . The effects of typical differences in life experiences and different cultural expectations of male and female intellectual qualities and strengths can , on the other hand , account for most , if not all , of the observed variations . Girls , for example , exceed boys in verbal performance : they speak sooner , articulate more clearly , use longer sentences , read sooner , need less remedial help , and excel in grammar , spelling , and vocabulary throughout the school years.40 A factor which strongly affects verbal fluency and intellectual functioning generally is the amount of contact with parents , particularly with the mother . First-born children , only children , and children of small families tend to score higher on I.Q. tests , on an average . Twins , who must share contact with parents from birth , and who tend to communicate with each other rather than with adults , score lower , on the average . Girls are given less freedom than boys , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with adults . Their earlier development of certain intellectual skills is very likely related to this fact . Their greater tendency to conform and to be less active and aggressive is more consistent with student role requirements in the school situation . They therefore earn better grades than boys , even in subjects such as the natural sciences , where boys score higher on standardized achievement tests . In adulthood , no typical male-female differences show up on various tests of intelligence . On more specialized tests , differences that appear are clearly culture-bound . Women , for example , tend to have a better memory for names . This is a reflection of their stronger interest in people and interpersonal relations , which , in turn , stems from cultural role expectations . THE GENETIC BASIS OF AGGRESSION Aggression is a trait that has been culturally defined as masculine and desirable for males in almost all societies , the differences in these definitions having varied in degree rather than kind . Throughout human history men have usually been required to suppress emotions related // to love to a greater extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotions related to hate . The question is then , and this is a very important question , bearing on the fate of human societies and the inevitability of war : To what extent is male aggression genetically determined ? The relationship between male sex hormones and aggressive behavior in nonhumans has been clearly demonstrated , as I have already pointed out . Females are more apt to engage in nurturing , withdrawing and pacifying , and grooming behavior than males . When male sex hormones are injected into pregnant monkeys , the female offspring are more active and aggressive than the female young in control groups . Injection of male hormones upsets the dominance order in adult animal groups . The fact of hormonally-based aggressive behavior stemming from the sex drive is of a different order of significance , however , than the recent claims that have been made for an independent , spontaneous , genetically based aggressive or " killer " instinct in men . The work of Konrad Lorenz and Robert Ardrey , positing the existence of an indigenous , nonreactive urge to kill in human beings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who seek explanations , and perhaps absolvement , for the persistence of war . ' " These authors and their compatriots in the currently fashionable pursuit of futility and despair ignore the evidence of zoology , anthropology , psychology , and physiology in their arguments.42 Animals kill for survival ? to satisfy hunger needs ; they do not kill for the sake of jealousy , rivalry , or pleasure . Man elaborates the notion of killing for survival , often irrationally , but this is not proof of genetic predisposition . Territorial defense patterns in nonhumans , which are a means for establishing differential food and sexual privileges in animal groups , involve threatening display rather than killing . Furthermore , man 's closest relatives , the primates , do not have the pattern of territoriality and are not usually belligerent except when provoked . Even prehistoric man , according to the anthropological evidence , did not hunt to satisfy a " predatory instinct " but to satisfy his hunger needs and those of his dependents . Physiologists have not been able to demonstrate the existence of chemical and physical changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drop in blood sugar levels as hunger builds up , that indicates a continuous internal accumulation of aggressive energy without reference to an external stimulus . From the field of psychology we have a vast body of data demonstrating that much of the aggression manifested by human beings is a reactive response to frustration ? the blocking of needs or goal-directed behavior.43 If aggression is universal in human societies , it is because frustration is universal . Social conditions affect the amount of frustration in the population and the culture encourages or inhibits the expression of aggression . It also identifies the objects of aggression : strangers , minority groups , noncomformists and , currently , adolescents . The list of individuals and groups who have served as objects of displaced aggression in human history is long . War , if it is inevitable , is programed not in the genes but in frustration-inducing social conditions , abetted by cultural values that make extreme distinctions in definitions of feminity and masculinity , equating masculinity with killing and stoicism and repudiating loverelated sentiments as effeminate . Societies pay a price not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male , but also when they ascribe extreme passivity to the female . They lose the potential contributions to the culture of many of their citizens , who are encouraged to contribute to the growth of population rather than culture . We now need knowledge , ideas , and direction far more than we need people . Masochism , the correlate of passivity in the human female , can also have tragic effects on the family . It promotes resentment and subtle retaliation of those who suffer and encourages the aggression of those who benefit . Long-haired youths in contemporary societies exalt love and repudiate killing in their slogan Make love , not war . " They also deemphasize differences in male-female sex role definitions . The sex act is not only a nondestructive alternative to militarism , it also contains an element of aggression and allows for a partial release of these impulses . To make love and not war is grounded in profound psychological truth . Nonliterate societies that have made little distinction between the ideal personalities of males and females have emphasized physical and love-related pleasures such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // society , however , has been very rare and survived , when it did survive , because it was isolated from other societies . If we are to redefine the cultural ideal of masculine aggressiveness it will have to be a worldwide phenomenon . The balance of love will have to replace the balance of terror ; otherwise the pioneers in this undertaking will perish . Economic abundance has encouraged impulse gratification , freer emotional expression , and a greater honesty and sense of responsibility in at least some of our young citizens . I think we can anticipate continued changes in this direction . But the havenot nations will have to be carried along in the sweep of future automated splendors ; otherwise , the envy and frustration of the other four-fifths of the world will undo us . It should now be clear that the basic biological needs and traits of human beings throughout the life cycle establish certain broad limits to the content of family roles , but it should also be clear that role conceptions and definitions can vary greatly within these limits as societies industrialize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so in modern times , with the aid of science and technology . Biological maturity and all that this implies , including the intensification of the sex drive , coincides less with provisions for sexual gratification and marriage in modern societies . Biological changes during other phases of the life cycle also tend to be less relevant to cultural dictate as retirement , for example , becomes compulsory , largely for technological and economic rather than biological reasons . Sex role typing declines , in certain respects , as basic differences between males and females in size and strength , particularly , become less significant for economic functioning . Differences in reproductive functions continue to define parental roles , but less so than in the past , and limited ultimately by the basic biologically grounded emotional needs of the human young ? needs which underlie and strongly effects physical and intellectual development and growth . The content of the role of mother or father changes as societies develop technologically , but the status of parent is unlikely to be eliminated because of these basic biological needs . A look into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advances in science and technology , will further illuminate this point . We will also see , then , how certain values ? particularly // the values of individualism , secularism , equalitarianism , rationalism , and achievement motivation ? arise , become widespread , and are incorporated into family roles as societies move toward increasing control over their material environments . Our heritage is an everexpanding possibility for deliberate and rational change in family life and in social life , given the values that guide us . Scientific knowledge accumulates , however it is used , misused , or ignored by those whom it would benefit . // sterile or oversimplified . This is a symptom of the anti-intellectualism that has always characterized American society and that has been enhanced recently by severe political and economic strains and a growing ethic of despair . Scientific typologies have , in fact , played an important role in the history of science and in the progressive accumulation of information and understanding about human beings and their material and nonmaterial worlds . When viewing human societies as falling into several major categories on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them and the primary means by which resources are produced and energy is obtained , it is important to bear in mind that the model and the concepts are abstractions . Reality is almost infinitely complex : societies usually present a mixed picture and boundaries are often blurred and hard to establish . Many societies , furthermore , have not changed in a pattern of step-by-step progression and advance in the ability to harness energy , manipulate the environment rationally , and accumulate verifiable knowledge about the world . Some societies have regressed , usually after a defeat in war ? Western Europe and the Mediterranean nations after the fall of Rome are examples . Other societies have stood relatively still ? hunting and gathering societies that have survived into the present , for example . And still other societies have skipped stages , sometimes quite dramatically ? the industrializing societies of sub-Sahara Africa , for example . Social conditions and social trends that have been associated with gradual technological development in the West , such as increased urbanization , rationalism , secularism , bureaucracy , and mass literacy have occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Third World . The very rapid introduction of advanced industrial techniques and scientific methods for controlling disease and curbing death has produced transitional conditions , such as the population explosion , that have little precedent in Western history . These nations may or may not emulate the West in the economic , ideological , political , or familial patterns that will ultimately characterize them . They are living , natural experiments that may provide additional answers to the question of the relationship between ideology , technology , and institutional forms . They are ongoing , readily // observable case studies in rapid social change and are a unique challenge to practitioners of the sciences of man . Whatever the problems of typologizing ? of definition , placement , and judgment ? if the thousands of separate and discrete societies that exist and have existed , from small bands or tribal enclaves of 50 to 200 souls to behemoths of almost 8 million toilers and dreamers , are classified on the basis of tools and weaponry , the state of scientific knowledge , the amount and kind of property and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within and between their borders ( and all of these are interrelated ) , we find certain associated patterns and regularities in family life . A TYPOLOGY OF SOCIETIES The major types of societies that have existed can be classified , in broad perspective , as nonliterate hunting and gathering and horticultural societies , agricultural societies , and urban , industrial societies . It is possible , also , to construct a highly generalized portrait of family life as it has varied within these major types of settings , focusing on courtship and love , and husband and wife and parent and child relationships . This particular task I will leave for the following chapter , after I have traced the major changes in values that have accompanied technological evolution . PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS Two major technological innovations that have occurred in human history have had such enormous consequences for social life that they can be called revolutions . ' The two revolutions are the Agricultural Revolution and the Industrial Revolution . The concept of revolution , in this case , refers to degree rather than speed of change . The changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size and permanence of settlements and in the amount of occupational specialization of labor , the increase in trade and commerce , the differential accumulation of wealth , the development of class structures , and the elaboration of political and religious forms into more formal structures ? took thousands of years to unfold . The effects of // the second major technological revolution have been progressively speedier , largely because cultural borrowing and diffusion occur more quickly as mobility and communication increase and isolation and provincialism decline . By and large , and sooner or later , however , more efficient techniques for adapting to the environment have tended to replace less efficient techniques , although values have played an enormously inhibiting or facilitating role in this process . The Agricultural Revolution , in which the technique of cultivating plants was discovered , is believed to have first occurred in the Middle East about ten thousand years ago . Horticulture , the first stage in this revolution , involved the knowledge and use of the hoe and digging stick ( but not the plow ) in plant cultivation . Animals were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional food production , but the use of animal power to replace manpower ( the harnessing of oxen to the plow , for example ) was not known . Archeologists do not agree about whether the techniques of horticulture developed independently in the New World or whether they diffused throughout the world from their origin in the Middle East ? to Britain in the West and to Asia in the East , and then across the Bering Straits to the New World . Whatever the path and the vicissitudes of this particular technological innovation , however , the consequences for the quality of human life and for human values were tremendous . With the advent of the Industrial Revolution in England in the eighteenth century , machine power gradually replaced manpower and standardized goods came to be produced by standardized machines using interchangeable parts . Mass production and mass consumption are a paramount consequence of this additional source of power . Industrialized technology enhances the material comfort of all segments of the society ? albeit disproportionately ? in a way that the Agricultural Revolution did not . Inhabitants of modern urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast to the shabbiness of their shacks and tenements . In my description of nonliterate and agricultural societies , I shall rely mainly on studies and observations of isolated surviving agricultural and nonliterate communities made before these communities began to change dramatically through contact with industrialized soTYPES // cieties . Since the rate of social change in these isolated societies has been very slow , it is likely that family life and social life has not varied greatly through the ages . NONLITERATE HUNTING AND GATHERING SOCIETIES Man as a distinct animal species has inhabited the earth for at least two million years and possibly even longer . Modern man ( Homo sapiens ) appeared sometime between 70,000 and 35,000 years ago . Until the discovery of horticulture , man survived as a hunter and gatherer , moving constantly ( sometimes every week ) as local food supplies were exhausted , living in small , isolated homogeneous bands , with little or no specialization of occupations other than on the basis of age and sex and no surplus food . Life was short , but not necessarily brutish and nasty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physically able participated in the quest for food , the average work week ( three or four days ) has yet to be attained by a majority of humans in modern societies . The realm of the sacred , that part of the world that is set aside , treated with reverence and awe , and regarded as unmanipulable and uncontrollable , was all-powerful . Animism , the endowment of the physical environment with supernatural properties and forces , was common . Man in nonliterate societies often did not distinguish between himself and the material environment with respect to such qualities as life , motivation , and power . Superstition , chance ( including games of chance rather than games of skill and strategy ) , and fatalism were rife ; knowledge of rational techniques for adapting to the environment was very limited . The rate of social change was so slow as to be almost imperceptible . The number of elements of technology and knowledge in the culture that could be combined or recombined into new forms was small , and the rate of invention neglible . The number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arise innovation and new solutions to the problems of existence was limited . Contact with other societies and the possibility of borrowing more efficient or effective techniques was sporadic or nonexistent . Most hunting and gathering societies had leaders who emerged // temporarily at times of decision-making to mediate discussions of when and where to migrate or how to plan food-foraging expeditions . These individuals were usually not full-time leaders , however . No permanent , widely recognized status of leader existed , typically , to which was attached automatic rights of deference and authority regardless of the personal qualities of the occupant . Leaders returned to the mundane survival activities of daily life when their stewardship talents were no longer required . And this was true often of the only other specialized occupation in these societies ? the shaman or medicine man , specialist in magical salvation or destruction . Magic occupied the life space that organized religion and science occupy in more technologically developed societies . The shaman coerced the spirits and demons into intervening in the concerns of his clients , bringing them health , long life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was self-employed ; he was not a functionary in a permanent religious organization . Priests have represented a moral community ; shamans worked alone and without the backing of a systematic , all-embracing theology.2 They neither competed with or supported family values , beliefs , or behavior . While monotheistic religions existed in a small number of nonliterate societies , rarely was there a conception of an omniscient , omnipresent supreme being who was actively concerned with sanctioning and implementing a system of ethics.3 This development is associated with more complex technology , more populous and more heterogeneous societies , and the decline in the effectiveness of the family and the community in exercising social control.4 Private property as we conceive of it was unknown in hunting and gathering societies : the ownership of land that was soon to be abandoned was pointless and the accumulation of liquid capital , or its equivalent in shells or other media of exchange , was impossible in the absence of an economic surplus and trade . The notion of personal property , however , did exist and was vested in such items as ritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the small amount of portable items ( tools , weapons , or clothes ) that individuals were able to transport on their backs . It was easy to discard and duplicate new equipment that was simply and quickly constructed out of materials that were readily available at the new site . The impetus for both posTYPES // session and accumulation was lacking in hunting and gathering societies . Men hunted and fashioned spears , axes , and bows and arrows out of wood , stone , and bone . Women collected edible vegetation , bore and nursed children ( often throughout the entire span of their short lives ) , and succored the ill , the wounded , and the dying . Communal sharing of the kill was common . Luck and chance were powerful forces ; families and individuals could ill afford the independence that stems from economic security . They might be next in the capricious battle with the forces of accident and destiny . Villages rarely contained more than fifty people and were often even smaller . Sometimes villages sharing a common culture and language were united into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effective rule of a centralized authority . It was difficult for one family to accumulate the equipment and the power to subdue the rest . Population remained fairly constant , automatically regulated by balanced and very high birth and death rates . Where this balance was upset , infanticide was often practiced . Inefficiency was the rule in reproduction and in survival ? in all areas of life , in fact , except art , music , and religious ritual , where the standard of efficiency did not apply . Except where protected by natural , geographic barriers , most hunting and gathering societies that did not discover the use of metals in fashioning tools and weapons and the technique of deliberately cultivating plants were doomed to extinction by the expansion of societies that did make these self-preserving discoveries . NONLITERATE HORTICULTURAL SOCIETIES With the introduction of horticultural technology in human societies , the press of the search for food lightened . Population increased , since population in nonindustrialized societies tends to expand in proportion to the available food supply . Settlements become more permanent ; the exhaustion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local supply of wild animals and vegetation by hunting and gathering societies . Tribal federations became more unified and effective political units , // under the control of families that had forged ahead in power and wealth . The families who achieved this initial advantage probably did so because they happened to have produced more sons , and sons who were more aggressive than their compatriots . Expelled misfits of extended families or survivors of decimated , weaker families sought the protection and swelled the ranks of the more powerful families , bringing still more manpower and fighting power to these families . More efficient food-procuring techniques made an economic surplus possible and a new source of distinction between families and individuals appeared . Humans evaluate people , places , and things . They arrange objects in their environment in a hierarchical order and judge them as more or less good , or more or less desirable , according to their values . In hunting and gathering societies , prestige was differently allocated to members of the society on the basis of age , sex , and personal qualities such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of an economic surplus , the differential possession of the land and its fruits became an additional criterion for evaluating families and individuals . Religious ideologies provided the motivation for families to produce more than they could consume and the justification for turning over this surplus to the priests and to the heads of more powerful families , who traded protection for tribute . Hereditary , family-based advantage in property , power , and prestige became established and class structures came into existence . More efficient techniques for supplying food released some members for full-time specialized occupations in the arts and crafts , religion , and politics . Pottery and weaving appeared and the use of metals ( other than iron ) was discovered . Specialized occupations meant the production of more goods of a particular type than the individual , his family , or the village could use . These new and often luxurious products were either transferred to the elite or were traded by barter . Trade and commerce encouraged cultural diffusion and mobility ; the rate of social change increased somewhat . Women usually did the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did the heavier work of clearing fields . They continued to hunt to supplement the subsistence needs of the soTYPES // ciety , their contribution in this respect varying from society to society . In societies where hunting continued to be more important than plant cultivation in providing for subsistence needs , the status of males relative to females was usually higher . Cannibalism , headhunting , human sacrifice , and the taking of slaves are practices associated with horticultural technology and the accumulation of an economic surplus . In the absence of written records , scalp collecting became popular in many societies ? a prototypical form of conspicuous consumption in which the number of accumulated scalps served to validate the status of the brave and the strong . Not all societies developed a more advanced technology ? some for reasons of geographic isolation or climatic idiosyncracy , others for lack of an ideology that encouraged accumulation , aggression , and innovation . On the ruins of the less isolated of these societies arose the great agricultural societies of historic times . AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES Agricultural societies appeared in Egypt and Mesopotamia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the plow , they harnessed oxen to the plow , thus taking a giant step in the direction of conserving human energy and supplementing the sources of power available to the sociey . With rare exceptions , these societies were distinguished from hunting and gathering and horticultural societies by three features : the development of a written language ( limited to the elite ) , the existence of urban centers , and the yen and capacity for empire-building.5 Horticultural societies such as the Maya of Yucatan , who possessed an ideographic system of writing , a calendar and a numeral system that included the concept of zero , the Incas of Peru , who were empire builders , and the Chinese during the Shang and Chou dynasties , who had a written language , urban centers and a feudalistic system of government , were unique exceptions . Other differences , that distinguished horticultural from hunting and gathering societies became even more pronounced in agricultural societies : the size and permanence of settlements , the variety of occupational specialization , the extent of trade , the degree of social ine92 TYPES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the size of the economic surplus , and the size of the non-economically productive class all increased . Warfare in horticultural societies was usually sporadic ? limited to raiding , plundering , the capturing of slaves , or the driving off of interlopers . In agricultural societies , wars of conquest and occupation became the preferred form . Conquest and subjugation were faster and more efficient ways to increase wealth than patiently to await the rewards of continuing technological development . Technological innovation in agricultural societies , furthermore , was discouraged by the fact that the fruits of new discoveries were likely to be preempted , promptly and mercilessly , by the religious and political elites . Occupation , governing , and tax collecting from huge , heterogeneous territories require organization and personnel . Agricultural societies developed vast political and military bureaucracies to handle these tasks as well as religious bureaucracies to cope with the problem of social control . Bureaucracies develop when it is necessary to coordinate the activities of large numbers of people in the carrying out of large-scale tasks . If one man is collecting taxes from ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up and who is n't . If a thousand collectors are collecting taxes from a million people , somebody back at the home office has to keep records , coordinate functions , and provide supplies to avoid waste , loss , duplication , and chaos . And so the administrator is born . As the tasks of protecting , controlling , building , and expropriating economic resources grew in scope in agricultural societies , bureaucracy proliferated in the political and religious spheres . No single extended royal family could provide the talent or numbers to coordinate the activities of governing and worshiping . And so they recruited administrators , tax collectors , and professional armies from other elite but less powerful families . Literacy is also a usual precondition for governing large territories ( and , incidentally , a precondition of bureaucracy ) . Records must be kept of tribute exacted and rewards dispensed to loyal functionaries . Since the written language was very complex in less technologically developed agricultural societies , a specialized occupational group of scribes came into existence . Here , again , recruitment was largely from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reTYPES // lease their sons from productive work and could pay the costs of long years of education . Formal legal systems developed in response to the need to control large populations with local and varying cultures and conceptions of justice . Codified law represents an attempt to substitute impersonal , universalistic principles for the blood revenge tactics of family-dispensed justice . Where formal law and agencies of law enforcement are lacking or ineffective , injured parties and their families usually engage in the spiraling and interminable cycle of retributive acts characteristic of blood revenge . This can be disruptive of the civic order and predictability required for the effective operation of centralized governments . Technological development proceeded unevenly and slowly in agricultural societies , but most of them eventually learned how to harness wind and water power and developed increasingly more efficient tools and weapons , particularly with the discovery of iron . Centralized governments were usually monarchical and autocratic . Oligarchic republican forms of government appeared in maritime societies , where land was less significant as a source of wealth . The degree of centralized control by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territories governed , the existence of natural barriers , and the consequent ease of transportation and communication within the society . Feudalism , a system in which power is dispersed among lesser elite families within a loose federation headed by a king or emperor , existed where highly centralized control was difficult to maintain . Conflict was a constant feature of agricultural societies , stemming from economic , religious , and ethnic differences in interests and values and from the barely endurable life conditions of the peasants . Spontaneous peasant revolts , particularly in more advanced agricultural societies , were standard occurrences . While the royal family and the governing class together comprised probably less than 2 percent of the population in these societies , they owned from one-half to two-thirds of the national wealth.6 Religious faith and political coercion ( where faith was inadequate ) kept the supply of tribute , rents , and taxes flowing from the masses to the elite . Privilege was divinely sanctioned ; excellence , for those who were chosen , was measured by success in extracting the surplus to the fullest // extent possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haves and the have-nots worshiped , usually , with equal conviction . The privileged were as convinced of their right to wordly goods as the masses were resigned to their suffering . Land was the most important source of wealth in agricultural societies , and wealth and power truly walked hand in hand . Political power was viewed not as a public trust , even ideally , but as a proprietary right to be exploited to the fullest for family and personal gain . Urban settlements developed as seats of government and religion and as centers of industry and trade . In the towns and cities , peasants could exchange what little was left of their surplus for tools , spices , and other products they could not produce . It was in the urban centers that the middle class became prominent , consisting of merchants , self-employed artisans , and minor clergy and officials who served the governing classes . The emergence of a middle class had great significance eventually for the redistribution of power and for changes in family life . The urban middle classes have been the innovators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in many of the significant changes in values that have characterized family roles and functioning in modern times . Despite the fame of urban centers in agricultural societies , they contained only a small proportion ( 5 to 10 percent ) of the population . The masses continued to exist close to the land , illiterate and short-lived , subject to unremitting hardship and the unrelenting coercion of economic necessity and authoritarian political power . Magic , superstition , and fatalism were preeminent features of peasant society as they had been in less technologically developed , nonliterate societies . For the masses , knowledge of rational techniques for coping with the environment had increased somewhat , but control over one 's fate and the availability of recourse and options had changed very little from prehistoric times . INDUSTRIAL SOCIETIES With the Industrial Revolution , man took a mammoth stride in the direction of increasing control over his environment and edged that much closer to destroying it . Probably the most important precipitatTYPES // ing factor was the invention of the steam engine . The shift to manufacturing as an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factory system , transformed Western economies and societies and led eventually to the dominance of the West in world politics , prerogatives , and privileges . ' The effects of the Industrial Revolution have reverberated throughout the world over a period of almost two hundred years as man has shifted his energies increasingly from extracting activities ( farming , mining , lumbering , and fishing ) to manufacturing , from stoking and operating machines to watching and adjusting machines , from flying shuttles and spinning jennys to automated plants and computerized services , from producing to selling and distributing , and from accepting and obeying to innovating and experimenting in all spheres of life . Creative energies have been released that lay dormant for thousands of years in agricultural societies , curbed by repressive economic conditions , fatalistic ideologies , and highly effective social controls . To explain a complex social phenomenon such as the Industrial Revolution , it is necessary to select from a multitude of historical events , those that seem most relevant . History is objective fact ; interpretations of history vary with time , place , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of societies and their citizen-writers of history.8 Causal explanations in science , furthermore , are subject to the process of infinite regress . Where should one begin ? Contemporary Western historians and social scientists usually trace the sequence of events that culminated in the Industrial Revolution to the voyages of exploration and discovery that began in the fifteenth century in Europe . Natural science , mostly concerned at that time with understanding and explaining the mysteries of the solar system , was given a tremendous boost by the knowledge that became available about the shape of the earth . Physicists , academists , and biologists were also stimulated to seek a more empirical , experimental basis for their propositions and predictions , to venerate past authority less , and to trust in observation more . Technology , the practical application of scientific knowledge , benefited accordingly . Myths about the material universe and , much later , the social order began to be struck down , gradually but inexorably . Rationalism came // to be valued ; its fruits apparent in profit and power and , less immediately and less obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The age of exploration and the colonization of the New World resulted in a flood of previously scarce metals into the mother countries and a great acceleration in world trade and commerce . One important consequence of the influx of gold and silver into European countries was the spread of the money economy and the decline of the barter system . In the less technologically developed agricultural societies of antiquity , grain served as a medium of exchange where simple barter was inadequate . Since grain is cumbersome and perishable , scarce metals of various kinds came into use as substitutes for payment in kind or in grain . At first the size and weight of metals used in commerce were standardized for local areas . Then , as empires were consolidated by ruling families , centralized governments assumed the responsibility for minting standardized metal currencies . The spread of the money economy in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries had tremendous implications for social life . It facilitated trade : with a less cumbersome medium of exchange , it was easier to calculate profit and loss rationally , to invest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of wealth that could later be easily diverted into industrial enterprises . Liquid capital gradually replaced land as the major source of the wealth of nations , families , and individuals . As trade and commerce increased , merchants and artisans multiplied . Merchants stimulated new needs and acquisitive impulses among the populace . Their mobility in agricultural societies provided an important channel for cultural contact and diffusion . Their pursuit of gain and their calculation of profit in monetary terms were prototypical manifestations of the values of individualism , rationalism , competitiveness , and active mastery over the environment which are basic to achievement and innovation-oriented industrializing and industrialized societies . These new values eventually undermined the cooperative , conservative , fatalistic , nonventuresome , and nonrisk-taking values of the landlocked peasant in traditional societies of the West and had enormous implications for family life . In addition to the material benefits that derived from the era of exTYPES // ploration and colonization , the Protestant Reformation , in the sphere of ideology , is also credited by some scholars with having had a major facilitating effect , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that eventually resulted in the Industrial Revolution in the West . " No comparable innovation in religious beliefs and values occurred in the East ; Eastern religions continued to value other-worldly spiritual goals and future-worldly rewards . For life on earth their advocacy of patience and resignation remained unchanged . The Protestant Reformation was itself a response to social conditions that had been changing at least since the time of the crusades . The Crusades opened up new culture contacts and new trade routes , stimulated new material wants , and enhanced the importance of urban centers . The doctrines of Protestantism , as enunciated by Martin Luther and John Calvin in the Sixteenth century , provided a set of values and beliefs that eventually filled the spiritual needs of urban merchants and craftsmen , supporting and reinforcing their interests and endeavors . Luther exalted honest work in one 's calling as a way of serving God , thus removing the association of work with punishment and sin , which was the view of the medieval Catholic Church . The Church had frowned upon accumulation beyond that which was necessary for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as thieves and parasites . Calvin regarded profit-making as a respectable source of income , as respectable as wages and rents . His doctrine of predestination , which held that individuals were destined at birth for salvation or damnation and could do nothing to change their fate , had the unintended consequence of promoting rationalism in business life . This-worldly success came to be interpreted as a sign that the individual was favored by God in the lottery of fate and was , therefore , among those who were destined to dwell in His house forever . Continuous work , thrift , self-discipline , and self-denial brought not only worldly success , but relief from the constant anxiety that Protestants felt ( difficult for secularized modern man to imagine ) about whether or not they were in fact among the chosen . The Puritan sects , prominent in England , Scotland , Holland , and New England declared that man was alone before God . His closest // friends might be among the damned . He must seek success at the expense of his competitors and must rely ultimately only on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loneliness , the corollary of individualism , eventually became the existential condition of the most independent , the most self-directing , and the most steadfast of the practitioners of the success ethic . Certainly the founders of Protestantism had no idea of the farreaching consequences of their movement , particularly in promoting , at least indirectly , profit-making enterprise and industrialization . That there was this association initially is indicated by the fact that the first nations to become highly industrialized were Protestant . But the wealth shipped in by the colonies to many of these nations was an antecedent , if not sufficient , factor . In the East , the most highly industrialized nation , Japan , experienced no great change in the religious sphere prior to industrialization ; it was , however , a colonizing power . MODERN SOCIAL TRENDS The social conditions accelerated or sent into motion by the Industrial Revolution and the values that became widespread have profoundly changed the quality of life in contemporary industrial societies . Briefly , I want to sketch some of these changes , focusing on those that seem most clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrialized societies , developments in medical science and public health diminish the death rate and lengthen life ? almost doubling the average life span in the past one hundred years . Reproduction becomes more efficient ( fewer babies die ) and birth rates decline . Even with the decline in birth rates , however , world population has increased nearly sixfold in the two hundred years since the Industrial Revolution . The high level of technological development makes for an increasing emphasis on mental skills and selling and distributing in the economic sphere . The middle class eventually becomes the numerical majority ; the class pyramid moves toward a diamond shape , with the rich at the apex and the poor at the bottom and most people located in the middle . Movement up the class structure becomes common ; // movement down becomes feared . In traditional societies , movement either way was rare and irrelevant to the dreams and hopes of the majority of the populace . Psychological mobility , the subjective counterpart in expectation , identification , and aspiration of actual , objective change in group membership , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all gradually become exposed , encourage this process by serving as sources of information about life styles , would views , roles , etiquette , speech , dress , consumer goods , distant places , and distant people . Models proliferate , as do socializing agents . Superficial differences , urban-rural , regional and , to a lesser extent , class differences are increasingly leveled by the standardized images promulgated in the mass media . The leveling process is underwritten by the efficiencies of mass production and the reality of mass consumption . Geographic mobility is also common : mobility in search of jobs , education , better housing , greater political freedom or social acceptance , new experience , adventure , or escape from family and community controls . The more highly industrialized the country is , the higher the mobility rates . The United States has the most mobile population in the entire world . Factories and offices require concentrated populations ; urban centers contain a majority of the population in industrialized societies . In the United States , over 70 percent of the population lives on 1 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can produce enough food on the farms to feed more than thirty times their number . The degree of urbanization in a society is not determined by the growth of cities but by the proportion of the total population that lives in cities . In India , cities are growing , but the high birth rates in rural areas maintain the urban-rural population ratio at a fairly constant level . The movement from farm to city is a finite process ; eventually , the United States will be a nation of cities . Farms will be factories to which workers will travel from their urban homes to perform their daily shift of work . Technological development proceeds at such a rapid rate in industrialized societies that economic growth can increase national wealth faster than wars of conquest . Invention and creativity underlie this technological development ; governments with an eye on the future // become highly involved and concerned about the quality of education and the level of achievement motivation of their citizens . The specialization of occupations increases constantly : the Dictionary of Occupational Titles in the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate and distinct kinds of jobs in this country . Ever-narrower specialization in training and knowledge becomes the only way to keep the pace of technological change and the accumulation of information from becoming an intolerable strain on human intelligence . The clock and the traffic light replace sunrise and sunset as regulators of human activity . Time becomes an obsession , particularly for those who have much to accomplish . Human contacts become increasingly segmented , impersonal , superficial , ephemeral , utilitarian and , ostensibly , rational . ' 0 The cash nexus replaces emotion and sentiment as the foundation and lubricant of social relationships . Loyalties to place and group decline ; sophistication ? flexibility and a capacity to adapt to constantly changing social situations ? becomes a useful quality of character and often an absolute imperative . Democracy ? nominal , formal , fictional or actual ? becomes the preferred governmental form and the wistfully desired organizational principle in other spheres of life . Educated , skilled , better fed , and more economically secure people are not submissive or compliant ; they want a greater role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women , ethnic and religious minorities , or young people . Democracy and bureaucracy become the competing and antithetical ways of organizing authority and decision-making ; they are antithetical because authority in bureaucracies flows from the top down . In democracies the process is reversed , ideally . The preservation of individualism , where this is valued , becomes a new challenge : not only do political coercion and authoritarianism suppress inventiveness and creativity but so does bureaucracy . It is an organizational form that is intrinsically inimical to unpredictability and change and , therefore , to initiative and to the restless , achieving spirit , although authority in bureaucracies , based as it is on skill and training , is usually not as arbitrarily oppressive as traditional forms of authority . Intellectuals in highly industrialized societies , whatever the form of // government ( as long as it allows intellectuals to express themselves ) decry the increase in anomie and alienation , the fragmentation of identity , and the endless quest for meaning and purpose . They deplore the breakdown of community and extended family and the decline in solidarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runaway rates of unbalanced and uncontrolled social change . They bemoan the apotheosis of technology , bureaucracy , the functionary , and the expert . They fear the concentration of power and the availability of vastly more efficient and effective means for obtaining and maintaining power . And they mourn the loss of innocence , the decline of utopia , and the disappearance of chiliastic visions . As societies have changed from traditional ( nonliterate and agricultural ) to modern ( urban , industrial ) the family has also changed , particularly with respect to the values that become incorporated into family roles . The proliferation of urban values in industrialized societies ? values such as individualism , equalitarianism , secularism and rationalism , tolerance and cosmopolitanism , and active mastery and achievement ? is increasingly reflected in all aspects of family life ? in courtship patterns , in marital interaction , and in parentchild relationships . We now have a basis for understanding why these values arise as societies develop technologically . Let us go back , then , and trace in greater detail typical variations in family role conceptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that we can better understand survivals and trends in contemporary family life ? in America , particularly , and elsewhere . // LIFE How has technological evolution affected the family ? How has the family changed from the time when human societies consisted of bands of roving hunters and gatherers , to the time when land became an anchor and a source of wealth , to the time when mobility is once again an everyday condition of human existence and wealth is far more abundant , somewhat less equally distributed , and more movable and liquid in form . How have the values that I have called urban values affected family roles and relationships and family problems and conflicts ? The trail is not easy to follow : the historical record favors the literate and the privileged and those who achieved greatness or eternal notoriety . The prehistorical record , as reconstructed by archeological studies of weapons , tools , and art forms , says little about family roles , childrearing practices , or intergenerational relations in nonliterate societies that are extinct . Again we must depend on data from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times . We assume , as I mentioned earlier , that family roles and values in these societies are not so different from those of their extinct predecessors , at least in rhajor respects , given the very slow rate of social change in these societies . // THE FAMILY IN PREHISTORY AND HISTORY Prehistory and history are time perspectives . Prehistory refers to the era in human societies before the invention of writing and written records . Culture and subculture are associated with place ? with territory and society ? and with groups . A single culture may be viewed historically , through time . Since rates of social change vary , the two perspectives do not always coincide when we compare societies , using the level of technological development as a basis for classification . In the very long run , however , and I am thinking now in terms of thousands of years , certain typical trends in family life have emerged that are associated with major breakthroughs in technology . I am refering specifically to the Agricultural and the Industrial revolutions . In the late nineteenth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to reconstruct step-by-step stages in family structure and functioning that they believed were associated with each step-by-step unilineal advance in technological development . Underlying these exercises was the assumption of progress toward human perfection and the assumption of a progressive intellectual superiority in the population base that supported technological development and a moral superiority in the family forms associated with different levels of technological development . Usually the family was depicted by Social Darwinists as having advanced from a state of primitive sexual promiscuity , to group marriage , to matriarchy , to patriarchy and , finally , to the most perfect union ? Victorian monogamy . Among the more famous scholars who applied this model to family life were Herbert Spencer in his Synthetic Philosophy ( 1860 ) , Johann Jacob Bachofen in Das Mutterrecht ( 1861 ) , Lewis Morgan in Ancient Society ( 1877 ) , and Edward Westermarck in The History of Human Marriage ( 1891 ) . Frederick Engels in The Origin of the Family , Private Property and the State ( 1902 ) also rested his analysis on technological development and assumed unilineal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , focused on technological developVARIETIES // ment as it affects the accumulation and distribution of economic resources in human societies and was devoid of assumptions of historical progress in family life . Engels , in fact , felt that family life had deteriorated morally from a presumed original state of equality between man and woman in societies where property was communal . We now know as a result of accumulated anthropological researches and more complete and accurate historical information that there has been no universal , step-by-step , inexorable pattern of family development and change in human history . Matrilineal societies , for example , have been common in Asia , Africa , Oceania , and aboriginal America . These societies , in which descent is traced through the female line and where newlyweds usually reside with the wife 's relatives , have typically preceeded patrilineal forms , because horticulture usually precedes agriculture and matrilineal family organization tends to occur where women make primary contributions to subsistence needs by doing the cultivating in the society . But this is not an inevitable consequence in horticultural societies ; in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic role of women in a particular society may be a necessary but it is certainly not a sufficient determinant of patterns of calculating descent in that society . Given similar technological conditions , the discovery of horticulture , for example , preexisting traditions , values , and myths , the origins of which are forever lost to the scholarly and the curious , have played an obviously important role in affecting the direction of change in family roles in particular societies . We can not argue , on the other hand , that family values and ideologies have been an " independent " force in social change as one sociologist has claimed . William Goode has pointed to the communal experiments in China , Russia , and Israel , and the retreat to more traditional forms in the latter two countries , as evidence of the " independent " effect of family patterns on technology and economy . ' The decision to institute communes in China , Russia , and Israel was made by political leaders , not by families ; preexisting family values have promoted the commune movement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The family , however , did not initiate the communal experiments in these countries . Basic human needs and basic human emotions are universal ; simi106 VARIETIES OF FAMILY LIFE lar material conditions are associated with similar institutional characteristics . While there is no necessary and inevitable connection between the two , in particular societies we have ample evidence of certain major directions of change in family roles and values as societies have developed technologically and as they have achieved greater scientific knowledge about the world and its inhabitants . To present an overview of family life throughout human history is an enormously complex task . We can simplify this task somewhat if we select out certain major aspects such as family structure and functions , courtship and love , marital interaction , and parent-child relationships and describe typical variations that have appeared in nonliterate , agricultural , and industrial societies , particularly as these variations reflect major changes in values . FAMILY STRUCTURE The concept of structure refers to a number of units ? molecules , individuals , social classes , for example ? that are related to each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bounded whole : a cell , a family , or a society . In the family , structure refers to the totality of socially recognized statuses or positions occupied by individuals who are engaged in regular , recurring , and socially sanctioned interactions and relationships . With death , divorce , separation , marriage , and childbirth , family structure changes : statuses are lost or added ; roles are redefined or redistributed . Family structure , historically , has been either nuclear or extended . Anthropologists have preferred the designations " conjugal " or " consanguine . " The conjugal or nuclear family structure is one in which the marital tie is paramount . In extended or consanguinal family structures , biological descent is the primary fact of family life and the marital tie is deemphasized . The pattern that predominates in a particular society will depend in large measure on the mobility of its members as they pursue economic goals ? both movable game and the vicissitudes of the job market are associated with nuclear family structure . ' - ' The extended family is a cumbersome unit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently on the move . // The type of food supply , the size of the economic surplus , the kind and amount of property and wealth and whether it is family owned or individually obtained , are related factors . All in turn are tied to the level of technological development . Because of the importance of the mobility factor , the nuclear family , relatively independent from the larger familial unit with respect to authority and economic functioning , predominates in hunting and gathering societies and in urban , industrial societies. ; In horticultural and agricultural societies , the family is less mobile or is immobile , is bound to the land as a major source of sustenance , and strives to maintain the extended structure as the cultural ideal . Ideals and reality , however , have rarely coincided for the masses of human beings . While the extended family has been the cultural ideal in a majority of societies , it is very likely that the common man has lived , throughout history , predominantly in modified extended units . Certainly this has been true in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether horticultural , agricultural , or industrial , could afford to maintain the extended form better than their poorer contemporaries . Harsh living conditions , inadequate food supplies , and little empirical knowledge about the control of disease and the environment subverted this type of family structure . Death frequently removed key figures in the three generational unit . Polygyny ( the taking of multiple wives ) has also been a cultural ideal in a majority of human societies , but here too , from all evidence , monogamy has been the actual condition of the majority of men and women . It was mainly the upper strata who could support a polygynous family structure and then largely in societies where women performed important subsistence economic activities.4 Monogamy becomes the ideal as well as the actuality in agricultural societies . While a higher level of technological development permits a more efficient utilization of manpower in these societies , the wife 's direct contribution to subsistence ( the extraction of raw materials ) declines and polygyny becomes more difficult to support . Among areas of the world where polygyny has survived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab societies have performed the lion 's share of subsistence activities . Men sowed and helped harvest , but women were largely responsible for the daily activities that kept families alive . Work was defined as demeaning , and // more suitable for the female sex . Cultural definitions of masculinity emphasized bravery , sexual virility , and idleness . Males valued talk and gossip ( with other males ) and adornment . They marketed because marketing was not defined as a chore , as it is in Western societies , but as an occasion for social interaction and pleasurable talk . ' The practice of polygyny , incidentally , promoted and reinforced social inequality in economically stratified societies . Strong , wealthy extended family groups were in a position to obtain more wives who , in turn , produced more sons , thus adding to the family pool of warriors and enhancing its claims to protective prowess and its right to rule over weaker families . In highly industrialized societies , extended family patterns are most pronounced among the very rich and the very poor . Wealth is the source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich ? wealth and concomitant power and social contacts that facilitate careers and guarantee security to younger generations of the family . Among the poor , necessity and custom bind the extended family together . The maternal grandmother in the black slums cares for the illegitimate grandchildren while the mother works . The aunts , uncles , cousins , comadres , and compadres provide food and other essential goods and services within segments of our society characterized by extremes of insecurity , illness , deprivation , and distrust and suspicion of government and nonindigenous professionals . The extended family structure is more functional in traditional societies where land is the basis for subsistence and wealth . The family provides services that can not be obtained elsewhere . It works as a productive economic unit , pooling and sharing economic resources . Children are essential to economic survival and well-being . A widow with a large number of children is a desirable mate because she brings needed field hands and household helpers into the new marriage . In highly industrialized societies , children do not earn their keep and are not necessarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are employed on an individual basis . The head of the family does not control the employment of his wife and children . Recruitment into jobs is based , at least ideally , on talent and skill rather than on membership in a particular family group . Economic resources are in the form of money paid to individual members of the family . // In early stages of industrialization , however , the traditional patterns survive to the extent that families tend to work in the same factory under the supervision of the male head of the household . ' Wages , particularly those earned by children , are turned over to him . Women can rarely sustain themselves on their earnings in a labor intensive economy . The income that married women earn is used to provide essentials for the family that the labor of husband and children are unable to provide. ? Only in highly industrialized societies do some married women work for psychological reasons and only in this kind of society can a large number of women earn enough by their own labors to sustain themselves ( but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually by the oldest living member of the family , also promote the continuation of extended family patterns in early stages of industrialization . With increasing industrialization , family firms are bought up and absorbed by nationwide corporations . The son and heir becomes a bureaucrat or an employee in the national office rather than the one-man boss of the local textile mill , glass factory , or shoe factory in Middletown , Yankee City , or Springdale , U.S.A. Nepotism still persists , however : in working-class districts of London , fathers " speak up " for jobs for their sons when the latter finish schools Unions in the United States show preference to sons of members . The children of movie stars have an edge over equally talented children of nontheatrical family origins . But even the former can not succeed without some talent , at least , as fate and family origin become somewhat less intertwined in modern societies . The extended family fights a losing battle with the necessities of geographic mobility and the attractions of social and psychological mobility in industrialized societies . The young leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older areas of the city , as they seek better jobs , better living conditions , and new experiences . The relocation of factories and offices out of the city , urban renewal , public housing projects , and planned New Towns ( for the middle classes ) provide additional impetus for the separation of extended family members . Social mobility usually leads to geographic mobility . Extended family ties are further weakened by differences in interests , values , and life styles that characterize members who achieve a higher status or // descend to a lower social status than their families of origin . Where geographic mobility is forced , as in urban renewal areas , the severing of extended family ties can be a major reason for severe conflict with public agencies who enforce this mobility . This is particularly true of certain ethnic groups such as Italian-Americans , who have very strong extended family bonds . The second and third generation tend to stay together in older , urban , working-class neighborhoods where the immigrant grandparents originally settled , even though the younger generations , at least , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contacts survive in urban industrial society but in much-modified and attenuated forms.I0 The completely isolated nuclear family with no relatives within easy visiting distance is relatively rare . It is most likely to be found where there has been extreme intergenerational mobility ? where a daughter or a son has risen from the working class into the upper middle or the upper class , for example , or where children have married across racial or religious barriers . Most extended families maintain contact by visiting , letter , and telephone ; help is exchanged in the form of gifts , loans , baby sitting services , and advice , particularly during emergencies , even in the middle class , where extended family ties are weakest . These patterns are qualitatively different , however , from the daily contact and interdependence based on economic necessity that characterized extended families in traditional societies . At least some of the stresses that families experience in modern societies can be attributed to a lack of adequate substitutes for the services that the extended family performed in the past : care and support for the aged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a built-in supply of wider social contacts , confidants , and companions in recreational activities . Loneliness was rare where the extended family provided a network of stable social relationships . Working-class wives in contemporary industrialized societies who have moved away from their mothers and sisters are the loneliest of women , particularly if they do not work . " 1 They are not as apt as their middle-class counterparts to be involved in church , club , volunteer community activities , or friendship relationships . // The decline of the extended family and familistic values and the concurrent rise of individualism in modern times is reflected in language . Many traditional societies contained no word meaning " self " or " individual . " These concepts did not reflect a meaningful or significant aspect of social and psychological reality . The question : " Who are you ? " was answered in terms of familial rather than occupational status : " I am Jacob , son of Isaac and grandson of Abraham . " The question in modern societies is not " Who are you ? " but " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct form , in the United States where status distinctions are more subtle , " Where do you work ? " The type of family structure that is associated with industrialization can and does appear in agricultural societies . In the United States , for example , the nuclear family , sometimes enlarged by unmarried individuals who were forced to attach themselves to a family unit in order to survive , was typical even before industrialization , which occurred largely after 1850.12 Preexisting conditions promoted the nuclear family structure and the values associated with this type of family , values such as personal autonomy , achievement , and equalitarianism . Probably the most important of these unique conditions was the shortage of women ( which promoted equalitarianism within the family ) , the existence of a frontier ( which provided escape from community controls and encouraged independence and individualism ) , the absence of a medieval past ( with its cultural rigidities and authoritarian values ) , and the selective , continuous , voluntary settlement of this country by restless , independent people who were escaping economic and political oppression . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of the nuclear form , as societies have industrialized and as people have become more mobile , technological development is neither a necessary or a sufficient cause of this development . In present-day mainland China , for example , Maoist ideology , which extols collectivism and impugns individualism , has resulted in a continued de-emphasis of the nuclear family unit , even as the country has industrialized . This is true on the provincial communes which are industrializing as a result of deliberate government planning . It is also true in urban areas , however , where the aged , if they are not incapacitated , are encouraged to move in with an adult offspring . // In mainland China , the preexisting pattern of familism , with its emphasis on the needs of the family rather than the individual , has been utilized in the fulfillment of planned social goals . The individual continues to be submerged within the larger unit : extended family , commune , and state . In Japan , the stem type of extended family structure , consisting of three generations ? grandparents , parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 3 despite the fact that Japan is now among the top three countries of the world in level of technological development . While preexisting values in Japan , particularly a very strong tradition of familism , have preserved the extended family , at least with respect to residence patterns , the other aspects of extended family life , however , are declining : three generational hierarchical authority , the de-emphasis on the marital tie relative to the parent-child tie , and the economic dependence of the younger adult generation on the elders . This is true certainly in urban areas . It is possible that the isolated nuclear family is a type of family structure that will never exist in certain countries . It is also possible to predict that traditional values in these countries have had only a temporary delaying effect on what will ultimately be the worldwide pattern . And , finally , it is possible to argue that the isolated nuclear family in countries like the United States is a transitional form that will never become typical . The New Towns and urban collectives that are springing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social arrangements that will become established in this country and throughout the world , either by government fiat or by spontaneous popular choice . Communes ( where property is commonly owned ) and cooperatives ( where private property exists but where certain goods and services are shared and exchanged cooperatively and without monetary compensation ) can be viewed as functional equivalents , in some respects , of the traditional extended family . The commune or the cooperative provides collective security for nonproductive members , shares homemaking and childrearing functions , and helps overcome the problem of loneliness . These forms differ from the traditional extended family in that membership in the group is nonconsanguineal , is based on mutual interest and voluntary choice ( in non-Communist countries ) , and auVARIETIES // thority is not rigidly hierarchical , arbitrary , and unquestioned . In the spontaneous give and take of the collectives that are currently springing up in this country , authority tends to settle on those who have needed skills and who are older and more experienced . ' ' One other type-of family structure , which is neither nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the female-headed family . ' " This type of family structure , which arises as a result of illegitimacy , death , divorce , or desertion is not nuclear , ince an essential aspect of the nuclear family is the marital tie . It is not necessarily absorbed into the extended family either , however , as it is in traditional societies . Higher income levels are associated with lower divorce rates and lower illegitimacy rates . or this reason and because of the anticipated decline in the incidence of widowhood during earlier stages of the life cycle as a result of continued advances in the control of diseases to which males are more susceptible than females , an overall decline in the proportion of female-headed families in automated societies would seem to be a reasonable prediction . Divorce rates may continue to rise , however , for reasons that I will take up later . And the future of illegitimacy rates can not be predicted simply on the basis of anticipated rises in the overall standard of living in automated societies . Right now , for example , in slum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate predicted effect on illegitimacy rates among Puerto Ricans . Machismo , the standard of masculinity in which manhood is defined in terms of virility ( demonstrated by fertility ) , is still strong in these areas and impedes family planning efforts , at least temporarily . In black areas , other subcultural supports exist in the ready availability of the maternal grandmother to care for illegitimate children . On the other hand , sociological surveys have indicated that illegitimacy is disapproved among the poor and that girls who bear illegitimate children experience lowered self-esteem . Will the pattern of illegitimacy continue to persist , even if preventive measures such as birth control counseling and alternative measures such as legalized abortion become readily available to all ? The ultimate answer lies probably in the realm of psychology ? in deep-seated , unconscious needs . This level of moti114 VARIETIES OF FAMILY LIFE vation will not be easily recognized and unearthed by behavioral scientists using paper and pencil surveys . Nor will it be easily dealt with if the goal is to eliminate illegitimacy entirely . Technological development and the rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spreading pattern of voluntary illegitimacy . Even now , unmarried women of high status , even though only a handful , are opting for mother-child families as a matter of conscious and deliberate choice . The reasons for this choice have little to do with economic deprivation or subcultural role definition , however , at least at present . These are idiosyncratic actions rooted in the unique psychological life histories of the women involved . The breaking down of rigid , traditional male-female role prescriptions is an enabling factor . The notion that marriage and the marital tie are essential to parenthood is on the decline , as indicated by the fact that adoption agencies are now granting babies to single adults . The feminine equivalent of " bachelor " is " spinster " ? a word with negative associations . We can anticipate the addition to the English language , eventually , of a more neutral label to describe this status , a label that will reflect its voluntary nature for an increasing number of women . Spinsterhood implies a lack of choice and settling for less . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been in the past , a growing number of women are likely to opt for motherhood without the responsibilities of marriage . This pattern , however , is far from becoming a matter of subcultural preference for women of high or of low status . The two-parent family and child relationship is still the prototypical human relationship , whatever its V variations . Unless that is eliminated , we can predict that the heterosexual pairing relationship , whatever its problems , will survive and endure for most adults who have a choice , in all societies . FAMILY FUNCTIONS Societies have a need to survive . So do individuals in family groups . The two levels of need not only may not coincide , they may be in direct opposition to each other . The need to protect the total society by // means of war results in the death of individual family members . Tax policies , and the allocation of societal resources for defense or for the benefit of one particular segment of a total society , may deprive certain other families in the society of the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and emotional security of its members . It is for this reason that I have explained the universality of the family in terms of its role in fulfilling human rather than societal needs . People do not ordinarily live their lives to fulfill abstract societal goals . If families do fulfill these goals , they do so coincidentally and incidentally . The process of fulfilling the needs of family members , in fact , can be potentially destructive to the total society . The need to procreate may endanger the survival of the society by overpopulation and related problems of famine and contamination , for example . Functionalists have defined several major social tasks , called " functional prerequisites , " that must be fulfilled if human societies are to survive . ' ' ' The major institutional areas in modern societies ? the family , government , religion , education , and the economy ? are organized around the carrying out of these tasks . The maintenance of society requires some sort of institutionalized ( widely accepted and deeply internalized ) patterns for regulating sex , reproduction , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ province mainly of the family and the educational system . Every society must also have a system for producing and distributing essential goods and services to its members . This is the area where technological and economic institutions operate , and also , government , insofar as it is involved in taxation and redistribution of the national wealth through public services . The total society and individuals within it must have protection against human destructiveness . This includes protection against the destructive behavior of others and self-destructive behavior . The government performs this function also . Another function , the fulfillment of which is considered by some to be necessary for survival , is the presence in societies of a shared system of beliefs that gives meaning and purpose to life and furnishes motivation for its continued existence . In traditional societies this is // the monopoly of religion . In industrializing societies , various secular equivalents of religion appear in the form of social movements . Unlike religion in traditional societies , the goals of these secular movements are this-worldly and the means are empirical . The supernatural is regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversy over this functional prerequisite centers on whether the motivation for group or individual survival can or must be derived from group goals and ideologies . In highly industrialized societies , where individualism is a dominant value , who is to impose shared beliefs and on what basis shall most , many , or some people accept these beliefs ? It may be that in highly complex , heterogeneous , rapidly changing societies , individuals increasingly must work out their own unique life plans on the basis of personality , opportunity , and constantly shifting social conditions . Certainly the direction of the most recent social movements in highly individualistic America is away from systematic ideologies , long-range goals , and widely agreed upon means . ' ' Families , in their socializing efforts , are also much less certain about what is , what must be , and what will be . In nonliterate societies , particularly of the hunting and gathering variety , all functions that sustain the society are fulfilled by the family as an automatic consequence of its daily operations . The distinction and possible discrepancy between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies not economically stratified . In these societies , the family regulates sexual behavior , reproduces , socializes , protects , works , distributes available resources , and performs religious rituals ? largely without the aid of experts , specialists , and outsiders . The head of the household is soldier , preacher , worker , and teacher . As societies develop technologically and become more differentiated , the family also becomes more specialized in its functions . Its province in the protective , economic , religious , educational , and recreational spheres is contracted and its functions delegated , in part , to outsiders . The economic functioning of the family becomes curtailed as other agencies take over the production of items formerly manufactured in the home : prepared foods , clothing , soap , candles , and numerous other items . // Married women , unless they work outside of the home , perform services that have not been entirely farmed out to factories , bakeries , launderies , and other agencies . The economic value of their services , while considerable , is not readily measurable and evaluated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( how much one is worth economically ) becomes a problem for women . Employed wives tend to have higher self-esteem than nonworking wives . ' " Men , because of more efficient technologies and higher levels of wealth , are often able to earn enough to purchase the goods and services no longer produced or provided in the home . If they can not , the wife may work also . In the 1900s , in America , the typical woman employee was unmarried and in her twenties ; in the 1970s , the typical woman worker is married and in her forties . Economic motivations apparently are more important than psychological reasons ( a / strong need for achievement and recognition , boredom , loneliness , or isolation , for example ) in determining the decision to work . Most working wives claim they would not continue to work if their husbands earned what they would consider an adequate salary or wage . The trend in highly industrialized societies is away from the evaluation of children as economic producers , as a source of security in old age , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate declines , children continue to be desired but increasingly for psychological rather than economic reasons ; they are a source of love and companionship , at least ideally , and they can provide meaning and purpose to life . Protective functions are also shared with specialized agents and agencies ? police , lawyers , judges , and all others involved in law enforcement and defense . The courts and law-enforcement agencies are used , in fact , by one family member against another where family authority is disupted or where definitions of family obligation or tolerable behavior are not shared . Parents have usually invoked the law against children ; aged parents have sued for nonsupport , for example . It is a sign of the times that laws making this type of legal action possible have been repealed in the United States recently . On the other hand , there have been several instances where children have brought suit against parents on the grounds that failure to conform to family norms is insufficient reason for withdrawal of economic su VARIETIES OF FAMILY LIFE port . This type of suit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had laws that specified the death penalty for sons over sixteen years of age who repeatedly disobeyed their parents . ' 9 The decline in patriarchal authority is probably the single most dramatic change that has occurred in family life in the transition from agricultural to industrial societies . Families no longer provide all possible role models that the child may want to emulate , nor do they have the necessary skills and knowledge to train their children to fulfill adult roles available in the society . Schools constantly expand their jurisdiction , claiming expertise to legitimate their authority when there is conflict with parents over the content , goals , and techniques of teaching . Passive recreation , commercialized and provided by skilled professionals , replaces the taffy pull , the barn raising , folk dancing , and other activities which usually involved the family as a unit in traditional societies . Active participant recreation ? golf , tennis , and swimming , for example ? is now more often an individual than a family project . For a while , during the 1950s , it looked as though television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sphere , in front of the television set in the living room . Two- , three- and four-television set families have dispelled these earlier visions of a recreational renaissance within the family . Families tend less and less to pray together . The family altar is gone in industrialized societies . The saying of grace at mealtime is disappearing . The discrepancy between religious ethics and daily conduct grows wider . Rationalism tends to drive out dogma , where the two are in conflict . The use of contraception , for example , other than the rhythm method , becomes widespread among Catholics , despite the official position of the Church on birth control . One function of the family ? the provision of emotional support and gratification ? becomes more , rather than less , important in modern societies . The expectation of happiness as a by-product of family interaction was absent or minimalized in traditional societies . Happiness is a concept that is closely linked to to the value of individualism . The remorseless struggle for life in preindustrial societies did not foster sentiment , kindness , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal growth in family relationships . LOVE AND COURTSHIP LOVE DEFINED Love , a most elusive concept , has been perceived differently in human societies with respect to its relevance to courtship and to marriage . In all societies , since human beings possess the same basic needs and proclivities whatever the cultural and material context , the emotion of love in the man-woman relationship has consisted of two distinguishable , but not always separable , aspects . What we call romantic love is a feeling of intense physical attraction and a desire for sexual contact with a person of the opposite sex . The personal qualities of the loved one are usually idealized . These feelings are often most intense at the beginning of a relationship and they remain very intense if sexual consummation of the relationship is frustrated . Sigmund Freud attributed the depth of feelings of love to the strength of sexual impulses ( first experienced in relation to parents ) which are frustrated or , in his words , " inhibited in their aim . " 20 He regarded romantic love as a neurotic compulsion which derives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the West , romantic love as a subcultural prescription regulating the man-woman relationship first appeared during the Age of Chivalry in twelfth-century France . The intense pinings and yearnings of noble ladies and their knights was a direct consequence of the fact that these relationships usually occurred outside of marriage and were not consummated ? usually . An analogous situation in modern societies is found in the infatuations that adolescents are prone to develop toward unavailable individuals who are often authority figures or who represent the adolescent 's ego ideals . The intensity of longing and desire is in direct proportion to the unattainability of the loved one . Romantic love is narcissistic ; the individual is preoccupied with his or her needs and frustrations . In its pure form , it is distinguished from // mature love , which has an additional aspect ? mutual identification and concern with the needs of the person who is loved . LOVE AS A BASIS FOR MARRIAGE Whether or not romantic love has been prescribed as appropriate to courtship and mate choice in various societies has depended , in large measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each society , on the social status of marriageable men and women . Arranged marriages have been prevalent where there has been extreme inequalities in wealth between families , and where the choice of a mate had great significance for prestige , power , and wealth and the inheritance of these attributes by linear descendents of the extended family . Romantic love as a basis for marriage , on the other hand , implies free choice and a disregard of family needs and wishes in the making of this choice . Expedient criteria ? money , power , actual or anticipated social status ? are unimportant or irrelevant . This pattern is prevalent in the simplest and in the most complex societies because the fate of the family is less affected by the marital choice of offspring in these kinds of societies . All are poor in hunting and gathering societies and , ideally , all have the possibility of social mobility in highly industrialized societies . If parents are not apt to live with their daughters- and sons-in-law , and are not likely to depend on their children for economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and talent become more important than inherited social status in determining economic fates , parents will be less concerned ( but not unconcerned ) about the social origins and personal qualities of their children 's marital choices . The fact that families often arranged marriages in stratified traditional societies , because to do so was vitally important to their fate , explains the motivation of parents . But what of the young people who complied with the family 's matchmaking decisions ? Why was it so easy for families to prevent and control disapproved erotic attachments between the young in traditional societies ? The obvious explanation is that the complete economic dependence of the young , reinforced by rigid cultural definitions and highly effective social controls , repressed spontaneous or negatively sanctioned // love impulses . It has also been argued that widespread premarital sexual freedom in nonliterate societies reduced the intensity of an emotion that thrives on frustration . Another possible explanation that is often given is that love relationships in traditional societies were less intense and thus easier to control because the prototypical parentchild relationship was less intense in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is extremely difficult to assess , particularly when the individuals involved are long dead . Despite the presence of other relatives to help with child rearing , mother-child relationships appear to have been quite strong in many traditional societies . Certainly this was true in polygynous societies . In matrilineal societies , fathers , who had little authority over their children , seem to have had very warm , affectionate relationships with their offspring . And the mythology , folklore , art , and written products of many traditional societies attest to the presence of individual cases of romantic love regardless of cultural dictates and social pressures . Whatever the answer to this historical puzzle , the situation changes dramatically in modern societies . In automating societies , as the standard of living rises for all classes , and as the discrepancy in income between classes narrows ( however slowly ) , love as a basis for marriage is more apt to operate not only ideally but actually . The greater economic independence of women in modern societies also fosters this trend . In the past in the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been strongly influenced by such factors as the intelligence , education , earning potential , and ambition of their prospective mates . This is changing and should continue to change in the direction of freer , less opportunistic mating . Nevertheless , and however prevalent and effective the ideal of romantic love , marital choices in modern societies are usually restricted to individuals who are of similar class , race , religion , ethnic origin , and educational level . Sociologically , like marries like with respect to location on various prestige and privilege hierarchies . This has been conceptualized by sociologists as the principle of homogamy in marital choice . It also applies , incidentally , to the age , intelligence , physical appearance , physical attractiveness , and the previous marital status of individuals who decide to marry . People tend to sort themselves // out spontaneously on the basis of similar interests and life experiences , and in a way that usually does not offend family standards . Where like does not marry like , males have usually married down , trading superior social status for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinforcing cultural values of male authority and female deference . In interracial marriages , in the past in the United States , the tendency has been for an economically successful minority group male to marry a woman of the dominant race but of a lower class . This too is changing . More recently , interracial marriages have been taking place between status equals , presumably on the basis of love since expedient considerations are not obviously present.2 Until recently , area of residence has also been a very important factor in determining marital choices . Most marriages have taken place between people who live in the same neighborhood or community ? " the girl next door " phenomenon , which sociologists have conceptualized as the principle of propinquity , or nearness , in determining marital choices . Both standards , homogamy and propinquity , decline in highly mobile societies for obvious reasons . Geographic mobility and greater exposure to individuals of different social origins diminished ethnocentrism ( the fear , dislike , or intolerance of strange people and strange ways ) and territorially based group ties and group loyalties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residential public colleges and universities , are giant mixing bowls that recruit from an increasingly wide spectrum of the population . Almost half of our high-school graduates now attend college and we are heading in the direction of universal higher education . It is in these enclaves that the sorting and the seeking of the mating process is most free of traditional trappings and family intervention . THE PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTOR In analyzing the basis of attraction between potential marital partners , the adage " opposites attract " is part of the folklore of American society . How is this reconciled with the tendency for like to marry like , for which we also have an adage : " birds of a feather flock to-gether " ? Here , the answer lies in the distinction between sociological and // psychological factors in determining marital choices . Sociological factors ( locating characteristics such as class , race , and religion ) affect conscious , deliberate choices ? those based on obvious similarities in interests , values , and beliefs . Psychological factors , deeper and often unconscious needs and motivations , may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is at this level , largely , that the principle that " opposites attract " operates . In the sociological literature , much confusion has resulted from a failure to appreciate the distinction between conscious and unconscious motivations in the trial and error explorations of the mating game . Psychological needs are often repressed by human beings , particularly those needs that do not conform to culturally prescribed role definitions . These motives will not show up on survey questionnaires because they are not recognized , or if recognized , they may not be admitted . Very few men are apt to state that they sought out an aggressive and dominant woman because of strong dependency needs , even if they are aware of this fact . The evidence that on a psychological level opposites attract is not , therefore , overwhelming . Sigmund Freud formulated an early version of the notion that individuals with complementary needs and personality traits tend to seek each other out in love relationships . He distinguished between narcissistic love , which he attributed to males , and anaclitic love , which he attributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to be admired and revered ; the latter by a strong need to be dependent , deferent , and vicarious in the realm of achievement.22 In the field of sociology , Robert F. Winch and his associates have elaborated on the notion of complementarity of needs in marital choices.23 The theory of complementarity suggests that individuals are attracted to each other at the level of psychological need to the extent that they have opposite needs , or different levels of intensity of the same need . The theory has been tested with respect to such traits as dominance-submissiveness , nurturance-receptiveness , **25;273;TOOLONG , and hostility-abasement . The evidence for complementarity in personality traits of marital partners is impressive but not yet conclusive . Projective tests and depth interviews are most apt to get at this kind and level of information but , as I indicated earlier , these techniques are costly and time124 VARIETIES OF FAMILY LIFE consuming to administer . For this reason , they can not be used on large , statistically representative populations . Qualitative data , furthermore , are even more subject to investigator bias in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are at least more concrete and less subject to misinterpretation . Irrefutable support for the theory will have to await further refinements and sophistication in social science methods . The use of projective rather than direct questions on survey questionnaires is one such refinement . Rather than ask directly : " Would you like to have an extramarital affair ? " most experienced investigators would now ask instead : " Do you feel that most married men ( women ) would like to have an extramarital affair ? " With the second type of question , the respondent can project impulses that he can not or will not admit , and the social scientist may come closer to the truth . It is important to obtain more evidence on the theory of complementarity of needs in marital choices because free choice on the basis of romantic love is becoming institutionalized for all classes in industrialized societies . Psychological needs may override the homogamous principle and homogamy is associated with marital stability . We can have a better basis for understanding the persistence or failure of marriages if we understand what affects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and how the balance in psychological needs may be disturbed if husbands and wives develop differently during the various stages of the life cycle . Romantic love as a principle of mate selection may not turn out to be as irrational as is often claimed since a balance in the satisfaction of unconscious psychological needs is also important for the stability of marriages . As religious , familial , community , and legal sanctions lose their traditional effectiveness in stabilizing marriages , and as the marital tie becomes paramount in family relationships , the principle of mutual gratification of needs at the deepest psychological levels becomes , in fact , the essence of marital stability . MARITAL INTERACTION One major aspect of husband and wife roles that has varied considerably in human societies has been the amount of sharing or // segregation of activities and obligations that has been allowed or prescribed by the culture , and this in turn has tended to vary with the strength of the values of patriarchalism and authoritarianism in various societies . MARITAL ROLE SEGREGATION Generally , as with types of family structure , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had similar patterns : marital sex role definitions have been less rigid and exclusive in hunting and gathering and in highly industrialized societies . In agricultural societies , the differentiation of marital roles according to sex tends to be most pronounced.24 The husband 's responsibilities and the wife 's responsibilities are sharply distinguished and the crossing of sex lines results in conflict and tension . By and large ; and in many societies , wives and mothers have performed what has been called expressive functions : they have been more involved in reducing conflict and in providing comfort and emotional support to family members . Husbands and fathers have usually performed instrumental tasks , requiring leadership , authority , and disciplinary powers.25 In highly industrialized societies the expressive-instrumental division of labor blurs ; in fact , the nuclear family becomes largely an expressive unit , with authority shared , deemphasized , and more negotiable in terms of who has it and when and how it is used . In a reversal of the traditional pattern , in which mother and child were often informally allied against the patriarchal father , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in decisions made by the mother . The amount of sharing or segregation of homemaking or child-care activities in highly industrialized societies varies according to class and according to the stage in the family life cycle . The urban upper middle class is least traditional in this respect , the lower middle class is intermediate , and the working class , which is closer to its rural origins , is most traditional . The honeymoon stage of the family life cycle ( the early years of marriage before the arrival of children ) and the retirement stage are characterized by the greatest amount of joint husband-and-wife activity , within and outside the home , for all classes . In the retirement // stage there may even be a role reversal if the wife is younger , is employed , and continues to work . The retired husband usually becomes more expressive . His relationships with grandchildren , for example , in which he is not typically an authority figure in modern societies , are often characterized by more warmth , indulgence , and spontaneity than he was able to express toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other hand , tend to become more openly aggressive and less self-sacrificing , probably a response to the greater independence and freedom they experience when the children are grown . The childrearing stage of the family life cycle is characterized by the greatest amount of role segregation : the wife is least apt to work and is usually deeply involved in child care ; the husband is invested in his work , the amount and degree of his commitment depending on the prestige of his job , his opportunities for advancement , and the extent to which he can utilize his ability , judgment , and initiative on the job . Time permitting , in all stages of the family life cycle , where the husband does participate in activities that have been traditionally defined as feminine , he will feel less tension and less shame if he is middle class than if he is working class . ' ' ' The wife 's dependence on the husband is highest during the childrearing stage , particularly if she does not work . Previously negotiated , and possibly modified authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traditional forms during this stage of marriage . And it is this period that is characterized by the greatest amount of marital role conflict for the middle-class highly educated woman who has been encouraged to be independent and self-reliant in other areas of life . Marital satisfaction , incidentally , at least as reported by wives , tends to parallel the pattern of joint or segregated activities throughout the family life cycle . It is highest when joint activities are high : during the honeymoon stage and , in the middle class , during the " empty nest " stage , after the children have left . The childrearing years diminish joint activities and responsibilities in the husband-wife relationship and , given the modern values of sharing and reciprocity in marriage , marital satisfaction declines.27 The sexual satisfaction of married women is also related to the deVARIETIES // gree of equality , interchangeability , and flexibility in marital roles . The sexual adjustment of women , far more than that of men , is situational : it reflects the amount of mutuality in other spheres of marital life and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class , where marital roles are most segregated , wives are least responsive sexually.28 And changing circumstances ( unemployment , for example ) diminishes the wife 's sexual responsiveness more than it does the husband 's potency , although both are affected by this crucial change in the husband 's status . Husbands tend to evaluate their marriages in terms of the sexual relationship . Wives , who are more bound to the traditional morality , are less apt to value sex for sex ' sake . In the United States at present , women in all classes , except the most economically deprived , place companionship above economic support , sexual gratification , or the possibility of having children , as the prime value in marriage . College students who are about to be married usually emphasize this aspect and , also , communication . They hope to be able to express feelings , negative or positive , openly , directly , and for the purpose of enhancing the honesty and the intimacy of the relationship . This is a modern orientation . COMMUNICATION Communication becomes an important value in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more recognized and accepted than it is in traditional societies . Freudian psychology , the talking cure , has left its mark on the cultural heritage ? in America particularly . The Freudian formula for diminishing conflict is to promote awareness of unacceptable , unconscious impulses . This diminishes guilt and the anxiety which is often a defense against destructive impulses . Diminished anxiety facilitates communication . The Freudian emphasis on insight and communication has filtered outward and downward from the urban , professional upper middle class , via the mass media , in disguised but recognizable ways . One has only to look at the man-woman relationship as depicted in the movies of the 1930s in this country to appreciate the changes that have occurred in human relationships in the past forty-odd years . The modern viewer , particularly those who are under thirty , reacts with impa130 VARIETIES OF FAMILY LIFE marital partners becomes more equal and economic factors , as I 've said before , decline in importance where the extended family is not the economic productive unit . Divorce rates also tend to rise . This fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies is breaking down . The United States , which has by far the highest divorce rates in the world and where the divorce rate has increased at least tenfold within the past hundred years , is regarded by many analysts as a bellwether in the trend toward the disappearance of the family as a social form in urban , computerized societies . A calm and unbiased look into world history and cross-cultural variations in divorce customs does not support the fears ( or , perhaps , the wishes ) of the prophets of doom . In many nonliterate societies there have been higher divorce rates than in the contemporary United States.29 If we take into account all causes of nuclear family breakdown ? death as well as desertion and divorce ? we find , furthermore , that more families are remaining intact for longer periods of time than ever before.i0 In certain agricultural societies such as Japan , Egypt , and Algeria in the late nineteenth century , there have been higher divorce rates - than in today 's United States . And finally , there is no necessary and inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , has low divorce rates , at least at the ' -. present time . The tendency , however , is for divorce rates to rise with the level of technological development . The reasons are obvious : the rising status of women and the possibility of obtaining self-supporting employment other than in domestic service ; the possibility that men have to purchase necessary goods and services ? clean laundry , cooked food , clothing and shelter ? from commercial establishments ; increased urbanization and geographic mobility which diminish the effectiveness of family , community , and religious social controls and sanctions ; and finally , the modern psychological orientations and expectations in marriage ? for love , happiness , and mutual fulfillment ? which are more difficult to achieve than the traditional goals of economic cooperation and physical survival . // Divorced individuals in modern societies are not absorbed into extended family structures . They experience varying degrees of loneliness , anomie , confusion , and depression.32 The culture contains few clear-cut norms defining the role of the divorced man or woman . Alcoholism and suicide rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the newly divorced person , particularly the woman , is a threat to intact marriages . Ana yet the majority of those who are divorced remarry . Despite tie steady rise of divorce rates in the United States , the institution of arriage is far from being on the decline . Higher percentages of peole are getting married than ever before . Humans can not survive without love and love ( and hate ) is virtually a family monopoly . Friends are shed more readily than family as individuals move up and down the class structure ; in crises and emergencies , the nuclear family , if it has a choice , turns to the extended family first ; and adolescents , according to the evidence of many surveys , are more influenced by family than by friends in the most important decisions of their lives ? in the educational and occupational spheres , particularly . Divorce laws in this country lag behind the changing expectations and conditions of modern marriages . The concept of guilt of one partner ? for cruelty , adultery , desertion , or nonsupport ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incompatibility or irreconcilable differences are more realistic reasons for divorce is yet to be widely recognized and accepted by lawmakers . The new divorce laws in California , in which the guilt of one partner is neither assumed or required for divorce , represent an attempt to close the perennial gap between law and reality in rapidly changing societies . THE PARENT-CHILD RELATIONSHIP Childrearing practices vary on a continuum from permissive to authoritarian . The essence of the permissive parent-child relationship is not overindulgence and overprotection . This has been a popular // vulgarization and distortion of the concept and practice of permissive childrearing , particularly in the upper middle class in America , until recently . The permissive parent-child relationship is one in which the child 's needs and wishes are taken into account in the process of socialization . Parents do not set arbitrary feeding schedules for the newborn infant ; the child 's weight and hunger needs are taken into account . Decisions and demands made upon the child are flexible rather than absolute and the parent 's comfort and convenience is not the foremost consideration in disciplining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently , listened to . Authoritarian parents demand absolute obedience and submission . Power is used openly and physical punishment rather than explanation or reasoning is used to obtain unconditional conformity . The spontaneous display of affection as well as aggression within the family is curbed . The hostility that the child can not express at home may be displaced onto subordinates , strangers , and out-groups in later life . The bully and the sadist are products of authoritarian upbringing . Prejudice , where it is not a subcultural norm , is often a psychological result of authoritarian childrearing practices.33 Prejudice tends to decline in highly industrialized societies because permissive childrearing practices become more widespread . The need to project and displace repressed hostilities is diminished if the child can express aggression more freely within the home . The early excesses of runaway permissiveness in childrearing in this country have been curbed in recent times by common sense , supported by the findings of social science . These findings filter down , sooner or later , to the middle classes , and even beyond . It is pretty well established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most apt to internalize parental values when parents temper their affection with reasonable and nonarbitrary controls.34 Neither extremely permissive nor extremely authoritarian parents do as well in this respect . The new and current childrearing formula in America , and the trend in all classes , is firmness , combined with affection and respect for the child 's needs.35 ( Compare the first and the latest editions of Dr. Benjamin Spock 's Baby and Child Care . ) Permissive childrearing practices are most common in noneconomiVARIETIES // tally stratified traditional societies and in highly industrialized societies , particularly in the middle class . Agricultural societies , with their rigidly hierarchical authority structures , are characterized by authoritarian father-child relationships . Conflict is a typical by-product of differences in authority . Where these differences are extreme , conflict will often be extreme , even if it is suppressed . For this reason , mother-child relationships in the course of human history , have usually been more warm , affectionate , and relaxed than father-child relationships . As I pointed out earlier , in matrilineal societies , where the mother 's male relatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father-son relationships were usually warm and unrestrained . Affection rather than fear characterized these relationships . A modern parallel is found in kibbutz communities . Parents have little authority over their children and are not responsible for their discipline and custodial care . Most sources report that the emotional tie between parent and child in these communities is relatively unambivalent and unconflicted . In newly industrializing societies , the father becomes more permissive , particularly in his relationships with his sons , as he loses the economic basis of his absolute authority ) In highly industrialized societies , personality traits such as intelligence , energy , needs and drives , and other resources such as time , education , skills , and interests become at least as important as cultural norms in family decision-making and authority relationships , especially in the middle classes . In very rapidly changing societies , parents are more influenced by their children and may even follow their childrens ' lead in certain areas of life . Margaret Mead 's thesis in Culture and Commitment is that children in rapidly changing societies are more adaptable than parents.37 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and changing ? by inclination and by circumstance . By identifying with their young , parents can better understand and perhaps better cope with the present and the future . The mass media reflect this latest trend in parent-child relationships . In television advertising the young mother , with an air of impatience , introduces her not-quite-with-it mother to the latest product advances in disposable diapers , or household conveniences , for exam134 VARIETIES OF FAMILY LIFE pie . In one currently popular commercial , a young unmarried daughter has a heart-to-heart talk with her mother . She makes known to her mother , in whispered and confidential tone , that the best way to promote feminine hygiene is with the use of a vaginal deodorant spray . The mother is impressed and convinced . This vignette reflects far more serious occurrences in contemporary America as many young people , particularly in the upper middle class , have managed to persuade their parents to accept such innovations as the living together pattern , communal living , and the hang-loose ethic of impulse gratification . The urgent necessity for economic cooperation from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fathers become less authoritarian . What other factors promote permissive parent-child relationships in modern societies ? Parents project their world views and their life circumstances into their relationships with their children . If life is brutal , if parents are rigidly controlled by powerful authorities , if strict obedience and conformity to social demands is their lot , and if there is little hope or expectation of changing circumstances for their children , parents will bring up their children to obey strict rules and regulations . If authority is more diffuse , if cultural norms are vague , contradictory , constantly changing or even absent , if opportunities and choices exist in the social environment , particularly in the occupational shere , if the future is unpredictable , if self-control , independence , and flexibility are more adaptable than mechanical conformity to unchanging , situational norms , parents will be more permissive . Children in modern societies make many decisions and choices on their own ; uncertainty , unpredictability , and constant change are the essence of their taken-for-granted world . The availability of opportunities affects values even in nonindustrialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in family life that are regarded as modern were prevalent in America before industrialization . America was a relatively open society from the beginning : the frontier with its vast quantities of land and other natural resources provided unparalleled possibilities for mobility and achievement . Foreign travelers to this country , from colonial times to the presVARIETIES // ent , have commented on the lack of discipline and parental restraint in parent-child relationships in America.38 The spoiling and overindulgence of American children , their rudeness and their refusal to be properly respectful and obedient to elders , are recurrent themes in travelers ' accounts of American family life . Permissiveness and its corollaries in personality traits ? individualism , particularly ? facilitated industrialization and the accumulation of scientific knowledge in this country . Since the end of World War II , America has produced a far higher number of pat- ' ented inventions than any other country in the world . While it is true that the technological base is more complex in the United States and more elements are available for combination or recombination into new forms . the desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V vailing wisdom and norms , to seek new knowledge ? in short , to create ? is a tendency that has been promoted in this country by less-repressive parent-child relationships . The values that have been labeled middle-class American values , achievement motivation , for example , are values that are associated with the availability of opportunities , whether these opportunities precede or follow industrialization . They are urban values . It is no accident that the Protestant Reformation , which emphasized the values of individualism and achievement , took hold among the urban middle classes before the Industrial Revolution . The old European adage " City air is free air " referred to the autonomy and opportunities that existed in urban environments . The relationship between the availability of opportunity and family values and roles will become more apparent as we look into present-day subcultural variations in family life in America . We will see , then , how the values that have become increasingly paramount in human relationships , historically , as societies have industrialized are more or less prominent in American family relationships , depending on ethnic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In modern America , family roles and family relationships vary typically according to class , ethnic ( national ) origin , and urban-rural residence . These locating factors are the major sources of subcultural differences in role conceptions and expectations . Race and religion are also sources of difference but these characteristics tend to correspond to ethnic origin and are increasingly included under this heading by social scientists and social reformers . Compound nationality labels ? Afro American , Mexican American , or Indian American ? are replacing " color " racial labels ( black , brown , red ) in an era of cultural pluralism . The concept of ethnic origin is less ambiguous and less loaded than the concept of race . In modern times , the constant movement of populations , and the inevitable miscegenation that sooner or later occurs when diverse populations are in contact , blur racial categories and distinctions . It is often more realistic and more meaningful to classify a particular family as Puerto Rican , for example , than to attempt to categorize the family racially . Distinctive family patterns , furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unique historical experience or of cultural traditions of the country of // origin ( or tribal origins in the case of the American Indian ) than as a result of genetic , racial heritage . With the exception of American blacks , whose African heritage was largely destroyed upon their arrival in this country , ethnic cultural traditions of the country of origin have been the most important source of variation in family life in this country in the past , certainly in the first generation after immigration , and often beyond . As societies become highly industrialized , however , class tends to replace ethnic origin and urban-rural residence as the most significant source of variation in family values , behavior , and role conceptions . The process of acculturation is actually the process whereby families and individuals take on the dominant values and norms of urban , industrial societies . These values ? rationalism ( pragmatism , efficiency ) , equalitarianism , secularism , individualism , and achievement ? have usually been called middle-class American values or dominant American values . ) Actually , they are also urban values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they become incorporated into the roles of husband , wife , parent , and child in modern societies , at least in the West . The expanding middle classes in these societies are urban and national in identification and are more oriented toward modern values than they are to the traditional values and identities of local community or country of origin . Middle-class , urban American Indians , for example , are the leaders of the current pan-Indian movement in this country ? a movement which is attempting to supplant local , tribal identities and values with a more generalized urban value system and ethnic identity for American Indians . The modern values reflect high levels of technological and scientific development and the opportunity structures and ideologies that have been associated with these developments , in the West . These values are most strongly emphasized among the upper strata but they are the direction of change for all classes . The distinctive family roles and values of rural families and diverse ethnic groups tend to disappear slowly as families and individuals rise in the class structure . A similar tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion for family and individual values . The greater authoritarianism and lower levels of achievement motivation that have // been attributed to Catholicism 2 are less a matter of religious belief and church affiliation than of class membership and related factors such as level of education and type of occupation in the contemporary United States.3 Whatever the presumed disadvantage of the emphasis of the Catholic religion on spiritual and other-worldly goals historically , Catholics in America have been more socially mobile ( from the working class into the middle class ) than have Protestants in recent years . Catholic immigrants settled in large numbers in northern metropolitan areas . The second generation has had educational opportunities and nonmanual jobs more readily available than Protestants who have been concentrated in rural areas and in the South . Whatever the effects of the Protestant ethic on achievement motivation and social mobility in the past , large numbers of Protestants in this country have been downwardly mobile in recent years as they have left their farms and taken manual jobs in urban areas . At the present time , nationally , Catholics have higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact is somewhat misleading , however , since blacks who are and have remained disproportionately poor are also Protestant . Race is also increasingly supplanted by class as a determinant of family values in modern times . American middle-class black families , for example , are more " middle class ' than their white counterparts : they have fewer children , are more equalitarian , are more achievement oriented , and place more emphasis on respectability , status validation , and participation in community activities , both religious and secular . We see , then , that the process of acculturation is actually one of adoption of urban , industrial values . These values are found in all classes ; the upper strata are more likely to act them out , by virtue of objective circumstances centering on the greater availability of opportunity . The survival of traditional values such as fatalism , religiosity , ethnocentrism , authoritarianism and familism will be stronger within some ethnic groups than others . The rate and extent of acculturation of newly arrived immigrants or migrants from rural areas in a particular society varies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important of these circumstances are the availability of educational and occupational opportunities in the new environment ; the isolation or exposure of the new groups to urban values ; the strength and compatibility of preexisting values with the new values ; and the receptivity of the dominant group to the newly arrived groups , a condition that is closely tied to racial differences . These factors promote or discourage social mobility , and social mobility tends to homogenize ethnic and rural-urban differences in family role conceptions . This process is underwritten by the efficiencies of automated technologies , which diminish gross material differences in living standards . At the same time , other factors such as higher general levels of education , widespread exposure to the mass media , and increased opportunities in growing economies , subvert traditional values . Class as well as ethnic differences in life conditions and life styles decline in modern times , more slowly in some societies than in others , more noticeably between the middle and upper class than between middle class and the poor . But the trend is clear . However , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is relative , will always be with us.6 The final stage in the process of acculturation is assimilation , or the fusing of group identities into a single national identity . ' ' This is the melting pot ideal of old , discredited now , but not yet dead . Assimilation , so defined , has not occurred in America except for north European Protestant immigrants to this country . We have no concept of English Americans . Nevertheless , and despite the current trend away from the goal of assimilation and toward increasing pride and emphasis on ethnic differences and cultural pluralism in America , the process of assimilation is very likely inexorable . Social mobility , aided by the exigencies of urban , industrial economies , and ideologies , is the great leveler here . Racial differences and barriers slow the process for some groups more than for others , as do religious differences . This will become clear as we discuss ethnic variations in family life in this country along a three-generational time perspective . But whatever the starting point , wherever culturally and physically dissimilar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an interchange of values , behavior                     