@@774112

txt tion and analysis , and to more general assumptions about what is right and proper . Furthermore , at times the press simply concealed easily documented facts ? the bombing of Laos is a striking case . But the subservience of the media is illustrated in less blatant ways as well . Take the peace treaty negotiations , revealed by Hanoi radio in October 1972 , right before the November presidentialelections . When Kissinger appeared on television to say that " peace is at hand , " the press dutifully presented his version of what was happening , though even a cursory analysis of his comments showed that he was rejecting the basic principles of the negotiations on every crucial point , so that further escalationof the American war ? as in fact took place with the Christmasbombings ? was inevitable . I do not say this only with the benefit of hindsight . I and others exerted considerable energy trying to get the national press to face the obvious facts at the time , and I also wrote an article about it before the Christmas bombings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of North Vietnam . " Hie exact same story was replayed in January 1973 , when the peace treaty was finally announced . Again Kissinger and the White I louse made it clear that the United States was rejecting every basic principle in the treaty it was signing , so that continuedwar was inevitable . The press dutifully accepted the official version , and even allowed some amazing falsehoods to stand unchallenged . I 've discussed all of this in detail elsewhere . ' or to mention another case , in an article written for Rampart . ' I reviewed the retrospective interpretations of the war in Vietnam presented in the press when the war came to an end in 1975 the liberal press , the rest is not interesting in this connectionVirtually without exception , the press accepted the basic principles of government propaganda , without questioning them . Herr we 're talking about that part of the press which considered itself as opposed to the war . That 's very striking.  |p11The  same is often true of passionate critics of the war ; presumably , to a large extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly to those who are sometimes considered the " intellectual elite . " There is , in fact , a curious book called The American Intellectual Elite by C. Kadushin , which presents the results of an elaborate opinion survey of a group identified as " the intellectual elite , " undertaken in 1970 . This book contains a great deal of information on the group 's attitudestoward the war at the time when opposition to the war was at its peak . The overwhelming majority considered themselves to be opponents of the war , but in general for what they called " pragmatic " reasons : they became convinced at a given moment that the United States could not win at an acceptable cost . I imagine a study of the " German intellectual elite " in 1944 would have produced similar results . The study indicates quite dramatically the remarkable degree of conformity and submission to the dominant ideology among people who consideredthemselves informed critics of government policy . The consequence of this conformist subservience to those in power , as Hans Morgenthau correctly termed it , is that in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diversified even than in certain Fascist countries , Franco Spain , for example , where there was lively discussion covering a broad ideological range . Though the penalties for deviance from officialdoctrine were incomparably more severe than here , neverthelessopinion and thinking was not constrained within such narrow limits , a fact that frequently occasioned surprise among Spanish intellectuals visiting the United States during the latter years of the Franco period . Much the same was true in Fascist Portugal , where there seem to have been significant Marxist groups in the universities , to mention just one example . The range and significance of the ideological diversity became apparentwith the fall of the dictatorship , and is also reflected in the liberation movements in the Portuguese colonies ? a twowaystreet , in that case , in that the Portuguese intellectuals werep12influenced by the liberation movements , and conversely , I suppose . In the United States the situation is quite different . As compared with the other capitalist democracies , the United States is considerably more rigid and doctrinaire in its political thinkingand analysis . Not only among the intelligentsia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States is exceptional also in that there is no significant pressure for worker participation in management , let alone real workers ' control . These issues are not alive in the United States , as they are throughout Western Europe . And the absence of any significantsocialist voice or discussion is again quite a striking feature of the United States , as compared to other societies of comparablesocial structure and level of economic development . Here one saw some small changes at the end of the sixties ; but in 1065 you would have had great difficulty in finding a Marxist professor , or a socialist , in an economics department at a major university , for example . State capitalist ideology dominated the social sciences and every ideological discipline almost entirely . This conformism was called " the end of ideology . " It dominated the professional fields ? and still largely does  --  as well as the mass media and the journals of opinion . Such a degree of ideological conformity in a country which does not have a secret police , at least not much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is quite remarkable . Herr the range of ideological diversity ( the kind that implies lively debate on social issues ) for many years has been very narrow , skewed much more to the right than in other industrial democracies . This is important . The subtleties to which you alluded must be considered within this framework . Some changes did take place at the end of the sixties in the universities , largely due to the student movement , which demandedand achieved some broadening of the tolerated range of thinking . The reactions have been interesting . Now that the pressure of the student movement has been reduced , there is a substantial effort to reconstruct the orthodoxy that had beenp13slightly disturbed . And constantly , in the discussions and the literature dealing with that period ? often called " the time of troubles " or something of that sort ? the student left is depicted as a menace threatening freedom of research and teaching ; the student movement is said to have placed the freedom of the universities in jeopardy by seeking to impose totalitarian ideologicalcontrols . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near-total control of ideology was very briefly brought into question , as they seek to close again these slight breaches in the system of thought control , and to reverse the process through which just a little diversity arose within the ideological institutions : the totalitarian menace of fascism of the left ! And they really believe this , to such an extent have they been brainwashed and controlled by their own ideologicalcommitments . One expects that from the police , but when it comes from the intellectuals , then that 's very striking . It is certainly true that there were some cases in the Americanuniversities when the actions of the students went beyond the limits of what is proper and legitimate . Some of the worst incidents , as we know now , were instigated by government provocateurs , ' though a few , without doubt , represented excessesof the student movement itself . Those are the incidents on which many commentators focus their attention when they condemn the student movement . The major effect of the student movement , however , was quite different , I believe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state and other external powers ? although that challenge has not proven very effective , and this subordination has remained largely intact ? and it managed to provoke , at times with some limited success , an opening in the ideological fields , thus bringing a slightly greater diversity of thought and study and research . In my opinion , it was this challenge to ideological control , mounted by the students ( most of them liberals ) , chiefly in the social sciences , which induced such terror , verging at times on hysteria , in the reactions of the " intellectual elite . " The analytic and retrospective studies which appear today often seem to me highly exaggerated and inexact in their account of the events that took place and their significance . Many intellectuals are seeking to reconstruct the orthodoxy and the control over thought and inquiry which they had institutionalized with such success , and which was in fact threatened ? freedom is always a threat to the commissars . M.R. : The student movement was first mobilized against the war in Vietnam , but did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The immediate issue was the Vietnam war , but also the civil rights movement of the preceding years ? you must remember that the activists in the vanguard of the civil rights movement in the South had very often been students , for example , SNCC ( Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee ) , which was a very important and effective group with a largely black leadership , and supported by many white students . Furthermore , some of the earlier issues had to do with opening up the campus to a greater range of thought and to political activityof diverse tendencies , as in the Berkeley free speech controversy . It did not seem to me at the time that the student activists were really trying to " politicize " the universities . During the period when the domination of faculty ideologues was not yet at issue , the universities were highly politicized and made regularand significant contributions to external powers , especially to the government , its programs and its policies ; this continued to he true during the period of the student movement , just as it is today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student movement , from the beginning , tried to open up the universities and free them from outside control . To be sure , from the point of view of those who had subverted the universities and convertedthem to a significant extent into instruments of governmentpolicy and official ideology this effort appeared to be an illegitimate form of " politicization . " All of this seems obviousp15as regards university laboratories devoted to weapons productionor social science programs with intimate connections to counterinsurgency , government intelligence services and propaganda , and social control . It is less obvious , perhaps , but nevertheless true , I think , in the domain of academic scholarship . To illustrate this , take the example of the history of the cold war , and the so-called revisionist interpretation of the period following World War II . The " revisionists , " as you know , were those American commentators who opposed the official " orthodox " version . This orthodoxy , quite dominant at the time , held that the cold war was due solely to Russian and Chinese aggressiveness , and that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This position was adopted by even the most liberal commentators . Take a man like John Kenneth Galbraith , who within the liberal establishment has long been one of the most open , questioning , and skeptical minds , one of those who tried to break out of the orthodox framework on many issues . Well , in his book The New Industrial State , publishedin 1967 ? as late as that ! ? where he lays much stress on the open and critical attitude of the intelligentsia and the encouragingprospects this offers , he says that " the undoubted historical source " of the cold war was Russian and Chinese aggressiveness : " the revolutionary and national aspirations of the Soviets , and more recently of the Chinese , and the compulsivevigor of their assertion . " That is what the liberal critics were still saying in 1967 . The " revisionist " alternative was developed in various conflictingversions by James Warburg , D. F. Fleming , William Appleman Williams , Gar Alperovitz , Gabriel Kolko , David Horowitz , Diane Clemens , and others . They argued that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designs and suspicions . This position not only has prima facie plausibility , but also receives strong support from the historical and documentary record . But few people paid much attention to " revisionist " studies , which were often the object of scorn or a few pleasantries among " serious " analysts . By the end of the sixties , however , it had become impossible to prevent serious consideration of the " revisionist " position , in large part because of the pressures of the student movement . Students had read these books and wanted to have them discussed . What resulted is quite interesting . In the first place , as soon as the revisionist alternative was seriously considered , the orthodox position simply dissolved , vanished . As soon as the debate was opened , it found itself lacking an object , virtually . The orthodox position was abandoned . To be sure , orthodox historians rarely admitted that they had been in error . Instead , while adopting some of the revisionist views , they attributed to the revisionists a stupid position , according to which ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government . . . was merely the hapless object of our vicious diplomacy . " This is Herbert Feis 's rendition of the position of Gar Alperovitz , whose actual view was that " the Cold War can not be understood simply as an American response to a Soviet challenge , but rather as the insidious interactionof mutual suspicions , blame for which must be shared by all . " Quite typically , the view attributed to the revisionists was a nonsensical one that takes no account of interaction of the superpowers . Orthodox historians took over some elements of the revisionist analysis , while attributing to them an idiotic doctrine that was fundamentally different from what had actuallybeen proposed , and in fact was the mirror image of the original orthodox position . The motivation for this mode of argument is of course obvious enough . Starting from this slightly revised basis , many orthodox historian. have sought to reconstruct the image of American benevolenceand passivity . But I do not want to go into this development here . As for the impact of the revisionist analysis , Galbraith again provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which appeared in 1967 . In a revised edition ,  |p17in  1971 , he replaced the word " the " by the word " an " in the passage quoted : " the revolutionary and national aspirations of the Soviets , and more recently of the Chinese , and the compulsivevigor of their assertion , were an undoubted historical source of the cold war " ( my emphasis ) . This account is still misleading and biased , because he does not speak of the other causes ; it would also be interesting to see in just what way the initiatives of China were " an undoubted source " of the cold war . But the position is at least tenable , in contrast to the orthodox position , which he gave in the previous edition four years earlier ? and prior to the general impact of the student movement on the universities . Galbraith is an interesting example just because he is one of the most open , critical , and questioning minds among the liberalintelligentsia . His comments on the cold war and its origins are also interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does not attempt in this context to give an original historical analysis , but merely reports in passing the doctrine accepted among those liberal intellectuals who were somewhat skeptical and critical . We are not talking here about an Arthur Schlesinger or other ideologues who at times present a selection of historical facts in a manner comparable to the party historiansof other faiths . One can understand why so many liberal intellectuals were terrified at the end of the sixties , why they describe this period as one of totalitarianism of the left : for once they were compelled to look the world of facts in the face . A serious threat , and a real danger for people whose role is ideological control . There is a recent and quite interesting study put out by the Trilateral Commission ? The Crisis of Democracy , by Michel Crozier , Samuel Huntington , and Joji Watanuki ? in which an international group of scholars and others discuss what they see as contemporary threats to democracy . One of these threats is posed by " value-oriented intellectuals " who , as they correctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for " the indoctrination of the young " ? an apt phrase . Thep18student movement contributed materially to this aspect of " the crisis of democracy . " By the late sixties the discussion had gone beyond the question of Vietnam or the interpretation of contemporary history ; it concerned the institutions themselves . Orthodox economics was very briefly challenged by students who wanted to undertake a fundamental critique of the functioning of the capitalist economy ; students questioned the institutions , they wanted to study Marx and political economy . Perhaps I can illustrate this once again with a personal anec-dote : In the spring of 1969 a small group of students in economics here in Cambridge wanted to initiate a discussion of the nature of economics as a field of study . In order to open this discussion , they tried to organize a debate in which the two main speakers would be Paul Samuelson , the eminent Keynesian economist at MIT ( today a Nobel laureate ) , and a Marxist economist . But for this latter role they were not able to find anyone in the Boston area , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the point of view of Marxist political economy . Finally I was asked to take on the task , though I have no particular knowledge of economics , and no commitment to Marxism . Not one professional , or even semi-professional , in 1969 ! And Cambridge is a very lively place in these respects . That may give you some idea of the prevailing intellectual climate It is difficult to imagine anything comparable in Western Europe or Japan . I he student movement changed these things to a small extent. what was described , as I told you , as terror at the university ... the tiff marching through the corridors . . . the academic intelligentsia barely survived these terrifying attacks by student radicals ... of course , due solely to their great courage . Unbelievablefantasies ! Although , to be sure , there were incidents , sometimes instigated by provocateurs of the FBI , as we know now , which stimulated that paranoid interpretation . What ap19devastating thing , to have opened up the university just a little ! But the mass media were hardly touched at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no longer there . For example , a serious diplomatic historian like Gaddis Smith can now describe Williams and Kolko as " pamphleteers " in the New York Times Book Review . M.R. : To what do you attribute this " falling or ' of the pressure ? N.C. : To many things . When the New Left developed within the student movement in the United States , it could not associate itself with any broader social movement , rooted in any important segment of the population . In large part this was the result of the ideological narrowness of the preceding period . Students form a social group that is marginal and transitory . The student left constituted a small minority , often confronted by very difficult circumstances . A living intellectual tradition of the left did not exist , nor a socialist movement with a base in the working class . There was no living tradition or popular movement from which they could gain support . Under these circumstances , it is perhaps surprising that the student movementlasted as long as it did . M.R. : And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of experience . Students today seem to find it easier to adapt to the demands imposed from the outside , though one should not exaggerate ; in my experience at least , colleges are quite unlike the fifties and early sixties . The economic stagnation and recession have a lot to do with student attitudes . Under the conditions of the sixties studentscould suppose that they would find means of subsistence , no matter what they did . The society seemed to have sufficient interstices , there was a sense of expansiveness and optimism , so that one could hope to find a place somehow . Now that is no longer the case . Even those who are " disciplined " and well prepared professionally may become well-educated taxi drivers . Student activism has felt the effect of all this.  |p20Other  factors have also played a role . There is evidence that certain universities , perhaps many of them , have explicitly sought to exclude leftist students . Even in liberal universities , political criteria have been imposed to exclude students who might " cause problems . " Not entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the good students . Leftist students also have had serious difficulties in working at the universities , or later , in gaining appointments , at least in the ideologicaldisciplines , political science , economics , Asian studies , for example . M.R. : At the time of the French publication of your book Counterrevolutionary Violence ( Bains de Sang ) there was much talk in France about the fact that the English original had been censored ( that is , distribution was blocked ) by the conglomerateto which the publishing house belonged ; the publishing house itself was closed and its personnel dismissed . The chief editor became a taxi driver and now is organizing a taxi-drivers ' union . Drench television has cast doubt on this story . N.C. : That " censorship " by the conglomerate did take place , as you describe , but it was a stupid act on their part . At that level censorship is n't necessary , given the number of potentialreaders on the one hand , and on the other , the weight exerted by the enormous ideological apparatus . I have often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then it would choose the American system . State censorship is not necessary , or even very efficient , in comparison to the ideologicalcontrols exercised by systems that are more complex and more decentralized . M K Within this framework , how do you interpret the Watergate affair , which has often been presented in France as the " triumph " of democracy ? N.C. : To consider the Watergate affair as a triumph of democracy is an error , in my opinion . The real question raised was not : Did Nixon employ evil methods against his political adversaries ? but rather : Who were the victims ? The answer is clear . Nixon was condemned , not because he employed repre/hensible methods in his political struggles , but because he made a mistake in the choice of adversaries against whom he turned these methods . He attacked people with power . The telephone taps ? Such practices have existed for a long time . He had an " enemies list " ? But nothing happened to those who were on that list . I was on that list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a mistake in his choice of enemies : he had on his list the chairman of IBM , senior government advisers , distinguished pundits of the press , highly placed supporters of the Democratic Party . He attacked the Washington Post , a major capitalist enterprise . And these powerful people defended themselves at once , as would be expected . Watergate ? Men of power against men of power . Similar crimes , and others much graver , could have been charged against other people as well as Nixon . But those crimes were typically directed against minorities or against movements of social change , and few ever protested . The ideological censorshipkept these matters from the public eye during the Watergateperiod , although remarkable documentation concerning this repression appeared at just this time . It was only when the dust of Watergate had settled that the press and the political commentators turned toward some of the real and profound cases of abuse of state power ? still without recognizing or exploringthe gravity of the issue . For example , the Church Committee has published information , the significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time of its revelations , a great deal of publicity was focused on the Martin Luther King affair , but still more importantrevelations have hardly been dealt with by the press to this day ( January 1976 ) . For example , the following : In Chicago there was a street gang called the Blackstone Rangers , which operated in the ghetto . The Black Panthers were in contact with them , attempting to politicize them , it appears . As long as the Rangers remained a ghetto street gang ? a criminal gang , as depicted by the FBI , at least ? the FBI were not much concerned ; this was also a way of controlling the ghetto . But radi/calized into a political group , they became potentially dangerous . The basic function of the FBI is not to stop crime . Rather , it functions as a political police , in large measure . An indication is given by the FBI budget and the way it is apportioned . Some suggestive information on this subject has been revealed by a group calling themselves the " Citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stealing from the FBI 's Media , Pennsylvania , office a collection of documents which they attempted to circulate to the press . The breakdown of these documentswas approximately the following : 30 percent were devoted to routine procedures ; 40 percent to political surveillanceinvolving two right-wing groups , ten groups concerned with immigrants , and more than two hundred liberal or leftwinggroups ; 14 percent to AWOLs and deserters ; 1 percent to organized crime ? mostly gambling ? and the rest to rape , bank robbery , murder , etc. laced with the potential alliance of the Rangers and the Black ( ' anthers , the FBI decided to take action , in line with the national program of dismantling the left in which it was engaged , the national Counter-Intelligence Program known as Cointelpro . They sought to incite conflict between the two groups by means of a forgery , an anonymous letter sent to the leader of the Rangers by someone who identified himself as " a black brother . " This letter warned of a Panther plot to assassinatethe leader of the Rangers . Its transparent purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a group " to whom violent type activity , shooting , and the like , are second nature " to respond with violence to the fictitious assassination plotOut It did n't work , perhaps because at that time the relations between the Rangers and the Panthers were already too close . The FBI had to take on the task of destroying the Panthers itself . flow ? Though there has been no systematic investigation , we can reconstruct what seems to be a plausible story :  |p23A  few months later , in December 1969 , the Chicago police conducted a pre-dawn raid on a Panther apartment . Approximatelyone hundred shots were fired . At first the police claimed that they had responded to the fire of the Panthers , but it was quickly established by the local press that this was false . Fred Hampton , one of the most talented and promising leaders of the Panthers , was killed in his bed . There is evidence that he may have been drugged . Witnesses claim that he was murdered in cold blood . Mark Clark was also killed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assassination . At the time it was thought that the Chicago police were behind the raid . That would have been bad enough , but the facts revealed since suggest something more sinister . We know today that Hampton 's personal bodyguard , William O'Neal , who was also chief of Panther security , was an FBI infiltrator . A few days before the raid , the FBI office turned over to the Chicago police a floor plan of the Panther apartment supplied by O'Neal , with the location of the beds marked , along with a rather dubious report by O'Neal that illegal weapons were kept in the apartment : the pretext for the raid . Perhaps the floor plan explains the fact , noticed by reporters , that the police gunfire was directed to inside corners of the apartment rather than the entrances . It certainly undermines still further the original pretensethat the police were firing in response to Panther gunshots , confused by unfamiliar surroundings . The Chicago press has reported that the FBI agent to whom O'Neal reported was the head of Chicago Cointelpro directed against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true , there is direct evidence of FBI complicity in the murders . Putting this information together with the documented effort of the FBI to incite violence and gang warfare a few months earlier , it seems not unreasonable to speculate that the F131 undertook on its own initiative the murder that it could not elicit from the " violence-prone " group to which it had addresseda fabricated letter implicating the Panthers in an assassinationattempt against its leader.  |p24This  one incident ( which , incidentally , was not seriously investigatedby the Church Committee ) completely overshadows the entire Watergate episode in significance by a substantial margin . But with a few exceptions the national press or televisionhave had little to say on the subject , though it has been well covered locally in Chicago . The matter has rarely been dealt with by political commentators . The comparison with coverage of such " atrocities " as Nixon 's " enemies list " or tax trickery is quite striking . For example , during the entire Watergate period , the New Republic , which was then virtually the official organ of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these matters , although the basic facts and documents had become known . The family of Fred Hampton brought a civil suit against the Chicago police , hut up to the present the FBI involvement has been excluded from the courts , although much relevant informationis available in depositions made under oath . It ' people offended by " Watergate horrors " were really concerned with civil and human rights , they should have pursued the information released by the Church Committee with regard to the affair of the Blackstone Rangers , and considered the possible relevance of this information to what is known concerningFBI involvement in the murder of Fred Hampton by the Chicago police . At least a serious inquiry should have been initiated to examine what seem to be possible connections , and to bring to light the FBI role under Nixon and his predecessors . For what was at issue here was an assassination in which the national political police may have been implicated , a crime that far transcends anything attributed to Nixon in the Watergate investigations I should recall that the Watergate inquiry did touch on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cambodia , but only on very narrow grounds ? it was the alleged " secrecy " of the bombings , not the fact itself , that was charged to Nixon as his " crime " in this regard . There are other cases of this kind . For example , in San Diego the FBI apparently financed , armed , and controlled an extremep25right-wing group of former Minute Men , transforming it into something called the Secret Army Organization specializing in terrorist acts of various kinds . I heard of this first from one of my former students , who was the target of an assassination attempt by the organization . In fact , he is the student who had organized the debate on economics that I told you about a little while ago , when he was still a student at MIT . Now he was teaching at San Diego State College and was engaged in politicalactivities ? which incidentally were completely nonviolent , not that this is relevant . The head of the Secret Army Organization ? a provocateur in the pay of the FBI ? drove past his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously wounding a young woman . The young man who was their target was not at home at the time . The weapon had been stolen by this FBI provocateur . Accordingto the local branch of the ACLU , the gun was handed over the next day to the San Diego FBI Bureau , who hid it ; and for six months the FBI lied to the San Diego police about the incident . This affair did not become publicly known until later . This terrorist group , directed and financed by the FBI , was finally broken up by the San Diego police , after they had tried to fire-bomb a theater in the presence of police . The FBI agent in question , who had hidden the weapon , was transferred outside the state of California so that he could not be prosecuted . The FBI provocateur also escaped prosecution , though several members of the secret terrorist organization were prosecuted . The FBI was engaged in efforts to incite gang warfare among black groups in San Diego , as in Chicago , at about the same time . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beatings , and unrest in the ghetto , a fact that has elicited very little comment in the press or journals of opinion . This same young man , incidentally , was harassed in other ways . It appears that the FBI continued to subject him to various kinds of intimidation and threats , by means of provocateurs . Furthermore , according to his ACLU attorneys , the FBI supplied information to the college where he was teaching thatp26was the basis for misconduct charges filed against him . He faced three successive inquiries at the college , and each time was absolved of the charges brought against him . At that point the chancellor of the California state college system , Glenn Dumke , stated that he would not accept the findings of the independent hearing committees and simply dismissed him from his position . Notice that such incidents , of which there have been a fair number , are not regarded as " totalitarianism " in the university . The basic facts were submitted to the Church Committee by the ACLU in June 1975 and also offered to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not conduct any investigation into the matter . The national press said virtually nothing about these incidents at the time , and very little since . There have been similar reports concerning other governmentprograms of repression . For example , Army Intelligence has been reported to have engaged in illegal actions in Chicago . In Seattle , fairly extensive efforts were undertaken to disrupt and discredit local left-wing groups . The FBI ordered one of its agent to induce a group of young radicals to blow up a bridge ; this was ti , be done in such a manner that the person who was to plant the bomb would also be blown up with it . The agent refused to carry out these instructions . Instead , he talked to the press and finally testified in court . That is how the matter became known . In Seattle FBI infiltrators were inciting arson , terrorism , and bombing , and in one case entrapped a young black noun in a robbery attempt , which they initiated and in the course of which he was killed . This was reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the few American journals to have attempted some serious coverage of such matters . There is a good deal more of this . But all these isolated cases only take on then full meaning if you put them into the context of the policies of the 1 ' 111 since its origins during the post ? World War Red scare , which I will not try to review here . The Cointelpro operations began in the 1950s , with a program to disrupt and destroy the Communist Party . Although this wasp27not officially proclaimed , everybody knew something of the sort was going on , and there were very few protests ; it was consideredquite legitimate . People even joked about it . In 1960 the disruption program was extended to the Puerto Rican independence movement . In October 1961 , under the administration of Attorney-General Robert Kennedy , the FBI initiated a disruption program against the Socialist Workers Party ( the largest Trotskyist organization ) ; the program was later extended to the civil rights movement , the Ku Klux Klan , black nationalist groups , and the peace movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Left . " The rationale given internally for these illegal programs is quite revealing . The program for disrupting the Socialist WorkersParty , which came directly from the central office of the FBI , presented its rationale in essentially these terms : We launch this program for the following reasons : ( 1 ) the Socialist Workers Party is openly running candidates in local elections throughout the country ; ( 2 ) it supports integration in the South ; ( 3 ) it supports Castro . What does this actually indicate ? It means that SWP political initiative in running candidates in elections ? legal political activity ? theirwork in support of civil rights , and their efforts to change U.S. foreign policy justify their destruction at the hands of the national political police . This is the rationale behind these programs of government repression : they were directed against civil rights activities and against legal political action that ran counter to the prevailing consensus . In comparison with Cointelpro and related governmentactions in the 1960s , Watergate was a tea party . It is instructive , however , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This comparison reveals clearly and dramatically that it was the improper choice of targets , not improper acts , that led to Nixon 's downfall . The alleged conp28cern for civil and democratic rights was a sham . There was no " triumph of democracy . " M.R. : It appears that a proposal , containing passages from the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of Rights , was distributed in the streets at one time and people refused to sign them , believing them to be left-wing propaganda . N.C. : Such incidents have been reported from the 1950s , if I recall . People have been intimidated for many years . Liberals would like to believe that all of this is due to a few evil men : Joe McCarthy and Richard Nixon . That is quite false . One can trace the postwar repression to security measures initiated by Truman in 1947 , and efforts by Democratic liberals to discredit Henry Wallace and his supporters at that time . It was the liberal senator Hubert Humphrey who proposed detention camps in case of a " national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act , but said at the time that he found it not sufficiently harsh in some respects ; he was opposed to the provision that prisoners in the detention camps should be protected by the right of habeas corpus : that was not the way to treat Communist conspirators ! The Communist Control Act introduced by leading liberals a few years later was so patently unconstitutional that no one actually tried to enforce it , to my knowledge . ' This law , incidentally , was specifically directed in part against trade unions . And together with these senators , many liberal intellectuals implicitly supported the fundamental aims of ' " McCarthyism , " though they objected to his methods ? particularly when they too became targets . They carried out what amounted to a partial " purge " in the universities , and in many ways developed the ideological framework for ridding American society of this " cancer " of serious dissent . These are among the reasons fur the remarkable conformism and ideologicalnarrowness of intellectual life in the United States , and for the isolation of the student movement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was because he went too far , and in the wrong way . He attacked the liberal intelli/gentsia themselves , or mainstream political figures like George Marshall , instead of confining himself to the " Communist enemy . " Like Nixon , he made a mistake in choosing his enemieswhen he began to attack the Church and the Army . Commonly , if liberal intellectuals criticized him , it was on the grounds that his methods were not the right ones for ridding the country of real communists . There were some notable exceptions , but depressingly few . Similarly , Justice Robert Jackson , one of the leading liberals on the Supreme Court , opposed the doctrine of " clear and present danger " ( according to which freedom of speech could be abridged in cases affecting the security of the state ) when applied to Communist activities , because it was not harsh enough . If you wait until the danger becomes " clear and present , " he explained , it will be too late . You must stop Communistsbefore their " imminent actions . " Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must not permit this kind of discussion to begin . But these liberals were very shocked when McCarthy turned his weapons against them . He was no longer playing according to the rules of the game ? the game that they invented . M.R. : Similarly , I 've noticed that the scandal involving the CIA did not concern the main activities of the agency , but the fact that it did work which in principle was the assigned sphere of the FBI . N.C. : In part , yes . And look at the furor that has arisen over the attempts at political assassination organized by the CIA . People were shocked because the CIA tried to assassinate foreign leaders . Certainly , that is very bad . But these were only abortive attempts ; at least in most cases ? in some it is not so clear . Consider in comparison the Phoenix program in which the CIA was involved , which , according to the Saigon government , exterminated forty thousand civilians within two years . Why does n't that count ? Why are all these people less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was responsible for this , William Colby , who headed the CIA , is now a respected columnist and lecturer on university campuses . The same thing happened in Laos , though even worse . How many peasants were killed as a result of CIA programs ? And who speaks of this ? Nobody . No headlines . It 's always the same story . The crimes that are exposed are significant , but they are trivial as compared to the really serious criminal programs of the state , which are ignored or regarded as quite legitimate . M.R. : How do you find all this information ? If the newspapersdo n't report it .. . N.C. : This information is accessible , but only for fanatics : in order to unearth it , you have to devote much of your life to the search . In that sense the information is accessible . But this " accessibility " is hardly significant in practice . It is politically more or less irrelevant . All the same , on the personal level , the situation for someone like me is of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Soviet Union , for example , someone who tried to do what I do here would probably be in prison . It is interesting , and typical , that my political writings critical of U.S. policies are never translated in the so-called Communist countries , though they are , quite widely , in many other parts of the world . But one must he cautious in assessing the political significance of the relative freedom from repression ? at least for the privileged ? in the United States . Exactly what does it mean , concretely ? For example , last year I was invited to give a lecture at Harvard before a group of journalists called the Nieman Fellows , who come there each year from all over the United States and foreign countries in order to further their education , so to speak I hey asked me to discuss Watergate and related topicsthe pres. generally was quite proud of its courageous and principled behavior during the Watergate period , for very little reason , as I 've just tried to explain . Instead of discussing Watergate , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because I wondered to what extent these journalists , who are quitep31sophisticated and well informed compared to the general population , might know about these matters . Well , none of them had any idea of the scale of the FBI programs of repression , except for one journalist from Chicago , who knew all about the Hamptonaffair . That had indeed been discussed in detail in the Chicago press . If there had been someone from San Diego in the group , he would have known about the Secret Army Organization , and so forth .. . That is one of the keys to the whole thing . Everyone is led to think that what he knows represents a local exception . But the overall pattern remains hidden . Information is often given in the local papers , but its general significance , the patterns on the national level , remain obscured . That was the case during the entire Watergate period , although the information appeared just at that time , in its essentials , and with extensive documentation . And even since then the discussion has rarely been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what happened in a satisfactory manner . What you face here is a very effective kind of ideological control , because one can remain under the impression that censorship does not exist , and in a narrow technical sense that is correct . You will not be imprisoned if you discover the facts , not even if you proclaim them whenever you can . But the results remain much the same as if there were real censorship . Social reality is generallyconcealed by the intelligentsia . Of course matters were quite different during the period when there was an enormous popular anti-war and student movement . Within the structure of popular movements there were many possibilities for expressingviews that departed from the narrow limits of more or less " official " ideology , to which the intelligentsia generally conform . M.R. : What was the reaction of Americans to the statementsof Solzhenitsyn ? N.C. : Very interesting ? at least in the liberal press , which is what primarily concerns me . Some criticized his extravagances . He went well beyond what they could tolerate . Forp32example , he called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a sort that could very well lead to war and , far short of that , is likely to harm the Russian dissidents themselves . Also , he denounced American weakness in abandoning the struggle to subdue the Vietnamese resistance , publicly opposeddemocratic reforms in Spain , supported a journal that called for censorship in the United States , and so on . Nonetheless , the press never ceased marveling at what an absolute moral giant this man was . In our petty lives , we can barely imagine such heights of moral grandeur . In fact , the " moral level " of Solzhenitsyn is quite comparable to that of many American Communists who have fought courageouslyfor civil liberties here in their own country , while at the same time defending , or refusing to criticize , the purges and labor camps in the Soviet Union . Sakharov is not as outlandish in his views as Solzhenitsyn , certainly , but he too says that it was a great setback for the West not to have pursued the Vietnam war to an American victory . The United States did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sending a large expeditionary force , he complains . Every fabrication of the S. propaganda apparatus is repeated , just as American Communists who have struggled for civil rights here parrot Russian propaganda . The easily documented fact of American aggression in South Vietnam is not part of history , for example . Oiie must admire Sakharov 's great courage and his fine work in defense of human rights in the Soviet Union . But to refer to such people as " moral giants " is quite remarkable . Why do they do this ? Because it is extremely important for mainstream American intellectuals to make people believe that the United States does not confront any real moral problems . Such problems only arise in the Soviet Union , and the " moral giants " arc there to respond to them . Compare Solzhenitsyn to many thousands of Vietnam war resisters and deserters ; many of them acted at a moral level that is incomparably superior to his . Solzhenitsyn resolutely defends his own rights and those of people like him ? which is certainlyp33admirable . The resisters and many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victims of American aggression and terror . Their actions were on a much higher moral plane . Furthermore , their actions were not merely a response to their own persecution ; for the most part they undertook these actions , which led to imprisonment or exile , of their own free will , when they could have easily lived in comfort . Yet we read in the American liberal journals that we can hardly conceive of the moral grandeur of Solzhenitsyn in our society , and surely can find no one like him . A very interesting pretense , with many implications . It is quite generally claimed now that the American resistancehad as its cause the young men 's fear of being drafted ; that 's a very convenient belief for the intellectuals who confined themselves to " pragmatic " opposition to the war . But it is an enormous lie . For most of those who were in the resistance from its origins , nothing would have been easier than to escape the draft , with its class bias , as many others actually did . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deserters too chose a difficult and painful course for reasons of principle . But for those who supported the war initially , and who only raised their whisper of protest when the costs became too great , it is impossible to admit the existence of a courageous and principled resistance , largely on the part of youth , to the atrocities which they themselves had readily tolerated . The mainstream of American liberalism does not wish to hear anything about all that . It would raise too many embarrassing questions : What were they doing when the war resisters were facing prison or exile ? And so on . So Solzhenitsyn comes to them as a gift of God , which permits them to evade moral questions , " exporting them , " so to speak , and to conceal their own role as people who remained silent for so many years , or finally objected on narrow and morally repugnant grounds of cost and U.S. government interest . Moynihan , when he was ambassador to the United Nations , produced the same effect when he attacked the Third Worldp34These attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounced Idi Amin of Uganda as a " racist murderer . " The question is not whether Idi Amin is a racist murderer . No doubt the appelation is correct . The question is , what does it mean for Moynihan to make this accusation and for others to applaud his honesty and courage in doing so ? Who is Moynihan ? He served in four administrations , those of Kennedy , Johnson , Nixon , and Ford ? that is to say , administrationsthat were guilty of racist murder on a scale undreamed of by Idi Amin . Imagine that some minor functionary of the Third Reich had correctly accused someone of being a racist murderer . This manner of shifting moral issues to others is one of the ways to reconstruct the foundations of moral legitimacy for the exercise of American power , shaken during the Vietnam war . Solzhenitsyn is exploited to this end in a natural and predictable way , though of course one can not on those grounds draw any conclusions in regard to his charges against the Soviet system of oppression and violence . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rights of American blacks with great courage and conviction . At the same time she refused to defend Czech dissidents or to criticize the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia . Is she regarded as a " moral giant " ? Hardly . Yet I believe she is superior to Solzhenitsynon the moral level . At least she did not reproach the Soviet Union for not having conducted its atrocities with sufficientvigorMR. : After what you have said , and what is said about the U.S. intervention in Chile in Uribe 's book , ' there apparently exists a vet Habit- policy of vaccination . Deliberately a major scandal is exploded about a minor event ? Watergate , the ITT case in 1973 in order to better hide and render more acceptable ( according to Faye 's definition ) the true scandals : political assassinations , the coup d'etat of September . You inoculate the public with a minor scandal ; then when more serious things happen , the subject has already been deprived of most of its sensation value , its topical importance no longer has the aspectp35of novelty ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' N.C. : Yes , that is in keeping with what I 've just said about the liberal press since the end of the war . The government has great need now to restore its credibility , to make people forget history , and to rewrite it . The intelligentsia have to a remarkabledegree undertaken this task . It is also necessary to establish the " lessons " that have to be drawn from the war , to ensure that these are conceived on the narrowest grounds , in terms of such socially neutral categories as " stupidity " or " error " or " ignorance " or perhaps " cost . " Why ? Because soon it will be necessary to justify other confrontations , perhaps other U.S. interventions in the world , other Vietnams . But this time , these will have to be successful interventions , which do n't slip out of control . Chile , for example . It is even possible for the press to criticize successful interventions ? the Dominican Republic , Chile , etc. ? as long as these criticisms do n't exceed " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as they do n't serve to arouse popular movements capable of hindering these enterprises , and are not accompanied by any rational analysis of the motives of U.S. imperialism , something which is complete anathema , intolerable to liberal ideology . How is the liberal press proceeding with regard to Vietnam , that sector which supported the " doves " ? By stressing the " stupidity " of the U.S. intervention ; that 's a politically neutral term . It would have been sufficient to find an " intelligent " policy . The war was thus a tragic error in which good intentions were transmuted into bad policies , because of a generation of incompetent and arrogant officials . The war 's savagery is also denounced ; but that too is used as a neutral category . . . Presumablythe goals were legitimate ? it would have been all right to do the same thing , but more humanely .. . The " responsible " doves were opposed to the war ? on as pragmatic basis . Now it is necessary to reconstruct the system of beliefs according to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to freedom , self-determination , and human rights . With regard to this doctrine , the " responsible " doves share the same presuppositions as the hawks : they do not question the right of the United States to intervene in other countries . Their criticism is actually very convenient for the state , which is quite willing to be chided for its errors , as long as the fundamental right of forceful interventionis not brought into question . Take a look at this editorial in the New York Times , offering a retrospective analysis of the Vietnam war as it came to an end . The editors feel that it is too early to draw conclusions about the war : Clio , the goddess of history , is cool and slow and elusive in her ways .... Only later , much later , can history begin to make an assessment of the mixture of good and evil , of wisdomand folly , of ideals and illusions in the long Vietnam story .... There are those Americans who believe that the war to preserve a non-Communist , independent South Vietnamcould have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a viable , non-Communist South Vietnam was always a myth .... A decade of fierce polemics has failed to resolve this ongoing quarrel . You see , they do n't even mention the logical possibility of a third position : namely , that the United States did not have the right , elate ' the legal or the moral right , to intervene by force in the internal affairs of Vietnam . We leave to history the task of judging the debate between the hawks and the respectable doses , but the third position , opposed to the other two , is excluded lion% discussion . The sphere of Clio does not extend to such absurd Ideas as the belief that the United States has no unique right to intervene with force in the internal affairs of others , whether such intervention is successful or not . The Times published many letters responding to its editorial , but no letter questioning the alternatives presented . I know for certainp37that at least one such letter was sent to them . . . quite possibly many others . April 8 , 1975To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 10036Dear Sir : An editorial in the Times , April 5 , observes that " a decade of fierce polemics has failed to resolve this ongoing quarrel " between two contending views : that " the war to preserve a non-Communist , independent South Vietnam could have been waged differently , " and that " a viable , non-Communist South Vietnam was always a myth . " There has also been a third position : That apart from its prospects for success , the United States has neither the authority nor competence to intervene in the internal affairs of Vietnam . This was the position of much of the authentic peace movement , that is , those who opposed the war because it was wrong , not merely because it was unsuccessful . It is regrettable that this position is not even a contender in the debate , as the Times sees it . On a facing page , Donald Kirk observes that " since the term bloodbath ' first came into vogue in the Indochinese conflict , no one seems to have applied it to the war itself ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He is quite wrong . Many Americans involved in the authentic peace movement have insisted for years on the elementary point that he believes has been noticed by " no one , " and it is a commonplace in literature on the war . To mention just one example , we have written a small book on the subject ( Counterrevolutionary Violence : Bloodbaths in Fact andp38Propaganda , 1973 ) , though in this case the corporation ( Warner Brothers ) that owned the publisher refused to permitdistribution after publication . But quite apart from this , the observation has been made repeatedly in discussion and literature on the war , by just that segment of opinion that the Times editorial excludes from the debate . Sincerely yours , Noam Chomsky Professor , MITEdward S. Herman Professor , University of PennsylvaniaNC/EMI : ItNote that as the Times sets the spectrum of debate , the position of much of the peace movement is simply excluded from consideration . Not that it is wrong , but rather unthinkable , inexpressible . As the Times sets the ground rules , the basic premises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the debate : the American goal was to preserve an " independent " South Vietnam ? perfect nonsense , as is easy to demonstrate ? and the only question that arises is whether this worthy goal was within our grasp or not . Even the more audacious propaganda systems rarely go so far as to put forth state doctrine as unquestionable dogma , so that criticism of it need not even he rejected , but may simply be ignored . I lore we have a marvelous illustration of the functioning of propaganda in a democracy . A totalitarian state simply enunciatesofficial doctrine clearly , explicitly . Internally , one can think what one likes , but one can only express opposition at one 's peril In it democratic system of propaganda no one is punished ( in theory ) for objecting to official dogma . In fact , dissidence is encouraged . What this system attempts to do is to fix the limits of possible thought : supporters of official doctrine at one end , and the critics  --  vigorous , courageous , and much admired for their independence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doves . But we discover that all share certain tacit assumptions , and that it is these assumptions that are really crucial . No doubt a propaganda system is more effective when its doctrines are insinuated rather than asserted , when it sets the bounds for possible thought rather than simply imposing a clear and easily identifiable doctrine that one must parrot ? or suffer the consequences . The more vigorous the debate , the more effectively the basic doctrines of the propaganda system , tacitly assumed on all sides , are instilled . Hence the elaborate pretense that the press is a critical dissenting force ? maybe even too critical for the health of democracy ? when in fact it is almost entirely subservient to the basic principles of the ideological system : in this case , the principle of the right of intervention , the unique right of the United States to serve as global judge and executioner . It is quite a marvelous system of indoctrination . Here is still another example along the same lines . Look at this quotation from the Washington Post , a paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war among the national media . This is from an editorial of April 30 , 1975 , entitled " Deliverance " : For if much of the actual conduct of Vietnam policy over the years was wrong and misguided ? even tragic ? it can not be denied that some part of the purpose of that policy was right and defensible . Specifically , it was right to hope that the people of South Vietnam would be able to decide on their own form of government and social order . The American public is entitled , indeed obligated , to explore how good impulses came to be transmuted into bad policy , but we can not afford to cast out all remembrance of that earlier impulse . What were the " good impulses " ? When precisely did the United States try to help the South Vietnamese choose their own form of government and social order ? As soon as such questions are posed , the absurdity becomes evident . From t he moment that the American-backed French effort to destroy the major nationalist movement in Vietnam collapsed , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces within South Vietnam , and resorted to increasingviolence when these political forces could not be crushed . But these facts , easily documented , must be suppressed . The liberal press can not question the basic doctrine of the state religion , that the United States is benevolent , even though often misguided in its innocence , that it labors to permit free choice , even though at times some mistakes are committed in the exuberanceof its programs of international goodwill . We must believe that we " Americans " are always good , though , to be sure , fallible : For the fundamental " lesson " of Vietnam surely is not that we as a people are intrinsically bad , but rather that we are capable of error ? and on a gigantic scale ... . Note the rhetoric : " we as a people " are not intrinsically bad , even it ' we are capable of error . Was it " we as a people " who decided to conduct the war in Vietnam ? Or was it something that had rather more to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To pose such a question is of course illegitimate , according to the dogmas of the state religion , because t hat raises the question of the institutional sources of ' power , and such questions are only considered by irrational extremists who must be excluded from debate ( we can raise such questions with regard to other societies , of course , but not the United States ) . It is not out of pessimism that I believe in the effectiveness of such techniques of legitimation of U.S. interventions , as a basis for future actions . One must not forget that while the U.S. government suffered a setback in Vietnam , it succeeded only too well in Indonesia , in Chile , in Brazil , and in many other places during the same period . The resources of imperialist ideology are quite vast . It tolerates ? indeed , encourages a variety of forms of opposition , such as those I have just illustrated . It is permissible to criticize the lapses of the intellectuals and of government advisers , andp41even to accuse them of an abstract desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not linked in any way to concrete social and economic structures . But to relate that abstract " desire for domination " to the employment of force by the United States government in order to preserve a certain system of world order , specifically , to ensure that the countries of the world remain open insofar as possible to exploitation by U.S.-based corporations ? that is extremely impolite , that is to argue in an unacceptable way . In the same way , the respectable members of the academic world must ignore the substantial documentation concerning the principles that guide U.S. foreign policy , and its concern to create a global economic order that conforms to the needs of the U.S. economy and its masters . I 'm referring , for example , to the crucial documentation contained in the Pentagon Papers , covering the late 1940s and early 1950s , when the basic policies were clearly set , or the documents on global planning for the postwar period produced in the early 1940s by the War-Peace Studies groups of the Council on Foreign Relations , to mention only two significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of corporations on foreign policy , or the economic factors in policy formation , are reserved for the barest mention in a footnote in respectable studies of the formation of policy , a fact that has been occasionally studied , and is easily documentedwhen studied . M.R. : To reveal the profits of " philanthrophy , " that is hardly in good taste . In fact , all that you have been saying suggests to me a curious convergence , in the form of a provisional conclusion , that goes back to the initial question : What can the links be between a theory of ideology and the concepts of your linguistic theory , generative grammar ? The imperialist ideology , you say , can readily tolerate a quite large number of contradictions , infractions , and criticisms all these remain acceptable , except one : to reveal the economic motives . You have a situation of the same kind in genertivep42poetics . I am thinking of the analysis which Halle and Keyser proposed for English iambic pentameter . The verse has a structure of alternating strong and weak stresses : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( where W = weak and S = strong ) But if one studies the corpus of English poetry , one finds an enormous number of contradictions to the meter , of " infractions " of the dominant schema , and these verses are not only acceptable but often even the most beautiful . One thing only is forbidden : to make a weak position in the meter ( in the abstract verse schema ) correspond to a stressed vowel surrounded by two unstressed vowels . ( Halle and Keyser 's concept of " maximumstress . " ) The observation of this kind of forbidden statement in the media permits the hope that the theory of ideology can reveal the objective laws which underlie political discourse ; but for the nine being all that is only a metaphor . Linguistics and theHuman Sciencesp41M.R. : There has been a good deal of question during these last years about " interdisciplinary studies , " about establishing closer links between neighboring disciplines . What do you think of the way in which the relationship between linguistics and psychology has been presented ? N.C. : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship " between linguistics and psychology , because linguistics is part of psychology ; I can not conceive of it in any other way . In general , the following distinction is often made : linguistics is the study of language , and psychology the study of the acquisitionor utilization of language . This distinction does not seem to me to make much sense . No discipline can concern itself in a productive way with the acquisition or utilization of a form of knowledge , without being concerned with the nature of that system of knowledge . If psychology were to limit itself to the study of models of learning or perception or speech while excluding from its field of investigation the system itself that is thus acquired or utilized , it would condemn itself to sterility . That kind of delimitation of psychology would be quite pointless . At this point , linguistics understood as the study of system of language seems to fill a conceptual gap in the mannerp44in which psychology is often conceived . In effect , it makes possible a psychology of language which is concerned at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ways in which it is acquired and used . This direction offers great hopes . At the same time , a linguistics which concerns itself solely with the system that is acquired and not with the manner in which it is acquired or the ways in which it is put to use confines itself within too narrow limits , and omits the consideration of issues that may have great importance for its narrower goals , which are of great interest in themselves . Psychology of language , properly understood , is a discipline which embraces the study of the acquired system ( the grammar ) , of the methods of acquisition ( linked to universal grammar ) , and models of perception and production , and which also studies the physical bases for all of this . This study forms a coherent whole . Results obtained in the study of one of the parts may contribute to the understanding of the others . Take the work of ' Jerry Fodor in psycholinguistics .. . M r R I f my memory is correct , he conducts experiments that consist of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a magmetrc tape on which sentences have been recorded , and then asking the subjects of the experiment the exact location in the sentence where they have perceived , or heard , these clicks " N ( ( ' 1 ' es . And in principle this work might help to resolve controversal problems of linguistic structure . Take the case of the grammatical transformation called " raising . " This is an operutrom which has been postulated for such constructions as John expected Bill to leave . This operation takes the subject of the embedded clause /sill leaves and " raises " it to the position of object of the main verb ( John expected that ? Bill leaves thus becomes . John ea/weird Bill ? to leave ) . Let us take another sentence , which superficially resembles John expected Bill to leave : John persuaded Bill to leave . The click experiments might in principle tell us whether these sentences have the same structure . Suppose that in the recording of the two sentences , a click//P45is inserted over the word Bill . If the click is perceived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of persuaded , and if furthermore it is established that the perceptual displacement of the clicks depends on the surface syntactic structure , then one could conclude that the respective structuresare : ( John expected ( Bill to leave ) ) and ( John ( persuaded Bill ) ( to leave ) ) . If , on the other hand , the relevant experiments show that the perceived displacement of the clicks is the same in both cases , that is to say , if the click placed over Bill is displaced perceptuallyto the right ( i.e. , after Bill ) , that would indicate that " raising " has taken place , and that the subject of the embedded phrase has become the object of expect . Such results might contribute to resolving the problem of whether " raising " takes place in these structures . To be sure , it is too early to hope for definitive answers from such experiments . But the logic of the situation is sufficiently clear . It is possible that significant relationships between perception and sentence structure will be experimentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the structure of language will hope for the development of such experimental techniques , because then one would have means for empirically testing theories of language structure through the study of models of perception , and vice versa . Furthermore , we might expect that any progress made in the psychology of language will furnish suggestive models for other aspects of cognitive psychology ( such as visual perception , formationof theories about the external world , whether those of common sense or of scientific research , etc. ) , which might be studied profitably in a similar manner : that is , by determining the basic properties of the acquired cognitive systems and by investigating the processes of acquisition and use of these systems . P46Cognitive psychology would thus study each cognitive systemas a particular " mental organ , " having its own structure , and subsequently investigating their modes of interaction . For such modes of interaction exist : when we see something , we are in general capable of speaking about it , and command of appropriateterminology may play some role in sharpening visual perception . There is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representation and spoken language . The same is true for other systems . Linguistics is one part of cognitive psychology : a part that is relatively easy to isolate . Language is a system ( very rich , to be sure ) , but easy to isolate , among the various mental faculties . M.R. : It is clear that the psychology you founded , by filling the conceptual " gap " that inheres in the sciences of behavior with the theory of generative grammar , is very different from that experimental psychology which has been presented to us for a long time now , be it by Skinner or by Piaget . We are far removed from intelligence quotients and the absolute faith in tests . N ( ' Many people tend to think of psychology in terms of its tests and experimental methods . But one should not define a discipline by its procedures . It should be defined , in the first place , by the object of its investigation . Experimental or analyticprocedures must be devised in order to shed light on this object Behavrorist psychology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not properly defined its object of inquiry , err env opinion . Thus it has excellent tools , very goodtools but nothing very much to study with them . M R It was with this critique of behaviorism that you beganyour philosophic work . In your review article on Skinner , which appeared in Language in 1959 , you rejected the scientific pretensions of the experimental methods which proceed by stimulus-response reinforcement and " operant conditioning , " used to study animal behavior . For example , Skinner considers it of interest to ask X number of subjects what a painting of the Flemish School evokes for them . The elicited response thatp47would be judged " good " by Skinner is : " For me it evokes Holland . " However , you have pointed out that one could reply : " I feel the painting is hung too low , " or " In my opinion the painting clashes with the flowered wallpaper . " These experiments , you wrote , are as simple as they are empty . N.C. : I must add that quite similar critiques were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years before , but with little effect . And we must not forget that , as I 've just said , many of the experiments that have been developedshow considerable ingenuity and elegance . Certainly one must preserve the experimental sophistication of behaviorist psychology , but in order to employ it rationally . The same thing is true in physics : perhaps there are more sophisticated experimentaltechniques than those devised by physicists to answer interesting questions , but which have no relevance to questions of scientific interest . It would then be senseless to define physics in terms of this technology of experimentation . In itself this technology has no interest , apart from its possible relevance to significant questions . In the same way , psychological experiments have no interest , unless they can be put to use to sharpen our understanding of significant theories that can be developed concerning some significantobject of study . M.R. : Are there many psychologists who are working in the direction you have just defined , who are interested at the same time in the linguistic system and in the principles of its acquisition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In France you have Jacques Mehler , for one . It is becoming an important field , and I hope to remain in close contact with it . M.R. : But does experimental psycholinguistics always serve solely to verify linguists ' hypotheses , or do you consider it a field with its own goals ? N.C. : As I mentioned before , there is in principle an interplaybetween the study of the structure of language ( that part of psychology called " linguistics " ) and experimental psycholinP48guistics , which is largely concerned with models of perception and production . I am personally interested in the possibility of testing linguistic hypotheses . Certain questions can not be resolvedby sole reliance on the customary methods of linguistics . For example : the study of temporal processes , constraints on memory , the interactions between cognitive systems . Furthermore , the abstract study of grammar , and the kinds of data utilized by linguists , are simply insufficient to resolve certain questions concerning language . Linguistics can hope to characterizethe class of possible grammars , that is , establish the abstractproperties which every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language can at best specify abstract propertiesof its grammar . It is something like the study of algebra : every abstract algebra can be realized by many different real systems . I he theory of groups can be realized by the number system , or by the rotation of objects . In a similar way the formal systems of the linguists can correspond to different real sys-temsMR Just as in metrics , according to Morris Halle , the same abstract representation ? XXXXXX , for example ? can correspond to six vowels for the poet , to six roses for the gardener , or to six steps for the dancer .. . N ' Arid if the linguist is interested in the real nature of human beings which is what I suppose ? then he will seek to discover the system that is really utilized . The data of linguistics are not rich enough to answer these fascinating questions beyond is certain point . Therefore , the linguist must hope for further insght from the study of process models and neurologicalstructuresM R I he linguistic model is a model of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or modelsof performance . This opposition , competence performance , was first clearly stated around 1964-5 . You defined linguistic competence as that knowledge internalized by a speaker of a language , which , once learned and possessed , unconsciously permits him to understand and produce an infinite number of//P49new sentences . Generative grammar is the explicit theory proposed to account for that competence . In performance , other cognitive systems , aside from competence ( memory , etc. ) , intervene . In Language and Mind you indicate that the other branches of psychology ? dealing with vision , memory , and so on must , in order to become scientific , define an equivalent concept of competence . Now it is evident that most psychologists oppose just that concept . N.C. : In my opinion , many psychologists have a curious definition of their discipline . A definition that is destructive , suicidal . A dead end . They want to confine themselves solely to the study of performance ? behavior ? yet , as I 've said , it makes no sense to construct a discipline that studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but refuses to consider the nature of this system . In my opinion , in order to do good psychology one must start by identifying a cognitive domain ? vision , for example ? that is to say , a domain which can be considered as a system , or a mental organ , that is more or less integrated . Once that system is identified , one can try to determine its nature , to investigate theories concerning its structure . To the extent ' that such a theory can be formulated , it is possible to ask on what basis the system is acquired , what are the analogues in it to universal grammar , its biologically given principles . Similarly , study of performance presupposes an understanding of the nature of the cognitive system that is put to use . Given some level of theoreticalunderstanding of some cognitive system , we may hope to study in a productive way how the cognitive system is used , and how it enters into interaction with other cognitive systems . Something like that should be the paradigm for psychology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One can not legislatethe " order of discovery . " But this paradigm seems to me basically correct . M.R. : That is the approach which you have followed in linguistics . You have identified the system : the competence ? P50and you have proposed a theory , that of generative grammar . Universal grammar is the set of hypotheses that bear on the acquisition of the system and so on . But such is not the customarypath of psychology . N.C. : No , because until fairly recently psychologists have tried to leap over the initial stages ; and going directly to the subsequent stages , they have been unable to accomplish as much as they could . Because you can not study the acquisition or use of language in an intelligent manner without having some idea about this language which is acquired or utilized . If all you know of language is that it consists of words , or if you have a theory of the Saussurean type that tells you : " Here is a sequence of signs , each having a sound and a meaning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you can investigate . You must work with performance models , which produce word-by-word sequences , with no higher structure . You can only work with acquisition models , which acquire a system of concepts and sounds , and with the relations between these systems . That would he a primitive psychology , limited by the conception of language t hat was the point of departure . The same holds quite generally . Psychologists often say that they do n't presuppose a model of competence , that is to say , a theory of language . But that is not true ; they could not do anything without having a conception of the nature of language . Every psychologist presupposes at least that language is a system of words : that is a model of competence . A very had model of competence , but a model just the same . If they want to do better psychology , they must choose a better model of competence . Why are many psychologists reluctant to consider richer and more abstract models of competence ? Many linguists too , for the matter . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of empiricist doctrines that are restricted in principle to quite elementary models of competence . These doctrines maintain that all learning , including language acquisition , proceedsby the accumulation of specific items , by the development//P51of associations , by generalization along certain stimulus dimensions , by abstracting certain properties from a complex of properties . If this is the case , the models of competence are so trivial that it is possible to ignore them . M.R. : When looked at this way , the Saussurean system of signs , conceived as a store slowly deposited in memory , correspondsvery well , in effect , with the trivial empiricist model . Do you know Gregory 's experiments on vision ? They prove that vision is produced by an interaction between an innate system and experience . N.C. : Gregory is one of those who are trying to construct a model of competence for vision . That is interesting work , and it seems a logical way to treat these questions . Apparently , the visual cortex of mammals is predetermined in part , with a certain margin of indeterminacy . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are designed to perceive lines at a certain angle , and others at another angle ; but the development of these receptors , their density , in particular , or their precise orientation within a predetermined range of potential orientation , all this depends on the visual environment , so it appears . M.R. : Vision is thus a construction , like grammar ? N.C. : It seems that the general structure of the visual systemis fixed , but the particular detailed realization remains open . For example , it is supposedly virtually impossible to determineprecise binocular coordination genetically . It seems that visual experience is required to solve this engineering problem in a precise way , though binocular vision is genetically determined . In general , serious psychology will be concerned primarily with domains in which human beings excel , where their capacitiesare exceptional . Language is one such case . There one is sure to find rich structures to study . In the domain of visual perception , for example , one of the most extraordinary abilities is to identify faces . How can one , after having seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another angle ? That involves a remarkable geometric transformation . And to distinguish twoP52faces ! It would be no small task to design a device to match human performance in these respects . It is possible that the theory of face perception resembles a generative grammar . Just as in language , if you suppose that there are base structures and transformed structures , then one might imagine a model which would generate the possible humanfaces , and the transformations which would tell you what each face would look like from all angles . To be sure , the formal theories would be very different from those of language .. . M.R. : ... because we are passing from linear sequence to volume . N.C. : There has also been very interesting work recently on the perceptual system of infants . During the past few years experimental methods have been devised that permit one to work with very young infants , even just a few days old , or a few weeks , and to determine some aspects of their perceptual systems , which exist , evidently , prior to relevant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that infants distinguish the phoneticcategories 1 ' , T , and K , which acoustically form a continuumthere is no line of demarcation between these categories , and no physical necessity to divide the acoustic continuum just this way . But perceptually they do not form a continuum . Particular stimuli along this dimension will be perceivedas 1 ' or ' I ' or K. It seems that infants already make this categorial distinction , which indicates that it must reflect part of the human perceptual system that is not learned , but is rather an inmate capacity , perhaps specifically related to language , though this rs debated . There is other work , on surprise reflexes , for example : if you present a small circle to a baby , which becomes a large circle , the infant will be startled . But if you present a circle , the size of which diminishes , there is no startle response . Such results have been repotted informally , but I 'm not sure that they have already been published or how firm they are . If they are correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect innate , to recognize an approaching object . At the time this reflex doesP53not have any function : the baby can not move away in any fashion . That reflex would be built into the human perceptual system , and to find a functional explanation for it one would perhaps have to go back millions of years , to arrive at some evolutionary explanation . M.R. : Can they see when they are that young ? N.C. : Again until recently , it was not known to what extent infants could see . One did not have any means of establishing that . Apparently , there is fairly complex visual perception well before the child can move . In any case , very early . One can also perhaps study linguistic capacities ? as well as deficiencies , aphasia , and so forth ? by similar methods . There has been quite a bit of interesting work on the neurology of language , for example , on lateralization or the functions of the two hemispheres of the brain . Language is normally a left-hemisphere function primarily , and current work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For instance , Bever has reported some work suggesting that musical analysis is carried out by the left side of the brain , which is concerned with analytic processing , while the right side keeps a sort of sensory account . That would be interesting if correct . While the phenomenon of lateralization does not occur solely among humans , it is in them that it is most highly developed . These different lines of research are mutually supportive . In the coming years they may constitute one of the most exciting parts of science . M.R. : You do not mention sociology . However , sociolinguisticsseem to have been widely accepted . This discipline seeks to look at the facts of language as realities produced by social classes . I 'm thinking particularly of Labov 's ' work on non-standard English of the ghettos . In my opinion , that is also linguistics . N.C. : The study of various dialects certainly falls squarely within linguistics . But I do not see in what way the study of ghetto dialects differs from study of the dialects of university- trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the theoretical level that is much the same thing . In fact , there are some who claim at times that there are certain theories concerning the study of language in society . Perhaps so , but I have not as yet seen such theories , or any specific account of the principlesinvolved . Very few theoretical proposals have been made about these questions , to my knowledge . Certainly , it is true that no individual speaks a well-defined language . The notion of language itself is on a very high level of abstraction . In fact , each individual employs a number of linguistic systems in speaking . How can one describe such an amalgam ? Linguists have generally , and quite properly , proceededin terms of an idealization : Let us assume , they say , the notion of a homogeneous linguistic community . Even if they do n't admit it , that is what they do . It is the sole means of proceeding rationally , so it seems to me . You study ideal systems , then afterwards you can ask yourself in what manner t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Perhaps sociolinguistics might come up with some sort of principle concerning the variety of such systems , though I know of no results of this sort . It has been suggested that the language system of an individual does not consist in the interaction of ideal systems , but in a single system with some margin of variation . If that is it , then it 's not very interesting. 1 agree with what you say : that is part of linguistics . A linguistics that takes the idealization of ordinary linguistics one step closer to the complexity of reality . Fine . M.R. : I think it is very important for Labov to show that the language of the ghetto has a grammar of its own , which is not defined as a collection of errors or infractions of standard English .. . N.C. : ... But who could doubt that ? No linguist could possibly doubt that . M.R. : All right , because linguists know that this is a linguisticprinciple . But Labov is primarily addressing teachers , pedagogues who do not recognize , in general , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ besides , have the ideologicalp55task of inculcating a feeling of inferiority in those who do not speak the standard dialect . N.C. : He is doing something very useful on the level of educational practice , in attempting to combat the prejudices of the society at large ? and that is very good . But on the linguistic level , this matter is evident and banal . Stone Age man spoke a language similar to ours , so far as we know . It is evident that the language of the ghettos is of the same order as that of the suburbs . The study of Black English , from a linguistic point of view , is on a par with the study of Korean or of American Indian languages , or of the difference between the English of Cambridge , England , and Cambridge , Massachusetts . That is very useful work . But what disturbs me are the theoretical pretensions . We have here good descriptive linguistics , but it takes no sophistication in linguistics to establish the socially relevant conclusion . The same ideological aim is attained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All God 's Dangers , which is the autobiography of Nate Shaw . Rosengarten transcribed the narrative of an old black man , who was illiterate and who had preserved an astonishing memory of his entire life . He was a sort of natural storyteller , whose life , involved in historic social struggles , is fascinating . Rosengarten , transcribingthe spoken narration of this old man , is saying much the same thing as what you attribute to Labov : this man is also a human being , in fact , a human being who was altogether remarkable . Perhaps some confusion arises from one of my statements , which has provoked more controversy than I had foreseen : I spoke of the necessity to conceive of a homogeneous linguistic community .. . M.R. : ... As an idealization necessary for scientific work . Which , as you wrote , does not mean that reality is homogeneous ; but such an idealization is necessary , in fact , automatic even , when one studies the language of the ghettos . N.C. : Of course . And all dialects . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach the study of dialect variations : we are still always speaking of idealized systems . Only such system . P56have interesting properties . Combinations of systems rarely have interesting properties . Let me take an example : as a small child , my friend Morris Halle spoke five languages . Taken togetherthese five languages do not have interesting properties . Individually , they do . In the same way , if someone speaks a collection of dialects , you will only discover a great confusion if you do not separate the elements of which this ensemble is composed . M.R. : Nevertheless , it seems important to me to confront the progressive work of Labov with the position in psycholinguisticsof someone like Bernstein , ' who reinforces and justifies social discrimination . N.C. : The work of Bernstein may very well be reactionary in its implications , and perhaps hardly worth discussing as a specimen of the rational study of language . I had believed it should no longer be necessary to say that the spoken language of an urban ghetto is a real language . But perhaps that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to take seriously the hypothesis about the severe limitations of competence among the children of the " lower classes . " But the existence of a disciplinecalled " sociolinguistics " remains for me an obscure matter . M.R. : More generally , what does sociology mean to you today ? N.C. : Again , a discipline is defined in terms of its object and its results . Sociology is the study of society . As to its results , it seems that there arc few things one can say about that , at least at a fairly general level . One finds observations , intuitions , impressions , some valid generalizations perhaps . All very valuable , no doubt , but not at the level of explanatory principles . Literary criticism also has things to say , but it does not have explanatory principles . Of course ever since the ancient Greeks people have been trying to find general principles on which to base literary criticism , but , while I 'm far from an authority in this field , I 'm under the impression that no one has yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sciences . That is not a criticism . It is a characterization , which seems to me to be correct . Sociolinguistics is , I suppose , a discipline that seeks to apply principles of sociology to the ? - study of language ; but I suspect that it can draw little from sociology , and I wonder whether it is likely to contribute much to it . M.R. : In general one links a social class to a set of linguistic forms in a manner that is almost bi-unique . N.C. : You can also collect butterflies and make many observations . If you like butterflies , that 's fine ; but such work must not be confounded with research , which is concerned to discover explanatory principles of some depth and fails if it does not do so . M.R. : Certain sociologists accuse linguistics of participating in the legitimation of the dominant language , in particular because of the concept of " competence , " which is often confused , more or less , with skill in handling the language . But above all , they reproach linguistics for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Opposition to idealization is simply objection to rationality ; it amounts to nothing more than an insistence that we shall not have meaningful intellectual work . Phenomena that are complicated enough to be worth studying generally involve the interaction of several systems . Therefore you must abstract some object of study , you must eliminate those factors which are not pertinent . At least if you want to conduct an investigationwhich is not trivial . In the natural sciences this is n't even discussed , it is self-evident . In the human sciences , people continue to question it . That is unfortunate . When you work within some idealization , perhaps you overlook something which is terribly important . That is a contingency of rational inquiry that has always been understood . One must not be too worried about it . One has to face this problem and try to deal with it , to accommodate oneself to it . It is inevitable . There are no simple criteria that provide the correct idealization , unless it is the criterion of obtaining meaningful resultP58If you obtain good results , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a good idealization . If you obtain better results by changing your point of view , then you have improved your idealization . There is a constant interaction between the definition of the domain of research and the discovery of significantprinciples . To reject idealization is puerile . It is particularlystrange to hear such criticism from the left . Marxist political economy furnishes a classic and familiar example , with its idealizations and its far-reaching abstractions . M.R. : Are n't sociologists seeking to preserve the methods they use at present , their interviews , surveys , statistics , and so on , which take the place of scientific practice ? N.C. : Again , in itself this type of approach is neither good nor bad . The question is whether it leads to the discovery of principles that are significant . We are back to the difference between natural history and natural science . In natural history , whatever you do is fine . If you like to collect stones , you can classify them according to their color , their shape , and so forth . Everything is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles . You are amusing yourself , and nobody can object to that . But in the natural sciences , it is altogether different . There the search is for the discovery of intelligible structure and for explanatory principles . In the natural sciences , the facts have no interest in themselves , but only to the degree to which they have bearing on explanatory principles or on hidden structures that have some intellectual interest . I think this whole discussioncomes down to a confusion between two senses of the word interesting . Certain things are interesting in themselves ? for example : human action . When a novelist deals with human actions , that 's interesting ; the flight of a bird , a flower , that 's interesting . In this sense , natural history and descriptive sociologyare interesting , just like a novel . Both deal with interesting phenomena , and display these to our view , perhaps even yield insight into them , somehow . But there is another meaning of the word interest , in physics , for example . A phenomenon in itself does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally interested , at least in the modern period , in " exotic " phenomena , of virtually no interest in themselves , in the first sense of the word interesting . What happens under the conditions of a scientific experiment is of no importance in itself . Its interest lies in its relation to whatever theoretical principles are at stake . Natural science , as distinct from natural history , is not concerned with the phenomena in themselves , but with the principles and the explanations that they have some bearing on . There is no right or wrong in the choice of one of these definitions of the word interesting ( or some other sense , relating to utility , for example ) . It is not wrong to be interested in human actions or right to be interested in particle accelerators . There are simply two entirely different things . The attraction of sociology should not be based on a confusion between the two senses of the word . In the study of language , too , you find strange phenomena . In English you can not say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that John seems to each of the men to like the others . There is nothing wrong with the intended meaning ; it is just that this sentence does n't express it . In itself that does not have any interest ; no one ever says it , and that 's all there is to the matter . But it happens that the phenomenon has intellectual interest , because it is linked to significant principles of linguistic theory . The problem in the human sciences is that practitioners can easily find themselves in the position of describing phenomena of little interest and having nothing interesting to say about their subject . That is the worst of all ; presenting , say , statistical analyses on subjects that are without interest . . . To be sure , anthropology and sociology often achieve very interesting results . Take the work of my colleague Kenneth Hale , for example . He has been studying the " cultural wealth " of indigenous cultures and languages of Australia . These people can he characterizedas among the most " primitive " in the world , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have developed intellectual systems which are extraordinarily complex , and language games which are incomparable .. . M.R. : I remember reading his study of a game of antonyms , where each speaker must replace words by their opposites , according to certain rules .. . N.C. : Yes , that is one example . What emerges from his work is very interesting , undoubtedly . These games could not have been invented simply to pass the time : they respond to fundamental intellectual needs . It has also been suggested that the proliferation of the extraordinarily complex and intricate systems of kinship may have no explanation in terms of social function .. . M.R. : Thus he is opposed to the functionalism of LeviStrauss , which links the kinship system to exchange .. . N.C. : Perhaps these kinship systems satisfy an intellectual need . They may be the kind of mathematics you can create if you do n't have formal mathematics . The Greeks made up numbertheory , others make up kinship systems . Hale and others report informants who are exceptionally gifted in kinship systems , just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropology , but naturally to psychology as well . They show how human beings create cultural richness under conditions of material privation . As far as these language games are concerned , children are said to have no difficulty at all in learning them . 1 hey seem to be linked to rites of puberty . All very strange and fascinating . M.R. : These discoveries are " interesting " in both senses of the word . It seems to me that the facts of language also offer these two ways of being interesting . N.C. : Yes . Take a good traditional grammar : it presents those phenomena which have a " human " interest ; for example , irregular verbs . Irregular verbs , that 's amusing . But traditional grammar does not take interest in what some generative **27;891;TOOLONG term the specified subject condition , * because the phenomenawhich are excluded by this condition have no " human interest . " For example , the sentence I mentioned earlier , John seems to the men to like each other , is excluded by the specified subject condition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most comprehensive one , would trouble to note that such sentencesmust be excluded . And that is quite legitimate , as far as traditional grammars of English are concerned ; these grammarsappeal to the intelligence of the reader instead of seeking explicitly to characterize this " intelligence . " One can suppose that the specified subject condition ? or any other principle which excludes this phrase ? is simply an aspect of the intelligenceof the speaker , an aspect of universal grammar ; consequently , it does not require explicit instruction to the person who reads a traditional grammar . For the linguist , the opposite is true . The linguist is interested in what the traditional grammars don ' t say ; he is interested in the principles ? or at least that is what should interest him , in my opinion . M.R. : The typical reaction one encounters in the humansciences , against idealization , thus seems linked to the fact thatpeople are not interested in what they have in common , but .. . N.C. : . . . but in what differentiates them , yes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision . The same thingmust be true of frogs . No doubt , they would not be interestedP62in what makes them frogs , but in what makes them different from one another : whether one jumps further , etc. ; anything that makes a frog remarkable for other frogs . The frogs assume that it is perfectly natural to be a frog . They are not preoccupied by " frogness . " M.R. : Among Americans , " frogs " is also used to designate the French .. . N.C. : I did not have that in mind . A Philosophyof LanguageP63M.R. : Your linguistic discoveries have led you to take positionsin philosophy of language and in what is called " philosophyof knowledge . " In particular , in your last book ( Reflections on Language ) , you were induced to determine the limits of what is knowable in thought ; as a result , the reflections on language became transformed virtually into a philosophy of science .. . N.C. : Of course , it is not the study of language that determineswhat is to count as a scientific approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which one can refer in the investigation of human knowledge . In the case of language , one must explain how an individual , presented with quite limited data , develops an extremely rich system of knowledge . The child , placed in a linguistic community , is presented with a set of sentences that is limited and often imperfect , fragmented , and so on . In spite of this , in a very short time he succeeds in " constructing , " in internalizing the grammarof his language , developing knowledge that is very complex , that can not be derived by induction or abstraction from what is given in experience . We conclude that the internalized knowledge must be limited very narrowly by some biological property . Whenever we encounter a similar situation , whti. knowledge is constructed from limited and imperfect data in a constructed . by the mind . We find ourselves faced with what may seem a paradox , though it is in fact not a paradox at all : where rich and complex knowledge can be constructed in a uniform way , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist constraints , limitationsimposed by biological endowment on the cognitive systemsthat can be developed by the mind . The scope of attainable knowledge is linked in a fundamental way with its limits . M.R. : If all kinds of grammatical rules were possible , then the acquisition of these rules would become impossible ; if all combinations of phonemes were possible , there would no longer be language . The study of language shows , on the contrary , to what extent the sequential combinations of words , of phonemes , are limited , that these combinations form only a small subset of the set of imaginable combinations . Linguistics must render explicit the rules which limit these combinations . But on the basis of these limits one obtains an infinity of language forms .. N.C. : If sharp limits on attainable knowledge did not exist , we could never have such extensive knowledge as that of language . For the simple reason that without these prior limitations , we could construct an enormous number of possible systems of knowledge , each compatible with what is given in experience . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extends far beyond experience would be impossible : we might adopt different cognitive systems , with no possibility of determining which of these systems is in fact the right one . If we have a considerable number of theories that are comparable in credibility , that is virtually the same as having no theory at all . Let us suppose that we discover a domain of intelligence where human beings excel . If someone has developed a rich explanatory theory in spite of the limitations of available evimannerthat is uniform and homogeneous among all individuals , we can conclude that a set of initial constraints plays a significant role in determining the canitive system which isp65dence , it is legitimate to ask what the general procedure is that has permitted this move from experience to knowledge ? what is the system of constraints that has made possible such an intellectual leap . The history of science might provide some relevant examples . At certain times , rich scientific theories have been constructed on the basis of limited data , theories that were intelligible to others , consisting of propositions linked in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such cases , we might try to discover the initial constraints that characterize these theories . That leads us back to posing the question : What is the " universal grammar " for intelligible theories ; what is the set of biologically given constraints ? Suppose we can answer this question ? in principle that might be possible . Then , the constraints being given , we can inquire into the kinds of theories that can in principle be attained . This amounts to the same thing as when we ask , in the case of language : Given a theory of universal grammar , what types of languages are in principle possible ? Let us refer to the class of theories made available by the biological constraints as accessible theories . It may be that this class will not be homogeneous , that there will be degrees of accessibility , accessibility relative to other theories , etc . In other words , the theory of accessibility may be more or less structured . The " universal grammar " for theory construction is then a theory of the structure of accessible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the biological endowment of a person , then given appropriate evidence , the person will , in some cases at least , have certain accessible theories available . Admittedly , I 'm simplifying greatly . Consider then the class of true theories . We can imagine that such a class exists , expressed , let us say , in some notation available to us . Then we can ask : What is the intersection of the class of accessible theories and the class of true theories , that is to say , which theories belong at the same time to the class of accessible theories and to the class of true theories ? ( Or we callP66raise more complex questions about degree of accessibility and relative accessibility . ) Where such an intersection exists , a humanbeing can attain real knowledge . And conversely , he cannotattain real knowledge beyond that intersection . Of course , this is on the assumption that the human mind is part of nature , that it is a biological system like others , perhaps more intricate and complex than others that we know about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its intrinsic limits determined by the very factors that provide its scope . Human reason , on this view , is not the universal instrumentthat Descartes took it to be but rather a specific biological system . M.R. : We come back again to the idea according to which scientific activity is not possible except within the biological limits of the human being ... N.C. : But notice that there is no particular biological reasonwhy such an intersection should exist . The capacity to invent nuclear physics provides an organism with no selectional advantage , and was not a factor in human evolution , it is reasonableto assume . The ability to solve algebra problems is not a factor in differential reproduction . There is , to my knowledge , no credible version of the view that these special capacities are somehow continuous with practical abilities , toolmaking and the like which is not to deny , of course , that these special capacities developed for unknown reasons as a concomitant of evolution of ' the brain that may have been subject to selectional pressures . In a sense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories and the class of true theories is a kind of biological miracle . It seems that this miracle took place at least in one domain , namely , physics , and the natural sciences that one might think of loosely as a kind of " extension " of physics : chemistry , biochemistry , molecular biology . In these domains , progress has been extremely rapid on the basis of limited data , and in a manner intelligible to others . Perhaps we are confrontedhere with a unique episode in human history : there isP67nothing to lead one to believe that we are a universal organism . Rather , we are subject to biological limitations with respect to the theories we can devise and comprehend , and we are fortunateto have these limitations , for otherwise we could not constructrich systems of knowledge and understanding at all . Hut these limitations may well exclude domains about which we would like very much to know something . That 's too had . Perhaps there is another organism with a differently organized intelligence that would be capable of what we are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reasonable one in my opinion , a way to think about the question of acquisition of conscious knowledge . Going a step further , it is not unimaginable that a particular organism might come to examine its own system of acquiring knowledge ; it might thus be able to determine the class of intelligible theories which it can attain . I do n't see any contradiction in that . A theory which is found to be unintelligible , an " inaccessible theory " in the sense just given , does not thereby become intelligible or accessible . It would simply be identified . And if in some domain of thought the accessible theories turn out to be remote from the true theories , that 's too bad . Then human beings can , at best , develop a kind of intellectual technology , which for inexplicable reasons predicts certain things in these domains . But they wo n't truly understand why the technology is working . They will not possess an intelligible theory in the sense that an interesting science is intelligible . Their theories , though perhaps effective , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual endeavor from this point of view , we find curious things , surprising things . In mathematics certain areas seem to correspond to exceptional human aptitudes : number theory , spatial intuition . Pursuit of these intuitions determined the main line of progress in mathematics , until the end of the nineteenth century , at least . Apparentlyour mind is capable of handling the abstract properties of number systems , abstract geometry , and the mathematics of theP68continuum . These are not the absolute limits , but it is probable that we are confined to certain branches of science and mathematics . Presumably , all that I have just said would be rejected by a strict empiricist , or even regarded as senseless . M.R. : That is to say by someone who believes in the propositionaccording to which man proceeds by induction and generalization in the acquisition of knowledge , starting from " empty " or " blank " minds , without a priori biological limitations . Within that framework , knowledge is no more determined by the structure of the mind than is the form of a design by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empiricist hypotheses have very little plausibility , in my opinion ; it does not seem possible to account for the development of commonsense understanding of the physical and social world , or science , in terms of processes of induction , generalization , abstraction , and so on . There is no such direct path from data that are given to intelligible theories . The same is true in other domains , music , for example . After all , you can always imagine innumerable musical systems , most of which will seem to the human ear to be just noise . There too , biological factors determine the class of possible musical systemsfor human beings , though what exactly this class may be is an open and currently debated question . In this case as well , no direct functional explanation seems available . Musical ability is not a factor in reproduction . Music does not improve material well-being , does not permit one to function better in society , etc . Quite simply , it responds to the human need for aesthetic expression . If we study human nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ musical systems correspond to that need , while others do not . M.R. : Among those fields in which the scientific approach has not made any progress in two thousand years you list the study of human behavior . N.C. : Behavior , yes , that is one such case . The basic questionshave been posed since the beginning of historical memory : P69the question of causation of behavior seems simple enough to pose , but virtually no theoretical progress has been made in answering it . One might formulate variables , the function will give us the behavior that results under the conditions specified by these values , or perhaps some distribution over possible behaviors . But no such function has been seriously proposed , even to a weak approximation , and the question has remained without issue . In fact , we do n't know of any reasonable way to approach the problem . It is conceivable that this persistent failure is to be explained on the grounds that the true theory of behavior is beyond our cognitive reach . Therefore we can make no progress . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciate Bach . A waste of time .. . M.R. : Then the question of behavior would be different from the question of syntax : that too had never been posed before the development of generative grammar . N.C. : But in this case , once the question is posed , everyone comes up with answers that are similar or comparable . When certain questions are posed , sometimes the answer is impossible to imagine , sometimes answers begin to appear quite widely . And when an answer is proposed , those who have an adequate understanding of the question will also regard the answer as intelligible . It is often the case that a question can not yet properlybe posed , or posed with the requisite degree of sophistication ; but then it can sometimes be posed properly , and still seem to lie beyond our intellectual grasp . Another analogue to the case of language , perhaps , is our comprehension of the social structures in which we live . We have all sorts of tacit and complex knowledge ? concerning our relations to other people . Perhaps we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of social interaction , and it is this system which helps us to organize intuitively our imperfect perceptions of social reality , though it does not follow necessarilythat we are capable of developing conscious theories inP70this domain through the exercise of our " science-forming faculties . " If we succeed in finding our place within our society , that is perhaps because these societies have a structure that we are prepared to seek out . With a little imagination we could devise an artificial society in which no one could ever find his place .. . M.R. : Then you can compare the failure of artificial languageswith the failure of utopian societies ? N.C. : Perhaps . One can not learn an artificial language constructedto violate universal grammar as readily as one learns a natural language , simply by being immersed in it . At most , one might conceive of such a language as a game , a puzzle .. . In the same way we can imagine a society in which no one could survive as a social being because it does not correspond to biologically determined perceptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies might have such properties , leading to various forms of pathology . Any serious social science or theory of social change must be founded on some concept of human nature . A theorist of classicalliberalism such as Adam Smith begins by affirming that human nature is defined by a propensity to truck and barter , to exchange goods : that assumption accords very well with the social order he defends . If you accept that premise ( which is hardly credible ) , it turns out that human nature conforms to an idealized early capitalist society , without monopoly , without state intervention , and without social control of production . If , on the contrary , you believe with Marx or the French and German Romantics that only social cooperation permits the full development of human powers , you will then have a very different picture of a desirable society . There is always some conception of human nature , implicit or explicit , underlying a doctrine of social order or social change . M.R. : To what degree can your discoveries about language and your definitions of fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To which philosophy do you feel closest ? N.C. : In relation to the questions we have just been discuss/ing , the philosopher to whom I feel closest and whom I 'm almost paraphrasing is Charles Sanders Peirce . He proposed an interesting outline , very far from complete , of what he called " abduction " .. . M.R. : Abduction is , I believe , a form of inference which does not depend solely on a priori principles ( like deduction ) , nor solely on experimental observation ( like induction ) . But that aspect of Peirce is very little known in France . N.C. : Or here in the United States either . Peirce argued that to account for the growth of knowledge , one must assume that " man 's mind has a natural adaptation to imagining correct theories of some kinds , " some principle of " abduction " which " puts a limit on admissible hypothesis , " a kind of " instinct , " developed in the course of evolution . Peirce 's ideas on abductionwere rather vague , and his suggestion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of scientific hypotheses seems to have had very little influence . To my knowledge , almost no one has tried to develop these ideas further , although similar notions have been developed independentlyon various occasions . Peirce has had an enormous influence , but not for this particular reason . M.R. : More in semiology .. . N.C. : Yes , in that general area . His ideas on abduction developed Kantian ideas to which recent Anglo-American philosophyhas not been very receptive . As far as I know , his approach in epistemology has never been followed up , even though there has been much criticism of inductivist approaches ? Popper , for example . Russell , for his part , was much preoccupied in his later work ( Human Knowledge ) with the inadequacy of the empiricist approach to the acquisition of knowledge . But this book has generally been ignored . He proposed various principles of **25;920;TOOLONG with the aim of accounting for the knowledge which in reality we possess . M.R. : Non-demonstrative inference differs from the deductionsof mathematical logic to the degree where , in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning , the truth of the conclusions is not guaranteed ; they are only rendered probable . Is that it ? N.C. : In substance , yes : one might say that his approach here was Kantian to a certain degree , but with fundamental differences . In some way , Russell remained an empiricist . His principles of non-demonstrative inference are added one by one to the fundamental principle of induction , and do not offer a radical change in perspective . But the problem is not quantitative , it is qualitative . The principles of non-demonstrative inferencedo not fulfill the need . I believe a radically different approach is necessary , which takes a starting point that is quite remote from empiricist presuppositions . This is true not only for scientific knowledge , where it is generally accepted today , but also for what we can call the constructions of " commonsenseunderstanding , " that is , for our ordinary notions concerning the nature of the physical and social world , our intuitive comprehension of human actions , their ends , their reasons , and their causes , etc . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more analysis than I can give here . But to return to your question , a great deal of the work of contemporary philosophers on language and the nature of scientific research has been very stimulating for me . My own work , from the very beginning , was greatly influenced by developments in philosophy ( as the publishedacknowledgments of indebtedness indicate ; particularly , to Nelson Goodman and W. V. Quine ) . And that continues to be true I o mention only a few examples , the work of John Austin on speech acts proved very fruitful , as well as that of Paul ( ' rice on the logic of conversation . At present very interestingwork is bring pursued on the theory of meaning along various Imes One can cite the contributions of Saul Kripke , I filar ' , Putnam , Jerrold Katz , Michael Dummett , Julius Moravesik , Donald Davidson , and many others . Certain of the work on model-theoretic semantics ? the study of " truth in possible worlds " ? seems promising . In particular , I wouldP73mention the work of Jaakko @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are central to quite a range of topics in syntax and semantics of natural languages , particularly with regard to quantification . Such work has also been extended to pragmatics , that is to the study of the manner in which languageis used to accomplish certain human ends ; for example , the work of the Israeli philosopher Asa Kasher . As these few brief references indicate , this work is being done on an internationalscale and is not just Anglo-American . I should also mention work on history and philosophy of science , which has begun to furnish a richer and more exact understanding of the manner in which ideas develop and take root in the natural sciences . This work ? for example , that of Thomas Kuhn or Imre Lakatos ? has gone well beyond the often artificial models of verification and falsification , which were prevalent for a long time and which exercised a dubious influence on the " soft sciences , " as the latter did not rest on the foundations of a healthy intellectual tradition that could guide their development . It is useful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become familiar with ways in which the natural sciences have been able to progress ; in particular , to recognize how , at critical moments of their development , they have been guided by radical idealization , a concern for depth of insight and explanatory power rather than by a concern to accommodate " all the facts " ? a notion that approaches meaninglessness ? evenat times disregarding apparent counterexamplesin the hope ( which at times has proven justified only after many years or even centuries ) that subsequent insights would explain them . These are useful lessons that have been obscured in much of the discussion about epistemology and the philosophy of science . M.R. : What do you think of European philosophers , of the French in particular ? N.C. : Outside of Anglo-American philosophy , I do not know enough about contemporary philosophers to discuss them at all seriously . P74M.R. : Have you ever met any French Marxist philoso-phers ? N.C. : Rarely . Here some distinctions are necessary . ContemporaryMarxist philosophy has been linked in large part to Leninist doctrine , at least until recently . European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my opinion : the tendencies associated with Bolshevism , which has always seemed to me an authoritarian and reactionary current . The latter became dominant within the European Marxist traditionafter the Russian Revolution . But much more to my taste , at least , are quite different tendencies , for example , that range of opinion that extends roughly from Rosa Luxemburg and the Dutch Marxist Anton Pannekoek and Paul Mattick to the anarcho-syndicalist Rudolf Rocker and others . These thinkers have not contributed to philosophy in the sense of our discussion ; but they have much to say about society , about social change , and the fundamental problems of human life I hough not about problems of the sort that we have been discussing , for example . Marxism itself has become too often a sort of church , a theologyOf course , I 'm generalizing far too much . Work of value has been done by t hose who consider themselves Marxists . But up to a certain point this criticism is justified , I 'm afraid . In any case , I do not believe that Marxist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribution to the kind of questions we have been discussing . For the rest , what I know has not impressed me greatly and has not encouraged me to seek to know more . M K Nut you met Michel Foucault , I believe , during a television broadcast in Amsterdam ? N.C : Ye. , and we had some very good discussions before and during the broadcast . On Dutch television , we spoke for several hours , he in french and I in English ; I do n't know what the Dutch television viewers made of all that . We found ourselvesin at least partial agreement , it seemed to me , on theP75question of " human nature , " and perhaps not as much on politics ( the two basic points about which Fons Elders interviewedus ) . As far as the concept of human nature and its relation to scientific progress was concerned , it seemed that we were " climbing the same mountain , starting from opposite directions , " to repeat a simile which Elders suggested . In my view , scientific creativity depends on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrinsic property of mind , and on the other , on a combination of social and intellectual conditions . There is no question of choosing between these . In order to understand a scientific discovery , it is necessary to understand the interaction between these factors . But personally I am more interested in the first , while Foucault stresses the second . Foucault considers the scientific knowledge of a given epoch to be like a grid of social and intellectual conditions , like a system the rules of which permit the creation of new knowledge . In his view , if I understand him correctly , human knowledge is transformed due to social conditions and social struggles , with one grid replacing the other , thus bringing new possibilities to science . He is , I believe , skeptical about the possibility or the legitimacy of an attempt to place important sources of human knowledge within the human mind , conceived in an ahistorical manner . His position also involves a different usage of the term creativity . When I speak of creativity in this context , I am not making a value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily use of language and of human action in general . However , when Foucault speaks of creativity he is thinking more of the achievements of a Newton , for example ? although he stresses the common social and intellectual base for the creations of scientific imagination , rather than the achievementsof an individual genius ? that is to say , he is thinking of the conditions for radical innovation . His use of the term is a more normal one than mine . But even if contemporary science may find some solution to problems relating to ordinary , nor ? P76mal creativity ? and I am rather skeptical even about this ? still it can not hope , certainly , to be able to come to grips with true creativity in the more usual sense of the word , or , say , to foresee the achievements of great artists or the future discoveries of science . That seems a hopeless quest . In my opinion , the sense in which I am speaking of " normal creativity " is not unlike what Descartes had in mind when he made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the historical perspectiveof Foucault , one no longer seeks to identify the innovators and their specific achievement or the obstacles which stand in the way of the emergence of truth , but to determine how knowledge , as a system independent of individuals , modifies its own rules of formation . M.R. : In defining the knowledge of an epoch as a grid or system , does n't Foucault draw near to structuralist thought , which also conceives of language as a system ? N.C ' . : To reply properly it would be necessary to study this matter in depth . In any case , while I have been speaking of the limitations imposed on a class of accessible theories ? linked to the limitations of the human mind that permit the construction of rich theories in the first place ? he is more interested in the proliferation of theoretical possibilities resulting from the diversityof social conditions within which human intelligence can flourish . M.K. : In the same way , structuralist linguistics stresses the differences bet wren languages . N.C. : I have to be cautious in response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great variety of positions . It is certainly true that American " neo-Bloomfieldian " linguists , who sometimes call themselves " structuralists , " have been impressed above all by the diversity of languages , and that some of them , like Martin Joos , have gone so far as to declare , as a general proposition of linguistic science , that languages can differ from one another in an arbitrary manner . When they speak of " universals , " this involves a characterization of a very limited nature , perhaps some statistical observations . On theP77other hand , such a characterization would be very wide of its mark in the case of other schools of structural linguistics ; for example , the work of Roman Jakobson , who has always been concerned with linguistic universals which narrowly constrain the class of possible languages , especially in phonology . As far as Foucault is concerned , as I 've said , he seems skepticalabout the possibility of developing a concept of " human nature " that is independent of social and historical conditions , as a well-defined biological concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own approach as " structuralist . " I do n't share his skepticism . I would be in agreement with him in saying that human nature is not as yet within the range of science . Up to the present , it has escaped the reach of scientific inquiry ; but I believe that in specific domains such as the study of language , we can begin to formulate a significant concept of " human nature , " in its intellectual and cognitive aspects . In any case , I would not hesitate to consider the faculty of language as part of human nature . M.R. : Did you and Foucault speak of the Port-Royal Grammaire Generale ? N.C. : More precisely , about my relationship to the work on the history of ideas . There are a number of misunderstandings on this subject . These questions can be approached in various ways . My approach to the early modern rationalist tradition , for example , is not that of a historian of science or of philosophy . I have not attempted to reconstruct in an exhaustive manner what people thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain importantinsights of the period that have been neglected , and often seriously distorted , in later scholarship , and to show how at that time certain persons had already discerned important things , perhaps without being fully aware of it . These specific intentions are spelled out quite explicitly in my book Cartesian Linguistics , for example . I was interested in earlier stages of thought and speculation relating to questions of contemporary significance . And I triedP78to show in what ways and to what extent similar ideas were formulated , anticipations of later developments , perhaps from rather different perspectives . I think that we can often see , from our current vantage point in the progress of understanding , how a thinker of the past was groping toward certain extremely significant ideas , frequently in a very constructive and remarkablemanner , and perhaps with only a partial awareness of the nature of his quest . Let me offer an analogy . I am not proceeding in the manner of an art historian so much as that of an art lover , a person who looks for what has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that value deriving in large measure from the contemporaryperspective with which he approaches these objects . Both types of approach are legitimate . I think it is possible to turn toward earlier stages of scientific knowledge , and by virtue of ' what we know today , to shed light on the significant contributions of the period in a way in which the most creative geniuses could not , because of the limitations of their time . This was the nature of my interest in Descartes , for example , and in the philosophical tradition that he influenced , and also Humboldt , who would not have considered himself a Cartesian : I was inlet ( - sled in his effort to make sense of the concept of free errata it based on a system of internalized rules , an idea that has certain roots in Cartesian thought , I believe . ' I he kind of ' approach I was taking has been criticized , but not on anti rational grounds , so far as I can see . Perhaps I should have discussed the nature and legitimacy of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me ( and still swans to me ) obvious . What I have been saying is quite familiar in the history of ' science . For example , Dijksterhuis , in his major work on the origins of classical mechanics , points out , with reference to Newton , that " Properly speaking , the whole system can only be understood in the light of the subsequent development of the science . " ' Suppose that the insights of classicalmechanics had been lost , and there had been a reversion to something more akin to " natural history " ? the accumula/tion and organization of large amounts of data and phenomenal observations , perhaps a kind of Babylonian astronomy ( though even this reference is probably unfair ) . Then suppose that in some new phase of science , questions similar to those of the period of classical mechanics had reemerged . It would then have been entirely appropriate , quite important in fact , to try to discover significant insights of an earlier period and to determinein what ways they were anticipations of current work , perhaps to be understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to me is more or less what happened in the study of language and mind , and I think it is quite interesting to recover insights that have long been neglected , approaching earlier work ( which has often been grossly misrepresented , as I showed ) from the standpoint of current interests and trying to see how questions discussed in an earlier period can be understood , and sometimes reinterpreted , in the light of more recent understanding , knowledge , and technique . This is a legitimate approach , not to be confused with efforts ( like those of Dijksterhuis in physics ) to reconstruct exactly how the issues appeared and how ideas were constructed at an earlier time . Of course , one must be careful not to falsify earlier discussion , but I am aware of no critical analysis of my work that shows this to be the case . There has , I am sorry to say , been a good deal of outright misrepresentation of what I wrote , in what is called " the scholarly literature , " and I have been surprised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I did not discuss at all . I have commented occasionally on some of these falsifications , as have others , but by no means exhaustively , and I wo n't pursue it here . Any person engaged in intellectual work can do the same thing with himself : you can try to reconsider what you understoodtwenty years ago , and thus see in what direction , in a confused manner , you were striving to go , toward what goal that perhaps became clear and intelligible only much later .. . M.R. : What were the political disagreements between you and Foucault ?  |p80N.C.  : For my part , I would distinguish two intellectual tasks . One is to imagine a future society that conforms to the exigencies of human nature , as best we understand them ; the other , to analyze the nature of power and oppression in our present societies . For him , if I understand him rightly , what we can imagine now is nothing but a product of the bourgeois society of the modern period : the notions of justice or of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our civilization and result from our class system . The concept of justice is thus reduced to a pretext advanced by a class that has or wants to have access to power . The task of a reformer or revolutionary is to gain power , not to bring about a more just society . Questions of abstract justice are not posed , and perhaps can not even be posed intelligibly . Foucault says , again if I understand him correctly , that one engages in the class struggle to win , not because that will lead to a more just society . In this respect I have a very different opinion . A social struggle , in my view , can only be justified if it is supported by an argument ? even if it is an indirect argument based on questions of fact and value that are not well understood ? which purports to show that the consequences of this struggle will be beneficial for human beings and will bring about a more decent society . Let us take the case of violence . I am not a committed pacifist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use violence in all circumstances , say in self defense . But any recourse to violence must be justified , perhaps by an argument that it is necessary to remedy injustice . If a revolutionary victory of the proletariat were to lead to putting the rest of the world into crematoria , then the class struggle is not justified . It can only be justified by an argument that it will bring an end to class oppression , and do so in a way that accords with fundamental human rights . Complicated questions arise here , no doubt , but they should be faced . We were in apparent disagreement , because where I was speaking of justice , he was speaking of power . At least , that is how the difference between our points of view appeared to me . P81M.R. : On many occasions you have criticized philosophicand scientific empiricism . Can you state your objections more precisely ? N.C. : In a sense , empiricism has developed a kind of mindbodydualism , of a quite unacceptable type , just at the time when , from another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an empiricist framework , one approaches the study of the body as a topic in the natural sciences , concluding that the body is constructed of varied and specialized organs which are extremely complex and genetically determined in their basic character , and that these organs interact in a manner which is also determined by human biology . On the other hand , empiricisminsists that the brain is a tabula rasa , empty , unstructured , uniform at least as far as cognitive structure is concerned . I do n't see see any reason to believe that ; I do n't see any reason to believe that the little finger is a more complex organ than those parts of the human brain involved in the higher mental faculties ; on the contrary , it is not unlikely that these are among the most complex structures in the universe . There is no reason to believe that the higher mental faculties are in some manner dissociated from this complexity of organization . P82One can say that the dualism introduced by empiricist dogma is methodological rather than substantive . That is to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be studied by the ordinary methods of science , but in the case of the mind certain preconceptionshave been imposed which have virtually removed this study from the domain of scientific inquiry . In fact , this dogmatismseems to be even more striking in the most recent period . Hume , for example , really did his best to show that his elementaryprinciples concerning the acquisition of human knowledge were sufficient to cover an interesting class of cases and challengedhis opponents to produce a legitimate " idea " that could not be derived from sense impression by his principles . There is a certain kind of ambiguity in his procedure here , since in part he seems to he engaged in a kind of scientific inquiry , trying to show that certain principles he proposed were in fact adequate to cover the crucial cases , while at other times he relies on these principles to demonstrate that some notion is " illegitimate , " since It can not be derived by them ? an argument that rests on our accepting his not very plausible principles concerning the nature of the mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of " animal instinct , " which would appear to be an empirical assumption . In modern versions , his assumption%have often been converted into dogma presupposed withoutserious effort to show them to be valid , or to reply to classical criticisms that were raised against these principles . I here no reason to believe today that Hume 's principles or anything resembling them are adequate to account for our " idea . " or our knowledge and beliefs , nor to think that they have an pinticular significance . There is no place for any a priori doctrine one toned r hung the complexity of the brain or its uniformity as far as the higher mental functions are concerned . We must proceed to the investigation of the diverse cognitive structure% developed normally by human beings in the course of their maturation and their relation to the physical and social environment , seeking to determine , as best we can , the principleswhich govern these cognitive structures . Once a certainP83understanding of the nature of these systems has been obtained , then we can reasonably study the basis on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little that we know about these questions suggests that the mind , like the body , is in effect a system of organs ? we could call them " mental organs " by analogy ? that is to say , highly specific systems organized according to a genetic program that determines their function , their structure , the process of their development , in quite a detailed manner ; the particular realization of these fundamentalprinciples naturally depends on their interaction with the environment , as in the case of the visual system which we mentioned previously . If that is correct , the mind is a complex system of interacting faculties , which do not develop by means of uniform principles of " general intelligence " ; it is constituted of " mental organs " just as specialized and differentiated as those of the body . M.R. : It is for that reason , doubtless , that you insist on the autonomy of grammar , on the fact that grammatical structures do not depend on other cognitive systems . Does it seem impossible to you to think of language and the structure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have nothing against comparisons , but I wonder whether we are likely to learn very much by proceeding in this direction . Note that one never tends toward that kind of proposalin physiology ; no one suggests that we study the structure of the eye and the heart , and then search for analogies between them . One does not expect to find meaningful analogies . If the mind consists of a system of " mental organs , " in interaction , certainly , but fundamentally different in their structure , we need not expect to find fruitful analogies among them . To make myself clear , I am not about to propose all this as a new dogma , to replace empiricist doctrine . On the contrary , just as in studying the body , we must simply retain an open mind on this subject . We know a little about a number of cognitive systems , language being the most interesting case at the moment . That small degree of insight seems to me to sug-P84gest the preceding conclusions . The important thing , of course , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various cognitive systems , their modes of interaction , and the general conditions which each system satisfies . If one finds that these systems are acquired in a uniform manner with very little specific structure , very well . But for the present at least it seems to me that quite different conclusions are indicated . That is what I mean when I say that one need not expect to find analogies . M.R. : Nor phenomena of interdependence . However , certainpsychologists assert that perception exerts an influence on the potential structure of sentences . An essential aspect of your critique of empiricism is the rationalist hypothesis : the structureof the brain is determined a priori by the genetic code , the brain is programmed to analyze experience and to construct knowledge out of that experience . That may seem shocking .. . N.C. : I do n't see anything shocking in that proposition . In physiology no one has ever accepted anything analogous to empiricist dogma with regard to the mind . No one finds it outlandish to ask the question : What genetic information accountsfor the growth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to raise similar questions with regard to the brain and mental faculties ? We are back to the methodological dualismof the empiricists . M.R. : That position does not suit contemporary " human sciences . " N.C. : Especially not behaviorist psychology , or perhaps even Piaget , though his position seems to me obscure in crucial respects . Piaget considers himself to he an anti-empiricist ; but some of his writings suggest to me that he is mistaken in this conclusion . Piaget develops a certain " constructive interactionism " : new knowledge is constructed through interaction with the environment . But the fundamental question is evaded : how is this knowledge constructed , and why just this kind of knowledge and not some other ? Piaget does not give any intelligibleanswer , as far as I can make out . The only answer thatEmpiricism and Rationalism 85P85I can imagine is to suppose an innate genetic structure which determines the process of maturation . Insofar as he considers it wrong to give such an answer , he falls back into something like the empiricism that he wants to reject . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me , to account for the specific course of cognitive development . That is not to deny the very great importance of the research that has been conducted by Piaget and his group at Geneva ; it has opened up entirely new perspectives in the study of human knowledge . It is primarily the interpretation of their results which seems extremely doubtful to me , in particular their attitude toward what Piaget calls " inneisme , " which seems to me altogether wrong . In philosophy , the same problems appear in some of the work of Quine , for example . ' At times he asserts that theories are developed by induction , which he identifies with conditioning . At other times he says the opposite : theories are not determined solely by conditioning or induction , but involve abstract hypothesesultimately originating from some innate capacity . In recent years he has oscillated between these two positions . ' FunctionalismM.R. : The tendency of thought which has fought hardest against the independence of grammar as a " mental organ " is without doubt functionalism . It tends to explain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function . This function is presumed to be communication : everything in languagemust contribute to communication , to a better communication , and inversely , nothing is linguistic which does not contribute to communication . Is n't that a fairly accurate por-trait ? N.C. : Functionalism holds that the use of language influencesits form . This might be understood as a variant of empiricistdoctrine about language learning , one that makes very little sense , as far as I can see . But we might understand the funda-P86mental ideas quite differently . For example , George Miller and I suggested about fifteen years ago that there may be a " functionalexplanation " for the organization of language with **26;947;TOOLONG , which would be a well-designed system corresponding to a certain organization of short- and long-term memory , for example . If one could demonstrate that , it would be interesting . But what does that mean basically ? What would the analogous observation mean for some physical organ , say the heart ? To be sure , the heart has a function : to pump blood . One may sensibly say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function . But suppose we ask the ontogenetic question : How does our heart become what it is ' ? How does it grow in the individual from the embryo to its final form in the mature organism ? The answer is not functional : the heart does not develop in the individual because it would be useful to carry out a certain function , but rather because the genetic program determines that it will develop as it does . Every organ has certain functions , but these functions do not determine the ontogenetic development of the organism . Nobodywould suggest that a group of cells decides that perhaps it would be a good idea to become a heart because such an organ is necessary to pump blood . If this group of cells becomes a heart , it is due to the information present in the genetic code , which determines the structure of the organism . There is a place for functional explanation , but it is on the level of evolution . It is possible that a heart develops in the course of evolution in order to satisfy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormously . But this is a point that is useful to keep in mind : functional explanation does not relate to the way organs develop in the individual . Let 's go back to linguistics : here comparable remarks can be made . To my knowledge , no functional principle with very great plausibility has yet been proposed . But suppose that someoneproposes a principle which says : The form of language is such-and-such because having that form permits a function toP87be fulfilled ? a proposal of this sort would be appropriate at the level of evolution ( of the species , or of language ) , not at the level of acquisition of language by an individual , one would suppose . M.R. : As a consequence , insofar as your linguistics is a theory of language and of the acquisition of language by an individual , functionalism can not be retained as a fundamental principle . Inversely , one might note that the legitimacy of the dependency relation between function and structure is not even a problem for functionalist linguists , because their aim is not to explain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.C. : I doubt that functionalist linguists would accept that characterization . If they mean that ontogenetic development is directed by functional considerations , that seems just as plausibleto me as suggesting that the development of the heart in the individual is guided by the utility of having an organ that pumps blood , and about as well supported by the factual evidence . Or , they might say that questions touching on the basis of language acquisition do not concern them . The crucial point , however , seems to me to be ' that there is no real debate about the validity of functionalism at the generally vague level on which we discuss the hypothetical evolution of the species , or in the study of language change ; and there is no sensible way to invoke functional notions as explanatory concepts at the synchronic or ontogenetic level , so far as I can see . It also seems to me important to avoid a certain vulgarization with respect to the use of language . There is no reason to believe ? to repeat myself once again ? that language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " essential purpose " of language is " communication , " as is often said , at least if we mean by " communication " something like transmitting informationor inducing belief . Someone who claims that this is the essential purpose of language must explain just what he means by it , and why he believes this function , and no other , to be so uniquely significant . P88Language is used in many different ways . Language can be used to transmit information , but it also serves many other purposes : to establish relations among people , to express or clarify thought , for play , for creative mental activity , to gain understanding , and so on . In my opinion , there is no reason to accord privileged status to one or the other of these modes . Forced to choose , I would have to say something quite classical and rather empty : language serves essentially for the expression of thought . I know of no reason to suppose that instrumental ends , or transmission of information about one 's beliefs , or other actions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , the term is used quite vacuously ) , have some unique significance compared with other characteristic uses of language . In fact , what is meant by the assertion that such-andsuchis the goal of language , or its essential purpose , is far from char . Once again , this plurality of modes is characteristic of the most banal and normal use of language . It is hard to know just what people mean when they say that language is " essentially " an instrument of communication . If you press them a hit and ask them to be more precise , you will often had , tot example , that under " communication " they includecommunication with oneself . Once you admit that , the notion of communication loses all content ; the expression of thought becomes a kind of communication . These proposals seem to be either fate , or quite empty , depending on the interpretationthat is given , even with the best of will . It is all so vague that discussion remains mystifying . I have no idea why such proposals ate so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on earth they arc supposed to signify . The real question is How dos this organism function , and what is its mental and physical structure ? M K Empiricism ( and , in particular , functionalism ) has enjoyed an enormous success . In spite of all the demonstrations that have been made of its errors , today it still remains theP89dominant philosophy . To what do you attribute that success , that power to survive ? To a conjunction of ideology and poli-tics ? N.C. : On that point we must be careful , because here we enter into speculation . When certain ideas are dominant , it is very reasonable to ask why . The reason could be that they are plausibly regarded as true , they have been verified , etc . But in the case where they are without empirical foundations , and have little initial plausibility , the question arises more sharply : the answer may actually lie in the domain of ideology . Of course the argument here must be indirect , because we do n't have any direct means of determining the ideological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instrumentalist conception of language is related to the general belief that human action and its creations , along with the intellectual structure of human beings , are designed for the satisfaction of certain physical needs ( food , well-being , security , etc . ) . Why try to reduce intellectual and artistic achievementto elementary needs ? Is the attraction of the several variants of empiricist doctrine based on experimental verification ? Hardly . There is no such verification . Does it derive from their explanatory power ? No , because they can explain very little . Is it due to some analogy to other systems about which we know more ? No . Again , the systems known to biology are totally different . Animal intelligenceseems to be quite different . So too the physical structures of the human organism . The rational hypotheses which we can propose to explain the dominance of empiricist doctrines do not apply . It should be noted that empiricist doctrine has not merely been " accepted " for a long period , it was hardly even questioned , but rather simply assumed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must proceed . Perhaps , then , some sociological factor might explain in a natural way why this point of view has been so widely adopted . We can ask ourselves , who accepts and disseminates these doe/trines ? Essentially , the intelligentsia , including scientists and non-scientists . What is the social role of the intelligentsia ? As I have said , it has been quite characteristically manipulation and social control in all its varied forms . For example , in those systems called " socialist , " the technical intelligentsia belong to the elite that designs and propagates the ideological system and organizes and controls the society , a fact that has long been noted by the non-Bolshevik left . Walter Kendall , for example , has pointed out that Lenin , in such pamphlets as What Is To Be Done ? , conceived of the proletariat as a tabula rasa upon which the " radical " intelligentsia must imprint a socialist consciousness . The metaphor is a good one . For the Bolsheviks , the radical intelligentsia must bring a socialist consciousness to the masses from the outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control society in order to bring " socialist structures " into existence . This set of beliefs corresponds very well to the demands of the technocratic intelligentsia : it offers them a very important social role And in order to justify such practices , it is very useful to believe that human beings are empty organisms , malleable , controllable , easy to govern , and so on , with no essential need to struggle to find their own way and to determine their own fate for that empiricism is quite suitable . So from this point of view , it is perhaps no surprise that denial of any " essentialhuman mature " has been so prominent in much of left-wing doctrine . Analogously , the modern intelligentsia in the capitalist societies ? thatof the United States , for example ? have a certain access to prestige and power by serving the state . So , much the same is true for the liberal intelligentsia in the West . Service to the state includes social manipulation , preservation of capitalist ideology and capitalist institutions , within the framework of state capitalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an empty organism is useful . It is plausible that statist ideologues and administrators are attracted by this doctrine because it is so convenient for them , in eliminating any moral barrier to manipulationand control . P91These remarks apply only for the last century , more or less . Before that the situation is rather different . Without doubt , at an earlier period empiricism was associated with progressive social doctrine , in particular , with classical liberalism ; although , as we were discussing , that was not always the case . One may recall the ideas of the young Marx , who was far from empiricist doctrine in spirit . Why this link between progressive social thought and empiricist doctrine ? Perhaps because empiricismseemed to have ? and in a certain way did have ? progressive social implications in contrast to reactionary and determinist doctrines , according to which the existing social structures , slavery , autocracy , the feudal hierarchy , the role of women , were founded on unchanging human nature . Against that doctrine , the idea that human nature is a historical product had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argue , throughout the early period of capitalist industrialization . The determinist doctrines in question maintained that certain people were born to be slaves , by their very nature . Or consider the oppression of woman , which was also founded on such concepts . Or wage labor : willingness to rent oneself through the market is considered one of the fundamental and immutable human properties , in a version of the " human essence " characteristicof the era of capitalism . In the face of such doctrines as these , it is natural for advocatesof social change to adopt the extreme position that " humannature " is a myth , nothing but a product of history . But that position is incorrect . Human nature exists , immutable except for biological changes in the species . M.R. : But that is not the same definition of human nature , it is no longer a matter of defining a psychology of individual character . N.C. : Certainly , we can distinguish between theories that assign a determinate social status to particular individuals or groups by virtue of their alleged intrinsic nature ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and theories that hold that there are certain biological constants characteristic of the species , which may , ul ' course , assume very different forms as the social and materialP92environment varies . There is much to be said about all of these matters . It seems to me that one might suggest , in a very speculativemanner , that such factors as the ones I have mentioned entered into the success of empiricism among the intelligentsia . I have discussed this question a bit in Reflections on Language , stressing the crucial and sometimes overlooked point that speculationabout these matters of ideology is quite independent of the validity of the specific doctrines in question ; it is when doctrines of little merit gain wide and unquestioned credence that such speculations as these become particularly appropriate . In Reflections . I also mentioned that even at the earliest stages it is not so obvious that empiricism was simply a " progressive " doctrine in terms of its social impact , as is very widely assumed . ' here has been some interesting work in the past few years , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tarry Bracken , which suggests a much more complexhistory It seems that racist doctrine developed in part as a concomitant of the colonial system , for fairly obvious reasons . And It is it fact that some leading empiricist philosophers ( Locke , for example ) were connected to the colonial system in their professional lives , and that racist attitudes were commonlyadvanced during this period by major philosophers , among otherss I t is perhaps not unreasonable to speculate that the success of empiricist beliefs , in some circles at least , might be associated with the fact that they offer a certain possibility for formulating racist doctrine in a way that is difficult to reconcile with traditional dualist concepts concerning " the humanessence . " Bracken has suggested , plausibly it seems to me , that racist doctrine raises conceptual difficulties within the framework of dualist beliefs , that is , if they are taken seriously . Cartesian dualism raises what he has culled " a modest conceptual barrier " to racist doctrine . The reason for that is simple . Cartesian doctrine characterizes humans as thinking beings : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance ( res.cogitans ) which is unitary and invariant ? it does not have color , for example . There are no " black minds " or " white minds . " You 're either a machine , or else you 're a human being , just like any other human being in essential constitution . The differences are superficial , insignificant : they have no effect on the invariant human essence . I think it is not an exaggeration to see in Cartesian doctrine a conceptual barrier ? a modest one , as Bracken carefully explains ? againstracism . On the other hand , the empiricist framework does not offer an analogous characterization of the human essence . A person is a collection of accidental properties , and color is one of them . It is thus somewhat easier to formulate racist beliefs in this framework , although it is not inevitable . I do n't want to exaggerate the importance of these speculations . But it is worth investigating the question whether colonialideology did in fact exploit the possibilities made available by empiricist doctrine to formulate more easily the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and oppression . It is unfortunate that the carefully qualified speculations that have been proposed for investigation have evoked a rather hysterical response , and some outright falsification , on the part of a number of philosophers ? who are , as Bracken has observed , quite willing to consider , and even advance , very explicitproposals concerning a possible relation between rationalism and various oppressive doctrines , racism among them , thus indicating that it is not the nature of the inquiry but rather its object that they consider intolerable . I must emphasize again that these speculations , or any others concerning the ideological or social factors that contribute to the success of any doctrine , must be recognized for what they are : speculations which are at best suggestive . Again , questions of this kind arise especially when a doctrine enjoys a great deal of attraction and success among the intelligentsia in spite of little factual support or explanatory value . This is the case with empiricism , in my opinion . P94M.R. : Empiricism thus finds support both from the right and the left . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the progressive . intelligentsia , precisely because of your reference to the hypothesis of " innate ideas , " as it is called , that is , the genetic limitations imposed on language . This hypothesis is accused of idealism . N.C. : That is true , as you say . But the characterization is quite irrational . A consistent materialist would consider it as self-evident that the mind has very important innate structures , physically realized in some manner . Why should it be otherwise ? As I have already mentioned , if we assume that human beings belong to the biological world , then we must expect them to resemble the rest of the biological world . Their physical constitution , their organs , and the principles of maturation are genetically determined . There is no reason for supposing the mental world to be an exception . The hypothesis which naturallycomes to mind is that these mental systems , unusual in the biological world because of their extraordinary complexity , exhibitthe general characteristics of known biological systems . I would emphasize once again that even qualitative considerationsof the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sec any other explanation for the fact that extremely complicated and intricate structures are acquired , in a like manner among all individuals , on the basis of very limited and often imperfect data . M.R. : Certain psychologists still are trying to make apes talk ; as a result , they deny the qualitative difference between human beings and animals , a difference which you have adopted from Cartesianisnr and restated in the light of modern biology . Do those who are opposed to " inneism " take the same position as these psychologists ? N.C. : I do n't want to speak for others . Let 's consider this question of human uniqueness . Imagine a Martian scientist who studies human beings from the outside , without any prejudice . Suppose that he has a great deal of time at his disposal , say , thousands of years . He notices immediately that there exists onP95earth a unique organism , whose conditions of life change considerablywithout corresponding changes in his constitution ; that is , modern man . Apes and monkeys live as they lived millions of years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is extremely varied , yet there is no correspondingdiversity within the human species . Take a child from a Stone Age culture and raise him in New York : he will become a New Yorker . Raise an American baby in New Guinea , and he will become a Papuan " native . " The genetic differences one finds are superficial and trivial , but human beings have the extraordinary characteristic of being able to live in very different ways . Human beings have history , cultural evolution , and cultural differentiation . Any objective scientist must be struck by the qualitative differences between human beings and other organisms , as much as by the difference between insects and vertebrates . If not , he is simply irrational . Take an even more elementary criterion : proliferation . In that regard human beings are a species with remarkable biologicalsuccess . Perhaps not if you compare them to insects ? or chickens ( but here the proliferation in fact results from human intervention ) ? but compared to higher organisms , monkeys or chimpanzees , for example , they are much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human beings are quite different . No scientist could fail to see that . Even the most superficial observation suffices to show that there are qualitative differences between humans and other complex organisms which must be explained . If our hypotheticalMartian observer searches a bit further , he will find that human beings are unique in many respects , one of these being their ability to acquire a rich and varied linguistic system , which can be used freely and in the most subtle and complicated ways , merely by immersion in a linguistic community in which the system is used . It seems to me that a rational observer would conclude that specific qualities of " intelligence , " proper to this species , must be assumed . If he is of an inquiring mind and enterprising , he will seek to determine the genetically fixedP96mental structures which underlie the unique achievements of this species . M.R. : I believe the rejection of " innate ideas " also springs from their association with the Cartesian notion of soul ( Ame ) .. . N.C. : That may well be true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its historical context . For Descartes , for example , the existence of the soul is assumed in quite a rational way as a scientific principle . In some respects his argument for the existence of the soul is not very different from Newton 's argument for gravity , as a force of nature . Descarteswas wrong , no doubt , but his procedure in itself was not at all unreasonable . To see this , it is sufficient to pursue the analogy to Newton , though I do n't want to exaggerate its importance . Newton showed that Cartesian mechanics could not account for the movement of heavenly bodies . To explain this movement he postulated a new force : gravity , attraction at a distance ; that is , a force which by the criteria of his time was considered to be occult , mystical , because action at a distance violated basic assumptions of mechanics . Newton showed that in this way one could account for the facts , though he too was quite uncomfortable with the " occult force " he was postulating . This postulate became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An inconceivable idea for pre-Newtonian physics subsequently became part of science because of its remarkableexplanatory power . For his part , Descartes believed ? wrongly ? that " pushpull " mechanics could explain all phenomena of the natural world , except such things as consciousness and human creativity . Thus to explain what was beyond the scope of his mechanics , he postulated another substance ; little else was open to him , given the metaphysics of substance and accident to which he was committed . One can now imagine all sorts of other things , which are not part of his mechanics . But let usP97suppose that Descartes or the Cartesians could have gone furtherand invented a mathematics of the mind , a successful explanatory theory . Then their belief would have become part of the science of subsequent generations , like the physics of Newton . To repeat , the existence of the soul , Descartes 's second substance , is a scientific proposition : it is false , but it is not irrational . Had he elaborated his theory of the soul to an explanatorytheory , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physiology . He was completely right to propose new principles and to seek out their consequences . One might say that Descartes 's belief that the soul is a simple substance which can not be analyzed created an obstacle to the development of an explanatory theory of the mind , a theory which in principle might be assimilated to a suitably extended physics ? but that is an altogether different question . A convincing rejection of his dualism requires a demonstrationthat his postulate is useless , or unnecessary because we can explain the properties of the human mind in other ways . Let us then look for such an explanation . . . It might turn out that we are led to new principles when we inquire into the nature of the mind . It is conceivable , though not demonstrated , that principlesentirely different from those of contemporary physics enter into the explanation of mental phenomena . In all these matters one must guard against dogmatism . M.R. : To make precise what you are opposing to empiricism , I think it is important to remember that for you the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to the language . The structuralists think that one memorizesextended sentences , that is to say , the language ( de Saussure'slangue ) , and that this represents the grammar . But for you , what is constructed in memory as grammar is quite anotherthing . It is necessary to insist on this difference because so often the set of rules which makes the sentences of a language possible is confused with the language as a set of memorized sequences . P98For de Saussure , on the contrary , it was the languagelangue ? whichwas deposited in memory . He could not distinguishthe memory which we can have of this or that extended sentence from the " memory " ? of the grammatical form . The situation is quite different here . The two kinds of memory are different . The construction of the grammar is due to the languagefaculty . But do n't you think that another confusion can arise because of the ambiguity of the English word language ( both langue and langage ) ? Therefore , one could understand that it is the language as langue which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absurd , of course ; if French were innate , I would speak it .. . It is the mechanism of language acquisition that is innate . In a given linguistic community , children with very different experiencearrive at comparable grammars , indeed almost identical ones , so far as we know . That is what requires explanation . Even within a very narrow community ? take the elite in Paris ? the experiences are varied . Each child has a different experience , each child is confronted by different data ? but in the end the system is essentially the same . As a consequence we have to suppose that all children share the same internal constraints which characterize narrowly the grammar they are going to construct . M.R. : This hypothesis also explains why , when the moment of maturation is passed ? adolescence ? it is no longer possible to learn a language ; the wolf-children never learn to speak , and we speak a foreign language which we have learned late in life with an accent . Without these biological constraints , foreign accent would he inexplicable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age for learning a language , as is true quite generally for the development of the human body . Patterns of growt h are determined genetically , for example , sexual maturation , to take a case that occurs long after birth . It would evidently be absurd to maintain that only what one sees at birth is determined genetically . Even death , to a certain degree , is genetically determined . ToP99say that the genetically determined properties of an organism can not manifest themselves before the appropriate conditions exist , and that in general the genetic program is spelled out in a way that is partly predetermined and partly influenced by environmental factors , is a virtual truism . In the study of physicaldevelopment it is a commonplace , and once again , if the methodological dualism of empiricist dogma is abandoned , there is no reason to be surprised by the discovery of similar phenomena in the study of higher mental functions . The Birth ofGenerative GrammarP103The subject of this chapter is what distinguishes Chomskyv approachfundamentally from structuralism . Let us just briefly recall ? in greatly simplified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grammar , he says , must render explicit the implicit knowledge of the speaker , or the " intelligence " of the reader ( the term intelligence receives a special definition here ) . Even the most complete traditional grammars " forget " to mention the simplest characterizations . For example , with their instructionsas the sole indication , one would have been unable to generate any of the above sentences . In French , nothing would prevent a priori the production of the sequence , La grammaire est tres generative ( The grammar is very generative ) on the model of La grammaire est tres interessante ( The grammar is very interesting ) , if we start with the definitions that the traditionalFrench grammar of say , Grevisse gives of the adjective . Grevisse did not specify this because the speaker of French " knows " intuitively that one does not say this . On the other hand , the French speaker must learn by heart the formation of the plural that distinguishes loyal/loyaux from naval/navals ; those are irregularities .. . Furthermore , Chomsky proposes the construction of a formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-defined rules , P104the desired sequences are generated " mechanically . " What was termed the base component of the grammar was conceived in the beginning as a finite set of rewriting rules , that is , rules having the form yo - *O which can be translated as follows : Each time you encounter the element , which is to the left of the arrow , you can replace it by 0 , which is to the right of the arrow . I will not go into further detail here , but see Adrian Akmajian and Frank Heny 's Introduction to the Principles of TransformationalSyntax , or C. L. Baker 's Introduction to Generative Transformational Syntax . ' I will , however , give an idea of what the base component of a grammar is with a very simple example . Imagine a language that has only three words : Jules , Chloe , and loves . The speakers of this language know " spontaneously " that certain combinations ( without repetition ) of these three words belong to the language , while others do not ; for exampleTableThe problem is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propose the following grammar .. P105Following these " deductions " mechanically ( if S , then N + VP , etc. ) , one will arrive at the desired sequences : furthermore , one can never deduce undesirable sequences . Let us construct a derivation : FigureWe can equally well represent the derivation by a tree or phrase marker . This tree describes the structure of the terminal elements of the sentence . Thus , we see that the relation of Jules and of Chloe with respect to the verb is not symmetrical : FigureOne can hardly doubt that the grammar of a natural language is incomparably more complicated . Chomsky has shown that rewriting rules , no matter how complex they may be , are not sufficient for describing the natural languages . The grammar of a language is thus a model that must include several other components in addition to the rewriting rules of the base component . In his earliest writings , Chomsky showed that it is necessary to incorporate in the grammar at least two other levels . The rewriting rules give the structure of the sequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ component and a transformational component . The transformational rules are rules of a different type , which transform the syntactic strue-P106tures generated by the rewriting rules into other structures , according to precise principles . The relation between the active and the passive has usually been cited as an example involving transformation. *The evolution of this theory has led to the complication of the model at certain points and to its simplification at others . Later , I will indicate the points at which the model has evolved . The history of generative grammar seems to fall into three main periods , which successively have placed in the foreground one of the essential aspects of the new theory . The first , which lasted from the beginning of the 1950s to the middle of the 1960s , sought to make linguistics a science : physics seemed to be the model of reference . This is the period of The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory ( or LSLT , as it will be cited ) . After that , from 1965 to 1970 , the question of semantics became more central : must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grammar , and if so , in what fashion ? Very lively controversy accompanied the different answers given . Finally , after 1970 , research became oriented more toward the problems posed by universal grammar . To comply with the formalexigencies of these discussions , I have asked Noam Chomsky to follow this thematic chronology . M.R.The History of Generative Grammar : Opposition to StructuralismM.R. : Generative grammar is born of ' the break with and in opposition to structuralism . The latter , in general , conceived of linguistics as a classificatory activity . You have given the discipline a logical structure , u scientific structure .. . N.C. The term wiener is perhaps honorific . My own inclinationis to attach less Importance to the precise description of some domain of linguistic data than to the explanatory power and depth of underlying principles . P107I take for granted that in something as complex as the actual utilization of language and the judgments about language , many systems enter into interaction . No matter how careful our observations , how objective our methods , and how replicable our " experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of little interest in themselves . What is of interest is their bearing on explanatory theories that seek to formulate the fundamental principles of the language faculty . Speaking just for myself , organizing the " facts of language " does not interest me very much . The notion " facts of language " has little sense outside of at least an implicit theory of language . One can perfectly well have different interests ; I am simply trying to make clear what interests me . Frankly , I do not believe that seeking to account for " all the facts " constitutes a reasonable goal . In contrast , what seems important to me is the discovery of facts that are crucial for determining underlying structure and abstract hiddenprinciples . If such principles do not exist , the enterprise is not worth undertaking . If they do exist , then facts are interesting ( to me , at least ) insofar as they bear on the truth of these principles . The discovery of such facts is often a creative achievement in itself , and very much " theory-related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of that notion , are not simply presented to us , nor is it of great interest , in my opinion , to present " the facts " in an exact manner , although of course the pertinent facts ( again a notion that is linked to theory ) must be presented in as precise a manner as possible .. . M.R. : ... as in physics . N.C. : . . . If you like . That is how it seems to me . At each stage in the development of physics there have been innumerableunexplained " facts , " or facts that seemed totally incompatiblewith the theories being actively pursued . To take a classic example , consider the " facts " of sorcery or of astrology , which seemed very well established by the standards of empirical research in the period when classical Galilean physics became established scientific doctrine . Or to take a less exotic example , consider the problems encountered by seventeenth-century physics in dealing with observations by telescope , many of which were not understood until quite recently . Or simply the problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not vary as predicted by Copernican theory , as the distance between the planets changes . Or consider Galileo 's inability to explain why objects do n't fly off the earth , if it is indeed revolving on its axis ? the explanation only came later . Without going into a detailed discussion , it is certainly true that throughout the history of the serious sciences many problems in explaining facts were put aside , in the hope that they would be explained some day . To account for " all the facts " in the physical world has never been the goal of physics in the modern period , in the sense that some linguists think that a grammar must account for " all the facts " of language and the utilization of language . The great success of physics is due in part to the willingness to restrict attention to the facts that seem crucial at a particular level of understanding , and perhaps to look for quite exotic facts that will be crucial for the theory , without taking into account even evident facts when these do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite honest , sometimes even when they appear inconsistent with it ) . As for those varieties of " structuralism " or of " descriptive linguistics " that are interested primarily in the arrangement of " farts , " one can doubtless say that my own goals are not necessarilyIncompatible with theirs , but that we are dealing with different intellectual enterprises . In my Logical Structure of Linguistic theory , which contains my doctoral thesis , I tried to discuss these questions . I suggested there that for the purposes of linguistic theory , we should be concerned with certain phenomena that were pretty much excluded from the descriptive linguistics of that period those facts relating to what has sometimes been called the " creative " use of language , conceived as normal usage of language These facts have not been treated systematically by traditional grammar or by structural linguistics although , as IP109have frequently pointed out , they were a classical concern , for example , in work by Humboldt , Paul , Jespersen , and others . The traditional grammars , even those of great scope like Jespersen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not give explicit principles for determining that these structures ? and others which somehow " resemble " them ? belong to the language , while other imaginable structures do not , In fact , this question was not really raised . Jespersen , I suppose , did not have the impression that there was something fundamental missing in his presentation , despite his recognition of the importance of what he called " free expressions . " In presenting his innumerable examples he thought that he had given an account of the language , so it appears . In reality his commentaries were not sufficient , because they appealed implicitlyto the " intelligence " of the reader ? to understand them and to use these examples and his often insightful commentary in the creation and comprehension of new forms , the reader had to add his own intuitive knowledge of language . Structural grammars did not undertake the task of studying a range of highly complex syntactic structures , as the traditionalgrammars did . This contribution of the intelligent reader , presupposed by previous grammars , must be made explicit if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the first goal of generative grammar . In psychological terms : What is the nature of the intuitive , unconscious knowledge , which ( in particular ) permits the speaker to use his language ? At the time that question had not been squarely faced , though it had occasionally been put forth , and it remains a serious question today , in many crucial respects an unanswered one . The second goal is to construct an explanatory theory . We have an at least potential explanation when we can deduce certain phenomena from general principles , that is , when weP110can provide a deductive chain of reasoning departing from these principles , given certain particular facts considered as " boundaryconditions . " To be more concrete , let us take a well-known example , the behavior of the English auxiliary system. * One can , I think , explain some aspects of this system on the basis of a certain theory of transformational grammar and certain given facts : among them , the elementary examples of the auxiliary system in simple declarative sentences . Starting from these principles and empirical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the behavior of the auxiliary in a variety of constructions ? interrogative , negative , and so on. //P111A third goal appeared clearly only later , at the end of the fifties ( before that it was implicit ) . It had to do with considering the general principles of language as the properties of a biologicallygiven system that underlies the acquisition of language . From this point of view , one might think of the " boundary conditions " as the facts encountered by someone who learns a language ; what one tries to explain , then , is essentially the knowledge of the language attained by the speaker presented with such facts . To go back to the preceding example , if we assume that the speaker possesses as part of his biological makeupthe general principles of transformational grammar , and is presented with some subset of the forms of the English auxiliary , then he would know , because he could deduce it , the behavior of these elements in other cases , that is , the other cases would follow from the simplest permissible rule compatible with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general pattern of a possible explanation . Thus my work sought to answer two questions : first , what is the system of linguistic knowledge that has been attained , and is internally represented , by a person who knows some language ? And second , how can we account for the growth and attainment of such knowledge ? The second question can be thought of in psychological terms ? how can knowledge be acquired ? ? oralternatively as the question of how we explain the phenomena of language . M.R. : When did you think for the first time of proposing an explanatory theory in linguistics ? N.C. : That was what interested me about linguistics in the first place . As an undergraduate at the University of Pennsylvaniain the late 1940s I did an undergraduate thesis called " Morphophonemicsof Modern Hebrew , " later expanded to a master 's thesis with the same title in 1951 . That work , which has not been published , was a " generative grammar " in the contemporary sense ; its primary focus was what is now called " generative phonology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I suppose one might say that it was the first " generative grammar " in the contemporary sense of the term . Of course there were classical precedents : Panini 's grammar of Sanskrit is the most famous and important case , and at the level of morphology and phonology , there is Bloomfield 's Menomini Morphophonemics , published only a few years earlier , though I did not know about it at the time . Anyway , the central part of this project was an attempt to demonstrate in painstaking detail that the generative grammar I presented was the " simplestpossible " grammar in a well-defined technical sense : namely , given a certain framework for the formulation of rules and a precise definition of " simplicity , " the grammar was " locallyoptimal " in the sense that any interchange of order of rules in a tightly ordered system of many rules would lead to a less simple grammar . Reading back into this work the explicit concerns of a later period , one might say , then , that the goal was to show exactly how this grammar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the framework for rules and the definition of simplicity ( the evaluation measure ) , and given a sufficient sample of the data . Actually , this was done in far greater detail and scale than anything I 've attempted since , and was far too ambitious , I supposeThat grammar did , as I said , contain a rudimentary generativesyntax the grammar associated phonetic representation with what we would now call " base-generated " syntactic structure . Parenthetically , this was a pre-transformational grammar . Harris 's early work on transformations was then under way and as a student of his I was familiar with it , but I did not see then how this work could he recast within the framework of generativegrammar that I was trying to work out . In place of transformations , the grammar had a complex system of indices assigned to syntactic categories , which indicated syntactic relations inexpressiblewithin the framework of segmentation and classificationthat was later constructed , in somewhat different terms , as the theory of phrase structure grammar . P113since that time my major interest has been to make precise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has been attained by the speaker-hearer ; and beyond that , to try to discover the general theoretical principles which account for the fact that this system of knowledge , rather than something else , develops in the mind when a person is placed in a certain linguistic environment . In a general way , I might say that I am still working very much within the framework of that early unpublished work . That is , I think the right approach to the fundamental theoretical issues is the one attempted there : to make precise a certain format and schematism for grammars , and to provide an evaluation procedure ( or simplicity measure ) that leads to the choice of a particular system , a particular grammar that is of the required form , namely , the optimal , host highly valued system of the required form that is compatiblewith the presented data . Then what the " language learner " comes to know is that most highly valued system ; it is that system that underlies the actual use of language by the person oo has gained this knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued this early work in The Logical Structure of LanguageTheory ( LSLT ) ? which was published in part only in 1975 , twenty years after it was essentially completed . The psychologicalpoint of view did not begin to appear until the end of the fifties , especially with a very important review article by gees written for Language . * This was a review of Syntactic structures , which appeared in 1957 , almost the same time as the book . In it Lees brought up the issue of language learn-ingI wrote on similar questions in the years that followed , but we had been thinking about these issues for some time ? Morris Halle and Eric Lenneberg , ' among others . One of the things that most interested us was the critique of the behavioral sciences . We were trying to work out a ratherP114different approach to cognitive psychology . Little of this appears in LSLT because it seemed to me too audacious and premature . There is a more detailed discussion in the introductionto the 1975 edition of LSLT . M.R. : Your theoretical positions were accorded a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reading review articles on the first colloquia in which you participated , the Texas Conference . The discussion was an epic confrontation . You opposed evaluation procedures ( mechanisms that would tell which of two grammars , proposed to account for the facts , is the better one ) to the discovery procedures of the structuralists , which were designed to construct the grammar directly from the faets . N.C. : On this point one must distinguish carefully among the several tendencies that have been called " structuralist . " Americandescriptive linguistics is one of these . Its chief contribution , in my opinion , was to raise for the first time a problem that one could readily interpret as that of explanation , or of the acquisitionof language . What I mean is that the development of " discovery procedures " could have been understood as an approach to a theory of language acquisition , and also as an explanatory theory , considered from the dual perspective of psychology and epistemology . It is interesting to see that that was not the case ; the linguists who were developing discovery procedures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the empirical conditions imposed by the data . Our discovery procedures constitutethe theory which , applied to the corpus , produces the grammar . That grammar represents linguistic knowledge . In presenting this theory we have given an explanation for the fact that a speaker , having learned a language , knows this and that ; the discovery procedure is part of his genetic equipment , and in applying it to the data of experience , he constructs this grammar , which represents his knowledge of language . " That would have been a reasonable way of interpreting what they were doing . But they did not give such an interpretation , for various reasons . However , that approach , implicit in theirP115work , seems to me the most important contribution of this variety of structuralism . I repeat , this is not their interpretation . But I believe it to be legitimate as a reconstruction , even though it conflicts with what most of the people who did this work actually had in mind , to the best of my knowledge . In work that I was doing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some crucial deficiencies in the discovery procedures that had been developed and to make these proceduresexplicit , while assuming in the back of my mind a position concerning the so-called psychological reality of these proceduresthat was sharply in conflict with prevailing assumptions in the field , as I understood them , assumptions that might be called " fictionalist . " It seems to have been generally assumed that the discovery procedures could be justified only in " pragmatic " terms , as providing an organization of the corpus that would be useful for one or another purpose . There were exceptions , for example , Charles Hockett , who put forth an explicitly " realistic " interpretation of discovery procedures in an impor ' tant brief article in 1948 , in the International Journal ofAmericanLinguistics . I was also taking for granted that the discovery procedures were basically true , in the sense that one might think of them as a representation of the procedures that were actually employed to provide the knowledge we have from the data we are given . For a long time I thought that the discovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that is , that the methods employed by structural linguists like Zellig Harris , ' with whom I was studying , were in principle correct , and that only some refinements were necessary to make them work . I spent quite a lot of time and energy , for about five or six years , I guess , trying to overcome some obvious defects of these procedures so that they would be able to produce a correct grammar with infinite descriptive scope from a finite corpus of the language ; that , evidently , is the proper formulation of the task , if we think of these procedures as in effect a " learning theory " for human language . There were thus two interrelated questions :   ? Is it correct to give a psychological interpretation to these methods ? ? Are these discovery procedures the ones which express correctly the biological given that makes the acquisition of language possible ? Note that we can not properly pose the second question unlesswe accept a positive reply to the first . We can not inquire into the " correctness " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precisely , an intended expression ? of some psychological reality . It is only under this " realist " interpretationthat the question of correctness or truth arises . But again , this realist interpretation was not that of Harris and most others who had worked out the more elaborate procedures of analysis . More and more I began to realize that the answer to the second question was negative . These procedures had insurmountabledefects ; they were wrong , in principle . The right approach seemed to involve principles that were more abstract , Huge indirect . I slowly came to believe that it was necessary to assume general principles , a general abstract schematism , which , when confronted with the given data , would yield a grammar representing linguistic knowledge , along the lines I mentioned earlier . On the psychological level , structuralist discovery procedurescorrespond essentially to the empiricist view , according to which the acquisition of knowledge requires operations of classification and Induction .. M R It is in that sense that structural linguistics is linked to empiricismN C In riffle : the European version ( with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the American version , the procedures are essentially taxonomic , based on techniques of segmentation and classification that proceed gradually toward ever larger linguistic units . The principles must be totally different ? today I am convinced of that . One must begin by characterizing potential sys/tems of knowledge with the help of principles which express the biological given . These principles determine the type of grammarsthat are available in principles . They are associated with an evaluation procedure which , given possible grammars , selectsthe best one . The evaluation procedure is also part of the biological given . The acquisition of language thus is a process of selection of the best grammar compatible with the available data . If the principles can be made sufficiently restrictive , there will also be a kind of " discovery procedure " ? in some sense there must be such a " procedure , " since knowledge is attained ? but of a very different sort from what was contemplated in structuralist theory . This conception of the nature of human knowledge , and particularly of language , is very different from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resultingsystem of knowledge to be given in advance . The system is not constructed gradually , step by step , by induction , segmentationand classification , generalization and abstraction , and so on . Consequently , I think we might identify three fundamental issues that arise in comparing structuralist linguistics to generativegrammar . First , with regard to the goal of explicit characterizationof the attained linguistic knowledge . Second , the interpretation of the procedures : are the analytic procedures of B. Bloch , ' of Harris , of Troubetskoy , simply ways of organizinga corpus ? Or do they constitute empirical hypotheses that are strong and interesting , with respect to psychological reality , and specifically to biologically given innate structure ? On this point work in generative grammar has characteristicallytaken a very explicit position . Yes , we propose such empiricalhypotheses . Consequently , we consider pertinent all data that have any bearing on the validity of these hypotheses . At least in my opinion , it has always seemed evident that only the " realist " interpretation of linguistic theory , whether procedural or not , provides the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pursuing . P118Trends in structuralist linguistics have varied on this question , and there are also some problems of interpretation . I believe that Jakobson and Troubetskoy did take a position close to that later adopted within generative grammar . They speak of psychological reality , it seems to me , as did Edward Sapir , for example , quite explicitly . Furthermore , at least in phonology , they postulated universal structural principles and even , in a sense , evaluation procedures in the form of considerationsof symmetry , minimizing redundancy , and so on . Harris , on the contrary , rejected the realist psychological interpretation quite explicitly , at least in his early work ? I am not sure that this is also true of his more recent work since the late sixties . In his Methods and other works up to the early sixties , he presented his theory as providing various alternatives for organizingdata . The same is true of Bloch and others , though not of Hockett . Finally , the third question deals with the nature of correct procedure . Is this a discovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach of something like the rationalisttype , that is , a characterization of the general form of knowledge ( knowledge of language , in this case ) , with methods for choosing among alternative realizations of this general systemunder the empirical conditions given by experience ? I think it is proper to conceive of the theory of distinctive features in phonology and the various proposals concerning relative preference ( " markedness " ) as a schema for a system of knowledge ? if not an acquisition model . Though it is worth noting that Trouhetskoy , in his phonological work , sought to furnish taxonomic procedures . M.R. : In relation to the second point , I 've noted that there are many divergences over the definition given to the activity of linguists . The analyses , the theories they present , are these simply intellectual games or do they seek to establish the truth ( even partially ) of an objective law imposed upon something real ? N.C. : The question is , how does one interpret a discoveryp119procedure ? Is it solely a matter of organizing linguistic data , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is interesting to look more closely at the practice of the linguists , who argued explicitly that they were simply providing techniques for compact organization of data . That practice rests upon a tacit belief to the contrary , and this holds throughout the entire development of structural linguistics . Constantly , whenever someone proposed a method or procedure , someone else would point out that this procedure leads to " undesirable results . " Then certain corrections and improvements were proposed . In this way procedures were constantly refined . But what meaning can we give to the notion " undesirable result " ? There is no such notion , at least in any interesting sense , if all that is at stake is a way of organizing data ; then there can only be results that are neither good nor bad , apart from minimal considerations of redundancy or consistency . One can not be right or wrong in classifying data in a theoretical vacuum . Consequently , to the degree that one recognizes tacitly the existence of such notions as " good results " versus " unwantedresults , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of psychological reality , that is , of truth , no matter how much the commitment is denied . However , the explicit rejection of such a commitment makes it very difficult to arrive at such an interpretation of much of this work ? which might find its rationale in this interpretation . Two Definitions of TransformationM.R. : The concept of " transformation " is a fundamental one in y our theory . It is also one of its principal innovations . In your model , the transformational component operates on the " output " of the base component ( the rewriting rules ) : it takes phrase structures ( trees ) and transforms them into other phrase structures ( trees ) . P120But the linguist Zellig Harris had already used the term transformation . The distinction between the two uses of the + , term has often been poorly understood . Could you state it precisely ? N.C. : Harris 's concept of " transformation " was not strictly speaking " linguistic " in its origin ? or , more precisely , not a concept that belongs to the theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept as part of his study of discourse in the late 1940s . The linguistic theory he had presented in his Methods offered only tools for describing units that do not exceed the length of a single sentence . When he attempted to extend these methods to the structureof discourse , he observed at once that the methods of segmentation and classification devised for the grammar of sentencesdid not lead to any useful result . He therefore sought a way to reduce the set of complex sentences of discourse to aform in which they would be susceptible to analysis by the ai methods devised for sentences and their parts . He proposed the use of certain " transformations " to " normalize " the discourse , to transform complex sentences into uniform simple structuresto which the methods of structural linguistics might apply : segmentation of sequences , substitution of elements , classification , and so on for Harris , transformations were systematic relations between sentences , between " surface structures . " Technically , it transformation in this sense is an unordered pairof linguistic structures , taken to be structurally equivalent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , think of two linguisticstructures , each on one side of a double arrow , each structuredescribed by a succession of grammatical categories of which it is composed I lere is how one formulates the activepassiverelation within this framework : which as read as : Noun X + Verb + Noun Y is equivalent toNoun Y + is + Verb in past participle + by + Noun XP121The two structures on either side of the arrow in such formulasare held to be equivalent in the following sense : If we choose a particular noun ( say John ) for Nx and a particular noun ( say Mary ) for Ny and a particular verb ( say see ) for V. then the two substitution instances ? that is , John sees Mary on the left and Mary is seen by John on the right ? have the same degree of acceptability as sentences . Such " equivalences " can be used to normalize a discourse in the following manner : If we are given a sentence in a discourse in one of the two forms , then we can replace it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuing to apply these equivalence transformations to a discourse , we can reduce the sentences to similar forms , to which the substitution procedures developed for the grammar of sentences can be applied , and we can construct substitution classes of words that play more or less the same role in discourse ; these discourse categories must not be confused with the lexical or phrase categories of the language . This is the basic idea of " discourse analysis , " as Harris has developed it in variouspublications since about 1950 . What is relevant in this context is that transformational relations in Harris 's sense were developed in the course of an attempt to extend structural methods to the analysis of discourse . On the theoretical level , one essential characteristic of Harris'stransformations is that each is established independently of other aspects of grammar , as Harris has emphasized . Each transformation is established once and for all from observation and evidence , on the basis of the distributional conditions I have just described ; each transformational relation exists independentlyof what is true or false for the rest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the acceptabilityof instances of two sentence forms , and that factual generalization is true or false quite apart from anything we mayP122subsequently discover about the language in question or the theory of language , or from any other source ? say psychologicalexperiment . This account is a natural one within the general approach of Harris 's Methods ? a nonpsychological conception of linguistics . Harris rejects the idea that the language of a particular personor community can be regarded as a well-defined set of sentences with structures characterized by grammatical principlesthat are true or false . At least in the framework of his Methods , which provided the background for the development of the notion " transformation , " a grammatical description is , as he put it , a compact account of a collection of data , and thus can be incorrect only through inadvertence ? for example , if it states that some element in the data set has an observable property that it does not have . Transformational analysis , in his sense , is simply another way of describing the given collection of observations , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generalization stating that the data exhibit some property , in this case the property of equal acceptability under systematic substitution , as described a moment ago . A grammatical description in this sense is quite different from a ( partial ) theory in some natural science , for example . In the natural sciences , two theories may be in conflict even if they agree on available data , and the scientist will then search for new data to choose between them , proceeding on the " realist " assumption that what the theories allege about the entities postulatedin them is true or false , and therefore susceptible to further test . But ! lams , at least through the early sixties , took the position that alternative linguistic descriptions can not be in conflict in this sense . At least , that is what I take him to be maintaining in work up to the time of his paper on transformationalanalysis in Language . " In LSLT and subsequent work in generative grammar , transformationsare defined in a very different manner . Perhaps I should have used a different term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of generative grammar . In LSLT , P123for example , a transformation is not a relation between two sets of sentences or between two surface structures ; * it is a rule within a system of rules that assigns structural descriptions to an infinite class of sentences . In the derivation of a particular sentence , a transformational rule applies to an abstract representation of this sentence and transforms it into another abstractrepresentation . The initial representation is the so-called deep structure , which is transformed step by step into terminal ( or surface ) structure . In the framework of generative grammar , equivalence relationsof the kind that Harris uses to establish a transformation can only suggest the existence of a transformation , but not establish it . For example , in English it is true that the appropriatesubstitution relations between the active and the passive hold by and large : Sincerity frightens Paul is just as good a sentence as Paul is frightened by sincerity , while Paul frightens sincerity is just as bizarre as Sincerity is frightened by Paul . But no matter how precisely such substitution relations hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a transformation relating active and passive forms . Rather , empirical arguments are needed to show that within the schematism of permissible rule systems , the optimal grammar includes such a transformation . Furthermore , even if such a transformation is postulated on the basis of some empirical argument , it would not relate Sincerity frightens Paul and Paul is frightened by sincerity . Rather , the postulated passive transformation would figure in the derivation of Paul is frightened by sincerity from its abstract deep structure , but not in the derivation of Sincerity frightens Paul from its abstract deep structure ; the two deep structures might be similar or even identical and the derivations identical apart from this transformation , but that is the only sense in which one might say that the two sentences are " related " by this transformation . Thus the notion " transformation " is quite different from the one that Harris developed . Furthermore , within the theoretical framework of generative grammar a transformation is never " incorrigible " in Harris 's sense . No matter how powerful the empirical evidence in favor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grammar is wrong and some other grammar permitted by the same general theory is right , or that the general theory is wrong and some different set of principles with a different schematism for grammar is right . Nor is it possible to determine , a priori , what kinds of evidence will prove relevant to such conclusions . A grammar is essentiallylike a hypothesis in the natural sciences concerning some subject matter - never finally established , no matter how strong the empirical evidence ? and the same is true of a particular subhypothesis of the grammar to the effect that it contains a certain transformational rule . I hope this helps to clarify the difference between the two conceptions . Mathematics and LinguisticsM.R. : Generative grammars were born of a meeting betweenmathematics and linguistics . Can you give more precise information about this birth ? N.C. : I should distinguish between two questions . The first relates to a problem that has already been raised : How can linguistic knowledge he explicitly characterized ? An explicit characterization must ultimately be a formalized theory . This remark may also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the related matter of explanatory theory , in the sense of our earlier discussion . Explanations exist to the degree that the general principles are precise ? in principle , formalized ; starting from such principles , one can construct a deductive P125Thus a certain quasi-mathematical mode of expression is presupposed in the overall program , but one that is quite unsophisticated . We want to formulate precise principles and precise rules within a formalized system . It turns out that the way to " speak precisely " is by formalization , but it would not be correctto consider that as mathematics . For example , some variety of recursive function theory provides the means , in principle , to express linguistic rules . But up to that point , this is formalization , not mathematics . Mathematical linguistics begins when one studies abstract properties of the formalization , abstracting away from particular realizations . The subject exists in a serious sense only insofar as nontrivial theorems can be proven , or at least considered . The viewpoint is very different . M.R. : Certain mathematical theories have seduced many linguists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with **27;975;TOOLONG .. . N.C. : Well , at the end of the forties and the beginning of the fifties , there were important developments in the mathematicaltheory of communication , information theory , and the theoryof automata . Technically , models such as finite state Markov sources were proposed* .. . Very often it was supposed that these models were appropriatefor the description of language . Jakobson referred to this vaguely , but Hockett utilized them quite explicitly . In 1955 he proposed a theory of language structure based on a Markov source model borrowed from the mathematical theory of communication . Similar theories were developed by psychologists , engineers , mathematicians . All these theories left me very skeptical . I became interested in the relevant mathematics at first largely because I wanted toP126prove that these models were not appropriate for the grammar of natural language . M.R. : What was the a priori reason for your skepticism ? An intuition ? N.C. : An intuition again founded on the same anti-empiricism . In my view , a finite state Markov source model might reasonably be considered as characterizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In fact , a mathematicalpsychologist and logician , Patrick Suppes , gave precise expression to this intuition , or one version of it , a few years ago . He proved that a certain very rich version of stimulus-response learning theory must remain within the limits of finite state sources of the kind we have been discussing . He considered this to be a positive result . To me it seemed to be a negative result . The reason is this . As has been known for a long time , even elementary systems of knowledge can not be represented in terms of finite state Markov sources ? for example , our knowledge of English , or even much simpler systems , such as propositional calculus . As a consequence , Suppes'sresult showed that knowledge which we possess can not even he approached at the limit ( a fortiori , not attained ) by the learning theory he was considering . This constituted a final step in a complete refutation of this learning theory , and consequently , less powerful theories . I did not believe in theories of language based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to inherit the defects of empiricist learning theory . However , to know whether they were correct or not , it was necessary to wait until they were presented in a precise manner . Then the essential question could be posed : Do properties of natural languages exist which can not be expressedIn any of these . systems ? And such properties do exist . M.R. : When did you demonstrate that ? N.C. : After LSLT was completed . The first version of this manuscript , completed in 1955 , involved a good deal of formal-P127ization but no mathematics . Shortly after , I moved from the Society of Fellows at Harvard to the Research Laboratory of Electronics at MIT . There , there was a great deal of quite justified interest in the mathematical theory of communication , and also a great deal of ? less justified ? faith in the potential for the study of language offered by Markov source models and the like , which had aroused considerable enthusiasm among engineers , mathematical psychologists , and some linguists . As soon as the question was clearly formulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate for the representation of language . This observation was published in Syntactic Structures , and along with some other material , in a more technical article in 1956 . After that a certain branch of mathematical linguistics developed , which occupied itself primarily with the formal propertiesof systems that were considerably richer , called " phrase structure grammars . " The most interesting class of these systemsturned out to be what are called technically " context-free phrase structure grammars . " Since the end of the fifties there has been quite a lot of work on the formal properties of various types of grammars , on their generative power , their properties and relations , and so on , and today this study constitutes a small branch of mathematics . The French mathematician M. P. Schutzenberger made quite interesting contributions to this field .. . M.R. : Which developed independently of linguistics .. . N.C. : Yes , and I hope that these studies will continue to be pursued , as well as the mathematical investigation of transformationalgrammars . There has been some interesting recentwork by Stanley Peters and Robert Ritchie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems clear that empiricist learning theories are much too limited to be adequate ; and it is even possible to demonstrate this if we accept the assumption that finite state Markov sources are the richest systems that can be attained by such theories , at the limit . This conclusion doesP128not seem to be unreasonable to me , although naturally it is not a precise conclusion because the notion " empiricist theory " is not well defined . M.R. : Did you link your critique of these theories right away to the critique of structural linguistics ? N.C. : Well , indirectly . These theories were then very much in fashion , and they even aroused a certain degree of euphoria , I think it is fair to say . In the intellectual milieu of Cambridge there was a great impact of the remarkable technological developmentsassociated with World War II . Computers , electronics , acoustics , mathematical theory of communication , cybernetics , all the technological approaches to human behavior enjoyed an extraordinary vogue . The human sciences were beingreconstructed on the basis of these concepts . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early 1950s all of this had a great effect on me . Some people , myself included , were rather concerned about these developments , in part for political reasons , at least as far as my personal motivations were con-cernedM R For political reasons ? N.C.Yes , because this whole complex of ideas seemed linked to potentially quite dangerous political currents : manipulative , and connected with behaviorist concepts of human nature . MR Thus your skepticism had political causes ... N.C Yes , in part . But of course these motivations were irrelevant to showing that all this was wrong , as I thought it was . I believed that these theories could not really offer what they promised As 110011 as they were analyzed carefully , they unraveled , though not without leaving substantive and importantcontributions . M R .. We have seen vast programs of research on artificial intelligence develop , based on the apparently infinite capacities of computers .. . N.C. Artificial intelligence came a little later as an outgrowthof what was then called cybernetics .. . P129M.R. : The situation in this respect is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth of human capacitiesand performance , sometimes with the aid of quite simple instruments . With artificial intelligence , the most advancedtechnology is developed to obtain the most limited results , well below the capacity of the most stupid creature .. . N.C. : I 'm afraid that much of the work in this field relies on ideas that are too elementary and superficial to shed light on the question of human intelligence . This need not be the case , and perhaps some day will not be the case . But it has been true so far , by and large , and the field has also suffered from quite irresponsible claims . The same is true in the behavioral sciences , for example , Skinner 's work on verbal behavior . That work , published in 1957 , was presented ten years earlier as the William James Lectures . It immediately gained great influence . W. V. Quine , George Miller , and many others wrote and talked about it with considerable enthusiasm . It was quite the rage at about the time that I came to Cambridge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? in fact , some people did think ? that computers were going to permit the automation of discoveryprocedures in linguistics . The idea would be to present a corpus of material to the computer so that it would work out the grammar of this text , on the assumption that the taxonomic procedures of analysis that had been developed were in essence sufficient and adequate to determine grammatical structure . It was quite generally supposed , at least in the intellectual environmenthere in Cambridge , that the Skinnerian theory of behaviorapproached adequacy , and that the notions developed within the theory of communication , in particular the Markov source model , furnished a general framework for the study of language . But when I began to study these topics , I was quickly convinced that the prevailing assumptions were false and the popular models inadequate , for reasons which were not independentbut had significant links , as I 've already said , with empiricist dogma . P130M.R. : What were your first contacts with the linguistic community ? Hostile ? Full of conflict ? N.C. : Not exactly . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost no one paid any attention to that first work I mentioned to you , on the generative grammar of Modern Hebrew . But that was the work of a student , and I did not expect that anyone would pay attention to it . As far as I know , only two linguists showed any interest in it : Henry Hoenigswald , an Indo-Europeanist with whom I studied at the Universityof Pennsylvania , and Bernard Bloch , the well-known Yale phonologist . However , outside the field of linguistics proper the work attracted the attention of Yehoshua Bar-Hillel , who was then here in Cambridge ? we became very close friends . He made some excellent suggestions . For example , he suggested very persuasively that I should be much more radical and should post ulate much more abstract underlying representations , similarto these pustulated for earlier stages of the language , to explain contemporary forms . That turned out to be a very good idea . I he significance of his suggestion became apparent much later in generative phonology . I recast the Hebrew grammar completely , following this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought . Quine expressed some interest in the methodological aspect , particularly the problem of constructing a simplicity measurefor linguistic theory , and encouraged me to work further onthat , as did Nelson Goodman . But that was about all . Amongthe linguists no one showed any interest in that type of work. was n't particularly disturbed or surprised : I did not thinkmyself that I was doing linguistics . In a sense I was completelyschizophrenic at that time . I still thought that the approach ofAmerican structural linguistics was essentially right . As I toldyou , I spend a great deal of time trying to improve and toformalize discovery procedures , in order to overcome their obviousdefects . But once they were made precise , they led manifestlyto the wrong results . Still , for quite a long time I thoughtp131that the mistake was mine , due to wrong formulations . In 1953 I published an article in the Journal of Symbolic Logic in which I tried to develop a discovery procedure that I hoped might be the basis for something that would really work . That , for me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? attempting to construct an explanatory theory of generative grammar ? seemedto me a different kind of work , on the side , so to speak . Among my contemporaries there were a few who found that work interesting . The only one who had always thought I should pursue this work and drop the whole discovery procedure business was Morris Halle . He was then a graduate student at Harvard , as I was too , and was also teaching at the same time at MIT . We met in 1951 , became close friends , and had endless discussions . He thought that these discovery procedures did not make any sense . I do n't remember his arguments , but I do remember disagreeing with him at that time . By 1953 , I came to the same conclusion : if the discovery procedures did not work , it was not because I had failed to formulate them correctly but because the entire approach was wrong . In retrospect I can not understand why it took me so long to reach this conclusion ? I remember exactly the moment when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , aided by a bout of seasickness , on a rickety tub that was listing noticeably ? it had been sunk by the Germans and now was making its first voyage after having been salvaged . It suddenly seemed that there was a good reason ? the obvious reason ? why several years of intense effort devoted to improving discoveryprocedures had come to naught , while the work I had been doing during the same period on generative grammars and explanatory theory , in almost complete isolation , seemed to be consistently yielding interesting results . Once I had recognized that , progress was very rapid . In the next year and a half I wrote LSLT which was about 1,000 typed pages , and almost all of what was contained in Syntactic Structures and the 1958 Texas Conference paper , and so onP132As for the reception accorded to LSLT , there is little to say . I 've already told you that I did not have the impression the reaction on the part of linguists was surprising . I offered LSLT to the MIT Press ? who refused it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation was very unfavorable for a general book on that subject , especially one by an unknown author . I also submitted a technical article on simplicity and explanation to the journal Word , at the suggestion of Roman Jakobson , but it was rejected virtually by return mail . So I had little hope of seeing any of this work published , at least in a linguistic journal . But frankly , that did not trouble me greatly . I had a research position at the Research Laboratory of Electronicsat MIT , which I obtained thanks to Morris Halle and Roman Jakobson , and I taught Scientific French and Scientific German though I was barely competent ? and also some undergraduatelinguistics , philosophy , and logic . I did not have any problem making a living , and was free to do the work that interested me . I should emphasize that although there was very little interestin the work I was doing , at least among linguists , I had absolutely no cause for complaint as far as working conditions were concerned . On the contrary , I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harris and Nelson Goodman was a highly stimulating experience , and I was very fortunate to hr able to continue discussing the work I was doing with Harris , particularly while I was at Harvard from 1951 to 1955 at the Society of ' Fellows , where I had no responsibilities and was lice to do as I wished with all the facilities of Harvard available , a remarkable opportunity . I spent a good deal of time in courses , seminars , discussions , primarily with philosophers at I lam vard Goner , Austin ( who visited Harvard then ) , White , and others It was a very lively and stimulating period in the Cambridge area for a student with my particular interests . The research climate at MIT was close to ideal . I could not possibly have obtained a position in linguistics anywhere ? I really was not professionally qualified by the standards of thep133field . At MIT there were no entrenched academic strongholds in the areas that interested me . Morris Halle and I and a few others were free to pursue our research , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This absence of established structure , along with a general spirit of encouragement for innovationthat seemed promising , made it possible for linguistics to flourish at MIT in way that for us at least would have been virtually out of the question elsewhere . George Miller , who was then in the Harvard Psychology Department , also became interested , and we did some . work together in the mid-fifties . He went on to develop an entirely new domain of psycholinguistics . With his help I was able to spend a rewarding year at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton in 1958-9 . I should also mention my close friend Eric Lenneberg , who at that time was beginning his extremely interestingstudies in the biology of language , working along rather similar lines . Later on these topics began to gain some attention among linguists , at first at the Texas Conferences in 1958 and 1959 , organized by Archibald Hill , to which I was invited . The discussionswere animated and sharp , as you pointed out before . Unfortunately , the proceedings of the 1959 conference were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generative phonology of English , in which I approached that subject very much in the manner of my work on Hebrew ten years before , but this time with much more confidence in the approach . In general , I published virtually nothing except in journals that were outside the field of linguistics in those years . Questions of generative grammar attracted the attention of linguists primarily as a result of the publication of a thorough review by Robert Lees of Syntactic Structures in 1957 in Language . The monograph , which appeared in Holland , would not have been known , I imagine , had it not been for that reviewarticle . Discussion moved to a more general forum in 1962 at the International Congress of Linguists , which was held that year at MIT . I gave a talk there which was later published asP134a monograph , in a revised form , Current Issues in Linguistic Theory . In that talk I tried to explain , in a fairly comprehensivemanner , what seemed to me to be the essential differences between generative grammar and structural linguistics . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the situation had improved greatly with the publicationof very important work by Robert Lees , G. H. Matthews , and Edward Klima . M.R. : Did you now begin to teach linguistics ? N.C. : Yes , at the beginning of the sixties we began a programof graduate studies . As I mentioned , we were able to develop our program at MIT because , in a sense , MIT was outside the American university system . There were no large departments of humanities or the related social sciences at MIT . Consequently , we could build up a linguistics department without coming up against problems of rivalry and academic bureaucracy . I Jere we were really part of the Research Laboratoryof Electronics . That permitted us to develop a program very ditkrent from any other and quite independent . About the same time , a graduate program in psychology was established at MIT under Hans-Lukas Teuber 's direction , and a little late ' a graduate program in philosophy was set up . Both developed in a way that was quite congenial to our work , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty , including joint appointments and jointly taught courses I lust continues , and I expect that there will be even closer integration of these fields , along with related areas in engineering and computer science . It seems to me that there is a rat het natural emerging discipline of cognitive psychology in which these various threads come together , and within which linguist's. can find an appropriate place . The First StudentsM.R. : Who were the first students and the first researchers of that new program ? P135N.C. : Morris Halle was already working on a generative phonology of Russian in the 1950s , and we also worked together on the generative phonology of English , at first jointly with Fred Lukoff . Together with Lees , Matthews , Klima , and Lukoff , I was , at least in principle , part of a research project on machine translation in the Research Laboratory of Electronics , headed by Victor Yngve . But the linguists , with the exception perhaps of Matthews , were not much interested in the applied problems of machine translation , as far as I can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who was a specialist in AmericanIndian languages and had a good mathematical . backgroundas well , produced a very important grammar of Hidatsa . In the technical sense of the term , Robert Lees was our first student , though in reality a colleague . He presented his Ph.D . thesis , on English nominalizations , in 1960 . But actually he received an engineering degree . Klima , who worked with us , received his Ph.D . degree at Harvard on historical syntax . He also published a very important and influential article on negation . When the graduate program began , Jerry Fodor and Jerry Katz were here , as was Paul Postal . John Viertel , who was also on the machine translation program , was beginning his work on Humboldt and related topics at that time , and M.-P . Schutzenbergerwas visiting from France . After that , things went very fast ... M.R. : That was the birth of the Standard Theory .. . N.C. : Yes , it was at that period that what was called the Standard Theory was formulated , with major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many students in the new graduateprogram , a large number of whom are now among the most productive scholars in the field , which has really changed quite dramatically since the period we have just been discussing . P136I have said above that Chomsky 's first model ? the model of Syntactic Structures ? contained essentially three components : the rewriting rules . the transformational rules , and the morphophonologicalru/es . In 1965 a significantly different model appeared. /he tradition that begins with Aspects of the Theory of Syntax ( /965 ) presents this model in the following manner . The base component consists of two elements : the rewriting rules which , as before , indicate the structure of sequences of words ; and the le victim w which are assigned all the syntactic , semantic , and phonological properties of the lexical items . The base grammargenerates the initial phrase marker , or the deep structure . The transformational component transforms this initial structure Into other structures , the last of which is termed the surface structure . The base component and the transformational component constitute the generative part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Aspects is the introduction of two interpretive components , the phonological componentand the semantic component . Here the status of the morphophono/ogy has in some way changed . But the semantic component . at least in the form that was integrated into Chomskysmodel at the suggestion of Fodor , Katz , and Postal , was something completely new . Fodor , Katz , and Postal sought to136p137extend the concept of generative grammar to the domain of meaning . Chomsky wanted to make explicit what the speaker knows of syntactic structure . In the same way , they wanted to make explicit what the speaker knows of the " intrinsic " meaning of words and sentences . Toward that end they proposed a model consisting of two parts : in the one part , each word was assigned a description of the following type : X is + or ? animate ; + or ? female ; + or ? solid ; + or ? transparent ; etc. ? this is part of the lexicon . In the other part , rules called " projection rules " comparedthe properties of words to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . The semantic component was to be integrated with the generativegrammar at the level of deep structure : it is this syntactic structure which receives the meaning . The Standard Theory is generally visualized in terms of the following schema : FigureBut this model was soon challenged , in particular , as we shall see , because of the exclusive link it postulated between semantics and deep structure . The Role of . Semantics in GrammarM.R. : With the Standard Theory we enter into the second period in the history of generative grammar , the period in which semantics became the center of discussion . N.C. : Yes , but it should not he forgotten that the theory which preceded this did explicitly presuppose a general semantictheory , based in part on the work of ' Goodman and Quine . BASP138and in part on Wittgenstein and the Oxford school . I 'm speakingnow of LSLT and Syntactic Structures . Contrary to what has been said ? there has been a great deal of misunderstanding on this subject ? this work accorded a central place to semantics . However , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on semantic considerations , which is quite a different matter . Many structural linguists and many philosophers ? Quine , for example ? claimed that grammatical conceptsmust be defined on the basis of semantic notions . For example , that the concept of phoneme must be defined in terms of synonymy .. . M.R. : Which means saying that r and 1 are different phonemesbecause ramp and lamp do n't have the same meaning ... N.C. : Yes , that 's one example . Or they also identified the concept of grammaticality with the notion of meaningfulness . But it seemed to me that a grammatical sentence may not have any literal meaning ... M.R. : I hat was behind the discussion about the sentence which became quite famous , Colorless green ideas sleep furiously . For you , this is grammatical , even if it does not rank highest ui the degree of grammaticalness . Accordingly , you requite that grammatical concepts be defined in terms that are formal and specific , independent of vague semantic notions . N.C Furthermore , I tried to show that every clear formulationof a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semantic terms led to incorrect results . " Thinking about these questions led to what was later termed the hypothesis of autonomy of syntax. 1 he more I think about it , the more it seems to me that this thesis is quite natural ... I also know of no substantive argumentthat it is incorrect . In the context of language acquisition , the hypothesis implies that one learns the meaning of an expressionwith a form established on independent grounds . One can not " pick up " a disembodied meaning that floats about in the air and then construct a form which expresses it . It is n't easyP139to make much sense of any of this . It seems to me that the elements of syntax are not established on a semantic basis , and that the mechanisms of syntax , once they have been constructed , function independently of the other components of the grammar , which are interpretive components . M.R. : This hypothesis also explains why speakers arrive at similar phonological and syntactic systems , while the meaning given to words by their experiences may be very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the thesis of the autonomy of syntax , in the form proposed in the fifties and since then , is probably correct . However , I have always explicitly denied and rejected a totally different position which has often been attributed to me : namely , that the study of meaning and reference and of the use of language should be excluded from the field of linguistics . What I said was exactly the opposite . A large part of Syntactic Structures and LSLT is devoted to the problem of semantic interpretation of formal systems . In fact , these questionswere central in both Syntactic Structures and LSLT . I tried to show that some interesting and moderately subtle aspectsof semantic interpretation of sentences can be explained in part in terms of a theory of linguistic levels , developed within the framework of generative transformational grammar . I also argued explicitly that semantic considerations enter in an essentialmanner into the choice of a correct linguistic theory . Thus the viewpoint of this work was that , given a linguistic theory , the concepts of grammar are constructed ( so it seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semantic ( where the grammar contains the phonology and syntax ) , but that the linguistic theory itself must be chosen so as to provide the best possible explanation of semantic phenomena , as well as others . Apparently many linguists have failed to make this distinction , and have concluded that I intended to exclude consideration of semantics , when the exact opposite is true : I argued explicitly that semantic considerations are essential for linguistic theory , as I have just said , and devoted a large part of these two books to the defense of that position . P140In terms of our preceding discussion , linguistic theory ( or " universal grammar " ) is what we may suppose to be biologicallygiven , a genetically determined property of the species : the child does not learn this theory , but rather applies it in developingknowledge of language . It would be absurd to suppose that this innate linguistic theory , which determines the general form and structure of language , should not be connected in the most intimate manner to the fundamental properties of meaning and language use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever proposed such an absurd idea , though there has been a great deal of confusion about this subject in the literature . M.R. : In my opinion , the misunderstanding derives from the fact that the word semantics embraces a number of different definitions , and that yours does not correspond to theirs . They remain bound to the definition that is inherent in the traditional logic-derived grammars , which make grammatical concepts dependent on semantic notions . Think of their formulas : The subject carries out the action , The object suffers the action , and so on . If you take this semantics away from them , nothing remains . And if , according to them , semantics does not play this primary role , then it does not play any role at all . N C I t seems that two questions are confused : one is the question of the autonomy of syntax ; the other is whether the study of meaning and reference belongs to the study of languageI here is n't really any problem about that . Everyone has always taken for granted that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The " Fodor-Katz " HypothesisM R Very quickly , among those who have accepted the autonomy of syntax , two tendencies can be discerned . Some make the semantic component a representation of the world , while others limit it to very precise and testable problems .. . N.C. : Personally , in my earliest work ( Syntactic Structures and LSLT ) I had in mind a dual theory of meaning , in some sense . On the one hand , I referred to Goodman 's attempt toP141extend the theory of reference to some parts of the theory of meaning , and also to Quine 's influential , and I think rather persuasive , critique of a number of standard approaches to the theory of meaning . On the other hand , I had in mind the Oxford theories of language use . When Fodor and Katz proposed integrating in the Standard Theory rules of semantic interpretation which associated semanticrepresentations with syntactic structures , they had in mind something entirely different from what I had proposed . The Standard Theory incorporated their proposals as an innovation . Their rules had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Structures , where no linguistic level of semanticrepresentation was envisaged . They developed an analogy between phonetics and semantics . Just as the phonetic representationis based on a universal system of phonetic features , so the semantic representation would be based on a universal system of semantic categories , or semantic " distinctive features . " The universal system is supposed to be able to represent all possible conceptual thought . Katz takes the view that a semantic theory in his sense should aim to give a complete characterization of the semantic properties of all utterances of all languages , independentit of all extralinguistic considerations ? an account of whatever can be expressed in any language , whatever can be thought . It is not at all clear that there exists such a universal semantic system . Perhaps there are semantic properties that are general , universal , of the type proposed by Katz and others . It seems reasonable to suppose that at least traditional notions like " agent of action , " " instrument , " " goal , " " source , " and so on , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available for semantic representation , perhaps in the sense in which phonological features are available for phonological representation . Julius Moravcsik has discussed the Aristotelian origins of several of these fundamental notions in some very interesting recent work . Furthermore , there seem to be more specific properties which enter into the analysis of the verbalP142system , for example . To take a case that has been frequently discussed , it seems reasonable to suppose that semantic relationsbetween words like persuade , intend , believe , can be expressedin purely linguistic terms ( namely : If I persuade you to go , then you intend to go ; If I persuade you that today is Tuesday , then you believe that today is Tuesday . These are facts of language and not of the external world ) . Furthermore , it also seems reasonable to suppose that the fundamental properties of quantifiers ( words like all , any , some , etc. ) and anaphora ( the relations between antecedents and pronouns , for example ) can be expressed in part on the level of semantic representation , separate from extralinguistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory of meaning can be taken to fall within the " generative grammar , " understood as the system of rules that specifies our purely linguistic knowledge of the sound and the meaning of ' sentences . I might add that apparently divergent approaches tend to be in fairly close agreement , apart from their terminology , about such conclusions . Why , then , raise a question about the possibility of a universalsemantics , which would provide an exact representation of the full meaning of ' each lexical item , and the meaning of expressionsin which these items appear ? There are , I believe , good reasons for bring skeptical about such a program . It seems that other cognitive systems ? in particular , our system of beliefsconcerning things in the world and their behavior ? play an essential part in our judgments of meaning and reference , in an extremely intricate manner , and it is not at all clear that much will trnuun if we try to separate the purely linguistic components ( ) I ' what in informal usage or even in technical discussion we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that one can separate semantic representation from belief'sand knowledge about the world . To be sure , someone who believes in a level of representation of the type proposed by Katz can reply : " In doing so , I propose a legitimate idealization . I assume , with Frege , that there exist semantic elements common to all languages , independent ofP143everything except language and thought . In rejecting this idealization , you make the same mistake as those who confuse pragmaticswith syntax . " Certainly , this objection has some force . But I doubt that it will wholly withstand further reflection . Whenever concepts are examined with care , it seems that they involve beliefs about the real world . This idea is not new : Wittgenstein and Quine , among others , have emphasized that our use of concepts is set within a system of beliefs about lawful behavior of objects ; similar ideas have been attributed to Leibniz . Thus , when we use the terms chair or table , we rely on beliefs concerning the objects to which we refer . We assume that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are let go , and so on . These assumptions are not part of the meaning of chair , etc. , but if the assumptions fail , we might conclude that we were not referring to a chair , as we had thought . In studying semantics one must keep in mind the role of nonlinguistic systems of belief : we have our expectations about three dimensional space , about texture and sensation , about human behavior , inanimate objects , and so on . There are many mental organs in interaction . To repeat , an observation of Wittgenstein 's , we would not know how to name an object if at one moment it looked like a chair , and a moment later disappeared , that is to say , if it does not obey the laws of nature . The question : " Is that a chair or not ? " would not have an answer according to strictly linguistic criteria . Admittedly it is difficult to establish such conclusions . Too little is understood about cognitive systems and their interaction . Still , this approach seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would he necessary to discover somethingcomparable to a generative grammar in the domain of factual knowledge , which is no small task . My own speculation is that only a bare framework of semantic properties , altogether insufficient for characterizing what is ordinarily called " the meaning of a linguistic expression , " can be associated correctly with the idealization " language . " P144M.R. : In Katz 's semantic component , there is not only the universal semantics , independent of knowledge of the world , but also the projection rules , whose role is to exclude sentences devoid of meaning . This mechanism would exclude Colorless green ideas sleep furiously , because it can not be true that ideas are green , and one can not sleep furiously . . . But does that not mean reintroducing a notion ? the " truth " of propositions ? which has nothing to do with grammar ? N.C. : Everybody believes that truth conditions are somehowrelated to semantic representation . However , the question is far from simple . On this subject , John Austin has given some interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles from Boston . Is it true or false ? If the statement is made in answer to a question that you ask in order to find out how long it will take you to go by car , four hours or four days , it is true . But if you have just 10 gallons of gas , and I know that your car will do 20 miles per gallon , and you want to know whether you can go from Boston to New York without stopping , then the statement is false if the real distance is 210 miles . And so on . Thus all sorts of considerations determine the truth conditionsof a statement , and these go well beyond the scope of grammarSuppose I say : The temperature is falling . Nobody knows exactly what that means without extralinguistic presuppositions . Does it mean that the temperature is lower than it was live minutes ago " Perhaps . But if I say : The temperature is fulling . meaning that we are heading toward an ice age , then my statement may he true even if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is impossible to set truth conditions , outside the context of language use . And we must also distinguish fixed beliefs , temporary beliefs , etc . MR. : Can one summarize what you have said by contrastingtwo conceptions of semantics : the one , " extensional , " presented in Syntactic Structures , treated the relation betweenP145certain elements of language and external objects ( for example , anaphora ) : the other , " intensional , " which claims , as Katz does , to account for all meanings of words and sentences withoutappealing to our knowledge of the world ? In this respect , the work of Ray Jackendoff belongs to the conception of SyntacticStructures . N.C. : I 'm not quite in agreement with that characterization . Thus I agree with Katz that certain analytic connections exist among linguistic expressions , certain truths hold solely by virtue of linguistic facts : for instance , the relation between I persuaded him to leave and He intends to leave , which I mentioneda little while ago . In such cases we are dealing with properties of semantic representation that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " in a natural sense of the term . The same is true of the so-called thematic relations ( " agent , " " goal , " etc. ) developed in a very interesting manner in the work of Jackendoff which you have mentioned . One might say that this work of Jackendofs is quite compatible with the program of Syntactic Structures , but he developed a semantic theory in a direction that was not in any fashion proposed or suggested there . M.R. : This is what is called " interpretive semantics " .. . Recently you have replaced semantic representation by the expressionlogical form . Can you explain the nature of this change ? N.C. : I used the expression logical form really in a manner different , from its standard sense , in order to contrast it with semantic representation . I used the expression logical form to designate a level of linguistic representation incorporating all semantic properties that are strictly determined by linguistic rules . To determine the precise relation between " logical form , " so defined , and semantic theory and description , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important question . Recent work has some interesting suggestions on this matter.                     