@@773802

txt present the meanings of faiths and cultures and then simply to contract out of the question of their significance in the larger perspective of human history and a new global humanity . Second , the pursuit of Religion does , after all , express a type of specialism , admittedly a very rich and broadly-based one . Thus a training in Religion can give some licence to pronounce with some expertise and sensitivity on the place of religions in human history and on the seeds of possible future developments . However , it must be recognised that the task of a creative hermeneutics , as envisaged by Eliade , is necessarily very speculative . In trying to develop ideas on the significance or meaning of religion ( and religions ) in human history and especially during the present cultural epoch , when something of a world cultural community is in process of being created , the Religionist can hope for no trans-Theological orthodoxy . Consider , for instance , the ambiguity of ' significance ' : ( i ) The understanding of a diversity of religious traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they mean to those who belong to these traditions , both in the past and at the present time . ( ii ) Certain values in a religious tradition may be significant to us because they throw light upon ethical and social problems at present besetting us. ( iii ) Religious traditions may be significant because they contain materials for Expressing the truth about the world and about human life . ( iv ) The significance of religion might be viewed in terms of the role it has played in human society , art , etc. ( v ) The significance of religion may have to be seen in the light of the most plausible and sensitive theories of its genesis : for instance , does the myth-making aspect of human culture throw light on the structure of human social psychology ? or again : are religious beliefs a form of projection , and if so , is such projection inescapable ? These and other overlapping senses of significance ' and meaning ' throw light on the ambiguities contained in the very notion of a creative hermeneutics . And in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rival Theologies . In reflecting thus on the results of Religion we spiral backwards into the 50 league of religious Expressions which we undertook to study and present from a higher , bracketing standpoint . Perhaps an analogy can be made with the history and philosophy of science . To do philosophy of science it is necessary to be acquainted with the practice of science ; and a grounding in the history of this is also of the greatest importance if the philosophising is to remain realistic and not absurdly a priori . Moreover , the history of science can often be so suggestive for the evolution of ideas about its methodology , etc . However , it can sometimes happen that a scientific revolution itself has reflexive elements , that is , it arises from philosophical considerations about the nature of science or of some particular concepts currently in use . Thus Einstein 's Theory of Relativity was in part born out of reflection upon fundamental concepts . A philosophy of science is implicit in the interpretation of quantum mechanics in the work of the Copenhagen school . This reflexivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Religion have reflective effects within Theology , say Christian Theology , but also Religion , having completed its primary tasks of history and phenomenology , is liable to become involved in philosophical and speculative questions on the borders between sociology , psychology , phenomenology , and Theologies . It can not be wrong for the Religionist to comment or even to try his hand at some kind of synthesis , provided he recognises with full clarity that he is here entering the realm of speculation and thus is in a way in the same league as religious Expressions . If this is what is meant by creative hermeneutics , then the enterprise is an epiphenomenon , so to say , of Religion ; but it should not corrupt the Religionist into a dogmatic slanting of the evidence and the meanings which the main body of his discipline so painstakingly needs to present . Unfortunately , nothing very precise can be said about the possibilities of the varied expressions of creative hermeneutics , though shadowy examples can be provided ; for example , the attempt to interpret religious traditions as expressing what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enterprise of Rudolf Bultmann ) ; or the attempt at a Marxist interpretation . My view is that these particular , if shadowy 51 projects , are scarcely likely to succeed in the face of the evidence , any more than that of Freudian or of Jungian psychology to interpret religion for modern men . I say this because of the nature of these interpretations and of the state of the evidence provided by Religion 17 . It is not easy to predict the future of a line of enquiry . Future methods and concepts so often transcend present methods and concepts . So in brief the project of Eliade is not absurd ; however , it does not entail a single hermeneutic for Religion ( but a variety of debatable ones ) ; it is an epiphenomenon of the main substance of Religion , and it is unpredictable . But we can be sure that no total picture of the nature of man can be complete unless it contains a theory of religion . The main argument of this chapter has been concerned with trying to exhibit religion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also introduced a strong distinction between Theologies on the one hand and Religion on the other , even if it has been modified somewhat in the course of discussion . This modification has been achieved mainly through the notion that Expression can be bracketed , so that Religion itself exhibits , but without directly Expressing , what it is that the Expresser is attempting to convey . Despite the obliqueness of the major way of characterising religions , I have also adopted the more direct approach of considering religious traditions under a number of dimensions or aspects . This has helped in the anatomising of Religion . Among a number of crudities left unrefined has been the occasional reference to religion as phenomenon ( items of religions as phenomena ) ; since it is often a slogan to say that the scientific study , Religion , is directed at religion as a phenomenon , a slogan important in what it is trying to exclude , namely Theology , I shall turn in the second chapter to a closer examination of this idea . 52 2 Religion as a Phenomenon In part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tradition of philosophical phenomenology ( from Husserl onwards ) , whose methods , with variations , have been applied to the study of religion . In part my approach in the previous chapter has been influenced by this school , for example in the notion of bracketing ' . Gerardus van der Leeuw , in an appendix to his Religion in Essence and Manifestation , 1 , has characterised phenomenological method as follows : ( i ) assigning names to what is manifested ( e.g. , sacrifice ' and purification ' ) ; ( ii ) the interpolation of the phenomenon into our own lives , sympathetically ; ( iii ) the application of epoche ; ( iv ) the clarification of what is observed , by structural association ( comparison and contrast ) ; ( v ) the achievement through the foregoing of understanding ; ( vi ) control and checking by philology , archaeology , etc. ; ( vii ) the realisation of objectivity , or in other words letting the facts speak for themselves . It will be observed that Gerardus van der Leeuw 's programme here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( phenomenology and typological phenomenology ) . and does not seriously touch upon psychology and sociology of religion as involved in structural explanations . But a central part in Religion will obviously be taken by descriptive phenomenology , roughly as he envisages it , which provides importantly the material which structural explanations will work with . However , the concept of religious phenomena is not a simple one and needs unravelling . Let us consider a particular example . What precisely would it involve if the Anglican Eucharist were treated , by this method , as a phenomenon ' ? I choose this example partly because of its relative familiarity to many readers , partly to short-circuit problems about archaeology , etc. ( clearly the problems of phenomenology are multiplied by distance in time ) . 53 First , we may notice that the Anglican Eucharist ' is a notion somewhat like symphony ' . The same symphony , as we say , is played on a variety of occasions ( this is like the type-token distinction sometimes made use of in philosophical linguistics ) . To distinguished between the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall speak respectively of the Eucharist and a Eucharist . To complicate matters , there are variations in the Eucharist ? differing forms under which it is enacted . Where such divergences are relevant we speak of the Eucharists . Second , we can begin to unravel the complexities of what it means to speak of the Eucharist as a phenomenon by considering what an obesrver or set of observers might be held to see by attending Eucharists . Crudely , and superficially , they see a group of people performing certain actions with certain instruments in a certain sort of building ( typically ) . Already we note that even at this superficial level they are liable to have to collect their impressions of what is typical of the type . Not all Eucharists take place in churches , and some may exotically make use of tea and leavened bread rather than wine and unleavened wafers 2 . To be complete the observers could in principle describe the whole spectrum of external objects and observances . However , what the observers observe ' in this superficial manner does not bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it is at least a human phenomenon ( whether it is wholly so we need to consider later ) , and to understand what an action is one has to understand something about its intentionality . Thus , for example , seeing someone kneeling is not just someone with his legs bent in a certain way : one is seeing someone bending his legs in a certain way and intending his being in that posture as a case of kneeling . In that sense , some one shot in the knees who slumps to a kneeling posture is not really kneeling . We can say : He ended up in a kneeling position ' but it would be a trifle misleading to say He is kneeling ' . Further , someone kneeling in church is not merely intending his posture as kneeling ; but is also intending his kneeling as part of what is involved in prayer and worship ; for one can kneel for other reasons than sacred ones . The observers therefore need to understand a framework of intentions , and indeed it is artificial to say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided they have these concepts , which surely are part of the common stock of most peoples . But of course often we may encounter concepts important for the understandingof intentions which have rather subtly to be learned and this is an important hazard in the delicacies of the phenomenology of religion ) . At any rate , we may deem our observers to have at least got to the stage of perceiving a group of people engaged in certain activities such as praying . What more do they have to perceive to perceive the phenomenon of a Eucharist ? One thing they have to recognize is that the activity is a communal one , not just a coincidence of individual actions . Not all religious actions have this communal character , but it is fair to say that communality is a central feature of religions , such that even individual actions will be somehow related to them ? the monk contemplating in his cell is part of a movement with shared ideals and practices . The communality of a Eucharist is brought out not merely by the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( for example , recite the Lord 's Prayer at the same time ) but more deeply by the fact that they conceive their actions as joint . A person praying conceives himself not merely to be individually praying to God , but as joining with others in a collective prayer to God . So far the phenomenon involves : external ' events and instruments ; actions categorised as , for example , praying ; a communality of actions . The communality , however , is not just a communality of those present at a Eucharist , or a set of communalities of a set of groups at Eucharist . The observers have to see more deeply into the intentions of the participants . Relevantly , they have to see that a group at a Eucharist conceives itself as participating in a Eucharist , that is , that this Eucharist is an enactment of the Eucharist . So the group in performing this set of actions expresses a wider communality , one extending at least as widely as their Church . But here already the phenomenon is casting very wide conceptual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is systematically connected with a scheme of belief and an institutional tradition . Here is an instance of the organic 55 character of a religion 3 and of the methodological inadequacy of treating items in isolation . The phenomenon is turning into a very complex one . However , let us return to the immediate group at a Eucharist . The observers , in seeing certain actions as prayers , may have a general understanding of what is going on , for they understand what prayer is . But to grasp the fine grain of the phenomenon ' , they need to understand the particularities of the prayers , not of course just their words , but the nature of the Focus at which they are directed . It is here that a serious set of complications sets in ; complications partly touched upon in the previous chapter but about which we must achieve as much clarity as possible . They are incidentally , relevant to the question of whether religion can be treated by Religion as a purely human phenomenon ' . The persons participating in a Eucharist will typically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them ; for instance , the bread and wine somehow are or become the body and blood of Christ . Further , the circumstances of the communal act will suggest that God is among them in a different way from that in which he is present always and everywhere to those who turn to him individually in prayer . At any rate , part of what is involved in a Eucharist is the addressing of the Focus and the sense of participation in the Focus , through the act of communion . Is the Focus therefore part of the phenomenon which the observers witness ? Is what they see an interplay between the Focus and human acts , such as prayer ? In a way , yes ; but we need to be careful about what is meant by this . First , there is the problem of bracketing . Is the observer committed to the existence of the Focus ? The notion that phenomenology brackets ' questions of Theological truth would imply not . Yet at first sight much would seem to turn on the presuppositions to be adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empirical common-sensical ' assumptions that an observer present at a Eucharist might make : for instance he is able to say that the gold mosaic behind the altar channels the attention of the worshippers upon the crucifix standing silhouetted by it ; or that the central position of the pulpit tends to emphasise the importance of preaching as part 56 of the rite . Here the observer is talking about the impact of the arrangements upon the participant , but the arrangements are material and not precisely in dispute . There is no question about the existence of the mosaic , the crucifix , and the pulpit ; no question either about the bread and the wine . Now admittedly the observer may not accept the real existence of the Focus , but from the point-of-view of the experience , sentiments , and actions of the participants there is no special reason to doubt the importance of the impact of the Focus : this could be greater than any material impact , like the effects of gazing at the mosaic and the crucifix or listening to the words of a centrally-placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whether the preaching itself is not also a sacrament , Expressing the Focus which is thereby present in it ) . We might arrive at an over-simple solution of the problem by saying that the observers , qua observers , are simply not in a position to affirm the Focus , without bracketing , for it is the prerogative of those who have faith to affirm the Focus . But is it enough for the observers to say that the Focus , though real ' to the participants , is not real ' to the observers ? For after all , the observers need to describe the situation , and it might ( it would be thought ) make a difference as to what items are included as real factors in the situation . Suppose , again , that the observers are in fact Christians : why then should they be precluded in describing the Focus with as much realism as they reserve for the mosaic and the preaching ? One of the problems revealed by these questions is that descriptions are not just what they seem to be but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In particular they tend to imply explanations relevant to mental causation . For example , I am walking along a lane in Italy and suddenly stop , my heart beating , at the sight of a viper . The description that might be given , He was frightened by a viper on the way to San Martino ' , is apt enough , and assumes the existence of a snake . It would scarcely be right just to say , ' Firmly believing it was a snake in the way , he was scared ' . That already begins to imply that there was no snake . On the other hand , it can make no difference , from my point-of-view , whether the snake is real or not , provided that I am sure it is a snake . Suppose I am 57 walking home in the dusk and mistake a coiled rope for a snake . I still stop , my heart still starts pounding , and yet a describer might want to say : Mistaking a coil of rope for a snake , he stopped , his heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be noted here . First , a description tries , so to say , to comment on the true state of affairs ( whether there was a snake or not ) ; and second , it tends to have an explanatory air ( since snakes , for example , are typically fear-inducing , so that one can understand why a coil of rope causes fear , provided that one knows that it has been mistaken for a snake : consider how the above descriptions would work if we substituted coil of rope ' for snake ' and conversely ! ) . Both these features of descriptions run into a certain amount of trouble when we try to apply them to phenomenological description in Religion . First , from what point-of view is the phenomenological description going to comment on the true state of affairs ' ? The analogy of the coil of rope and the snake does not quite work , since this analogy depends upon fairly clear criteria of what counts as a snake , how one identifies a snake , and opposedly how one identifies a coil of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining whether there is or is not a Focus present at the Eucharist and what nature that Focus has . There are not , in plainer words , clear criteria for establishing the existence or non-existence of God . Therefore secondly there are equally severe doubts about the acceptability of any explanatory suggestions contained in a description of the state of affairs at the Eucharist . It is easy to think that these problems can be escaped by reducing the description of the Eucharist to that of a purely human phenomenon . That is , it is tempting to suppose that the Focus can be interpreted scientifically ' as a human projection of some kind . Then the account of the Eucharist simply refers to the interplay between this projected Focus and the actions of the participants . A path of this kind is trodden by Peter Berger in his The Social Reality of Religion ' 4 , though here he is not primarily concerned with phenomenology but with the sociology of religion . He espouses what he calls methodological atheism ' ( pp. 100 and 180 ) , a term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he writes ( p. 18o ) , of the socio-58 logical theory here proposed is that religion is to be understood as a human projection , grounded in specific infrastructures of human history . ' He of course distinguishes this methodological atheism from atheism tout court . But one needs to ask what it is in the way of explanations that is excluded by methodological atheism . And further , is it merely a device for operating within scientific ' sociology ? If this be so , then is it assumed that a total account or explanation of religion can be given from a sociological point-of-view ? The last is a very bold assumption , but less extravagant perhaps when one realises that sociological theory tends to subsume other spheres of human enquiry such as psychology within its embrace . Even so , it is an assumption which will need examining in due course . Meanwhile , let us examine the projectionist account of the Focus . It should be noted first that the language of projection encapsulates a theory of the genesis of religion . Religion is here conceived as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appears to have a being of its own and also in a certain way has an independent dynamic , like other products of human culture such as language . Although Berger leaves open the possibility that there is no incompatibility between Theology and methodological atheism ( even if some Theologies may be called in question by sociology ) , it is not certain how this will help us in regard to the problems posed in phenomenological description . For if phenomenology is to be assimilated into its brother sociology , then it also ought to proceed with a methodological atheism ? but already this is to suggest that a certain kind of description has to be given of , for example , the Eucharist , a description , that is , which comments on the true state of affairs ' . Such a comment would include reference , presumably , to the projected character of the Focus . At this juncture methodological atheism would be effectively indistinguishable from atheism tout court . Yet one of the major problems about phenomenological description is that raised by the difficulty in finding clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is existent as a Focus of the activities of the participants in the Eucharist . Still the fact that methodological atheism tries to remain merely methodological is a point in its favour if one is trying seriously to operate the epoche and the neutral , but evocative bracketing ' which 59 seems to be demanded by the pursuit of phenomenology in the context of Religion . Suppose we were to veer to the other extreme , and instead of treating the Focus itself as an objectivated human product , to say tout court that God in Christ is present in the Eucharist . The Theologian and the faithful might applaud ; after all this is for them a true description of the state of affairs . And by the very fact that the criteria of truth are obscure , there can be no disproof that this description is not the right one . But there are obvious difficulties in taking this extreme . Does it imply ( on the **40;636;TOOLONG principle ) that one should also give a realistic ' , reality-affirming description of the rites of the Kikuyu and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us suppose it does . Then the ontological firmament becomes heavily populated , and rather inconsistently . Let us conceive one Focus to be a jealous God ; then how can he be affirmed in description sideby-side with many gods ? In serving many masters the phenomenologist is liable to betray man , so that his realism ' is scarcely any advantage . He may try out an uneasy half-way house , the many Foci have something essential shared between them ; for example , they are all manifestations ' of the Holy . He may not in one way be unjustified in this , for part at least of his task is to categorise , to seek out common features as well as to exhibit divergencies . Indeed the seeking out of common features is prominent in the Husserlian tradition , which includes the search for essences ' . But in trying now to describe the Eucharist realistically ' he loses the very particularity , the fine grain , which he was seeking to grasp in giving a refined and sensitive description of it . The realistic extreme then has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can function effectively as a via media between projection and fine-grained realism . It may be recalled that the problem of phenomenological description partly arose from the features of description ? its tendency to comment on the true state of affairs and to hint at explanations . But whereas in the case of snakes and coils of rope there can be a definite and agreed state of affairs , this is not so with regard to theism , atheism , Christianity , Buddhism , etc . In this the cases are not parallel and there can be no necessity 60 for the phenomenologist to rush into necessarily debatable realistic ' descriptions or to incorporate theories of religion into his account . Indeed it is very important , precisely because of the debatability of the issues , not to load descriptions with explanatory theories ( for example , by the use of the expression ' projection ' ) ; for although it would be naive to suppose that by waiting till all the facts are gathered we can ultimately resolve the issues of explanation and so forth , it is nevertheless profoundly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the facts . These facts include intentional ones : they are facts of consciousness , so to speak , as well as directly observable ones . But when facts become over-contaminated by theory , theory itself loses its golden falsifiability and its golden verifiability , thereby ceasing to be properly scientific . Thus even from the point-ofview of those who might at first sight veer towards the side of methodological atheism , it is important to resist it . The difference over criteria may also help to explain why the procedure of bracketing is more natural regarding religion and ideologies than it is if systematically applied to much of the rest of experience . It is somewhat unnatural to say such things as He had an experience as of a snake ' , except when actually it is something other than a snake that he sees , because the criteria allow us indisputable paradigms of seeing actual snakes . To bracket is to leave matters too open as to whether these are after all paradigms . The upshot of this discussion would seem to lie in the acceptance of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Eucharist . One aspect of what is meant by bracketing could be brought out by saying that an entity referred to in brackets might or might not exist . For instance , at a Eucharist people pray to Christ and he is present in the bread and wine ( but he might or might not exist ) . This account of bracketing , however , suffers from at least two defects . First and less importantly , the sentence He might or might not exist ' appears to be an utterance on a par with the utterances of the Christian . This of course will not do at all , for as a straight religious or quasireligious utterance the sentence in question is liable to express indifference , agnosticism , or the like . But the phenomenologist ( and more generally the Religionist ) is not qua phenomenologist 61 ( or Religionist ) committed to indifference , agnosticism , or what have you , any more than he is thereby committed to Christianity , Buddhism , or the religion of the Kikuyu or of the Winnebago . So He might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying The question of his existence does not arise in this methodological framework ' . It is a question not asked , not a question left undecided . True , it might be asked later , once the work of pure phenomenology is done , but that is another story . The second defect of the above account of bracketing is this . The account does not yet give us a guide as to which entities and events are to be bracketed and which are not . For example , it is not right to bracket the claim that people are praying . It is simply the case that they are praying , if they are praying , whatever we may think of the Focus of their prayers . An initial distinction might be as follows : that what belongs to the doctrinal , mythic and ethical dimensions of religion needs bracketing , while the rest does not . But this distinction scarcely works and for a number of reasons . First , an experience ( like Paul 's conversion on the Damascus Road ) is already interpreted ' , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Up to a point this seems a sound procedure , but what is the point at which we change the mode of description ? Second , a ritual object means something to the person who uses it over and above the doctrinal ambience in which it has its being . Third , something observable and concrete , such as an historical event or series of events , may need , in its way , bracketing . So if someone speaks of the Hungarian counter-revolution ( referring to the events of 1956 ) , the term counter-revolution ' needs bracketing , for it trails clouds of orthodox ideology with it . Still , despite these objections , the rough distinction is serviceable , though it needs further explication . The doctrinal , mythic , and ( less so ) ethical dimensions of a religious tradition are the means whereby that religious tradition Expresses its faith in the Focus ( or group of Foci ) of the tradition . Thus these dimensions present as it were a picture of the Focus ( a piece of terminology introduced in the previous chapter ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so on as it also transcends the practical side of the religion , the rituals , experiences , institutions , symbolic forms , etc . By saying 62 this , I mean that the Focus is what these ideas and practices refer to or are directed at . The faithful have a certain picture or pictures ( but we shall here for the time being leave aside the problem of pluralism within a tradition ) ; this picture is Expressed most sophisticatedly in Theology , but also in art and so forth , and it includes an account of the way the Focus manifests itself or is present in various events , both historical and contemporary . The manifestations of the Focus ( I shall use this expression even if strictly the Focus may often manifest itself by non-manifestation , that is by being present in events , even though opaquely ? consider the Incarnation or the Eucharist ) are typically highly variegated : the historical events , for Christianity , of Christ 's life , death and resurrection , the coming of the Holy Spirit in the Early Church , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ episcopate ) , in the sacraments , in the experiences , and sentiments of the faithful , even in the actions and experiences of those outside the Church , in the cosmos . Not all these manifestations are accepted as manifestations by all Christians , but the list serves to indicate the breath of the spectrum wherein Christian men see the special presence and handiwork of God . The disagreements , though , are in their way significant . Some agree about the Focus but differ about the scope of the manifestations ; some agree about the scope of the manifestations but not about the Focus ; some disagree about both ; some agree about both . Most typically , there is a conjunction of disagreement about the picture of the Focus and about the manifestations ; after all the manifestations are not only the crucial means of identifying the Focus but also important elements to be taken into account in delineating the character of the Focus ( that is , Expressing a picture of it ) . The distinction between manifestation and Focus allows us to refine the solution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to be bracketed and what are not . Those which manifest the Focus , and those utterances and so forth which Express the Focus , are to be bracketed so long as they are seen under the categories of manifestation and Expression . For example , the bread and wine at the Eucharists are seen under the aspect of the body and blood of Christ , and so are manifestations of the Focus ; the descriptions , etc. , of the bread and wine then are 63 bracketed . Again , the Our Father , who art in heaven . . . ' of the Lord 's Prayer is not merely recited at the Eucharist , but treated by the phenomenologist as a bracketed Expression ( with descriptive elements ) of the faith of those who pray . However , it would be unrealistic to think that a formula can direct with total effectiveness the job of distinguishing what needs bracketing from what does not . This distinction must in the concrete situation rest upon the sympathetic intuition of the person undertaking the phenomenological enquiry . There is , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bracketed realism in his description of ( say ) the Eucharist . The hazard is that a word or two may mislead him and his public . For example , the people at the Eucharist pray to a ( bracketed ) Christ who is present in the celebration . But what Christ ? The very use of the name presupposes that we know the reference and understand the nuances in the same way . This is a rather optimistic presupposition . The ambiguities are many and at least as follows . ( i ) Christ ( hereafter the Focus ' ) is the Focus pictured in a particular way by participant A in the celebration ; let us call this Focus " . ( ii ) The Focus is the typified Focus of those who participate in the celebration ; let us call this Focust. ( iii ) The Focus is the typified Focus of the wider communality of those to whom the group participating in the celebration affirm themselves to belong ; let us call this FocusT. ( iv ) The Focus is the real ' Focus , transcending the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the participants , and by the community at large ; let us call this Focus " . It will readily be seen that the last Focus is a kind of aspiration ( looking at it from the human end ) ; it could in principle be described , but then it would become one of the prior three Foci . On the other hand it is useful as a construct , for it indicates that there may be ( or is ) a reality which is only inadequately pictured by the present pictures . Indeed , if one were to go beyond a sort of methodological realism and introduce the concept of an ultimate reality impinging , so to say , upon the faithful , and doing so relevantly to problems of explanation in the manner 64 in which descriptions ( of snakes and the like ) do so , it is probable that it would be Focus ' which would first be thought of . Unfortunately , of course , it is in the nature of the case that this necessary noumenon of Foci can have no particular purchase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so in an important sense beyond the world of our experience . But a vital question which remains to be answered is : how necessary for the phenomenologist and more widely for the Religionist is this concept of the transcendental Focus ' ? To this question we shall in due course return . Meanwhile , let us reflect on the relations between the other three Foci . It is easy , for example , to think that the whole of the matter is summed up in a collection of FociA ; that is , to think that a religious tradition essentially is constituted by a collection of individuals who happen to think alike , direct their activities similarly to a similar Focus , and so on . This is not a plausible picture , for a number of reasons . Before we go on to these reasons let us pause for a moment to consider the highly complex task ( almost impossibly so ) which such a picture of the situation would present to the phenomenologist of religion . Admittedly the latter has a bad task anyway , and necessarily to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nigh impossible if the observers at a Eucharist did not merely have to take account of external ' actions but also of the multitude of separate pictures of the Focus , that is , FocusA , FocusB , FocusC , and so on . Now it will immediately be objected that this is the way the world is ? men differ , their concepts differ , and so there is no way of representing the total situation but by bringing out these different perspectives in all their richness . And indeed it is hard to deny that men 's pictures ( individual pictures ) of the Focus or Foci do differ both subtly and crassly . Does not this make the task of the phenomenologist unbearable , or alternatively his results ' unbearably crude ? Fortunately , though there is truth in the delineation of the actual situation here presented , the situation typically is less individualistic than the picture presented allows . How is this ? First , the Eucharist ( for example ) can not be analysed as a construct out of countless individual decisions and experiences almost miraculously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Focus , and coinciding in actions . The analysis through individual acts would for one thing be much too coincidental . Second , it has to be recognised that the liturgy of the Eucharist ( I am using this as my example , but one could look much more widely on religious institutions , rituals and myths , etc. , in the same manner ) is given ' , objectivated as might be said . It is not the creation of any individual present at a Eucharist ; but it is a piece of public or semi-public property , something to be reenacted from time to time and irrespectively of the particular feelings and acts of an individual . Indeed , the individual , and by extension the individuals , who participate in a Eucharist , follow something . This observation does not depend upon any ritualistic understanding of the Eucharist , since similar remarks could be made about a meeting of Friends , mutatis mutandis . Third and of course greatly overlapping with what has just been said , the participants see themselves as a community participating in a wider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomenologist is not only concerned with collecting individual impressions . It is reasonable for him to advert to the public meaning of rites and beliefs since in a real sense these are shared . This however does not , as we shall see , altogether exempt him from considering the fine grain of individual responses , and to this extent his results must always be crude , oversimplified , and crass ? a property he shares with the historian and the political scientist and many others . We may conclude then that the phenomenologist is basically concerned with FocusT and its manifestations , together with the responses , attitudes , etc. , of those present at the Eucharist . A description of all this will serve to typify the meaning of the Eucharist , in the milieu of Anglicanism . It may turn out to be necessary to show the variations in pictures presented and responses made , as between different parties ' in the Church of England , and as between Anglican communities in different countries . It can now be seen why the notion of a noumenal Focus lying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contexts necessary for the phenomenologist : first , because a noumenal outreach is itself typically built into FocusT and its analogues in other religions ; and second because it expresses the openness and 66 dynamism of a religious tradition . It performs this second task in the following manner . The conception of a noumenal Focus transcending the pictures presented is a regulative device suggesting the construction of new pictures to replace the old . A new picture itself is not noumenal , for the transcendental Focus still serves the same function , namely to suggest that the new picture itself may be replaced . Why , it may be asked , this emphasis on novelty ? It seems a paradox considering the heavily traditional nature of most religions . Certainly the notion of a noumenal Focus or Foci is less relevant in static social and cultural traditions and where there may not be a very consciously developed sense of the picture-transcending nature of the religious ultimate . Nevertheless , the phenomenon of milieu-transformation , bringing about changes of meanings of the same ' text or rite because of the changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however conservative ; to this extent new pictures are ever liable to be presented , to overcome the changes in milieutransformation and to achieve as far as possible an equilibrium . The noumenal Focus adverts to this open-endedness . It also creates the space for critical manoeuvre , for instance , space for a prophetic re-presentation of the Focus over against of the traditional pictures . So far I have largely used the term phenomenological description ' to indicate the task of our supposed observers of the Eucharist . But as was pointed out in the previous chapter , phenomenology requires also to be evocative , to contain bracketed Expression . What people feel , the impact of the Focus upon them , the performative and expressive nature of the language of worship and prayer , etc. ? these are central features of , say , the Eucharist , This is the reason why it is often said that the practice of Religion involves sympathy , so that the Religionist can enter into the feel ' and the values of the phenomena he is studying . This is what van der @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own lives . Before , however , going on to consider in a little more detail how such interpolation is possible , it may be useful to pause to consider in the light of the preceding discussion whether it is really apposite to speak of the objects of phenomenological investigations as phenomena , often 67 categorised as human phenomena . Let us begin with the second point : in what sense is the phenomenologist concerned merely with human phenomena ( beliefs , experiences , etc . ) ? We have already rejected projectionism as an assumption in phenomenology itself , partly because it is inconsistent with true bracketing . This is not to exclude it as a theory about religion to be checked against the phenomenological facts . Now if we have rejected projectionism within phenomenology , we can not hold that phenomenology simply deals with human events and products , though it certainly does at least this . That it does not simply do so might be held on the following grounds . ( i ) The phenomenological description of the Eucharist ( for example ) brings out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the participants . From the point-of-view of phenomenology , the question of whether the Focus exists does not arise ; but if it does exist , then the phenomenological description does actually describe a manifestation of the Focus , or in other words it is not just a description of human events , etc. ( ii ) Phenomenology incorporates into its descriptions nonhuman entities , for instance sacred cows and planetary bodies . Though a prime point of interest is the way in which humans respond religiously to these entities , and though it might be thought that certain significances are being artificially imposed by human cultures on these entities , even so the objective ' properties of these entities play some part in determining the religious response . For instance , the urine of the cow is held in India to have purifying powers , but that a cow makes urine is itself a brute non-human fact . It is thus a simplification to say that Religion concerns human phenomena ' alone . That we might be tempted to use this language is a reaction against demands that the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assumption of the truth of a particular faith , mankind is brought in to redress the balance of the other world , so to say . If one turns for a moment to anthropology , one sees here a primary concern with human institutions , but to bring out the pattern of life of a particular people it is necessary to describe their interplay with the environment , and also with their ' supernatural ' environment . 68 To speak of human phenomena as being the sole concern of Religion is a simplification , and so too is it to speak of religion as a phenomenon . The phrase is important perhaps as a slogan , to indicate that description and evocation are the prime tasks of phenomenology together with typology , rather than Theological judgements . But the word still trails with it a suggestion that phenomenology deals with appearances : appearances , however , of what ? It is not just concerned with how a faith manifests itself or appears in this sense , but rather with how it actually is . Its aim is to give insight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way they actually operate , impinge on institutions , exist in human consciousness and so on . Is it then appearances of the Foci that phenomenology deals with ? But this is a malformed way of describing the situation . For though it is true that the Focus is bracketed , for example , in an account of the Eucharist , so likewise are the manifestations of the Focus as appearances ' . Indeed it is not possible to disentangle the Focus from the way it is held to manifest itself and to operate within the manifest , in this case the sacramental bread and wine . If the Focus is bracketed so are the manifestations . It is thus artificial to draw a line between the appearances ' studied by phenomenology and the reality which may or not lie behind them . It is true that I have made use of here the idea of a noumenal Focus , but this too is bracketed . So if one takes the bracketing with full seriousness , there is reason to reject the use of the term phenomena ' . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to indicate something about the presuppositions of phenomenological enquiry . Now we can return to the problem of what could be meant by - the interpolation of the phenomena ' into our lives , of which van der Leeuw speaks . The question has been much discussed , of course , in the context of the philosophy of history , by Dilthey , Collingwood , and others . However , it is worth noting that there is nothing in principle to differentiate the problem in the distances of space and time : that is , for the contemporary Englishman to understand the meaning of a twentieth century Vietnamese rite is a task not differing in principle from that involved in trying to understand the meaning of a twelfth-century English rite . It is 69 true that with contemporaries there are vastly greater possibilities of obtaining information , and there is too the golden chance of talking with those participating in a rite . But in both cases , and irrespectively of space and time there is a cultural distance which has to be overcome . Thus it is quite as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that we can learn from history as a science . The idea that the phenomenologist has to put himself in the other man 's shoes , a rather crude characterisation of the Collingwoodian programme , runs up against an objection rather rudely expressed by Evans-Pritchard when castigating some of the better known theorists in the history of anthropology , that it commits the If  --  I-were-a-horse ' fallacy 5 . Too often the theorist may try to imagine himself in a primitive environment ( for example ) , coming up with absurd accounts of how primitives arrive at certain beliefs . What does the fallacy amount to ? It is , I think , this : that the theorist or observer operates as though he can travel on a kind of time-machine , that is , can arrive ( imaginatively ) in another culture and then go on thinking roughly according to the cultural modes of his own society . He takes his cultural baggage with him . But this is not , of course , what is required , for in order to understand what it is like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that one is a Winnebago , rehearsing the thoughts and attitudes of a Winnebago , not of an Englishman planted in Winnebago territory . Because of the organic nature of religious beliefs and practices ? their interconnection in a fine web of relations ? the process of sympathetic imagination involves something like learning a new language and it is therefore not just a matter of empathy . Or rather , empathy , if it is to be a fine-grained emotional and attitudinal identification with the participants of another faith , has to be structured in accord with the organic web . I have spoken here as though the problem is essentially one of trans-cultural understanding . In one way it need not be , for our observers of the Anglican Eucharist might after all themselves be Anglicans . But typically the phenomenologist is involved in trans-cultural transactions for at least two reasons . First , his typological aims inevitably drive him to make judgements of comparison and contrast between different religions , 70 etc . Secondly , in evolving a moving picture of a faith , one is necessarily caught up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even within the tradition of one 's own faith , between the contemporary picture and the pictures of past centuries . This indeed is why the phenomenon of milieu-transformation is of continued importance . It could also be added that even if a scholar were to devote himself exclusively to the study of a particular religion , say an English Buddhologist , it would be wise for him to make explicit comparisons between Buddhism and the Christianity of the Buddhologist 's own culture . The reason for this is that nothing is more likely to produce distortions than to see another culture or religion in terms of one 's own , and this is much more likely to happen where one 's assumptions about religion are not brought to the surface and made explicit . The comparative exercise is the chief means of doing this . The principle no doubt extends further , for there are not only religious or anti-religious assumptions to take into account , but a whole milieu of presuppositions about what is rational and irrational , normal and abnormal , scientific and unscientific ; and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project these contrasts upon another culture , one consequence of which is that other societies are depicted from a rationalist point-of-view . For instance , because so-called primitives use magic ( incidentally a debatable concept , in its relation to religion ) , it has been held that they do not understand causality . So rationalist assumptions must be guarded against , in particular where they attempt to generate explanations of features of other cultures very different from those of our own society . This is not , incidentally , to say that Rationalism as a form of scientific humanism is wrong ? it is indeed a possible even a respectable , Weltanschauung . But it is no more sound to suppose that primitives are irrational because they use magic than it is to think ( on the basis of a Christian traditionalism ) that Theravada Buddhism must be a depressing religion because it believes neither in a Creator nor in an immortal soul . In brief , then , it is important in the trans-cultural situation to bring assumptions as far as possible to the surface by the exercise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the phenomenologist form his own cultural background when he is 71 presenting to himself or others the religious facts which he is exploring . A model of the phenomenologist 's work is , perhaps , reading and assimilating a novel . Within the pages of the novel and in their own way , the brothers Karamazov exist , though in another way it does not matter whether they did or did not exist ; typically it is not a question which needs asking . Prescinding , however , from the real ' world , in a novel one is immersed in a particular ambience , and moves with the characters , play-acting their feelings , understanding their beliefs , beginning to live in their social world . It is not necessary to agree with Ivan Karamazov in real life ' : one still can see the world from his point-of-view , and likewise with Alyosha . They are two brothers with very different outlooks , One may not in real life actually sympathise with a given character , but within the world of the novel one can have a vivid empathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too technical-sounding but sympathy ' is too strong and does not signal the bracketing . ) The analogy with novel-reading is defective in one important way , nevertheless , for reading a novel is relatively unstrenuous work , especially if the author is a master of the art of absorbing the reader . On the other hand , phenomenological description is effortful hardy work ' ( to use a phrase of Eichhofen 's ) , and in its own way creative , even if parasitic upon the creativity of religion itself in throwing up forms of belief , myth , rite . But the analogy has the merit of drawing attention to the fact that it is possible to enter into a certain social world , imaginatively , without accepting its presuppositions in reality and in a manner which can hold together mutually conflicting attitudes , each empathetically understood . It also has a certain realism as an analogy because so often , for contingent reasons , the phenomenologist is confronted by the written word ? texts , descriptions , reports ; but this situation is indeed only a typical occupational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his make-believe , entering into the community of his study so far as social and other conditions will allow , participating and observing at the same time , entering into human relations with the humans he is contemplating sociologically . Here the texts are transcended , just as the phenomenologist of contemporary 72 religion can enter into dialogue with its practitioners , not dependent on written and like sources such as stand in the way of the historian and the actual past . But since the phenomenologist , however much he may desire to participate in dialogue and ceremony , is typically comparative and trans-cultural in his operations , as also the anthropologist when he gets to theorising , he can only be fragmentarily in the condition of transcending the texts and reports . Texts , incidentally , have loomed unnaturally large in the firmament of the history of religions . There are various reasons for this , if we are thinking in particular of sacred texts . First , sacred texts have been held to be normative ( hence their sanctity , it could be said ) for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mode and degree of normativeness have varied considerably as between the religions . This it has been held that it is possible to reach the essence ' of a faith by consideration of its scriptures ( a somewhat misleading idea , as it does not account for the evolution of the community plus its practices as the living milieu of the texts in question ) . Second , it happens that the great burst of historical scholarship in the nineteenth century , which formed the matrix of the history of religions ( Religion ) itself , was heavily oriented towards philology ; hence one could have the exuberant theory of the great Max Muller , that gods arose as an effect of a disease of language , nomina numina . Third , because of the historical impetus of the history of religions it has been natural to look backwards and work through the main traces of the past , namely written documents . Fourth , Religion has arisen chiefly , though by no means exclusively , in the circumstances of Protestant liberalism and its penumbra in the West , especially in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ context both clearly and dimly incorporates the feeling that the Bible is the exclusive source of revelation and knowledge of the Focus , it thus being natural to think of other religions in an analogous manner . This in itself was no bad thing , for combined with philological concerns , it gave impetus to the great work of translating the sacred ' documents of other faiths : consider , for instance , the great Sacred Books of the East ' , and consider also the magnificent editorial achievements of the Pali Text Society . Fifth , it 73 should be recognised that a major educational tradition in the West has been the classical one in which it has been a major enterprise to induct young people into the thought forms of the Graeco-Roman world through reading the great authors who wrote in Greek and Latin , especially in the preferred ages of the two cultures . It has not been unnatural to extend the same treatment to other cultures by trying to understand the Chinese through the Confucian and other classics , to approach India through the great Sanskrit works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( and partly under American influence , since it was chiefly in the United States that the concept of area studies was evolved ) that a rather different approach to other cultures has been undertaken . ( Of course , anthropology never really followed the Great Tradition , mainly for want of written documents but also for other reasons . In turn , this was one factor in its unnatural division from sociology and from its isolation from classical and oriental studies in most educational institutions . This is sad of course , since it is only recently that more systematic attempts have been made to apply anthropological results to the study of classical and other myths ) . Finally , it is worth remarking that the study of theology itself has often been conceived on classical ' ( i.e. , textual and philological ) lines , especially in England , where this approach has been a means of compromise with the ethos of a largely secular university system , uncommitted to any Theology . However , though there has been unnatural emphasis upon sacred texts , often in a situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been imperfectly understood , it remains true that the phenomenologist has to work much of the time through documents . In unfavourable circumstances , this can create a vicious circle : inadequate phenomenology yielding unfortunate categories themselves used by those who report upon religions yielding inadequate phenomenology . But this is , of course , a merely contingent hazard of the trade . I have endorsed the term empathy ' for the affective side of the phenomenologist 's entering into ' the world of another religious culture , or even of his own . It is implicit in this use that it is not full-blown symathy in the ordinary way . It is true that a person works best at what he loves , and the lover of Buddhism will , 74 other things being equal , be a better scholar of Buddhism than one to whom it means nothing ' as we say ? that is , is cod-like in its lack of attraction . But if we are to take the bracketing operation seriously , it means that the phenomenologist qua phenomenologist is not endorsing Buddhism , expressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( though it is sometimes a useful pedagogical ploy in addressing an audience leaning too much the other way ) . For aligning oneself with Buddhism is a mild way of Expressing the dharma , and so in its modest manner is a form of Theologising ( Dharmologising ) . Thus the presentation of Buddhism must itself remain emotionally bracketed , and thus does not amount to full sympathy as exhibited in real ' life . Such remarks may attract the criticism that I am crying for supermen , people who genuinely transcend their own culture in the enterprise of phenomenology . Surely there actually remains a high degree of social conditioning which can never be eliminated by the cry of bracketing ' . We may in theory bracket questions of truth , but how can we in practice bracket matters of feeling and attitude ? My answer to this is to go further along the line suggested by the analogy of the novel . I turn to playacting . Certainly it will not be denied that good actors can present feelings and emotions , of love , hate , jealousy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , courage , depression , elation , sadness , joy , apprehension , melancholy , nervousness , arrogance , humility , hypocrisy , carelessness , lackadaisicalness , ennui , nostalgia , and so forth . But it would be absurd to think that Oliver , who tonight portrays joy , ennui , lackadaisicalness , arrogance and sadness in The Cherry Orchard ' is except contingently given these days to such emotions . ( Or even if he is given to joy , it is joy directed at a different object or objects , such as joy that he has re-married or scored a great success or booked to go to Antibes next week . ) The actor , therefore , succeeds in a quite practical manner in bracketing the emotions , dispositions , etc. , which he presents on the stage . There can thus be no a priori reason why the phenomenologist should not imaginatively rehearse the feelings and beliefs of those he aims evocatively to describe and should not go on to set his results down on paper , 75 or through some other mode of expression ( for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound to suppose that the chief instrument of phenomenology must always be the written word ) . Thus the phenomenologist , in so far as he is presenting a structural description of a faith at a certain time or an item therein organically related to its contextual items is typically making use of empathetic imagination , and this involves a bracketing of feelings and attitudes in the phenomenologist himself . This presumably is what is meant by interpolating a phenomenon into one 's life ' . Of course also substantially , and in an unbracketed way , there may result a change in the phenomenologist 's attitudes ; he may , for instance , come to be critical of Theologians in his own cultural tradition who do not take other religions seriously ; or he may come to be attracted by certain values in other religions , such as Ghandi 's interpretations of non-violence or the Buddhist attitude to right speech . This would be , so to say , an educational effect of his occupation . But these substantial changes in attitude , vital as they might be in creating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values of the Western tradition and which counteracts the despisal of other cultures so prominent in the colonial and postcolonial phases of European history , are not the primary aim of phenomenology as a method . Trickier and more debatable is the second phase of phenomenology , when one moves from the structural description and presentation of a particular item , such as the Anglican Eucharist , in the organic context of a particular tradition , to the work of typology . The emphasis that I have already placed on the organic interconnections of items in a religion surely makes it virtually impossible to make worth-while comparisons . If so , the project especially of a general phenomenology , such as that undertaken by Gerardus van der Leeuw is illusory . Before treating this topic let us recapitulate briefly the points or point of making comparisons and contracts . First , if there are similarities in apparently independent cultures it is suggestive that we might arrive at an explanation of these convergences . This could be broadly an historical explanation . At one time , for instance , it was thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dumezil 's work on gods and society in Indo-European societies has an historical dimension also 6 . The explanation could be structural , and either internal or external ( in the sense indicated in last chapter ) . Thus the similarities of Sankara 's and Eckhart 's doctrines ( though not tremendously close , but sufficiently so ) could be accounted for structurally in terms of types of religious experience and sentiment . This would be an internal explanation . The similarities between mother-goddesses in different cultures might be accounted for by the prevalence of similar types of agricultural arrangements . If similarities are suggestive , so of course are dissimilarities . It is a matter of importance , for instance , that Theravada Buddhism does not involve a supreme personal Being , when this belief not only became prevalent in Hinduism but also is widely found in the major religious traditions . To some extent a typology will be guided by the interests of possible kinds of explanation , but leaving this aside and concentrating on what constitutes the pure ' task of phenomenological classification , we can first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of activities , notably rites . Thus prayers , sacrifices , sacraments , initiations , hymnsinging , pilgrimages , funerals , fasts , yogic practices , celebrations of feastdays , and so forth are ( sometimes overlapping ) practices discoverable in the ritual dimension of religion . As will be seen shortly not all the categories are free from criticism and debate , but it is not unreasonable , despite the organic character of each religious tradition , to apply these categories within different cultures . One major reason for this possibility is that in an important sense these categories are formal rather than material , if a new use of the scholastic distinction may be permitted . By this I mean that in saying that someone is praying one is not so far indicating the fine grain of his activity , which substantially derives from his conception of the Focus of his prayers . Prayer is the form of his activity : the matter is the intention as directed towards a particular Focus . Somewhat similarly , if one says that a person is complaining , one is describing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made reference to what he is complaining about . 77 Such formal categories can work within limits , even if there are recurring problems of particularity . Thus the Eucharist ' is a phrase we would be chary of using outside the Christian tradition to categorise a sacred meal , because the term carries with it close implication with the material element ( even more obviously does the Lord 's Supper ' ) ; but sacrament ' is more ambivalent . Though defined in a certain way , or ways , in Christian theology and confined to a limited number of sacred activities , there is between , say , marriage in the Christian tradition as a sacrament and marriage in the Hindu tradition , also given sacred and symbolic significance . Here and elsewhere it is necessary to recognise that to some extent phenomenological categories become abstractions from the formal aspects of varying practices ; or , as it is sometimes put , ideal types ' . The formal ? material distinction can be worked within limits also in relation to experiences and sentiments ( for example , the sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ etc. , can be indicated without referring to the particular ) and with regard to institutional roles ( priest , layman , shaman , prophet , etc . ) . And at another level , my categorisation of different dimensions of religion ( doctrinal , mythic , etc. ) is a formal one . Since the anatomy of the Focus ( or Foci ) of a religion or religious activity is delineated , so to say , primarily in the mythic and doctrinal aspects of a tradition , it will be useful to explore the mythic in more detail , and to this I now turn . 78 3 The Mythic Firmament Common as it may be to define religion by reference to belief in God , gods , etc. ( a procedure which runs up against troubles in any case in regard to , for example , Theravada Buddhism ) , there may be merit in looking at the Focus or Foci of religious activity through the medium of the mythic , that is , in a context where such entities are acting , not just so to say quietly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clarity as is at present possible on the nature of the mythic in view of the many debates about the functions , existential , social , and so forth of myths . To some extent my procedure will be prescriptive , that is , defining myth in a manner suiting my argument . The first thing that needs repeating is , of course , that to categorise something as a myth is not to assert that it is false . It is unfortunate that in the English language ( and others ) the word has attracted the meaning of false story ' or more broadly false account ' . We have in part to thank the Greeks for this development , in part too the Church ? for early apologists could contrast the true story of God 's saving work in Israel and in Christ with the myths ' of the pagans . It is of course easy to think that one 's own myth is a true story , the other man 's myth is a myth . It is , then , vitally important to rid our minds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely fanciful . It may turn out that all myths are false , but on the usage adopted here this is contingent , for the usage leaves open the possibility of speaking of true myths . Crudely , the distinction I wish to draw between a myth and a doctrine is that the latter has to do with the constitution of the world , of the transcendent , etc. , while the former has to do with a moving picture of the sacred . This crude distinction will no doubt have to be heavily qualifid in due course , but I wish to bring out the first major characteristic of myth , 79 namely that it is a form of story . It belongs in a genus which includes also novels , jokes , fairy-stories , historical narratives , though as will be seen there can be overlaps between the species ( for instance , some myths are historical narratives ) . But how does one , broadly , differentiate myths from other kinds of stories ? Is it , for instance , in terms of their material reference , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite do , for the story of the Buddha 's conquest of Mara in the Pali canon concerns two persons , the Buddha and Mara , neither of whom are strictly gods . To define myths materially , it would be necessary to expand the list of beings with which they typically deal : God , gods , evil spirits , culture heroes , primeval men , sacred eggs . But maybe the list could be simplified by taking into account two points . First , sacred and numinous beings typically split into two forms , good and evil , holy and unholy ' ( I do not use the term to refer to the profane or the non-holy , but the threatening type of mysterium tremendum , to use Otto 's terminology ) . I shall return in a moment to elaborate this point . Meanwhile , second , myths typically have to do with the relationship between the transcendent , the supernatural , etc. ( but these terms are inadequate ) on the one hand and man and the world on the other . Thus although a culture hero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does so in a way related to the sacred . Unfortunately , there are troubles of a terminological kind in trying to find a generic term to cover the holy and the unholy ' beings referred to just now . Indeed the situation is fairly complicated in terms of the good ? evil split . For with regard to a being of this kind , either he is the object of worship or , oppositely , he is dreaded but renounced , as with the Devil in the Christian tradition . ( Also some gods can become otiose , no longer figuring significantly in the cultus , but let us leave this point on one side . ) But it is not necessarily the case that the sacred splits into accepted and renounced beings , since it is also possible for the good ? evil dichotomy to be preserved within the substance of a being who is worshipped , as with Kali . Further a god may have , so to say , offshoots , not directly objects of worship but partaking in some of the holy power of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80 there can be lesser demons performing the work of an Evil one . It is hard to know what generic term should be used both for beings that are worshipped and those that are numinous , but renounced ? gods and antigods 1 . Somewhat artificially I shall use the term divinities ' to mean both and to cover their minor offshoots 2 . On this usage the Christian tradition has involved belief in a number of divinities , including good and evil angels , but only one God ( for only one divinity is worshipped , and he is supreme ) . We may then define myths materially as stories concerning divinities , typically in relationship to men and the world . It will later be necessary to say something about the style of myths , for this in part derives from conceptions about the spaces and times which divinities inhabit . However , first it is important to enquire about the point of telling such stories . Of course , we all like a good story , and it is notable that the Mahabharata and the Ramayana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of entertainment for the Indian masses . But it can not be said that the prime function of the telling of a myth is entertainment . It is indeed already a sign that a story is being transmuted out of the mythic mode when it is worked up into epic form or repeated as folklore or fairy-tales . The primary context of the telling of a myth is ritual , in which the reality of the events and transactions between divinities and men is re-enacted , or in some cases pre-enacted , for myths can concern the future as well as the past . Myths thus typically are celebrations , though not all celebrations incorporate myths . The celebration of the Incarnation occurs at Christmas , for instance , when Christ is , so to say , born again in our midst . The celebratory , ritual milieu of myth-telling means that there are analogues to myth in primarily secular ' contexts , that is , where the material of the myth is not divinities . For instance , the celebration of the October Revolution makes real again the founding event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have so far distinguished myths as being concerned with divinities and as typically occurring in a celebratory , ritual context . Both marks of a myth have to be taken seriously ' . For instance , though children celebrate Christmas in a certain 81 sense by waiting for and receiving the gifts of Father Christmas , who might seem prima facie to qualify as a divinity , in fact ( in England at any rate ) Father Christmas has lapsed largely into a fairy-story . It does not matter too much if he is seen to be a mere fiction . But the genuine myth takes its divinities much more seriously and concretely . One also needs to distinguish a myth from a parable , even though the latter may typically concern divinities . A major mark of the parable is that it is normally a literal tale about ordinary incidents , such as searching for lost money or helping the victim of robbery or having people to a big dinner or trying to get children out of a burning house 3 . It is about divinities , but obliquely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of the parable . The parable tends to be illustrative , rather than material for re-enactment in a celebratory context . It is true that sometimes myths can come to be treated moreor-less as parables , as happens often today with the story of Adam and Eve , which is now treated not as a myth of actual ' events , but as a story illustrating the existential relationship between God and men . It becomes thus something ex-mythic , more parable-like . A feature of many myths is their explanatory ' power . I put the word in quotation marks to distinguish the style of explanation from that available in modern science and history ( for example ) . The so-called aetiological myths give an account of , and a kind of legitimation of , ritual and social practices , while cosmogonic myths explain ' the world in a manner which relates it to the transactions between men and divinities . The attempt to back such explanations scientifically ? to find in modern astronomy , through the Big Bang ' cosmology , for instance , a vindication of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mythic explanation ' . It affirms it in seeking a concrete aspect of the truth ' of the myth and in connecting our investigations with the divinity portrayed in the myth ; but it betrays it in trying to transpose it into another key . In this respect metaphysical explanation , such as that exhibited in natural theology , is nearer to the spirit of mythic explanation . For the natural sciences have nothing to do with celebrations and ritual , while natural 82 theology at least wrestles with the question of whether after all it has to do with the God of Abraham , the living God 4 . The connection between myth and ritual is not surprising in view of the manner in which the gods are characterised , for they are the divinities attracting worship ( while their antibodies , the devils , attract a kind of anti-worship , a renunciation and warding-off of their influence , mythically reflected in the struggle between good and evil in heaven and upon earth , etc . ) . Thus the matter of myths has to do with Foci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its attendants , such as sacrifice . It should not therefore seem odd that myth and ritual go together , typically . The characterisation of myth so far given does not preclude it from referring to historical events . For transactions between divinities and men can occur quite historically , and how indeed should they occur in any other way ? But a caveat is necessary . For we in the twentieth century have arrived at a certain understanding of the historical method and so have reasonably well-defined views as to what could and could not have actually happened . Moreover , we use the phrase historical events ' to refer to events that did indeed happen in history . But if we are to pursue the method of phenomenological bracketing , we must not , in understanding the historical aspect of some myths , let these twentieth-century assumptions get in the way of understanding . First , from a phenomenological point of view there is no difference in kind between an event that did happen and an event that did not happen but is believed or known ' to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ category , both are treated as historical . Second , the fact that we might rule something out now as being historically impossible ( say , Lazarus ' rising from the dead ) does not show that such an event was not treated in a relevant sense as historical in an earlier epoch . The event can be pictured , it is believed unquestioningly , it belongs to the flow of human events , which forms the fabric of history . Thus it is wrong to convert a judgement of truth into a judgement of phenomenological category . For this reason it is not possible to define myth negatively by reference to historicity or to what is scientifically possible . However , we then have the problem of 83 differentiating any myths which are not historical ' , since on the present account they chiefly concern transactions between divinities and men . True , cosmogonic myths and myths of the genealogies and battles of the divinities may be once-removed from human affairs ; but what of myths of the first ancestors and the like ? Should not these be treated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the story of God 's leading Israel out of Egypt ? Some attempt is made by Mircea Eliade to get over this problem by distinguishing between sacred and profane time , between illud tempus , the Grand Time , in which mythic events occurred , and profane time , the time experienced chronologically 5 . He also distinguishes between the cyclical and linear notions of time , the former characteristic of myth and ritual , repeating the Eternal Present , the latter characteristic of the Judaeo-Christian tradition . In part , it seems to me , Eliade is right : there is a way in which some myths express an indefinite past time , illud tempus , especially those dealing with cosmogony and the beginnings of the human predicament , etc . And equally we speak of an indefinite future , the eschatological consummation or restoration of things . Thus both Urzeit and Endzeit are temporally rather indefinite , so much so that when the attempt is made to fix a date , say , for Armageddon , there are many dates to choose from , and they can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counts as a linear view of time . If it is ritual repetition which makes for a cyclical notion , then certainly the Christian tradition entertains the latter , for the Lord 's Supper is re-enacted with great frequency . If it is a belief in cycles of history that makes for the cyclical view , then many ethnic religions do not have it , for they do not indulge in the cosmology of kalpas , rebirths , etc. , such as characterises the Indian tradition and parts of the ancient Greek . If it is a sense of particular dating ( or equivalent devices ) in retelling the story of the faith which makes for a linear view , then Buddhism has this , not only in the story of the Buddha 's life but also in such chronicles as the Mahavamsa and the Culavanzsa ( while even the fabulous Jatakas go in for a sort of dating : When X was king of Y ' , and so forth ) . Further , eschatological 84 notions , though they may not be prominent in Indian religions , certainly exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscious culture outside the West than China . It must then be concluded that the distinction which Eliade wishes to present can not properly be substantiated . But we can do something with the suggestion that the times ' of certain myths are characteristically indefinite , notably those of the Urzeit and the Endzeit . To this extent it is possible to make a distinction between myths which treat their time historically ' and those which do not ( but even here the distinction needs to be qualified : consider the way the Creation myth in Genesis merges into the chronological generations which lead into the chronicle of the nation of Israel ) . If there are problems about time , there are also problems about space . If myths are not always chronological , but take place in a strange time at the beginning or at the end of time , they also involve a dislocation , sometimes , of space . Or let us say that space is not always quite literally presented , but has its discontinuities . This has to do with the location of the divinities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the tendencies of mythic cosmology . This latter phrase is perhaps not entirely appropriate , since I have defined the mythic partly through the idea of a story , the moving picture of divinities ; yet the mythic world itself has as certain background elements a cosmology ? not in the strict sense a scientific one ( even if occasionally protoscientific cosmologies arise or coalesce from mythic ones in strange ways ) . Thus I would prefer a somewhat different term . As it so happens that there are well-known correspondences in the mythic and religious milieux between the macrocosm and the microcosm , and since an important aspect of the latter is the human being , and since there are also well-developed mythic ' physiologies and psychologies in different cultures ( such as the Kundalini idea in the Yoga tradition ) , it is convenient to use the terms macrocosmology ' and microcosmology ' to refer to these two different aspects of the delineation of reality as a background to mythic events . One also needs to speak of a kind of geography as a mean between these two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jambudvipa and the centrality of Mount Meru in 85 the classicallndian tradition . The sacred geography , for the sake of a term , may conveniently be referred to as ' mesocosmology ' . So , then , we may ask what are the locations of mythic events ? As already indicated they can occur importantly upon this earth , in the mesocosmological sphere ; thus Adam and Eve occupied the Garden of Eden , which is indefinitely locatable . But some occur more concretely within known places , lying at or near the centre of a mesocosm , such as the birth of Christ in Bethlehem , the exploits of Krishna at Brindaban , the actions of the gods upon Olympus . One might make a roughly similar distinction to that which I canvassed earlier in relation to time : while some mythic events occur in indefinite time , notably at the beginning and the end of our epoch or of human history as a whole , so some mythic events can occur definitely in a certain known place within the mesocosm , while others occur more indefinitely on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while time , so to say , does not . There could at most be three times ? definite , indefinite , and the eternal ( and the last is a kind of no-time ) ; but space extends beyond the definite , the indefinite , and the transcendent no-space . Or rather , between the mesocosm and no-space ( the transcendent ) there can lie ( in the upward direction ) heaven or a series of layers of heavenly spheres , while below the earthly mesocosm there can be a succession of purgatories and hells . Sometimes these other places can merge into those identified in lateral directions , such as the Pure Land to the West , famous in the Mahayana Buddhist scriptures , which has the attributes of a heaven , though figured mesocosmically but so far out of the mesocosm as to become part of the macroscosm . Thus the indefinite parts of the mesocosm merge into the macrocosm , while the definite parts bring us nearer home . It is , in these terms , possible to define those myths which have an historical content ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prescinding from questions of historical accuracy and the like ) as referring to transactions between divinities and men in the definite part of the mesocosm and a definite segment of time . To put it crudely , they latch on to dates and places , even if these dates and places may be hard to determine by modern methods of historical research . Thus Indra led the 86 Aryans into battle to destroy the forts of the dark-skinned Dasyus , but was this the set of campaigns which destroyed the Indus Valley civilisation ? It perhaps is not even important to determine the historical accuracy of such myths , for they still retain their status as phenomenological objects despite conclusions about truth . We here attempt to describe their style . But many myths tell of occurrences which take place in and beyond the macrocosm when , for instance , the gods battle amongst themselves , or when Satan becomes a fallen angel . Still , in view of the existential nisus of the mythic , portraying the interaction between divinities and men , many myths take place in the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it . The fact that in re-enacting the myth , or in taking part in rituals to which a given myth is relevant , one time is represented in another ( the first Easter , for instance , being recreated here and now in the Easter celebrations ; and men sing Jesus Christ is risen today ' ) is echoed by the possibility of one place being present in another , as when all rivers are somehow the Ganges . But mythic space is essentially more complex than mythic time , because macrocosmology is linked to the differentiation of divinities : heavens , for instance , being spaces occupied by gods , and regions below the mesocosm being the typical habitations of demonic powers . Thus another world ( in and beyond the macrocosm ) can be present in this world , as brahman , for instance , the power sustaining and informing the whole macrocosm is also especially present in the Vedic sacrifices , or as in the descent of divinities to the earthly plane , trailing clouds of their upper glory . The fact that myths are re-told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to understand one aspect at least of this it is useful to look at the dynamics of the divinities . I propose here to sketch a crude model which may illuminate mythic identities , polarities , etc . A divinity has certain properties or powers , either intrinsic or acquired through mythic action . I shall use the term powers ' , since there is a tendency for properties to be treated almost as detached entities . Consider for instance the semiautonomous status of the Amesha Spentas in Zoroastrianism , or 87 the way in which God 's activities can be figured as angels , or the way in which the Sakti or creative power of God in the Indian tradition detaches itself as the female counterpart to the male divinity . The term powers ' is more suggestive of this detachability . It also contains the suggestion of parts or elements rather than of adjectival properties , a point which will prove of some importance in the succeeding analysis . Much ink has been spilled in trying to characterise so-called primitive thinking ' , which in large part amounts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ritual thinking . There are obvious ways in which the account I shall give owes much to these discussions , but I do not wish directly to enter into dialogue here with Levi-Strauss or Levy-Bruhl or others . It is hoped , however , that the principles I outline , though simplified , go some way to making sense of myth and ritual . The first principle to be enunciated ( which covers more than the actions and effects of divinities ) is that manifestations of similar powers are manifestations of an identical power . That is , different entities and occurrences manifesting a given characteristic , such as fieriness , manifest a single power , such as Fire . Every fire participates in Fire . We may call this the principle of power-identity . Clearly much depends upon the criteria for classifying things together as having the same power . For if X is like Y then it will be thought to manifest the same power . But what are the relevant respects in which X is like Y ? Here there is wide room for maneouvre , which becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and entities . Let us enunciate , however , a second principle , that where two entities or occurrences are relevantly alike in respect of some sign , they possess the same power ( as signified by the sign ) . The world is , so to say , such that a power spreads to occupy anything of a given kind . We may call this the principle of likeness . Of course it is necessary to bear in mind that often the signs of likeness are contradictory and here the entities in question are liable to be especially dangerous . Also it is to be expected that a power may exist with greater intensity in one entity or set of entities than in others . To this point we shall return . 88 Powers may be crudely characterised as being good , bad , and neutral ( but I 'll leave the neutral case aside in the following account for the sake of simplicity ) , primarily in relation to human beings , but not exclusively by any means . For one needs to see the mythic ? ritual Weltanschauung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally to both human and non-human events . A good power , looking at the matter anthropocentrically , brings advantage to some group of humans , through some transaction occurring in given conditions . Thus fire transmits heat to food which is being cooked . In other conditions , however , the same power may be dangerous , for fire can burn down a hut or in the form of lightning can kill . It is therefore necessary to discriminate not only the sign of the power , but also the sign of the benefit-bringing conditions . It is an assumption contained in the notion that there are good and bad powers that in some sense these powers transmit themselves in certain conditions or through certain points of contact . In virtue of the principle of likeness there is thus a resemblance of the effect and the cause . The power of fire transmits heat to colder bodies , which thus acquire the power of the transmitter . Where such an acquisition of transmitted power is dangerous , the object is to avoid the appropriate contact or to generate in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so to say , a way of keeping a situation stable . Before applying some of the above remarks more concretely to ritual and myth , one further observation needs to be made , namely that a given power may be held more intensely by one entity rather than by another ( the sun , for instance possesses fire more intensely than my hearth ) . But some mechanism , whether natural or cultural , needs to exist to maintain such superior intensity , otherwise the power becomes dissipated equally among like entities . However , the causal or creative relation between X and Y implies the superior power of X ; and anything which maintains itself as generative of a power in others displays the superior intensity of its power . I shall now apply some of these principles to some simple ritual contexts . Consider a person approaching his chief : 89 person P salutes C ( the chief ) , who may acknowledge the salute . What is the meaning of the salutation ? It is not simply a matter of gratifying the chief 's vanity ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the chief is chief , not because he is vain . We may represent the explanation as being something like this : the occasion is of contact between P and C , where C possesses the power of action or causing action within the group more intensely than P. But both P and C share group membership ; by the principle of likeness C 's power would tend to spread to P , and an equalisation to occur . The salute however is a sign of unlikeness , of the distinction between C and P. Another sign is the acknowledgment ; or the distinctive badges of C ; or the fact that C sits in a more elevated position . To notice such badges is to give the salute , so that the various signs are intrinsically connected . The salute itself maintains the status quo ? the act of approach might put the badges in jeopardy , but the salute maintains them . What it is important to notice about this simple act of ritual is that the salute as a sign of unlikeness and of the superior power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Consider what happens if P fails to produce the sign . If such indifference or insolence is left unpunished the authority of C is to that extent diminished . The damage to his power has to be compensated by a further act , one of humiliating P , as well as indicating the pain and damage liable to be suffered by anyone else failing to produce the sign . In brief , a ritual sign can be part of the power of which it is a sign . This means that it is wrong to treat signs merely as symbolising ' something . Driven snow is said to symbolise purity , and it might be all right , if trite , to paint a picture of a maiden enveloped in driven snow to symbolise a certain kind of purity . However , the driven snow is not part of her purity , but in an important sense the badges of the chief , his fly-whisk , say , are part of his being chief . He is invested with them , and they can of course be taken away by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand why it is that signs appear to be symbolic : for the sign as being part of the power of which it is a sign , and being often a cultural object , is in some respect like that which it signifies , or at least 90 this is frequently and naturally so . It has an analogy to the sign signified of which it is also , by likeness and in practice , a part . Thus the height of a king 's throne is a sign of the way in which the king in virtue of his function is set over ' his people . However , as was said earlier , there is very considerable room for manoeuvre in the selection of signs , since their choice is determined by significant resemblance or analogy , and the respects in which resemblance might be seen are many . The case of the chief is secular ' , in the sense that no special religious or sacred value need be attached to chiefdom . Let us turn now more particularly to sacred rituals . The celebration of Easter may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are obvious but they need to be understood in their mutual relationship . First , there was only one Easter day ? that is the Resurrection was a unique event . Second , from the point-ofview of those participating in the Easter celebrations , Christ truly rose from the dead ( we need not worry here about the historicity of the Resurrection ) . We are concerned here with the phenomenology of it from the point-of-view of the faithful . Third , there is an important way in which the Resurrection is re-presented to the faithful , say on Easter Day , 1970 . Fourth the celebration of Easter involves a ritual . Fifth , during , or as part of , the ritual , the story of Easter is retold . Now it is certainly not enough to say that the telling of the Easter story is intended as an explanation of the continuance of the celebration . It is not enough to say this because the Easter story is in a way the object of the celebration , its content , as it were . Thus if someone declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ( or more significantly is risen from the dead ' ) , he is expressing rejoicing at the Resurrection . This is rather different from We exchange eggs at Easter because originally eggs were a symbol of fertility , relevant at the major Spring festival . ' Thus the telling of the Easter story is an enactment serving as the focus of the celebration . But even so , the enactment still does more than a drama might . After all , in the theatre the main object of repeating what occurred tonight on the next and subsequent nights as well is to recreate the object to be contemplated so that it is available to further audiences . If the audience is big enough , 91 as on television , it may not be important to repeat the drama . But the enactment of the Easter story in telling and in ritual makes the original event present once again . Note that it is the event which is re-presented , namely the Resurrection and Christ 's triumph over death ( on our behalf ) . Thus the myth and ritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event , to be a kind of replica of it . It is of course a replica with a difference , or better we might say that it is an analogical replica perhaps most dramatically expressed in the Eastern Orthodox liturgy . Why is its being a replica important ? Because by the principles of likeness and power-identity , the power of the original event is identified with the power of the enactment . The Easter celebration meets certain conditions of crucial resemblance : it occurs at the same time of year ( or what is calculated to be ) ; there is a correspondence between the telling and the event ; and it participates , as do other communions , in the living power of Christ as saviour . In this last item , of course , a further analysis in terms of analogical likeness and poweridentity has to be given . Thus Christ in blessing the bread and wine and uttering certain words over them authoritatively invested their resemblances to flesh and blood with his real presence . Thus they were possessed ' by him , so that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was transmitted by eating to the disciples , and by repetition to the ever-widening circle of the faithful . The myth and ritual of Easter , then , are replicas of what is taken to be the original event . It needs , though , to be stressed that the original event retains superior significance : it is a condition of the rest . For at least two reasons it is the fount from which the replicas flow . First , it is , as has been said , part of the content of the enactment ( the latter has both a past and a present tense and could not exist on the latter alone ) . Second , the Resurrection is a demonstration of the divinity of Christ , from which the authority of the cultus flows . Thus it demonstrates the locus of the creative or generative power making the cultus possible . And as we have remarked earlier , the creative relation between X and Y implies the superior power of the creator ( X ) 7. 92 Given the principle of power-identity there is nothing especially mysterious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present at Easter after Easter . For it is a feature of natural forces that they manifest themselves at different times . Thus fire can be re-kindled at different times , and cows yield milk this year as they did last . Divine forces can operate in the same manner . What is true of time can also be said of space . Thus the Resurrection occurred in Palestine , but is re-presented in Rome , Athens , and London . There is still , however , a superior power in the original place , and this is a main motive for pilgrimage . The authority of the original event helps to explain why it is that so many myths look back to primordial or founding events . But there is no reason in principle why the same real presence ' should not flow from the future as well as from the past . Indeed this is the function of eschatological myths . The final overcoming of evil by God for example is , a future event in which we can participate now . If faith is the attitude which acknowledges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude acknowledging our assured participation in the future . The relationship between a myth and a ritual which we have here been seeking to establish amounts to this : that the myth , uttered as an element in the ritual , is the central aspect of the way in which the original event is replicated . By the principle of likeness , the words theselves as uttered contain something of the power of the original . This feature of sacred language is characteristically applied to names of sacred and numinous objects , which thus become signs or parts of what they stand for . This point can be used to illustrate an important aspect of mythic ? ritual action . As we have seen , the ritual must be relevantly like the original ( for example , occurring at the same time of the year ) . That is to say , elements in it , such as the utterance of the myth , must occur under the correct conditions . Similarly , invoking the name of God must occur in the correct conditions . Where it does not , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disrespect , the utterance becomes blasphemous . There is something dangerous about blasphemy 93 and if this can be explicated it may throw further light on the dynamics of the divinities who figure in myths . In so far as a divinity displays numinous properties , and exhibits the mysterium tremendum et fascinans of which Rudolf Otto speaks , there exists a polarity between it and the worshipper . Although men can be deemed in some traditions to become superior to gods in power ( consider how the exercise of austerity , tapas , can make the yogi more powerful than the gods ; or how the Buddha is god above gods ' though not a god 8 ) , we can begin with the more typical case of the god who is regarded as superior . The supreme case of this , of course , is , since all creative power is ultimately concentrated in him , the one God of monotheistic faiths . In so far as a god is superior the model of the salutation of the chief applies , though as we shall see a further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the god case from the chief case . But let us begin by applying the salutation model . Whenever there is occasion for a person to address the god , a kind of contact is established . It is like the approach of the person to where the chief is seated . Often this has , of course , an almost literal side to it , where the god is specially present in an image in a sacred building . But even where there is less sense of this physical ' location of the god , the model of approach applies , in so far as a person addresses the god . Given the superior power of the god , the same mechanism has to come into operation as applied in the chief case ? a salutation ( such as praise ) is a sign of the difference between the person and the god . It is a sign indeed of the god 's power , part of which is the capacity to exact praise . To this the numinous experience is , incidentally , relevant , for the awe-inspiring nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact expression of awe . The use of language reverentially in the salutation is correct ; the incorrect use , showing disrespect or unconcern , typifies blasphemy . This in principle is dangerous , for the maintenance of the god 's status and power after this damage calls for the punishment and humiliation of the offender . Whatever may happen on the supernatural or natural planes , the group will tend to take strong action . By the principle of likeness the group and the blasphemer belonging to it are in a 94 sense united in power , and so the power of the blasphemous act itself might be thought to leak over into the community . The blasphemer can be ritually excluded from the group , for instance , with all the disadvantages this would imply . Such exclusion is ritualised because a sign of the unlikeness of the offender to the group has to be established over and against the present situation of his likeness and membership of the group . Incidentally , one may go on to explain in this fashion the conditions in which the offender may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saluting the god might be considered the normal degree of reverence required in approaching the god . The degree to which the blasphemy falls below this determines the degree it must be exceeded in any penitential act . The type of supernatural or natural danger which blasphemy might attract , apart from the action of the worshipping group against the offender , must of course in some degree depend upon the nature of the god addressed . A god whose power is associated with and manifests itself in crops may fail to generate the crops . Gods are not conceived at random , even if there is wide room for manoeuvre in the selection of features of the human environment to be endowed with divine and sacred significance ( thus a god of maize can exist in central America but not in Asia , where maize does not grow ) . One can not to this degree enunciate laws as to the necessary characteristics of the gods : even where patterns recur , they tend to do so in a contingent way . For example , sun gods and moon gods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on all men , but that there is but one moon and one sun is , so to say , a geographical accident of our earthly environment . Still , though the powers of the gods are numerously diverse and often highly particularised , in accord with the situation of their worshippers , it is possible to generalise about their essentially numinous character . Though not all Foci of religious aspiration are numinous , it is quite appropriate to categorise the divine Foci thus . The numinous power of a god induces sacred fear , and this is ambivalent towards human beings ( and in principle other entities ) . The ambivalence can help to explain both the 95 dynamics of divine-human encounters and the nature of evil and maleficent forces existing in the spectrum of divinities ( in the sense explained earlier ) . The numinous induces sacred fear , or awe . Let us assume for the purpose of argument that the fear-inspiring power which it evinces is in principle beneficial , for example that it manifests eternal life , which can overcome death . This salvific potentiality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dialectic . On the one hand , the worshipper appropriately recognises his difference from the god : while the latter is holy and eternal , he is unholy or sinful and short-lived , subject to death . On the other hand , the recognition of the beneficial properties of the god impels the worshipper to hope to share something of the god 's salvific power . For the power to spread to him , by the principle of likeness , he must somehow conform to the god 's nature , at a lower and analogical level no doubt . By purifying himself and putting away his sin , he can achieve that conformity ( or in some theologies it is ultimately achieved for him , by the grace of the god ) . Thus he exists simultaneously as recognising his unlikeness to the god and as aspiring to a kind of likeness . Assuming that the numinous power of the god is intense , the inferiority of the worshipper , even when he conforms himself by significant actions and sentiments to the likeness of the god , will imply his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put it simply , is the main root of all dualistic theologies , where god and man are seen as distinct . Indeed , the ontological difference means that the holiness acquired by man will be ascribed to the sole efficacy of the god , by his grace . Nevertheless , in this dialectic of likeness and unlikeness the worshipper does share in some sense in the holy power of the god . There are many changes to be rung on this theme . The difference between the god and men , and the dangerousness of approaching the god profanely , may lead to the creation of a specialised class of person , priests , who are themselves set apart from the rest of people by virtue of special training , purification , austerity , or capacity for significant kinds of ecstatic experience , and whose function is to deal directly with the god or gods , mediating between them and the people . Again the 96 place of the god may be set apart , to limit approaches , in such a way that certain conditions of purity and sacredness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrain round the god or entering the holy of holies . Similarly the times of approach may be limited , and conditions set , again , for purification , as in the prayer life of the Muslim . It is the essence of the above dialectic that some benefit flowing form the numinous power depends on two conditions : the recognition of the power of and the conformity of the supplicant to at least an analogue of the holiness of the god . I have left the word recognition ' here intentionally ambiguous . For one can recognise , that is to say note , something as dangerous or powerful without acknowledging it ( by saluting and admiring it ) . It is the second that is the substance of recognising the power in the relevant ritual sense . However , I would prefer to use ritual recognition ' somewhat more generally , as we shall shortly see , to include also the ritual relevant to a power considered maleficent . For I hope to show that both pro- and anti-rituals follow the same logic . The fact that the blessing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by him or by men is irrelevant ) points to the other side of the coin , when the conditions are not met . Now in principle the failure to meet the conditions might have a neutral result ; but it is more characteristic for the failure to result in the opposite of blessing , some kind of disaster . The reasons for this are several . First , the sacred and profane represent a disjunction , and so with pure and impure , holy and unholy . It is true that , for instance , in Tantrism the disjunctions can be overcome , but in a way which itself has a sacred significance but at a higher level ; perhaps it is better to say that sometimes the disjunctions are suspended . But as a crude simplification , we are not far wrong to say that the holy unholy disjunction obtains , as the basic principle . The failure then to meet the conditions is equivalent to an infringement of them . By reasoning similar to that which we employed in the case of the chief , the blessing which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fearsomeness of the numinous is now figured as wrath at the ungodly , to cite a Biblical way of speaking . ( Hence the puzzlement when the 97 wicked flourish ; and the shattering effect of the Conquistadors ' destruction of Inca images . ) Naturally , I am not concerned here to portray the situation in moral terms . The moral aspects of blessing and cursing , benefit and disaster depend on the way in which moral values are hooked up to the conception of the god . However , within a given framework of belief and myth , the judgement that the god brings disaster on those who do not fulfil the conditions , who are ungodly ' in this sense , implies a certain acceptance of the conditions and an assumption of the relevantly beneficent power of the god in principle . The god is still the object of pro- ' ritual . This is different from the situation of the anti-god and the appropriate anti-ritual . The latter is a mirror image of the former situation , but obeying the same laws ' . Under certain conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be destructive . Apotropaic ritual ( like making the sign of the Cross on the approach of the Devil ) is a means of signalising and bringing about a lack of conformity to the nature of the Evil One , so that evil powers are not transferred . It is now possible , in virtue of the foregoing rough and ready analysis of the basic behaviour of mythic divinities , to pick out certain themes found in myths . The point of this exercise is to indicate that the understanding of myth is not just a matter of story analysis ( Levi-Strauss ' approach is thus too general 9 ) , but involves attention to the material content of myth , namely divinities . It is true that the nature of the divinities is very much determined by the materials to hand ? I referred earlier to the contingency of mythic content in this respect . Nevertheless the contingencies fall within the framework through which the numinous operates . First , looking at one side of the dialectic between a divinity and its worshippers , the concentration of numinosity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the idea of a difference or a fixed gulf between it and the worshipper . This gap is often figured spatially , and helps to account for the differing levels of the cosmos to which we referred earlier . It is a recurrent theme in African mythology that once the sky was nearer , so that god was close to men , but that through 98 some transgression or accident the distance had been increased . The use of height to express superior power and status ( note how the very word superior ' incorporates the motif ) makes the sky and mountains especially apt locations for divinities . But gods can not get too distant , or at least not all the time , without becoming otiose . It is not just that men may cease to worship the distant being any more ( the deus otiosus being as it were an ex-god ) , but that there is no occasion of his manifestation or presence among us , and part of this absence is indeed the lack of cultus . There must then remain , as typical , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence . This is sometimes facilitated by the principle of likeness , so that an earthly god , such as Fire , can share in and manifest the power of the heavenly Sun ( and in Vedic religion in the intermediate power of Indra 's lightning ) : thus the earthly divinity can be identified with the heavenly one . It is sometimes facilitated by the recognition of a place as being especially the heavenly god 's dwelling place , where his real presence ' is most assured ; similarly with sacred images , which signify the god and are in a sense part of him ; likewise temporal places ' can especially manifest the divine power . In all such cases the myths topically give an account of the god 's special presence and indicate thereby the authorisation for regarding a place or time as holy or for regarding a particular rite or image as endowed with divine power . Since a rite can be indefinitely repeated in the appropriate conditions there remains assurance of the continued presence and power of the god . Although distance is likely to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of likeness facilitates the identification of divinities themselves . To this extent the problem about polytheism is how it maintains itself . Part of the answer lies in the very fact that gods are cult- and placerelated , so that the maintenance of special times and locations of special presence preserves distinctions . Another part of the answer is that by the same token different divinities can relate to different groups with their own specialised cults ( consider the Greek divinities in this respect , and the caste and village related gods of India ) . Here it is often better to combine a kind of unity with diversity through myths of the origin of one 99 god through a superior one , for example by procreation . Still another part of the answer is that the powers of the gods are often mutually threatening and clashing . We may bring out some of these points by examining a myth described by Kees W. Bolle 10 ) . At one time the world and the gods were threatened by a powerful demon . The demon was particularly hard to defeat since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was Visnu who succeeded in destroying the demon by assuming the form of a beautiful woman , Mohini ( ' the deluding one ' ) . The demon , infatuated , was asked by Mohini to anoint himself before coming to her . In anointing himself , he could not but touch himself , and thus he himself became ashes . While all this was taking place , Mohini had made a great impression on Siva . When the episode was over and calamity warded off , Siva asked Visnu to assume the same beautiful form . Aiyanar was born as the child of Siva and Visnu . The name Hariharaputra indicates this origin : son of Hari ( Visnu ) and Hara ( Siva ) ' . Aiyanar as a village deity of South India is related in this myth to the wider universal ' tradition of the cult of Siva and Visnu . By being born of them he is , so to say , legitimised by them ; or to put it another way , the cult of Aiyanar is legitimised in a broader ( and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppose , in theory have been made to descend from both Visnu and Siva by putting their ancestry two generations back , rather than one ( though then awkward problems arise about the superior status of the immediate parents ) . Given a onegenerational gap between the two great gods and Aiyanar , the problem then arises as to how they can properly be his parents , seeing that they are both male . The transformation of Visnu into Mohini solves this problem , but for the solution to be satisfying there must be a reason for the transformation which connects up with Aiyanar 's nature . This in fact occurs in the story , because Aiyanar 's role is protective ? he is a kind of divine village policeman and thus keeps the forces of chaos at bay . 100 The theme of a chaotic demonic threat to divine and world order is , of course , not infrequent in mythology . Put at its simplest the present myth incorporates the idea of a beneficent divinity , Visnu , and that of a maleficent adversary . Now the notion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point-of-view of our present account of mythic forces . Dealing with a dangerous and numinous force involves discriminating its nature so that appropriate action may be taken . The function of the chief 's badges also , as we saw earlier , was to signalise his superiority over the person approaching him . Presumably if the maleficent demon were to recognise Visnu one of two things would have to happen : either the acknowledgement of Visnu 's high status by the demon , a kind of defeat , or the presentation of a challenge . The latter would not be altogether favourable from Visnu 's point-of-view as he would be liable to be worsted in any combat with such a sizzling divinity . Thus Visnu 's power is best preserved by its being concealed through transformation . Visnu now instead of being apparently a threat to the demon becomes an alluring attraction . The tricky condition laid down by Mohini leads to an inversion . Visnu , really hostile to the demon , appears to be alluring ; the demon seeming to be destructive of others is really destructive of himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by descent from superior divinities ( and a similar legitimation of the cultus ) and a story of clashing divine powers . The preservation of an atmosphere of conflict in the divine realm reflects the existential condition of men in a world where good , evil , and chaotic interplays of forces remain , however tidily and effectively different features of it are discriminated . Chaos also is the opposite of determinate creation . The creative power of divinity gives form to the world or to a particular aspect , and it is this determinacy which enables people to understand and recognise the conditions for dealing with divinity and with forces in the world . The chaotic is therefore a threat . Likewise transitional states where determinacy is lost come up frequently in myth as items of special significance . These in turn have an analogy to rites of passage , which signalise the proper transition from one condition to another . 101 Spirits of the dead , for example , may become threatening and demonic if their transition from this world into the next is not arranged properly . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the worshipper , so that there is an ontological dualism between god and man , a dualism which reaches its strongest expression in monotheistic cults , there are ways in which gods can possess and become powerfully present in human beings . Just as an image can be suitably endowed with the presence of its god , so can the priest and the prophet become similarly endowed . Some forms of divine kingship are of this character . The main thesis which I have been advancing in this account of the dynamics of divinities is that the mythic ? ritual milieu operates with its own principles of numinous power . But it by no means follows from this that it is possible to neglect other items of content . Clearly these are related to the circumstances of the mythmakers , for the very need for gods to show their power here and now , and again and again , give them very particular anchorages in the world . Similarly the dynamics will be affected by the structure of the society in which the mythmaking occurs . The fact that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements into patterns structured by the described dynamics , indicates the scope and limitation of psychological explanations of mythical motifs . It may be true to say that the lingam is a fertility symbol , and its disguised resemblance to an upright phallus echoes concretely the material that may be found in dreams . But this only indicates the manner in which this particular ritual item , the stone pillar , has been selected as a sign of the god 's vivifying power . What is important is that it is taken as a sign . Since there can be very wide latitude in the perception of significant resemblances qualifying items to be signs , psychological explanations can sometimes throw light on why one thing rather than another has been selected . But they do not thereby explain the total structure or the type of dynamics involved . The general account which I have given of mythic ? ritual thinking can throw some light upon the hoary dispute about 102 the difference between magic and religion . It is not a distinction which earns much respect these days , due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a better appreciation of the role of empirical beliefs and technologies among so-called primitive ' folk . However , it remains the case that quite a lot of people in different manners perform rituals relevant to the success of practical enterprises and to the maintenance of the world order . These might be thought to be in some sense magical ' . It would be simplistic to suppose , however , that the rites just bring about the result in question . ( I leave aside here sorcery and witchcraft . ) It would also be simplistic to neglect the relative nature of knowledge and belief ; that is , the rationality of the ritual is related to the picture of the world and events held by the performers of the ritual . Given that a ritual itself realises the power of that towards which it is directed it can be seen as enhancing that power ( for which reason gods are sometimes considered to feed on the sacrifices made to them , gaining substance from them ) . It also formalises the dependence of the performer and his group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a reciprocal recognition by the divinity of the group . These things being so , there is indeed a way in which ritual signs help nature on its way : man and the god form a cooperative system . But this is not to say that the ritual causes the coming of the rain . The rain god causes that ( unless hindered by some other power ) , but the rain god 's power has been recognised and enlarged through the ritual sign . The ritual , then , forms but one part of practical activity in relation to the forces of the world . But in being a sign of those powers it draws men and their natural and supernatural environment into a single nexus . This is further reinforced by a consequence flowing from the nature of the ritual sign itself , namely that the occurrence of whatever may be wished for ? the onset of rain , victory in battle , fearlessness ? itself can be treated as a sign , as we say , Such-and-such is a sign of God 's blessing . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for blessing is the ritual release of beneficent power . Just as part of man 's practical activities are specifically ritual , so the world acts both naturally and ritually . 103 It therefore would seem appropriate not to draw a line between religion and magic ( all religions can be considered magical ) but between differing kinds of religion . Thus some concentrate rather heavily upon fertility cults ; others are primarily concerned with divine actions in history ; some see blessings in this-worldly prosperity ; others stress the acquisition of spiritual powers , and so on . These differing concerns will lead to very differing selections of the primary materials of the myths . The preceding general account of myth has , of course , stressed its coordination with ritual , and it has also made considerable use of the idea of the numinous . It may therefore be of some interest to consider the role of mythic stories where the ritual and numinous elements in religion are not of ultimate importance . Here the religion of the Pali Canon of Theravada Buddhism may prove to be illuminating . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be derived from a divine Being , but rather the stilling of those forces which make for rebirth , and the attainment of supreme peace and insight ? such is the attainment of nibbana . And this end is not to be achieved by worship or sacrifice . Yet there are plenty of divinities referred to in the Pali canon ; there are quite a number of encounters between the Buddha and the gods , while the drama of his transactions with the evil Mara are highly significant in his legendary life . The role of myth , consequently , is an ambiguous one in the Theravadin context . The teachings of Buddhism both play and fail to play in the same league as mythic thought . Consider the question of the power of Mara 12 . He is the death-dealer , as his name implies , and he is death-dealer because he rules over and is identified with the sphere of sensual experience . Through pursuing the objects of sense we are bound ever more closely to the repetitive sequence of death , rebirth , death , and so on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbol of the sensual ; that is , unlike Aphrodite in later poetry , a merely metaphorical concretisation of the forces of love . There is , as we shall see , an analogue of this in the case of Mara , but only at a certain level of exposition . In practice , Mara appears as the evil Tempter , liable to deflect 104 even the Buddha from his chosen path . Yet he is defeated time and time again , both by the Buddha and by other arahants ? the Buddha 's victories , however , being prototypical . It is worth looking at the mechanism whereby Mara is defeated . Basically , the weapon used is knowledge . The superior insight of the Buddha renders the blandishments and tricks of Mara vain . Of course , this knowledge or insight is not informational knowledge of an ordinary kind ; rather it is insight into the underlying character of the world , attained existentially in meditative practice and buttressed by the serenity that selfcontrol can bring . Thus Mara attempts to mislead by false teaching , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had rejected ) but he is reprimanded by the Buddha . He tries to disturb people 's serenity , by for example making a loud noise while the Buddha is preaching to his disciples , but again the source of the noise is discriminated by the Buddha and overcome . There are ways in which such stories conform to the mythic dynamics we have been discussed . First both the Buddha and Mara represent opposing threats , so that any occasion of ' encounter will lead to a dangerous transaction . Second , the power of the Buddha results from a combination of insight and serenity , and the opposed forces are delusion and sensuality . Let us consider the insight aspect . If Mara is to have any chance of victory he should try to escape its damaging power . Hence he tends to disguise himself ( as a noise-making bullock , as a false-teaching brahmin , and so on ) on his approach . It is appropriate for him to have this deceptive aspect , for more generally it is the deceptive appearance of things which binds men to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deception . Thus his defeat is by the countervailing use of knowledge , signalised in the first instance by the fact that Mara despite his efforts at disguise is recognised by the Buddha . In relation to conceptions of numinous power , the insight of the Buddha and of emancipated arahants thus appears as a superior power , yet it strictly does not belong to this realm of thinking . Likewise the Buddha himself can be called devatideva or god above gods ' , but he does not function in the Canon as a god . He transcends the gods , just as nibbana transcends all 105 heavenly regions , and the knowledge of nibbana all numinous powers . Thus the higher values of the Buddha 's path have an ambiguous relation to the mythic ? ritual realm . Though essentially playing in a higher and different league , they are to be viewed from the perspective of the religious milieu as superpowers . In so far as Mara exists as a summation of the threatening forces surrounding men , the teaching and insight of the Buddha exists as a superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gods can be conjured away as empty symbolic figures . This comes out in the subtle transformation of the gods effected in Buddhist doctrine . The gods exist , as unseen psychological forces , but they are robbed of true respect . For they are categorised as impermanent , non-eternal , and thus not ultimately possessing the crucial property which is at the heart of salvation . They are as empty and without self as the empirical individual migrating from life to life . Ultimately therefore nothing is to be gained by cultivating them in worship and sacrifice , even if such practices are , within certain limits , tolerated in the Theravadin tradition . The transcendence of Mara and the gods has then to be seen as something more than the affirmation that something more powerful ' than they exists ( though this is in a manner true ) and it could be for this reason that the Buddha condemned the display of iddhis , supernormal powers acquired by saints , for it would give the impression that the Buddha and his insight play in the same league , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the heart of Buddhism belongs to a different order . It is therefore not in the last resort very surprising that the figure of Mara can be made to disappear in the analysis of the nature of existence , in the formal and more scholastic treatment of it in the Abhidhamma ; Mara is , so to say , ultimately demythologised ' . This , then , is the ambiguous status given to the mythic in the Theravada . As matters developed , the Theravada was not of course without its rituals . Although the Buddha is no longer available for a true transaction , for the individual is as it were dissolved in nibbana , his popular prestige could yet be maintained in temples and ceremonies ( not here true worship , yet overtones thereof ) to signalise the Buddha 's transcendence of the gods . 106 The monks ' robes could too be the object of veneration , instilling some numinous power in the Sangha in a world suffused with such powers . Yet throughout the ambiguity remains , and these forms of cult are a skilful means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serene Dhamma which leads to liberation . Is an explanation as to why Buddhism should display this ambiguous and ironic attitude towards the mythic ? ritual world called for ? At one level , of course , there is the fact that Buddhism was opposed to the highly developed sacrificial religion of the Brahmins . But though this was doubtless in a measure due to sociological motives , it is necessary to penetrate to the deeper reasons for the rejection ( reasons which incidentally had some analogy to the rather different exercise undertaken in some of the leading Upanisads , namely that of reinterpreting the meaning of the sacrificial ritual in the light of the interior quest ) . The deeper reasons had to do with the psychological and contemplative character of the Buddhist path . Psychological , in that the doctrine of karma was interpreted primarily in terms of the attitudes and sentiments which lead to attachment and rebirth ; contemplative , because the supreme liberation was to be achieved by a personal reorientation in the context of yogic techniques . Sati and samadhi , self-awareness and contemplation , represent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplation was not directed at a god , an Other , as we find it in Sufism and in Christian mysticism : in brief , the locus of mystical knowledge had not received a prior definition as the Focus of worship and adoration , and as the supreme numinous Creator . Far from it ; it makes no sense , in Theravada Buddhism , to speak of nibbana as the Focus of worship , and even the transcendental Dhamma which the Buddha realises in his life and preaching is only with a strain to be described as a mysterium tremendum et fascinans . Fascinans , perhaps , but in what sense is it tremendum , to be trembled in front of 13 ? It is only from the ambiguous context of the transcendence of mythic powers that it would be possible to think of the Dhamma in this way . Thus the deeper reason for the true transcendence of the mythic and of ritual in Theravada Buddhism is that it ultimately 107 concentrates upon the contemplative experience as a means of liberation , without having previously defined the highest goal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It exhibits therefore a style and atmosphere of liberation to which a numinous Focus is simply irrelevant . By the same token the dynamics of numinosity , as displayed in the realm of myth and ritual , are at best something to be taken into account in educating followers to go beyond their mythic ? ritual milieu . Its Focus is beyond myth , transmythic . There is a congruence between this approach to myth and the Theravadin treatment of cosmology . Thus the elaborate series of upper worlds , impermanent heavens , are correlated to differing stages of jhana or meditation . This equation between place and psychological state prepares the way for seeing the end of the world ' ( nibbana ) as something to be seen ' and tasted ' by the saint at an even higher level of contemplative insight . At the same time full use is made folkloristically and mythically of the heavenly realms in exhibiting the previous locus of the Buddha before his descent to earth , the loci of the various types of gods and the rewards of good conduct , bringing one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the place of myth in a religion which in certain respects transcends it , it is perhaps worth contemplating the mythic dimension of the Christian tradition , to illustrate a case where this type of thinking is very central , or at least has been traditionally . At the heart of Christianity there is , of course , a doctrine of redemption and salvation . This ultimately involves a special interpretation of the myth of Adam . In his pristine state Adam is close to his maker , and though ontologically distinct , as is demanded by the unique holiness and creativity of God , he bears some analogical resemblance to him , and is singled out for special relationship to God . His powers are tainted , however , by the Fall , in which all men share , for Adam is the prototype and ultimate generator of mankind ( even Eve derives from his substance ) . In a mysterious way Adam has failed to fulfil the right conditions for relationship with God . Thus God , though in principle beneficent , also is a kind of threat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in whom all 108 holiness whatsoever is concentrated ( so that he is jealous ' of the alleged existence of other gods ) implies that any holiness to be acquired by man , to put him again into right relationship with God , must derive from God . The themes of Christ as the second Adam and as the Paschal sacrifice explain the Redemption , and in the following manner . First , by Adam death and the incapacity for eternal life ( a crucial attribute of the divine Being ) came into the world : a second Adam , taking on the substance and powers of humanity , enables men ( by the principle of likeness ) to share in eternal life . At the same time , secondly , the alienation of man from God due to man 's transgression is overcome by a sign which easily outweighs the offence and thus averts the punishment of God , namely the sacrifice of Christ , on behalf of men . Solid with these themes is the argument : only God can save , only man can expiate , so God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save , because it follows from the concentration of holiness , saving power , in one Being . Only man can expiate , since man is the source of his own alienation . But expiation , to be effective , must also involve an act of salvation , and hence the Incarnation . But we may note further how the dynamics develop . Christ has to be considered as having two natures , partly because the ontological difference between man and God , required by the highly charged numinosity of a monotheistic faith , has to be maintained . Men can share in Christ 's risen humanity but not strictly in his divinity . However , a lower analogue of the divine powers can be attained by man , though through the operation of God 's grace and favour : he can rule his environment , cooperating thus with God 's creative activity in bringing order out of nothingness ; he can share in Christ 's resurrection and thus be transfigured , he can have access to peace of spirit and love . This transfer of powers ' is altogether logical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows from the limitless superiority of God as holy , and is reinforced by the ritual signs of that holiness including the praise and worship of God and the declaration by man of his own creaturely and sinful condition . These signs , incidentally , are given wider 109                     