@@774109

txt amendment of the constitutional powers of the House of Lords . The poll in the general election of December 1909 was the highest recorded to that date . It resulted in the loss of 104 government seats . The clear majority of Liberals over Conservativesdeclined dramatically to a mere two : the Governmentleaned upon 82 Irish Nationalists and 40 Labour members . The new Parliament in 1910 was confronted with two major issues , the Budget itself and the reform of the House of Lords . The Conservatives were bitter : encouraged by the number of seats they had won , they were nevertheless frustrated that they had not won more . The price which the Irish were threatening to extort for their support of the Government was the virtual destruction of the powers of the Lords in order to make way for a Home Rule Bill : they agreed on an order of priorities by which a Resolution on the reform of the Lords was to precede the Finance Bill , which would then be followed by actual legislation to reform the powers of the Lords @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . Meanwhile , both the party leaders were playing a cool game . Balfour , fearful of inheriting fiscal chaos , avoided the defeat of the Government , whilst Asquith , pressed for details on what he would do to the Lords , produced a catch-phrase which stuck to him for the remainder of his career ? Wait and see ! ' Asquith 's colleagues were by no means unanimous on what their attitude to the Lords should be : should the composition of the House be reformed ( by the creation , for example , of lifepeerages ) , or should the composition remain the same but the powers of the Upper House be modified ? Asquith 's patiently mild proposals were broadly similar to those put forward by Campbell-Bannerman some years previously : after a preamble on the reform of the composition of the House of Lords at some future date , it was proposed that the Lords should lose all power to delay money Bills ; that their suspensive veto should apply for only two years ; and that the maximum life of any Parliament should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly perturbed by the implications of such proposals , but recent historians have doubted whether hep131could have greatly influenced affairs . However , his personal destiny did seriously disrupt constitutional history at this stage , for in May 1910 he died . Asquith received the news as he was homeward bound aboard the yacht Enchantress from Gibraltar : I remember well that the first sight that met my eyes in the twilight before dawn was Halley 's comet blazing in the sky ... I felt bewildered and indeed stunned ' . Ministers were naturally reluctant to embarrass the new monarch , who was painstakingly conscientious in his constitutionalattitude , though not over-perceptive in matters of political subtlety . A constitutional conference was accordingly held to seek a compromise . Lloyd George , who was essentially a pragmatist in politics ( and it has been pertinently asked whether there is a difference between pragmatism ' and opportunism ' in politics ) was seeking a coalition government , and was even prepared to negotiate on tariff reform . But the conference broke down on the likelihood that the House of Lords would reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the near future . Asquith was now determined on a decisive general election , which should be fought specifically upon the issue of reforming the powers of the House of Lords . King George V wanted two general elections , one on reform and then a second on any amendments which might arise . But Asquith stood firm , and the King 's Secretary , Francis Knollys , performed a public service by deceiving the King about Balfour 's attitude . Had George V known that Balfour was in fact prepared to form an alternative government , an ugly political situation might well have developed . Asquith threatened to resign and the King , knowing of no possible alternative , agreed to create if necessary enough Liberal peers to defeat the serried ranks of Conservatism in the House of Lords . The general election took place in December 1910 , to the embarrassment of the Labour Party , since the Osborne Judgmentof the same year in the House of Lords had decreed that it was illegal for any part of trade union funds to be used for party political purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign funds , however , Labour M.P.s returned marginallyp132stronger in the new House of Commons . Numerous seats in fact changed hands , but in the overall result there was very little alteration in the balance of power , the Liberals having lost three seats and the Conservatives one . The reform of the House of Lords was naturally the most important factor in the campaign , but Home Rule and Tariffs were still very lively issues . Balfour , indeed , lost influential support within his party by proposing a referendum on tariffs . The Parliament Bill , embodying the reforms earlier set out by Asquith , was subjected to numerous amendments by the Lords during June 1911 , until Asquith informed Lansdowne and Balfour on 20 July that the King had agreed to create Liberal peers if necessary ? and indeed Asquith had himself drawn up a list of several hundred potential Liberal peers which is still fascinating today . Faced with defeat , the extremist Conservativesin the Commons , led by F. E. Smith and Lord Hugh Cecil , created a disgraceful disturbance on 24 July and drowned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House matched that of the hottest summer for seventy years . In the closing stages of the struggle the Conservatives divided themselves into the hedgers ' , who were prepared to compromise rather than face what Curzon ( who so greatly modified his earlier opposition as to vote for the Bill ) regarded as the dilution ' of the aristocracy ; and the ditchers ' ( led by the octogenarian Lord Halsbury ) , prepared to fight to the last . The Bill passed the House of Lords by 131 votes to 114 , 37 Conservative peers voting with the Government . The conflict between the hedgers ' and the ditchers ' brought to a head dissatisfaction with Balfour 's leadership . Characteristically , when faced with a Balfour must go ! ' campaign , Balfour resigned in November 1911 , well knowing that no obvious successor existed . Balanced between the tariff reformers ' claims for Austen Chamberlain and the traditionalist stand for Walter Long , the Conservatives compromised and chose Andrew Bonar Law , an able politician , but an iceberg of a man , lacking any redeeming vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadian newspapertycoon Max Aitken ( Lord Beaverbrook ) . Lloyd Georgep133has an anecdote which throws into relief the human characteristics of Bonar Law ( and of Lloyd George ! ) I remember before the War , while we were both staying at Cannes , driving with him on a sunny day along the road to the golf course at Cagnes . The sky was cloudless and the sea was blue as only the Mediterranean can be , while on our left was the white-topped amphitheatre of the Maritime Alps . I turned to Bonar and asked him if he did not think it beautiful . I do n't care much for scenery ' , he replied in his rather toneless voice . The night before I had been to a performance of one of Mozart 's operas ? I think it was Il Seraglio ' . It was the first time I had heard it and I was struck with its exquisite beauty . I mentioned the fact to Bonar Law , but his reaction to my enthusiasm was only to say I do n't care much for music ' . As we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also on the way to play golf . I called Bonar Law 's attention to them . Women do n't attract me ' was his laconic answer . Will you tell me , ' I said , exasperated at all this disdain for the attractions of life , what it is you do care for ? Scenery ? music ? women ? none of them has any meaning for you . What is it that you do like ? " l like bridge ' , was the reply . ' oThe parliamentary reform of 1911 was rounded off by the provision of payment of L400 a year for M.P.s , an important step forward in progress towards democracy . The resolution of the constitutional conflict , however , was far from marking the end of the Government 's troubles . Indeed , even before the catastrophe of war broke upon it in 1914 , Asquith 's administration was hovering on the brink of disaster . Its principal worries concerned mounting industrial unrest , the militant campaign for women 's suffrage , and an increasingly dangerous situation in Ireland which was callously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social unrest was a persistent fall in real wages , masked from the superficial viewer by the contemporary boom in investment . As Miss Barbara Tuchman has pointed out , the era before the Great War was only a Golden Age to the few , and was in any case rosily tinted by retrospective nostalgia after the war . In fact , in the decade or so before the war , whilst the gross value of unearned income in Britain rose by 55 per cent , retail prices rose by one-third and the actual value of wages fell by 13 per cent . Poverty struck hard at its victims : the Poor Law was harsh in the extreme , and the workhouse test was imposed on candidates for poor relief . In 1910 and 1911 there was general unrest in industry and numerous strikes were marked by violence , the most grievous examples occurring in Liverpool , where two men were killed and some 200 injured . Trade union membership numbered over four million by 1914 , and the creation of the Triple Alliance of Miners , Railwaymen and Transport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great period of the syndicalist argument : militant trade union leaders like Tom Mann and A. J. Cook foresaw the achievement of the Socialist millenium by the kind of concerted industrial action calculated to paralyse the nation 's economy and government and overthrowParliament . Threats of this sort transformed Winston Churchill 's attitude to social problems and led to his adoption of those reactionary postures towards strikers for which he later became notorious . The leaders of the Labour Party were far from unanimous in their attitude : idealists like Philip Snowden refused to compromise ; Ramsay MacDonald was more of a realist and recognised the Labour movement 's need of the Liberals to revoke the Osborne Judgment . The legislative answers put forward by the Liberals to these problems undoubtedly laid the foundations of the Welfare State . Lloyd George and Churchill were responsible for two great pioneering schemes of social insurance . In 19o8 Lloyd George visited Germany , saw the Bismarckian social legislation in operation and was converted . The conversionof the Treasury was a more difficult matter , but in 1911 a scheme of health insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 16o a year . The great civil servant Robert Morant was transferred from the Board of Education to implement the Government 's plans . A total of 14 million people were covered at a cost to the employee of 4d a week , with 3d from the employer and 2d from the State . Free medical treatment was provided , with a maximum sickness benefit of 1 os a week for up to six months.  |p135In  the Labour Exchanges , Churchill had already at his disposal the machinery for operating a measure of unemploymentinsurance which covered 24 million workers ( without providing for their families ) . Employee , employer and State were each to contribute 22d a week to provide an unemploymentbenefit of 7s a week for a maximum period of fifteen weeks in any year . To claim benefit , the worker had to sign on ' at the Labour Exchange . Both schemes were subjected to a vigorous and varied campaign of opposition from vested interests ranging from the doctors to employers of domestic servants . Nevertheless , the methods of financing welfare on the basis of schemes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precedent for future social legislation . The two great measures of insurance , and other valuable reforms such as the Mines Act of 1911 , the Shops Act of 1912 and the reversal of the Osborne Judgment by the Trade Union Act of 1913 ( which decreed that trade unionists not wishing to contribute to the political levy should contract out ) failed to stem the tide of industrial unrest , which continued right up to the outbreak of war . Moreover , a good deal of Lloyd George 's vitality was sapped by his involvement in a scandal over shares in the Marconi Company ? an involvement which Asquith rather disingenuously encouraged Lloyd George and others to attempt to conceal from the House of Commons . Churchill 's energies , meanwhile , after a brief spell at the Home Office ( 1910-11 ) had been transferred to the congenial environment of the Admiralty , where he set to work with characteristic enthusiasm to create a Naval Staff and to meet the challenge of the German Fleet programme by measures which , after a struggle with Lloyd George , raised the Naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million . He defined the race in naval armaments between Britain and Germany in concise terms : It is expansion to them ; it is existence to us ' . During this same period , the Government was harassed by the militant campaign for women 's suffrage . The campaign was some forty years old and had been conducted in an eminently rational and respectable fashion by the National Union of Women 's Suffrage Societies , whose members were usually called suffragists . In 1903 , however , the Women 's Social and Political Union ( whose members were called suffragettes ) was created , and the emphasis of at least this part of the campaign was transformed . Under the inspiration of the redoubtable Mrs Emmeline Pankhurst , who exhibited some of the more alarming tendencies of the natural dictator , the suffragettes undertook a programme of increasing violence which , though it certainly drew attention to the campaign , scarcely served to paint a convincing picture of the rational capabilities of potential women voters . Pillar-boxes were exploded , windows smashed , women chained themselves to railings and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most bizarre episode of all , Emily Davison threw herself in front of the King 's horse at the Derby and was killed , providing the occasion for a funeral which combined the moving with the maudlin in confusing proportions . It is doubtful to this day what useful service was rendered to the movement by the suffragettes , who certainly undid much of the good work so painstakingly achieved by the suffragists . Lloyd George , for example , was by no means unsympathetic to the cause of women 's suffrage , but he was understandably put off by the excesses of the Pankhursts and their followers . Asquith , liberal-minded in so many ways , was opposed to women 's suffrage , and was duly rewarded with some of the most scathing attacks by the militants upon The Right DishonourableTwo-Faced Asquith ' . The social implications of a proposal in 1909 for complete adult suffrage alarmed him , and so did the political implications of Conservative advantage in a proposal to enfranchise women householders . He stood firm in face of violent attacks both inside and outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Home Secretary , Reginald McKenna , who refused to be blackmailed by suffragette prisoners and ordered their forcible feeding when they went on hunger strike . Since the pacifist and sentimentalist George Lansbury castigated Asquith as the man who tortured innocent women ' , it is interesting to speculate concerning epithets which might have been applied to the Prime Minister had he let the hunger strikers die of starvation . In fact , the enfranchisement of women in Britain was one of thep137positive results of the First World War , during which , in the best traditions of the suffragists , they seized their unprecedented opportunity for demonstrating their responsible contribution to national life to a degree which could no longer be gainsaid . A Welsh grievance was met by the measure for the disestablishmentof the Welsh Church , which was attacked by Conservatives . The operation of the reform was delayed by the outbreak of war . But Ireland was not to be so easily pacified , and provided extremist and unscrupulous elements within the Conservative Party with the opportunity of carrying their opposition to the very brink of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of the gentle , cultivated Augustine Birrell as Chief Secretary for Ireland from 1907 to 1916 . Conservative opposition was focused on the understandable intransigence of Ulster , where religious bigotry was mobilised in the service of political opposition to any union with the Catholic south , union which the Ulstermen feared would be the concomitant of the Liberal policy of Home Rule for Ireland . At the head of the Ulstermen was Edward Carson , a distinguishedlawyer and a most dangerous political prima donna . He became Chairman of the Ulster Unionist Council in 1910 and in a theatrical gesture subscribed on his knees to the Ulster Covenant : nearly half a million Ulstermen followed him in swearing to use all means necessary to oppose Home Rule . A force of Ulster Volunteers , 100,000 strong , was created , ready to impose a provisional government . ' When the Government put forward its Home Rule Bill in 1912 the problem of Ulster was ignored , and concessions to Ulster were made too late to avert an ugly constitutional crisis . The House of Lords did not hesitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had left in its hands , whilst some of the Conservatives were flirting dangerously with the idea of winning over the Monarch to a coup d'etat . Conservative leaders did not hestitate openly to advocate unconstitutional action : Bonar Law wrote to the King 's Secretary in terms of civil war ; F. E. Smith said that from the moment Home Rule became law we hold ourselves absolvedE2 from all allegiance to this government ' ; and Carson had clearly cast himself in the role of dictator of Ulster . On 9 March 1914 Asquith moved the third reading of the Home Rule Bill , which now included the provision that the voters of any Irish county could opt out of Home Rule for a period of six years . The provision failed to mollify Ulster , for in fact there were only four of the counties whose voters were likely to take advantage of it . Carson in any case objected to the time-limit on staying out . The Irish Nationalists naturallyopposed any watering-down of the measure . A crisis was foreshadowed when Lord Willoughby de Broke proposed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Government , fearing serious disorders in Ulster , took steps to reinforce the army units there , and precipitateda mutiny at the Curragh . There were demands that officers whose homes were in Ulster should not be sent to join the garrisons there . Such a demand was not unreasonable , but attempts to meet it were bungled by the Commander-inChiefin Ireland , General Paget . An open announcement was made that officers whose homes were in Ulster could disappear ' if ordered north ; and other officers who were opposed to militaryaction in Ulster were invited to resign . Brigadier Gough and fifty-seven out of seventy officers of the Third Cavalry Brigade were prepared to be dismissed if they were not given a written assurance that they would not be ordered into Ulster . The mutiny at the Curragh was settled by negotiations in which the Secretary for War , J. E. B. Seely , went so far as to accede to Gough 's demands . Thus the Government was unable to take military action in Ulster . Seely was dismissed , and Asquith personally took charge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutiny , notably Sir Henry Wilson ( Director of Military Operations ) , who had been actively intriguing behind the scenes , escaped punishment . With the Government effectively disarmed , the Ulster Volunteers were armed by gun-runners . Such was the situation ? Ulster armed ( largely with German equipment ) and Ireland taking up arms ? when the tragic threat of civil war in Ireland was swallowed up in the greater tragedy of international war in Europe.  |p139Swimmers  into CleannessLeaping ' : The Idealism of WarNow , God be thanked Who has matched us with His hour , And caught our youth , and wakened us from sleeping , With hand made sure , clear eye , and sharpened power , To turn , as swimmers into cleanness leaping , Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary , Leave the sick hearts that honour would not move , And half-men , and their dirty songs and dreary , And all the little emptiness of love . RUPERT BROOKE , PeaceRUPERT BROOKE was the poet of the idealism of the early days of the war , before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every twenty-eight citizens of France , one in every thirty-two Germans , one in every fifty-seven Britons , and one Russian in every one hundred and seven . Brooke has been much criticised and even ridiculed by later generations ; it should be remembered that he lived in an age when patriotism was not quite the rather ambiguous virtue which it is today , and that he died before the most appalling dividends of the war of attrition were paid . His feelings were mirrored in France , and certainly in Germany , where Thomas Mann could write of a purification , a liberation , an enormous hope . The victory of Germany will be the victory of soul over numbers ' . Popular enthusiasm in Britain once the war had begun was manifested in a willingness to serve . In the week ending 5 September 1914 , 175,000 men were enlisted , and by the end of September , a total of 750,000 . Up to March 1916 , a totalp140of 2 million came forward , all by voluntary recruitment , although the moral compulsion of Kitchener 's pointing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ? was supplemented by the emotional blackmail of white feathers distributed by charming and eminently respectable ladies , and by the iniquitous oratory of Horatio Bottomley , whose purse waxed as fat as his person . Popular enthusiasm and poetic idealism were scarcely reflected , however , in the attitude of the Government . The Cabinet was divided and hesitant , confused in part by the ambiguity of Grey 's foreign policy , which reflected his whole personality : a colleague complained that Grey 's avoidance of the point-blank amounted to method ' . By August 1914 , however , Grey , in what John Morley called his strenuous simplicity ' , was in favour of war , along with Churchill and his daemonic energy ' ( the phrase again is Morley 's ) .2 Lloyd George 's attitude was crucial and characteristically ambivalent : it was thought that he might lead a peace party in an attemptr to outbid Churchill for the succession to the Liberal leadership . Asquith himself , combining the War Office with the Premiership , was calm as ever but apparently indecisive . The real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed to France . There was certainly no formal commitment , but informal negotiations had gone so far that to deny commitment was to raise once more in Europe the spectre of perfidious Albion ' . British foreign policy since the turn of the century had avoided involvement in the network of alliances which grew up in Europe . Germany and Austria were firmly allied , and Italy was prepared to join them so long as she did not have to fight Britain . France and Russia were also bound together . These alliances meant that even small-scale crises carried with them the threat of general war . Bismarck 's forecast that one day the great European war would come over some damned silly thing in the Balkans ' was all too amply fulfilled when at the end of June 1914 the Archduke Franz Ferdinand , heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire , was murdered in Sarajevo by a Bosnian , Gavrilo Princip , trained in Serbia , Austria 's deter/mination to humiliate Serbia brought Russia to the defence of her fellow-Slays and provoked the inexorable mobilisation of the great alliances . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , she had settled her outstanding differences with both France and Russia . In 1904 , Balfour 's government brought about the Anglo-French Entente , which settled colonial rivalries between the two countries , especially in Egypt and Morocco . France recognised British predominance in Egypt , whilst Britain left the French a free hand in Morocco . In 1907 , in spite of the unpopularity in Britain of the Tsarist regime , a convention was made with Russia . Disputes in Persia were settled by the recognition of a Russian sphere of influence ' in the north and a British sphere in the south , with a neutral zone in between . Crises provoked by the Kaiser in North Africa showed where British interests lay . In 1905 , the Kaiser made an inflammatory anti-French speech at Tangier . The resulting crisis was the subject of a conference at Algeciras in the following year , when Britain stood by France . In 1911 , the German gunboat Panther provoked further international alarm at Agadir , and Lloyd George issued a stern warning to the Kaiser in an outspoken public speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which began as early as 1907 . Great impetus to joint military planning stemmed from the friendship which developed between General Henry Wilson and General Foch . Wilson was energetic , enthusiastic and efficient . In 1910 , he became Director of Military Operations and by March 1911 , he had formulated detailed plans for the mobilisation and embarkationof the British Expeditionary Force in the event of war . By July 1911 , his consultations with the French amounted to a virtual commitment to the concentration of the entire B.E.F . at Maubeuge in the event of a German attack . In 1912 , the Royal Navy was no less morally committed by an agreement that the Royal Navy would guard the Channel and the North Sea , leaving the French to look after the Mediterranean . Grey , in discussion with Cambon , was still hedging over commitment ' , and the reader of Grey 's winsomeo so loo MilesLimit of German Advance 1914 uuumnunnwlFront Line July 1918 ( after German offensive ) 0G ) mi/ ANTWERP//'J'SPsched BRUSSELS ? 9 ? Qlunnuglulu ? ie i , . , .. y @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , , , , naua w 1 ChapeiThMons leu Liege geBethune Coos ? o , ? . sVimy-o ? b- ? Arras s0 ' - Bapaume0PARIS ' " " ' % , , , , , pll/OgHNllllllll ppp II I1111111 , 1,1NF RIII . The Western Front , 1914 ? 18p143memoirs , Twenty-Five Years , is at times hard put to appreciate the extent to which Britain was involved , as she certainly fully was in the eyes of the French . Hesitation over commitment was largely swept away by the German violation of Belgian neutrality ? an article of faith in British foreign policy ? and procrastination remained only over the timing of a British ultimatum to Germany , which was at last delivered on 4 August . As the ministers waited in the , twilight for the ultimatum to expire , Grey uttered his now-famous words of melancholy and moving prophecy : The lamps are going out all over Europe ; we shall not see them lit again in our lifetime ' . The invasion of Belgium was essential to German strategy . France must be speedily removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russian threat from the east . That the Germans would succeed in the west was taken for granted by the Kaiser , who told his departing troops : You will be home before the leaves have fallen from the trees ' . The blue-print of German strategy in the west was the Schlieffen Plan . Sweeping through Belgium , brushing the Channel ' with its right wing , the German army was then to swing south and eastwards to envelop the French and take Paris . The schedule was planned with characteristic thoroughness . Von Moltke , Schlieffen 's successor and military heir as Chief of the German General Staff , planned that Liege was to be open to the armies by the twelfth day from mobilisation , and Paris was to be in German hands by the thirty-ninth day . The Germans justified ' the invasion of Belgium by various fabricated pretexts , but they miscalculated the attitude of the Belgians themselves . Schlieffen had expected that the limit of Belgian resistance would be that the Belgian army of six notoriously undisciplined divisions might line the roads in silent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albert , who had succeeded his unpopular uncle , Leopold II , in 1909 , thought differently . After ensuring that no prematureBelgian action compromised his country 's neutrality , he organised resistance . His attitude captured the spirit of his subjects : If we are to be crushed let us be crushed gloriously ' ,  | declared Bassompierre , Under-Secretary of the Belgian Foreign Office . The Belgian army was inefficient , and its heavy guns ? ordered from Krupp of Essen ? had understandably failed to arrive , but it prepared to defend its great frontier fortresses . At Liege the Germans were held up for a fortnight before their enormous siege artillery succeeded in breaking the garrison 's resistance . In fact Moltke 's schedule had allowed for possible delay , and he was only two days late at Liege . However , as Mrs Tuchman cogently argues , What Belgium gave the Allies that mattered was neither two weeks nor two days but a cause and an example ' . Violation of the treaty of perpetual neutrality ? a scrap of paper ' as the German Chancellor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atrocity was another . German troops , especially those of von Kluck 's 1st Army , shot and pillaged their way through Belgium in a systematic attempt to terrorise the civil population into submission . Shooting of hostages and razing of villages became commonplace . Centuries of history went up in flames as they burned the university and the irreplaceable library of Louvain . European and American attitudes hardened as governments and peoples envisaged civilisation in peril from the Huns ? the choice of word was , significantly , the Kaiser 's own . French strategy was incapable of meeting the Schlieffen Plan in its original form . For years the prevailing dictum in the French military academies had been the attack ' . French troops were concentrated for a thrust through Alsace-Lorraine and the Ardennes . News of concentration of German troops on the German right wing delighted the French planners . So much the better ' , they reiterated , since the German centre must be inevitably weakened . In fact , the French seriously underestimatedGerman numbers , because they never conceived that the Germans might use reserve units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their regular units . Predictably , too , the French were in trouble with the political and ecclesiastical affiliations of some of their generals . Fortunately , such attachments were no part of the stock-intradeof their generalissimo , Papa ' Joffre . Joffre had manyp145short-comings as a commander , and he slaughtered scapegoatsamong his field-commanders literally by the dozen , but he was imperturbable . His coolness and lack of nerves rescued France from a disaster for which Joffre himself undeniably shared the responsibility . Awaiting his turn for greatness was General Foch , the great French military theorist , whilst the most impressive general among the French in the early stages was General Gallieni , recalled from retirement to command the defence of Paris . Meanwhile , at the other end of Europe , the Russian steamrollerwas preparing to exercise its mesmeric influence over the broad European battleground . Totally mobilised , the Russian army would number no less than a terrifying 62 million men . But numbers were not everything : supplies and logistics were chaotic , thanks to the indolence of the Minister of War , Sukhomlinov , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the quality of the Russian army ( though the sheer courage of its individual members was not in question ) had already been cast during the Russo-Japanese War . The British observer , Ian Hamilton , reported from Manchuria on the Russian army 's poor intelligence ; disregard of cover ; disregard of secrecy and swiftness ; lack of dash ; lack of initiative and lack of good generalship ' . Russian offensive strategy was complicated by geography : any attack into East Prussia must divide around the Masurian Lakes . In fact , Russian troops were committed to battle too soon , although by their actions the Russians helped the French . Moltke withdrew two corps from the Western Front to bolster his forces in East Prussia , whilst replacing the unreliable commander Prittwitz by the formidable combination of Ludendorff , who had distinguished himself already in the west , and Hindenburg , who was called out of retirement . A confused battle situation developed , the outcome of which during the last days of August 1914 was the decisive German victory at Tannenberg . The doctrine of envelopment was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they lost over 30,000 dead and missing . Only the unsurpassed incompetence of their Austrian allies prevented the Germans from following up their victory . In aR disastrous campaign in Galicia which culminated in the battle of Lemberg , the Austrians lost 250,000 casualties and 100,000 prisoners . British involvement in the war continued to be marked by hesitation . Doubts over whether Britain should participate at all had been resolved by the violation of Belgian neutrality and the rejection by Germany of the British ultimatum , but hesitation ensued over whether the whole of the B.E.F . ? or indeed any part of it ? should be sent across the Channel . There was in some minds an apparently genuine fear that Britain might be invaded . The hesitation of Kitchener , who had been appointed to the War Office , was more soundly based . Unconvinced by Wilson 's plans , Kitchener strove to preserve the B.E.F . as the nucleus of an army which he intended should number no less then seventy divisions after three years . His contemporaries , blinded by the vision of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Kitchener was in good company , for Joffre and even Moltke himself also foresaw a long war . Kitchener 's anxiety led him to press for Amiens rather than Maubeuge as the point of concentration for the B.E.F. , but he had to give way , and the British troops duly concentrated at Maubeuge , ready for action on the left of the French line . If the soldiers were ready , their commander was somewhat less than willing . Sir John French ? to whom Kitchener was later to apply the epithet calamitous ' ? was proud , unwilling to co-operate with the allies whose language defeated him , and unwilling to commit his troops to battle . His own post-war account of events , 1914 , casts a confusing cloud of evasion and half-truth over events . Perhaps the most remarkable feature of French 's career is that he kept his command for so long , especially since the commander of his 1st Corps , Douglas Haig , cavalryman , posturer and friend of kings , was already casting doubts on his commander 's capacity , whilst implying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first went into action on 22 August , in a cavalry clash with German Uhlans at Soignies , on the roadp147to Mons. The fate of Captain Hornby , in command of the British detachment , is sadly a prototype for the tragedy of so many heroes during the next four years . Awarded the D.S.O. for his victory , he was killed within weeks . The clash at Soignies served as a curtain-raiser to the battle of Mons.Across the sixty-foot-wide canal at Mons on 23 August 70,000 men of the B.E.F . confronted the 16o,000 men and 600 guns of von Kluck 's 1st Army . The B.E.F . was better prepared than British forces usually are at the beginning of wars , but was weak in equipment for sieges or trench-warfare . A new element in warfare was demonstrated by the 63 aircraft of the Royal Flying Corps , but there existed a serious deficiency in another new ingredient . There were only 24 machine-guns per division ( a proportion which Haig pronounced adequate ) . There were only 8o motor vehicles in the entire British army . At Mons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ musketry was so good that the enemy thought they were being fired on by machine-guns ? a psychological compensation for the lack of the real thing . The strategic withdrawal which followed Mons and preserved the B.E.F . covered 200 miles in 13 days . Sir John French was conspicuous by the efficiency with which his General Headquarters were always withdrawn well behind the front line ? sometimes as far as 40 miles . In spite of the pleas of Lanrezac , French was of little assistance to the French 5th Army on his right , but the B.E.F . was a vital factor in preventing the envelopment which the Germans so desired and the French commanders so feared . The action of the retreating B.E.F . ' s 2nd Corps at Le Cateau , for example , certainly helped to stave off a possible envelopment . At first sight , the Schlieffen Plan appeared to be working well : the French , though fighting stubborn rearguard actions , were in retreat , and their great counter-thrust through the Ardennes failed . In the early days of September , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approached , both sides were aware of its portent . Yet all was not entirely well with the German strategy . The melancholy Moltke had not the nerve to maintain the tremendous concentration on his right wing . He withdrew two corps to the east , and Belgian resistance necessitated the detachment of two of von Kluck 's reserve corps to invest Antwerp . Von Kluck himself more than made up for Moltke 's lack of confidence , and as a result he very considerably overestimated the deterioration of French morale . Joffre remained unruffled in face of disaster . He planned to retreat to the Seine , if necessary sacrificing Paris , from which the government had already withdrawn to Bordeaux . Von Kluck now glimpsed an opportunity to envelope the entire left of the French armies . Departing from the set text of the Schlieffen Plan , he turned leftwards , brushing Paris on the east instead of taking the city , and crossed the river Marne . Gallieni in Paris saw his chance : They offer us their flank ' , cried his delighted staff officers . Moltke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back behind the Marne and halted the German advance exactly one month after the invasion of Belgium . Joffre decided to fight on the Marne . Staggering the Germans by their resilience , the French troops ? reinforced by soldiers conveyed in commandeered Parisian taxi-cabs ? drove the Germans back to the River Aisne . Then , as the front became stabilised and began to solidify into the dismal lines of parallel trenches , the race was on for the Channel ports . Flanders became the scene of the B.E.F . ' s efforts . Though some historians have questioned the importance of the battle of Mons , none doubts that a decisive factor in the struggle for the Channel coast was the creation of a British salient at Ypres . The battle to hold that salient was absolutely vital to the security of the Channel ports . The battle known as First Ypres ' lasted from 12 October until 11 November , and virtually destroyed the original B.E.F . But the Ypres salient held . The war of attrition began . From Switzerland to the Channel , the lines of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to the side which first wore down the other . Paris was saved ; the Channel ports were saved ; but Germany was in possession of territory whose mineral and industrial potential was a crucial contribution to her resources for ap149prolonged conflict . Paradoxically , the near-success of the Schlieffen Plan had provided the resources to meet the long drawn-out war which the Schlieffen Plan had been designed to avert . At sea , the Royal Navy was experiencing mixed fortunes . Before war broke out Churchill at the Admiralty had with his customary foresight and enthusiasm moved the Fleet , which was on manoeuvres , to its battle-stations . The newly appointed commander , Admiral Jellicoe , 6 was nervous , understandably so in view of the lack of defences at Scapa Flow . But the Germans lacked any positive naval plan . German merchantmen were soon withdrawn from the high seas , and a bigger immediate problem for Britain was the danger of a serious dispute with the U.S.A. if the Royal Navy pressed too far its imposition of a blockade on German ports . However , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American merchants with the attractive prospect of Allied dependence upon American supplies ? and the increased trade with the Allies more than compensated for lost trade with Germany . An early naval opportunity was lost when the German battle-cruiser Goeben was allowed to enter the Black Sea and blackmail the Turks into an alliance with Germany . The task of the British vessels in the Mediterranean at the time was complicated by the Government 's delay in sending their ultimatum to Germany , and by an understandable assumption that the Goeben would sail westwards against the French troop convoys from North Africa , rather than into the Dardanelles . All the same , had the Goeben been pursued into the Straits , the hand of the Turks might not have been forced . When Turkey entered the war in November 1914 , a new and complicating dimension was added to the conflict . Further north there was more success . On 28 August , in a confused action in the Heligoland Bight , three German cruisers were sunk . In the Indian Ocean , the German surfaceraiderEmden was hunted and destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setback when Admiral von Spee 's Pacific Squadron sank two British cruisers at Coronel ( off the coast of Chile ) , This reverse was avenged in the following month , when von Spee 's ships steamed into the arms of Admiral Sturdee 's force , which was coaling in the Falkland Islands . Four German cruisers were sunk , although the Royal Navy 's guns were an ominously long time in administering thecoup de grace . Perhaps the most striking event in the early stages of the war at sea occurred in May 1915 , when a German U-boat sank the Cunard liner Lusitania . Among the 1,198 people drowned were 128 Americans . President Wilson 's protest was strongly enough worded to lead to the curtailing of U-boat activity until in desperation unrestricted U-boat warfare was undertakenin 1917 . The futility of frontal attack against entrenched positions was amply demonstrated on the Western Front in the Spring of 1915 . In March , the German line was broken at Neuve Chapelle , but it proved impossible to gain any real advantage In the prolonged battle of Second Ypres ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time . Three weeks of fighting at Aubers Ridge proved fruitless . The need to reintroduce movement into a war which threatened to degenerate into stalemate prompted one of the most imaginative concepts of the war , which unhappily was wrecked in its execution . Churchill became the strong advocate of a campaign to force the Dardanelles and drive Turkey out of the war . An attempt in March 1915 to carry out the plan using the Fleet alone failed when it was discovered that the Turkish minefields had not been completely cleared . A naval engagement was transformed into a combined operation for which totally inadequate plans had been made . British and Australian troops attacked Gallipoli on 25 April : the Turks held them down to their beachhead . It became clear that , without substantial reinforcements , no progress would be made . Winston Churchill became the scapegoat for the failure of the enterprise . Lack of progress in the conduct of the war gave rise to increasing criticism of a lack of governmental initiative . Two particular issues focused discontent and led to political upheaval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppliesp151led to a shortage of shells , which the Press ? especially that part of the Press controlled by Northcliffe ? whipped up into a national scandal . There was also a serious dispute at the Admiralty , which was probably an event of more significance to the future of the Government. ? On 15 May , the First Sea Lord , the irascible Sir John Fisher , resigned : meanwhile Churchill was under severe attack as the supposed architect of the disaster in the Dardanelles . Under such pressure , the Government broke . On 17 May 1915 , a coalition was formed . Lloyd George was created Minister of Munitions ; McKenna was Chancellor of the Exchequer ; Bonar Law came into the cabinet , taking over at the Colonial Office ; Churchill was relegated from the Admiralty to the Duchy of Lancaster , and was succeeded as First Lord by Balfour ; Labour came into the Government in the person of Arthur Henderson , who became President of the Board of Education.  |p152The  Fall of Asquith andthe Wizardry of Lloyd GeorgeWe are out ; it can only be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave Downing Street . MAROOT ASQUITH , on the news of Lloyd George 's appointment to the War Office , June I916 ' COALITIONS are notoriously restless affairs , and the Governmentformed in 1915 was no exception . It was hardly to be expected that those conflicting principles , such as Free Trade and Protection , which had been so divisive in peacetime could be easily reconciled , even under the pressures of war . The Cabinet met more frequently ; but Asquith was never a natural dictator , and his lack of direction became increasingly obvious , especially when contrasted with the dynamism of Lloyd George at the Ministry of Munitions , where he turned the serious shortage of machine-guns , for example , into a grand total of 240,000 by the end of the war . With such increased efficiency , there developed increasing governmental interference . Powers of requisition were introducedand extended . There was naturally some resentment at the manipulation of industrial labour , but the Government 's initiative carried compensation in some improvement of factory conditions . Factory canteens were introduced , and a development full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkable increase in the employment of women . The worst aspect of the great increase in production was that its urgency outstripped control over exorbitant profits : some industrialists undeniably waxed fat on the carnage of war.  |p153The  economic consequences of war were already reflected in governmental policy . McKenna introduced a budget in September 1915 which raised the level of income tax to 3S 6d in the pound . Even more significantly , there began the erosion of the sacred Liberal principle of Free Trade : the McKenna Duties ' imposed a 333 per cent duty on such luxuries as cars , clocks and watches . However little intention McKenna may have had of introducing Protection , the effect of the duties was certainly protectionist : above all , a precedent had been set . No matter what expedients might be introduced , by the end of the war the bill was enormous : the national debt rose from L625 million in 1914 to ? 78og million in 1918 , and by 1919 the purchasing power of the pound was only about one third of its pre-war level . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asquith and his colleagues was the inadequacy of voluntary recruiting , which became ominous as the appalling cost in lives of the war of attrition made itself felt . The strategic necessity of an attack on the Western Front produced the battle of Loos , which began on 25 September . Within a week , the British army had suffered some 6o,000 casualties . Conscriptionfound strong and vociferous advocates , including Lloyd George : it was strenuously opposed by many Liberals , by their Irish Nationalist supporters , and by the Labour Party and the trade unions . The hopes of breaking the deadlock on the Western Front were meanwhile dying a miserable death on the beaches of the Dardanelles . On 6 August a promising landing at Suvla Bay was turned into a fiasco by the indolence of General Stopford : the landing was unopposed , but Stopford remained at ease on a battleship and refused to advance until artillery was landed . The troops enjoyed sea bathing in the meantime . When at length the advance was ordered , the sand-dunes and hills were found bristling with Turkish machine-gunners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move into positions which had been totally undefended on 6 August . Only small beachheads were left as a memorial to a campaign which had promised so much : their future provided a continuing and fruitful source of political and military disagreement . Increasinglyit came to be realised that the geography of the Dardanelles was winning : as Mr A. J. P. Taylor remarks , The campaign could have succeeded only if it had been fought somewhere else ' . In November 1915 Kitchener went out to Gallipoli to see for himself , and the politicians took advantage of his absence to reorganise the direction of the war . On 11 November , a new War Council was created , consisting of Asquith , Balfour , Lloyd George , Bonar Law and McKenna . Kitchener and Churchill were both left out , and Churchill characteristically resigned and went off to command a battalion on the Western Front . French was at last sacked from his command and replaced by Haig . The General Staff , which Kitchener had suspended , was re-created , and General Robertson became Chief of the Imperial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranks , and was wont to silence criticism or suggestion from civilians with a terse I 've ' eard different ' . He laid down terms for his appointment which curtailed Kitchener 's powers . All this had happened in Kitchener 's absence , and had evaded the painful necessity of a direct confrontation with the great legend , of whom many of the leading politicians obviously stood in awe : We avoid by this method of procedure ' , Asquith pointed out to Lloyd George , the immediate supersession of K. as War Minister , while attaining the same result . ' There was some relief at the end of 1915 , though it was little enough . The Gallipoli campaign was finally brought to an end on the nights of 18 ? 19 and 20-21 December by a brilliantly executed withdrawal of troops from Suvla Bay and Anzac Beach . Forces remained in direct contact with the Turks in the Middle East and in Salonika . In the Middle East , Lawrence of Arabia was soon to pursue his extraordinary career . More orthodox methods , however , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed in the early months of 1916 , and General Townshend surrenderedat Kut with 10,000 men . By early 1916 , the problem of conscription could no longerp155be shelved . A great offensive was planned for the spring which would undoubtedly consume large numbers of men . Various half-measures failed , such as the Derby Scheme ' ? that there should be voluntary attestation , with married volunteers being called upon only if there were insufficient single volunteers . There followed a plan to conscript only unmarried men . Finally , the Military Service Bill was introducedin January 1916 . Asquith was faced with threats of resignation and with the opposition of the National Executive of the Labour Party , whom he appeased only with great difficulty . All compromise measures having failed , general compulsion was introduced on 3 May . And amidst all these difficulties , the Government was grappling with the problem of Ireland. *On 31 May 1916 the first and last great set-piece naval battle of the war was fought . The battle of Jutland brought the two great fleets into contact . It exposed serious weaknesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the skill of German naval gunnery . The outcome of the battle is still a matter of controversy . The Germans claim Jutland as a victory because they sank more ships than they lost . On the other hand , the German High Seas Fleet was never in action again : Jutland was sufficient to drive German naval strategy under water , and from then on they relied upon their U-boats . Within a week Kitchener was dead , drowned when the cruiser Hampshire , which was taking him to Russia , was sunk . A great figurehead was removed . Horatio Bottomley celebrated the event with the most nauseating of his many maudlin effusions : Kitchener , he proclaimed , was not dead , just lent to God ' . Kitchener , though he was certainly more than just the great poster ' of Margot Asquith 's contemptuous phrase , had become something of an embarrassment to the Government . But Asquith was no less embarrassed by the task of finding a successor , and it was three weeks before Lloyd George moved from Munitions to the War Office , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have realised that he was digging his own political grave ; his wife was sure of it.  |p156The  great offensive of the spring of 1916 was compromised before it started by the German onslaught on 21 February on Verdun . The great fortress was the key in the east to Paris , and was defended with great tenacity and appalling loss of life on both sides by the French under General Petain . Ifs ne passeront pas ' , he proclaimed , and his boast was justified : the corpses of his soldiers , by the hundred thousand , are their own most eloquent memorial . On 1 July the British attack was launched on the Somme . Plans for a joint offensive were thwarted by the need to call French troops to Verdun . The Somme was to be Haig 's ideal of the massive set-piece attack : heavy artillery bombardment was to precede an infantry breakthrough , making a gap through which the cavalry were to pour into open country beyond . Haig resolved to call off the attack if it became bogged down , but his conviction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with the Almighty as well as with the Royal Family ) got the better of him . Within 24 hours , 20,000 British troops were dead and twice as many wounded . By the time the offensive finally petered out , the British army had sustained 400,000 casualties . Recent historians have sought to find some justification for Haig 's generalship , but his handling of the Somme offensive is difficult to excuse . The Somme dealt the death-blow to idealistic and romantic attitudes to war as far as Britain was concerned . Even when the opportunity arose for a more imaginative tactic on the battlefield , it was wasted . By August 1916 the first tanks were ready ? the fruits of Churchill 's activity and contempt for protocol at the Admiralty . The old-style cavalrymenlike Haig regarded tanks as not quite gentlemanly , and certainly not deserving of the honour of a special campaign . So , on 15 September 1916 , as Churchill sadly records , This priceless conception was revealed to the Germans for the mere petty purpose of taking a few ruined villages . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's difficulties by agreeing to Commissions of Inquiry into the failures in Gallipoli and Mesopotamia . Attacks on the Prime Minister , in the Northcliffe Press and elsewhere , were becomingp157less and less inhibited , sometimes to the point of cruelty and libel , whilst members of the Government were increasingly distrustful of each other . On 13 November Lord Lansdowne produced a memorandum ( later to be widely published ) which argued with ruthless logic for negotiated peace . Amongst other suggestions was one , eagerly seized upon by Lloyd George , that the conduct of the war should be put into the hands of a small War Committee , independent of the Cabinet and not necessarily including the Prime Minister . Negotiations took place ( with Max Aitken hard at work behind the scenes ) between Lloyd George , Bonar Law and Carson . Carson had once more come into prominence as a leader of the most violent attacks on Asquith and even as a potential rival to Bonar Law . By late November , Press criticisms of Asquith had grown yet more intense , and there was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was hesitant , but under Aitken 's influence he supported Lloyd George , partly at least in order to preserve himself from the threat of Carson . Many Unionists were trying to force Lloyd George into the open in the confident hope that he would be defeated . They therefore urged Asquith to resign so that Lloyd George would fail to form a government and Asquith would be reinstated in a stronger position . When Bonar Law saw Asquith he did not put the issue so fully , and merely left the Prime Minister with the impression that the Unionists were demanding his resignation . So Asquith decided to come to terms with Lloyd George , but Northcliffe saw Lloyd George on the same night . On the following day , Monday 4 December , The Times published an insulting leader , based upon an inspired leak , which made it appear that all power had been handed over to Lloyd George . Asquith understandably assumed that Lloyd George was the source , but it seems that Geoffrey Dawson , the editor , had acted independently of Northcliffe . Dawson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source was Lloyd George . Asquith at this stage revoked his agreement with Lloyd George , although the Prime Minister 's position was now far from strong . Christopher Addison had informed Lloyd George that he already had the support of forty-nine Liberal M.P.s and would get at least eighty more if he formed a government . It is clear that even Asquith 's most loyal supporter , Grey , was far from pressing him to stay on . Weary himself , he may well have felt a public desire for a change of leadership . Asquith obtained the King 's leave to re-form his Government , and refused to create the War Committee on the lines which Lloyd George had laid down . Moreover , he firmly refused to replace Balfour at the Admiralty by Carson . The issue was now clearly a conflict for power between Asquith and Lloyd George . At this stage , one of Asquith 's most important supporters ratted on him . Balfour backed Lloyd George 's demand that Balfour himself should be replaced by Carson ! This was the decisive change of front . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-preservation coincided with an important decision on policy ; he could hardly expect to be left out in the cold when Lloyd George formed a government . Asquith , faced now with the prospect of trying to carry on without Lloyd George or Bonar Law ? and hence without the support of the Unionists ? resigned at 7 pm on 5 December 1916 . The King , as he was bound to do , sent for Bonar Law . Asquith 's attitude was now decisive : he refused to serve under Bonar Law . At a conference at Buckingham Palace at which Balfour 's views were very influential , a formula was agreed upon : if Asquith could not be persuaded to serve under Bonar Law , Lloyd George was to form a government . Asquith persisted in his refusal . Asquith was understandably bitter about the part played by the Press in bringing about his downfall . It is clear to the historian that , although the Press hounded Asquith unmercifully , it was Balfour 's betrayal which was decisive . Asquith was warmly treated by his followers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a personal encouragement to Asquith , it created a virtually impossible political situation . Lloyd George 's government was strongly Unionist in its complexion . His War Cabinet consisted of himself , withp159Curzon , Milner , Bonar Law and Henderson . Carson indeed went to the Admiralty , where he thoroughly bungled the job , and Balfour , with a pistol to his head , as he charmingly but unconvincingly phrased it , became Foreign Secretary . No Liberal member of Asquith 's Cabinet survived in that of Lloyd George except Lloyd George himself.  |p160The  Weariness of WarWhat passing bells for these who die as cattle ? Only the monstrous anger of the guns .. . WILFRED OWEN , Anthem for Doomed YouthJUST as Rupert Brooke epitomised the idealism of the early days of the war , so Wilfred Owen , the greatest of all the warpoets , expressed the increasing feeling of doom and bitterness in verse which half a century after the event still has the power to stab the reader to the heart . Some of his greatest poems have now been used with heart-rending effect in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war dragged on , and distant thoughts of all over by Christmas ' had faded like an empty dream . Now men looked reluctantly into the future and glimpsed no real hope of peace : in 1918 Smuts could see no prospect of peace before 1920 . Trench warfare , the war of attrition , eroded men 's spirits and slew half the seed of Europe , one by one ' . Those sensitive men who survived have painted all too harrowing a picture of life on the Western Front . Robert Graves 's Good-bye To All That , for example , shatters the illusions of any reader who still thinks of war as a glamorous pastime . Pressures for a negotiated peace increased from the left wing as well as from Lord Lansdowne , who late in 1917 published in the Daily Telegraph the arguments which he had earlier set before the Cabinet . The Times , zealously patriotic , refused to publish Lansdowne 's letter . Such sympathy as there was for Lansdowne and his point of view was muted : in public , he was harshly criticised and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally , deteriorated as the war went on . Working-class discontent found expression in demands for wage increases , and the first manifestation of revolution in Russia in March 1917 naturally had a stimulating effect upon the left wing in British politics . Early in 1918 there was a largely unjustified panic over food supplies which led to such stockpiling by housewives that the Government had to introduce rationing . Organised labour , resentful by 1918 of the excessive profits made by some manufacturers , slipped from Lloyd George 's grasp ; there were serious strikes , which Churchill ( who became Minister of Munitions in July 1917 ) characteristically countered by threatening to conscript the strikers into the army . Pressures for reform culminated in the extension of the franchise in June 1918 . The reform of the electoral law broadly speaking created masculine democracy by introducing the principle that every adult male ? except for peers , aliens , lunatics and recently convicted criminals ? had the right to vote . A small number of citizens qualified for two votes . Those , for example , who were university graduates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university constituency ) or were in business in another constituency from that of their private dwelling house , were allowed the double vote . Women were given the vote for the first time , but not yet on an equal footing with men . Women had the vote so long as they were over thirty , and were householders or the wives of householders . Meanwhile the war had still to be fought . At least it could be said that governmental direction of the war had been transformedand revivified by the appointment of Lloyd George as Prime Minister in December 1916 . It was ' , writes Mr A. J. P. Taylor , a revolution , British-style ' . ' Lloyd George , as has already been seen , fits into no accepted British political pattern . He was uninterested in party , and fundamentally concerned with power , and its application . The basis of his own power was his popularity and the coercive effect which it exercised over his fellow-politicians . He is in every sense an untypical Prime Minister : he established round himself an imposing private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost every day , as an instrument of his will . This is not to say that he was a dictator : whilst he found his way comparatively clear in domestic politics , even he could not ride roughshod over the bulwarks of vested interest and traditionalist prejudice in the Admiralty and the War Office . It is one of the interesting points of contrast between the two great wars that whereas in the second , Churchill ? an old soldier ? could and would dismiss generals with an abandon that sometimes went beyond the bounds of justice , Lloyd George a quarter of a century earlier was saddled for far too long with the dead weight of Robertson and Haig . Lloyd George galvanised the Government into action . He created new departments of state for such things as shipping and food as temporary additions to the normal peacetime basis of administration . Usually he chose professional men as the heads of these departments : many were great successes , but perhaps the most conspicuous failure was that of Neville Chamberlain as Director of National Service . The Governmentgrappled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely successful , but at least they established a principle : that of assessing prices on a basis of cost plus ' a reasonable return . Hamstrung in his direct relations with his generals , Lloyd George sought to by-pass them and present them with a strategical fait accompli by direct negotiations with the Allies . In 1917 , in conference at Rome , he failed to persuade his Allies to launch a general offensive in Italy . On the Western Front , however , Joffre had been dismissed . His successor , Nivelle , had the inevitable plan ' ? this time for the attractive proposition of a victory to be won in forty-eight hours . Lloyd George , along with other optimists , hoped for great things from Nivelle , and on 26 February 1917 all British troops in France were placed under his supreme command . Nivelle 's plan was wrecked by delays : by the time he was ready to attack , the Germans had anticipated Nivelle 's advance and had withdrawn behind the entrenched and heavily fortified Hindenburg Line . Before Nivelle 's offensive collapsed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page to their annals by the capture of Vimy Ridge ( 9 ? 14 April ) . Nivelle 's failure brought his troops to the brink of mutiny . Nivelle himself was dismissed in May 1917 and replaced by Petain , the hero of Verdun , but something of a natural pessimist into the bargain ? a trait which was to prove even more decisive for his country 's destinies in 1940 . Meanwhile , Lloyd George was attempting to consolidate the role of the Empire , whose members were already committed in the various theatres of war . In March 1917 there was a meeting of the Imperial War Cabinet , to membership of which India was now admitted , albeit in a rather half-hearted fashion . There is , as many historians have noted , no little irony in Lloyd George 's following in the footsteps of Joseph Chamberlain . He failed , however , in his attempt to achieve a united executiveaction ; but the meeting did lead to the permanent admissionto the British War Cabinet of Jan Christiaan Smuts , one-time Boer enemy , and henceforth staunch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole war came in April 1917 , when the U.S.A. declared war , as a direct consequence of the German resumption of unrestricted U-boat warfare in January . The German action , however , threatened to prove decisive as the Germans strove to starve Britain into submissionbefore the United States could intervene . By April , no less than a quarter of British merchantmen were sunk , and the nation 's stocks of grain provided supplies for only six weeks . Lloyd George acted typically and went behind the backs of his official Admiralty advisers to obtain expert opinion that was less prejudiced , for the Admiralty maintained that hopes of introducing a convoy system were doomed to failure because the merchant skippers would not be able to keep station ! Lloyd George overruled the admirals , and the convoy system was introduced , with spectacular success . In July 1917 , Carson , who had proved more of a liability than an asset as First Lord of the Admiralty , was promoted ' to the War Cabinet , where he was equally ineffective and from which he resigned in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Eric Geddes became First Lord of the Admiralty in July 1917 . Thus Lloyd George had dealt ruthlessly with obstruction at the Admiralty ; he was less successful in his desire to be rid of Haig . The collapse of Nivelle 's offensive had freed Haig from his reluctant dependence upon French command , and he was able to make plans for another offensive of his own . His apologists have maintained that his offensive in Flanders was the result of a desperate appeal from Petain for action to bolster the tottering edifice of French morale , but this is questionable . In any case , the politicians were at first sceptical of Haig 's confidentplan for a great attack in Flanders : breaking out from the Ypres salient , the British , Haig claimed , would reach the Channel coast and roll up the Germans . Haig 's confidence at last proved too much for the doubters , and they allowed themselves to be convinced . The third battle of Ypres , usually known as the battle of Passchendaele , began on 31 July 1917 . Once more Haig had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive if it were held ; once again he failed to do so . The battle , fought in a sea of mud which rendered stretcher-bearers , let alone tanks , immobile , lasted for three months . The total advance covered four miles and the ground gained was all evacuated in face of the German offensive of March 1918 . The cost is disputed but certainly at least 200,000 men died and possibly as many as 324,000 . This was the most pointless British battle of the war to date . Haig used the poppies of Flanders to commemorate the dead after the war . They were employed with a poignant simplicity by one of the poets of the war : In Flanders fields the poppies blowBetween the crosses , row on row , That mark our place ; and in the skyThe larks , still bravely singing , flyScarce heard amid the guns below.2On 20 November 1917 , tanks demonstrated what they might do : 381 of them broke the German line at Cambrai . But such was the imagination of the General Staff that nop165plans had been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was lost within ten days . By this time , in any case , the situation elsewhere was complex and threatening : in October , the Italians had been severely defeated at Caporetto , and in November the Bolshevik seizure of power in Russia led to the collapse of the Entente . Only in the Middle East was there better news . Baghdad was captured , and in December 1917 , Allenby 's cavalry took Jerusalem . British success in the area had led Balfour to make on 8 November his historic declaration that Britain envisaged Palestine as a national home for the Jewish people . In February 1918 , Lloyd George had at least part of his way and Robertson was sacked and replaced as Chief of the Imperial General Staff by Sir Henry Wilson . Lloyd George naturally assumed that Haig would go too , but self-preservation got the better of his sense of loyalty , and he ratted on Robertson and clung to his command . In the spring of 1918 Ludendorff staked all on a surprise attack to achieve a decisive breakthrough before the American troops became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expect , and on 2 I March the Germans struck at the join between the British and French armies and threw them back forty miles , though without decisively breaking the line . Lloyd George took over the War Office in person and rushed reinforcements to France , whilst personally appealing to President Wilson for the immediate use of American troops . On 14 April Foch was given supreme command of the allied troops and was urging a counter-offensive , but by May the Germans were over the Marne and only forty miles from Paris . Yet still the Allied line was unbroken and the Germans were in potentially perilous situations in exposed salients . By now half a million British reinforcements had arrived , and by the end of July there were twenty-seven American divisions on the continent . The struggle against the U-boats was carried into their lairs with combined operations under Sir Roger Keyes against Ostend and Zeebrugge , though only with partial success . In Parliament , Asquith 's opposition made an abortive and ill-advised attack upon Lloyd George , based upon disclosuresby Sir Frederick Maurice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attack failed , and the Liberals were irreparably split . On 15 July the last German attacks on the Western Front petered out and five days later Ludendorff 's offensive was called off . Early in August , tank attacks forced the Germans back , but by September the Western Front was stabilised again . Stalemate had returned . But the side-shows ' at last began to pay off . Whilst Ludendorff 's line was stabilised in the west , German support elsewhere crumbled . In September , Allenby 's defeat of the Turks at Megiddo led to the fall of Damascus and in the same month the Allied armies moved forward in Salonika . Ludendorff dared not detach troops from the Western Front , and he knew that he was beaten . On 4 October the Germans appealed separately to President Wilson for a peace , hoping , not without reason , to detach him from the other Allies . After three weeks , on 23 October , the Germans accepted the Fourteen Points which Wilson had put forward on 8 January 1917.3 Would they prove acceptable to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the armistice which was concluded at the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month of 1918 . German troops were still almost everywhere on foreign soil , but their resources were exhausted . German morale was in ruins . On 30 October the Turks surrendered , and on 3 November the AustroHungariansgave in to the Italians . From the east , the spectre of Bolshevism was abroad in the land , whilst in Europe and beyond Nature took a hand with a deadly epidemic of influenza . The guns ceased firing . After an interval of awesome silence , over the Western Front , the birds began to sing again . The nations turned to the problems of making peace.  |p167Britain  and the Peace ofEuropeThe nations turned from the War wounded in body , in economic order , and still more deeply wounded in soul. //BRITISH diplomacy between the end of the war and the fall of the coalition government in 1922 was largely the personal work of Lloyd George . His reputation was immense in Europe as well as in England , where he appeared firmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In January 191 8 Lloyd George had expressed his war aims in a speech to British trade unionists . He denied that the war was one of aggression against Germany . Belgium must receive reparation and the restoration of her independence , whilst Britain would stand firmly beside France . In the east , Poland must be independent , and democratic self-government must be assured for the peoples of the Austro-Hungarian Empire . Future security lay in international organisation . This last point was strongly emphasised during the last year of the war by the activities of the Ministry of Information , which , under Lord Beaverbrook 's direction , did much to commit Britain to the ideals of a League of Nations which were so strongly implicit in President Wilson 's Fourteen Points . The Peace Conference was opened in Paris on 18 January 1919 , and its affairs were dominated by the settlement with Germany , although there was a multiplicity of peripheral issues also to be settled . The war had changed Europe for ever . The great issues of nationality could no longer be ignored atp168Versailles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The British Foreign Office had done a lot of work in preparation for the Conference , but had failed to produce a clear-cut plan of action . Lloyd George , in fact , by contrast with the great traditional diplomatists , wrote no instructions for himself . He was determined to play British diplomacy by ear , and by improvisation . Essentially , and unlike the French , who were only too clear as to their objectives , Lloyd George believed in the necessity to preserve and conciliate Germany , even though he had allowed himself to indulge in some wild excesses about hanging the Kaiser and making Germany pay , in order to keep in harmony with popular enthusiasms during the post-war election . As it happened , Lloyd George was able to moderate some of the more extreme demands of the French , although the peace settlement was still literally dictated to the Germans : they took no part in discussion , and when all the work had been done the terms were simply presented to them with a demand for their signature . The work of the Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives each from Britain , France , the U.S.A. , Italy and japan ) but it was soon dominated by the Big Three ' ( Lloyd George , Clemenceau and Wilson ) . President Wilson was , of course , the great inspiration of the League of Nations , whose Covenant was written into the peace settlement , but much of the practical work of drafting was done by Lord Robert Cecil and General Smuts . To Wilson , the League represented the practical expression of his idealism ; to Lloyd George , it was an example of the international organisation of which he had spoken ; to the French it was merely an additional safeguard against Germany . In dealing with Germany , the problem of colonies presented least difficulty , although there was potential embarrassment in the fixed determination of Australia and South Africa to hold on to the spoils which they had won in New Guinea and SouthWestAfrica respectively . The German colonies were dealt with by the creation of mandates , which Wilson summarised as an expression of the sacred trust of civilisation ' . States granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those colonial peoples in accordance with Wilson 's high principles . Needless to say , the mandates over New Guinea and South-West Africa were given to Australia and South Africa . But it was the treatment of Germany herself which was the fundamental issue . The French were prepared to go to the limit and to advocate the dismemberment of Germany . Lloyd George exercised a restraining influence , and was able to conjure up the spectre of Bolshevism both inside Germany and to the east if the German state were too seriously weakened . Thus , Poland was not allowed to become as powerful as the French had wished : Danzig , for example , was made a free city , with neither Polish nor German nationality ? a refinement which ironically sowed the seeds of dangerous controversy before the second World War . No one disputed that France 's frontiers must be protected against German resurgence . The German army was limited to 100,000 volunteers , and the Rhineland was made into a demilitarisedzone . Provision was made for an allied army of occupation on the left bank of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Saar for 15 years , after which a plebiscite was to be taken . The Kaiser ? no doubt to the relief of Lloyd George ? remainedsafe from hanging . He had taken refuge in Holland , and the Dutch refused to give him up . The security at which the peace settlement aimed above all was to be guaranteed by a treaty between the U.S.A. , Britain and France . This came to nothing when the Senate in the United States refused the two-thirds majority necessary to ratify any treaty . Thus , the United States never participated , and Britain and France failed to make an agreement between themselves . The political aspects of the peace , however , were straightforwardby comparison with the economic question of reparations . The British electorate were not alone in their concern to make Germany pay ' , and certainly French official opinion was well in tune with the Conservative candidate who talked of getting as much from Germany as one can squeeze from ap170lemon ? and then a little more . The problem of how reparations were to be assessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain , for example , who thought all that was necessary was to work out what the war had cost Britain and simply present the bill to Germany . The whole question of assessment was too difficult for the peacemakers , who deferred it for consideration by a later reparations commission . The dangers inherent in reparations were plain at least to one distinguished economist , J. M. Keynes , who was convinced that a sound German economy was vital to the economic health of Europe as a whole , and set out his arguments strongly in The Economic Consequences of the Peace in 191 g . Labour in Britain , too , was opposed to the economic milking of Germany by reparations . Yet Lloyd George found himself vigorously attacked at home , especially by Northcliffe in the columns of The Times and the Daily Mail , for his excessive leniency . He dismissed Northcliffewith contempt , but Northcliffe was by no means alone . On 7 May 1919 the settlement was presented to the German representatives for signature . They at once protested at its severity . Lloyd George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sign might well get out of hand , and sought further modifications . For instance , he secured that a plebiscite should be held in Upper Silesia , rather than handing the area as a direct gift to Poland . On 28 June 1919 , the Germanssigned . The hard core of the settlement was thus achieved , although the Conference remained in being to settle other issues until 2 I January 192 I.The most hopeful outcome of the Conference was the creation of the League of Nations , whose first Assembly was held in November 1920 , but at the outset the League was seriously weakened by the absence of Germany , Soviet Russia , and above all the United States , whose Senate seemed obstinately set on a return to isolationism . Diplomacy by conference continued . Lloyd George , who soon became the last national leader from the war still to be in office , delighted in conferences ( which he was to exploit at home as a means of playing for time ) and instigated no less than twenty-three international conferences between 1920 and 1922.  |p171His  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire to be conciliatory , not only towards Germany , who must somehow be satisfied that the peace settlement was just , but also towards Russia , who must be won back into the family of European nations . His policy involved the risk of alienating France , already affronted by the collapse of the proposed threepowertreaty to guarantee the settlement , and with whom Britain was obviously at cross-purposes over Germany . So far as Russia was concerned , conciliation obviously implied the end of intervention against the revolutionary regime , intervention to which Winston Churchill was **27;798;TOOLONG . There were three main areas of **28;827;TOOLONG : in Siberia ; around Murmansk and Archangel ; and in the Caucasus . British resources to the tune of ? Too million 's worth of surplus supplies were sent to the White Russian rebels . Moreover , the Poles had invaded Russia and captured Kiev , and were receiving active French help . Labour was determined to thwart any similar British intervention on behalf of the Poles . By 1920 intervention in Russia had faded away , and the tide had turned against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Treaty of Riga . The spate of conferences which Lloyd George inspired achieved little . The controversy over reparations remained the most dangerous issue ( in both the short and long terms ) . German calculations of their bill were about one-seventh of the sum demanded by the Allies , and the Germans defaulted over the first payment of ? 1000 million : on 8 March 192 I , sanctions were applied against Germany . On 27 April 1921 , the reparationscommission fixed the total liability at ? 6600 million and devised a method of long-term payment : each year ? Ioo millionwere to be paid , together with 26 per cent of the annual value of German exports . These terms were met by Germany until the end of the year , when she threatened another default . The ominous question arose : how would Germany be able to meet her debt if her economy and her currency collapsed ? In January 1922 Lloyd George tried to bring about a rapport with France at a conference at Cannes . He found himself dealing with Briand , who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , was attacked and ridiculed by the French Press over an absurd game of golf into which he was persuaded by Lloyd George ( whose handicap was distinctly superior to Briand 's ) and driven from office on 12 January . He was replaced by Poincare : conciliation was definitely not Poincare 's favourite pastime , and he stood firm over France 's demands against Germany . The Cannes Conference , promising at the outset , came to nothing . At Genoa a conference on the grand scale again promised well , but achieved nothing when France threatened to pursue her policy alone . Lloyd George 's hopes were disappointed , and his prestige was damaged . A more fruitful conference was held in Washington from November 1921 to February 1922 , although its success was centred in the Pacific rather than in Europe . General disarmamentwas raised as an issue , but practical results concerned navies . Britain surrendered her claim to naval supremacy and agreed to accept a parity with the U.S. Navy . There was still friction between France and Britain , but a four-power treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France and Japan agreed to guarantee the existing situation in the Pacific . A problem which greatly exercised Lloyd George , and in the end provided the Conservatives with the pretext to drive him from office , was concerned with that traditional source of British diplomatic anxiety , the Turkish Empire . Parts of the Empire had been distributed among the Allies during the war , and the distribution had been confirmed by the Peace of Sevres in August 1920 . France was given a mandate over Syria , and Britain a similar responsibility in Palestine and Mesopotamia(Iraq) . Constantinople had been promised to Russia , but in their high idealism the Bolsheviks repudiated the agreement , and in any case the situation had been complicated by the transformation threatened in Turkey by the rise of Kemal , who was likely not only to reform , but also to strengthen Turkey . British policy had been to encourage the demands of the Greeks against the Turks , and to encourage the Greek occupation ofp173Smyrna in May 1919 . The support of Greece by Britain had been maintained at Sevres with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The confusion wrought by the emergence of Kemal was worse confounded by the fall from power in Greece of Venizelos , on whom British diplomacy had set great store . France continued her support , but a renewed Greek offensive towards Ankara in 1921 was compromised by an alliance in March between Turkeyand Russia . In October 1921 France came to terms with Turkey . In 1922 it became clear that there was significant support for Turkey in India ( where there was , of course , an important Moslem element in the population ) . The open declaration of this support , with the approval of the Viceroy , was vigorously opposed by the Foreign Secretary , Lord Curzon , who now attempted to mediate between the Greeks and the Turks . The Greeks , in fact , were in increasing difficulty . The Allied powers would not let Greek troops land along the Sea of Marmara . Kemal attacked , and the Greeks were defeated , losing Smyrna in September 1922 . There now seemed to be a danger that Kemal would attack the Allied forces still in occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Especially vulnerable in such a situation was a British force at Chanak . The British officials botched the action which was taken , and the wrath of the Conservatives fell upon Lloyd George . A warning was sent to Kemal , and the governments of the Dominions were indignant when a published communique reached them before the ciphered telegrams . Poincare added to the British embarrassment by ordering the withdrawal of French troops from Chanak : a hasty agreement had to be patched up with the French . A very tense situation developed during the last week of September , and there was support for the idea of a direct ultimatum to Turkey demanding the removal of her troops . The British commander on the spot , General Harington , procrastinated with a skill which would have done credit to Lloyd George himself , and so saved the situation . A convention was signed at Mudania on 11 October 1922 . The Turks promised to respect the neutral zone and agreed not to reoccupy eastern Thrace so long as Greece withdrew from the area . The situation had been saved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adept had revealed itself rather too obviously . In any case , its attractions were wearing thin , especially to those Conservatives who were itching to drive Lloyd George from office . The man who won the war ' had made strenuous efforts to win the peace , but politically , his time had run out.  |p175A  Fit Country for Heroesto Live in ' : Post-War Problemsin Society and Politics1918- 1922What is our task ? To make Britain a fit country for heroes to live in. //LLOYD GEORGE decided to hold a general election immediately after the conclusion of the armistice , and various cogent pretexts for such hasty action were put forward . It was certainly true , for instance , that the prolonging of the existing Parliament during the war , and the creation of a newly widened electorate in 1918 , had rendered an election overdue . But no doubt the most compelling reason in Lloyd George 's mind was the certainty that at such a moment the coalition government had victory in its pocket . That the coalition should be maintained was mutually beneficial to Lloyd George and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the coalition , but the Liberals were in a confusing situation . Local agents and organisers had to know which candidates had the backing of the leaders of the coalition . The solution was to provide such candidates with a statement of support signed by both Lloyd George and Bonar Law ? a document contemptuouslydismissed by Asquith as the coupon ' . On what basis was the coupon allocated ? Lloyd George claimed that loyalty during the Maurice debate ' was the crucial test ; close examination , such as that carried out by Mr Trevor Wilson in his admirable study The Downfall of the Liberal Party , z reveals that this was an over-simplification . In fact , Lloyd George made a deal with the Conservatives and needed a formula which roughly fitted the number of Liberals who were to be accommodated : 159 Liberals and 364 Conservatives received the coupon , an arrangement which seems to represent a triumph for Sir George Younger , the Conservative manager . Lloyd George has naturally been accused of selling out the Liberals , but it may be that he was simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Certainly most of the couponed Liberals were not opposed in their constituencies by Conservatives . The election anyway was certain to be marked by a pronounced swing to the right , so perhaps Lloyd George was , after all , salvaging as much as he could from an inevitable wreckage . Certainly Lloyd George 's early manoeuvres promised well for the Liberals . On 12 November 1918 he made a markedly progressive and enlightened speech to his fellow-Liberals . Later developments were to indicate that this was perhaps a smokescreento mislead doubters amongst his followers like Churchill and H. A. L. Fisher . As the election campaign proceeded , 4 Lloyd George allowed himself to be swept along by popular reactionary fervour until he seemed to be engaged in something like an outright war upon traditional Liberal principles . At least Lloyd George now had a party of his own ? the coalition Liberals . But his agreement with Bonar Law had bound him very closely to the Conservatives . Now his behaviour during the election campaign seriously compromised his radical reputation . If the Conservatives deserted him , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that the Conservatives would desert him when he had outlived his usefulness to them , as he had by 1922 . The result of the coupon election was the predictable landslidefor the coalition , which won a total of 478 seats : 333 were couponed Conservatives , 136 couponed Liberals , with 9 members of the National Democratic Party . Labour , fighting entirely independently and on a national scale , won 59 seats :  |p177two  leaders of the Labour Party , Ramsay MacDonald and Philip Snowden , lost their seats . Forty-eight non-couponed Conservatives were elected . There were 9 Independents , 7 Irish Nationalists , and 73 Sinn Feiners ( including the first woman ever elected , Countess Markievicz ) ? all 73 of whom never took their seats . The Liberals without the coupon returned a mere 29 members , a diverse handful to whom the prospect of office ceased to be even a remote possibility . Asquith himself lost his seat . The most ominous sign for the future was the large number of Liberal candidates who were relegated to third place behind Conservative and Labour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supportersof the coalition failed . Open warfare seemed , indeed , to be declared when , at the end of 1919 , Lloyd George put up one of his own Liberals ' against the Liberal Sir John Simon in a by-election in Spen Valley : Labour won the seat ! Lloyd George 's attempts to conjure up the bogy of Bolshevism in Britain were unconvincing to Liberals . As Violet Bonham Carter characteristically remarked : When I think of Mr Clynes and Mr Henderson my flesh positively refuses to creep ' . The annual meeting of the National Liberal Federation at Leamington in May 1920 was a disaster marked by unruly scenes between Liberals and coalition Liberals . During 1920 Lloyd George set up his own Liberal organisation , and in 1922 the National Liberal Party was created . The Liberals were further weakened by the marked hostility from 1919 onwards of the Labour Party , and by the feebleness of Asquith 's leadership , even after his return to the House of Commons following a triumph in a by-election in Paisley . The great man was a mere shadow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liberals ( or Squiffites ' ) encouraged the leaders of the coalition Liberals to prolong their agreement with the Conservatives . Although attempts to form a genuine Centre Party ' failed , the fusion ' which the attempts envisaged was virtually achieved so long as the coalition lasted . Meanwhile , Lloyd George was more than fully occupied with the negotiation of peace abroad and with the task at home of making Britain a fit country for heroes to live in ' . The House of Commons through which he was to work was noteworthy for the comparatively advanced age of its membership . Only about too M.P.s belonged to the generation which had actually fought the war , although perhaps Stanley Baldwin was unjust when he remarked on the predominance of hard-faced men who looked as if they had done well out of the war . It may be an exaggeration to think in terms of a lost generation ' after the war , but much of that generation was certainly lost to political life . The leading members of the Government reflected the alliance which had brought it about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : his talents for political manipulation and his energy in getting things done were widely respected if not always admired . His tendency to work through his own group of personal advisers , independently of his colleagues , caused some resentment : his staff ( temporarily housed in the grounds of 10 Downing Street ) was ironically nicknamed The Garden Suburb ' . Bonar Law probably reached the extreme of his influence during this period : his friendship with Lloyd George was still firm and , through the offices of Lord Privy Seal and Leader of the House of Commons , he was able to play a moderating part as well as exercise his control over the Conservatives . The energies and prodigious , if indisciplined , talents of F. E. Smith were rewarded with his appointment as Lord Chancellor with the title of Lord Birkenhead . Austen Chamberlain , very reminiscent at this stage in his life of his famous father , became Chancellor of the Exchequer ; Balfour remained Foreign Secretary and Churchill held the War Office . The necessities of war had helped to bring about a notable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditions and protocol had been broken down . The Cabinet Secretariat under Sir Maurice Hankey had already established its great significance . Above all , of course , the war had broken down old nineteenth-century objections to direct governmental interference and had led to a remarkable increase in the size of the Civil Service : from a total in 1914 of 57,706 members , the Civil Service expanded by 1923 to 116,241 , and by 1930 to 120,418.3Acceptance of more direct governmental action helped top179stimulate , amongst other things , demands for the nationalisationof key industries . In the forefront with such claims were , naturally , the forces of organised labour , more closely-knit now than ever before . Their wartime divisions had been largely healed when Henderson left the coalition in 1917 , and in 1918 a national Labour Party was constituted , with a programme of temperate social reform drawn up by Sidney Webb . The trade unions also felt their power and developed their organisation : in 1920 the General Council of the T.U.C. was created , whilst in 1921 the most formidable workers ' organisation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was brought into being by the genius of Ernest Bevin . The inception of the National Council of Labour was intended to provide a link between the Labour Party and the T.U.C. On the extreme left of the working-class movement , various bodies came together in 1921 to form the British Communist Party , which was firmly and consistently refused affiliation by the Labour Party . All these developments in the organisation of labour are obviously very important in the context of industrial unrest after 1918. *The harvest of war which had to be gathered was formidable . The British Empire had contributed nearly a million lives to the Allied cause , some three quarters of a million from Britain herself . The casualty rate had been especially high amongst those junior officers who might have been expected to play a leading role in post-war life . Although no more than 1500 civilians had lost their lives during the war , about a million and a half men now returned to civilian life suffering from serious wounds , or from gassing , or who were psychologically wrecked from the effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : there was a serious coal shortage immediately after the war . The weakening effects of wartime diet coupled with the difficulty of keeping warm in the post-war winter no doubt contributed to the virulence of the influenza epidemic which swept the country and ravaged the large towns : 7.9 per cent of the entire population of Manchester died , and at the height of the epidemic over the country as a whole , 7560 people died in a week early inp180November . To such social misery discontent was added , particularlyover the demobilisation of servicemen . A scheme by which those who were most needed at home were to be released first met such opposition that it was hastily replaced by the principle of first in , first out ' . The redeployment of labour returning from the front was assisted by the efficient discharge of women workers from the factories , and was in any case made easier by the industrial boom which immediately followed the war . But there were difficulties ahead : as early as January 1919 , a strike in Glasgow for the forty-hour week was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike : among strike leaders imprisoned was a future pillar of the Labour Party , Emmanuel Shinwell . In financial terms alone , the cost of the war was daunting . Britain owed some ? 85o millions to the U.S.A. She was in fact owed twice as much by her Allies , but mostly from Russia , from whom she was unlikely to be able to collect . The National Debt stood at fourteen times its pre-war amount . The situation was serious enough to warrant the consideration of a capital levy , but Bonar Law rejected such a solution . At first the nation 's industry and commerce were riding high on the tide of wartime prosperity , and there was every stimulus to investment , so much so that The Economist wrote of a craze for speculation ' . No less than 11,000 new companies had been created by I920 . Investment brought a vast inflation of shares , notably in the Lancashire cotton industry , but also in most other major industries . Yet the truth was that many industries , especially shipbuilding , had greatly over-expanded during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that much of the immediate post-war investment in them was wasted . The Government 's policy , with its increase in the floating debt , added to the inflationary trend . The boom was short-lived . There were ominous signs of an impending slump in I920 , and by 1921 The Economist was writing of One of the worst years of industrial depression since the industrial revolution ' . The collapse of wage-rates and the growth of unemployment helped effectively to kill Lloyd George 's reputation with the working-class . The Government'sp181response to the signs of depression was to hasten the decontrol of industries for which it had assumed responsibility during the war , and to introduce a deflationary policy . In April 1920 , for example , Bank Rate was raised to 7 per cent , stemming the tide of investment . The Budget increased the excess profits duty . The slump brought an immediate decline in wages and prices and a rise in unemployment . Wages in any case had failed to match prices : as far as the purchase of food was concerned , the 1914 pound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9d in July 1920 , and although it had improved to gs 2d in July 1921 , unemployment was by that time already severe . The trade unions concentrated their efforts upon wage demands , and there was serious and widespread industrial unrest in 1919 , 1920 and 192I . Even the Metropolitan Police took strike action . But growing unemployment once more dampened ? as in the early days of the Labour movement ? the effectiveness of industrial action . Lloyd George played for time by establishing a variety of commissions , and by calling a National Industrial Conference . He succeeded in frustrating demands for nationalisation . There were some practical steps . Whitley Councils , for example , which provided the machinery of consultation in particular industries , numbered fifty-six by 1920 . The idea of arbitration in industrial disputes gained ground ? and Ernest Bevin on behalf of the dockers showed what it could achieve ? but the Industrial Courts Act of 1919 failed to make arbitration compulsory . Before the serious effects of the slump stultified the Government'spolicies , at least two efforts at genuine social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act of 1919 signified an attempt to deal with the problem of providing the three quarters of a million new homes which were needed after the war . The initiative was given to local authorities , assisted by governmental subsidy of any need in excess of one penny on the local rate . Christopher Addison as Minister of Health was responsible for the plan as a whole ; it succeeded in producing 213,000 houses but there was a good deal of unnecessary extravagance . In 1922 , the economic situation put a stop to the Government 's housing grants , and Lloyd George sacrificed Addison as a scapegoat when the shortcomings of the scheme were attacked . The Unemployment Insurance Act of 1920 extended insurancein case of unemployment to some i i million people , and provided weekly contributory benefits of 15S for men and 12s for women . But the benefits were circumscribed by time limits . In any case , the galloping pace of unemployment during the slump swamped the whole scheme . The slump was marked by a disastrous decline in overseas trade : in 1921 , exports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than in the previous year . The steel industry in particular suffered a disastrous decline in production . Wages generally fell , and unemployment rose rapidly : in December 1920 , the total was 691,103 ; in March 1921 , 1,355,206 ; in June 1921 , 2,171,288 ; in December 1921 , 1,934,030 ; in June 1922 , 1,502,955 . Certain industries were particularly hardhit : in December 1921 , 36.7 per cent were unemployed in iron and steel ; 36.1 per cent in shipbuilding ; 27.2 per cent in engineering ; and 20 ' 5 per cent in the building trade . Some areas of the country were harder hit than others : in December 1921 , there was a 25 per cent level of unemployment in Northern Ireland ; 21 per cent in Scotland ; and 18 per cent both in the midlands and the north-east . Individual towns remained devastated by unemployment even after the worst effects of the slump had passed : in August 1922 , the level of unemployment was still 6o per cent in Hartlepool ; 49 per cent in Stockton and Barrow ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Handsworth ; and 43 per cent in Jarrow.4Working-class discontent manifested itself in demonstrations , often organised by the Communist-led National Unemployed Workers ' Movement , which was formed in October 1920 . The first of the hunger marches ' which were to be an all too familiar feature of the country 's life in the inter-war years took place in 1922 . The Act of 1920 was quite inadequate to alleviate such distress , and the Government embarked upon a series of acts which culminated in the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1922 . The period of benefit was extended , rates of benefit werep183amended , and the level of contributions was increased . The provision that ? 3o millions could be borrowed from the Treasury instituted the concept of the dole ' . Labour Exchanges were kept hard at work by the stipulation that recipients of benefit must be genuinely seeking ' work . An important principle had been conceded by the UnemployedWorkers ' Dependants Act of 1921 , which provided for weekly payments from the Unemployment Fund of 5s for a wife , and Is for a child . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the old poor rate , but the principle of family allowances had been conceded ? a significant stepping-stone to future social legislation . In the wider economic context , the Government maintained a deflationary policy and instituted departmental economies . Under pressure from the Conservatives , Lloyd George set up a Committee under the chairmanship of Sir Eric Geddes in August 1921 . Its first report , in February 1922 , made recommendationswhich were dubbed the Geddes Axe ' : governmentalsavings of ? 75 million were prescribed . The Army estimates were to lose ? 20 million , the Navy ? 21 million . Education was to be cut back by ? 18 million ( partly by a cut of 10 per cent in teachers ' salaries ) ; pensions were to be reduced by ? 31 million . The recommendations were too stringent even for the Government , but cuts totalling ? 64 million were implemented . Such policies naturally caused flutterings in the dovecotes of party politics . Particularly disruptive was the Safeguarding of Industries Act of 1921 which extended the dilution of free trade already signified by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Act profoundly disturbed the Liberals , whilst it did not go far enough to satisfy the Conservatives . Growing disputes over Free Trade versus Protection were merely symptomatic of the impending breakdown of the coalition . The Government was unpopular on counts other than its handling of the economic situation . Ireland and India also helped to focus discontent . The war had stirred Indian nationalism , which had been far from satisfied by the Governmentof India Act of 1919 which had left power firmly in thep184hands of the Viceroy and the Executive Council and had maintainedarbitrary police powers . In 1919 , demonstrators at Amritsar had been attacked , with the loss of 379 Indian lives : 1208 demonstrators were wounded . There was a growing pressure in India for independence , led by the remarkable figure of Mahatma Gandhi . Lloyd George himself was very unpopular with many Conservatives , who resented the influence of his Garden Suburb ' and distrusted his manipulation of the honours system . The scandal of the sale of honours ' led to the establishment of a Royal Commission which recommended that henceforth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not members of the government of the day . The political situation was further confused in 1921 by the temporary retirement through ill-health of Bonar Law . He was succeeded as leader of the Conservatives by Austen Chamberlain , who was consistently loyal to Lloyd George . Bonar Law returned to health and politics in February 1922 . Mr Trevor Wilson has argued that the real explanation of the downfall of the coalition is to be found in none of these shorttermcauses , but in the original nature of the alliance which Lloyd George had made . He was never really trusted by the rank and file of the Conservative Party , who had been prepared to cash in on Lloyd George 's reputation as the man who won the war ' but who by 1922 were confident that they could manage without him . Early in 1922 , Lloyd George wanted to seize the chance of prolonging the coalition by holding a general election . He was resisted by the Conservatives , who extended attacks which they were already making on Liberal coalition ministers into an assault on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George , but his appeal to his Conservative followers for an early election on the basis of the coalition was met with demands by the party manager , Sir George Younger , for Conservative separation from the coalition . Lloyd George was indignant at the political machinations of a second-rate brewer ' , but in spite of the support of Chamberlain and Balfour , he was powerless against the growing Conservative rebellion.  |p185It  was Chanak which forced the issue in October 1922. * Chamberlain failed to rally Conservative support and resigned the party leadership : his loyalty to Lloyd George probably cost him the Premiership , and when Lloyd George resigned Bonar Law became Prime Minister . Lloyd George never held office again . The coalition Liberals were his party , and they were now isolated . Lloyd George would not even try for a reconciliation with the Liberals ; he preferred to play for time in the hope of the renewal of his alliance with the Conservatives . Mr Lloyd George ' , wrote the Manchester Guardian on 4 November 1922 , is still Coalition , whether the Conservatives will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nation : IrelandBut where can we draw water ' Said Pearse to Connolly , When all the wells are parched away ? 0 plain as plain " can ; beThere 's nothing but our own red blood Can make a right Rose Tree ' . WILLIAM BUTLER YEATS , The Rose TreeTHE history of Ireland was a tragedy which generations of English misrule had done too little to alleviate . During the nineteenth century , however , those grievances which centred on religious discrimination and the actual ownership of the land had been largely removed . There remained the question of the government of Ireland . Pitt 's Act of Union , conceived in goodwillbut delivered in corruption , had become the focal point of Irish discontent and Gladstone 's career had foundered in frustration with the defeat of his two Home Rule Bills . The role of the House of Lords in the defeat of the second Home Rule Bill had been a clear warning of trouble to come . The Parliament Act of 1911 had seriously diminished the obstacle presented by the Lords , but the campaign of Carson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unparallelled even in the annals of Irish history . The outbreak of war had deferred the application of Home Rule , but in Ireland the situation remained perilously inflammable . In face of the outspoken threat posed by the existence of the aggressive Ulster Volunteers , the Irish Volunteers in the south maintained their open drilling . The most extreme of Irishmen sought German help . Sir Roger Casement , veteran of a distinguished and enlightened career in the Consular service ,  |p187canvassed  Irish captives in German prison camps . His lack of success was more than matched by the futility of his landing in Ireland , where he blundered straight into the arms of his British enemies . He was destined to be condemned after the humiliation of a vicious prosecution at the hands of F. E. Smith . He was hanged on 3 August 1916 for the wearing of the green ' , as the patriotic Irish song had it ; his remains were restored to Ireland only after nearly half a century had passed . The failure of the expected German support was evident even before the fiasco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned for Easter 1916 was cancelled by John MacNeill , chief of staff of the Irish Volunteers . His order was deliberately disobeyedby Volunteer contingents in Dublin . The rising which occurred was thus the work of officers in calculated mutiny against their own command : at least one of them , Patric Pearse , the leader of the rising , was consciously courting martyrdom . On Easter Monday 1916 , the men under the command of Patric Pearse , Eamon de Valera and others seized the General Post Office in Dublin , proclaimed the Irish Republic and raised the green and gold flag of Irish rebellion . In fierce and prolongedfighting which devastated the Georgian elegance of O'Connell Street round the General Post Office , some 450 Irishmen were killed and British deaths numbered about 100 . By Friday the struggle was hopeless , and the Provisional Government of the Irish Republic surrendered . Thus far , the Irish rebels had enjoyed singularly little Irish support . The hostility of the Dublin crowds when the leaders emerged from the G.P.O. was directed against Pearse and his followers rather than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Maxwell , who transformed the entire situation : tried in secret , fourteen rebel leaders were executed one by one and their deaths were announced in calculated and clinically detached terms . Pearse and his comrades had achieved their martyrdom . Eamon de Valera avoided death on the technical grounds that he possessed no citizenship ? though brought up in Limerick he was born in the U.S.A. of a Spanish father and an Irish mother . The sympathies of the Irish were henceforth rallied behind the murdered leaders . Not the least of the transformations wrought by Maxwell was the maturing of the genius of William Butler Yeats : And what if excess of love Bewildered them till they died ? I write it out in a verse ? MacDonagh and MacBride And Connolly and Pearse Now and in time to be , Wherever green is worn , Are changed , changed utterly : A terrible beauty is born . =A form of agreement on Ireland was concocted in 1916 by the pragmatic talents of Lloyd George , who produced a deal between Carson and Redmond , the leader of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six predominantly Protestant counties of Ulster were to remain within the United Kingdom , whilst the remaining twenty-six counties were to have Home Rule , and there was to be a post-war Imperial Conference . The proposals were killed by the opposition led in the Lords by Lansdowne , and by the understandable refusal of Redmond to compromise . The break-down served still further to strengthen the hands of the Irish extremists , whilst Irish Nationalist M.P.s tended increasingly to opt out of the House of Commons and direct their attention to affairs in Ireland itself . Radical Liberal M.P.s regarded Asquith 's withdrawal in face of Lansdowne 's opposition as a show of weakness , a factor which was destined to be of great political significance in December 1916 . Ireland simmered until the end of the war , and resisted attempts to impose conscription in 1918 . In the general electionof 1918 Arthur Griffith 's Sinn Fein , the party of independence , won all seats save four in Ireland ( outside of Ulster ) and set up in Dublin an independent Irish Parliament , the Dail , proclaiming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In April 1919 the ranks of the Dail were swollen by the release of Irish prisoners from British gaols . A political situation perhaps impossible in any country save Ireland nowp189arose : under the Presidency of Eamon de Valera the Dail simply ignored the existence of the British government . Sinn Fein worked on the assumption that as the authority of the Dail became established , British influence would simply wither away . By 1920 , the executive functions of the Irish under the Dail had developed quite impressively , and Irish local authorities , for example , were taking their instructions from W. T. Cosgrave 's Ministry of Local Government . The Irish extremists , however , were too impatient to wait for British power to wither : they determined to root it out . In January 1919 the remnants of the Republican Brotherhood founded the Irish Republican Army under the leadership of Michael Collins ( a veteran of the Easter Rising ) and the fervent Cathal Brugha , who clung obstinately to the Gaelic version of his name and was the proud possessor of the scars of no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditions of the nineteenth century Fenians , the I.R.A . received lavish support from the Irish colony in America , to whom de Valera paid a visit during 1919 . Michael Collins was a remarkable leader of men and he developed a superb intelligence service which kept him always at least one step ahead of the British troops , who with the Royal Irish Constabulary outnumbered by ten to one the 5000 men which was the maximum number the I.R.A . could put into the field at any one time . In 1920 , however , with the dispatch to Ireland as reinforcementsfor the Royal Irish Constabulary of the notorious Black and Tans ' ( all too often recruited with every promise of violent sport to come ) the methods of the British spilled over into open brutality , which was fully reciprocated by the Irish : 700 Irish lives were paid for by the deaths of 500 police and 200 British troops . Asquith visited the stricken country and was appalled : Things are being done in Ireland ' , he said , which would disgrace the blackest annals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Home Rule was not applied derived in part from Lloyd George 's lack of genuine sympathy with the Irish . In 1920 he made yet another attempt at a settlement . The Government of Ireland Act of 1920 was forbidding in its complexity , and proved unacceptable to Ulstermen and Sinn Feiners alike . The Act provided for two Home Rule Parliaments , in Dublin and Belfast , with both contributing to a Council of Ireland dedicated to the restoration of unity . It is noteworthy that such a proposal , in spite of the saving clause creating the Council of Ireland , virtually recognised the fact of partition as the solution to the Irish problem . Representatives from both parts of Ireland were still to be sent to Westminster . George V was seriously concerned , and dogged in his determination to help solve the problem . He courageously opened the Belfast Parliament in June 1921 and made a warm plea for peace which marked the culmination of a campaign in both Parliament and the Press for a peaceful solution . De Valera agreed to negotiate and a truce was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attitude of Lloyd George and his Conservative ministers was hardening again , and British offers of Dominion Status for the twenty-six counties of the south were met by the Sinn Fein demand for a united independent republic . De Valera himself had arrived at a formula of external association ' , broadly comparable with the relationship then between the United States and Cuba . Such a formula was in many ways a compromise between the British and the Sinn Fein positions . Any compromise which might appeal to Lloyd George was , however , effectively blocked by Bonar Law . Negotiations for a Treaty opened in October 1921 . De Valera stayed at home , and the Irish cause was in the hands of Arthur Griffith and Michael Collins , who whilst losing none of his courage was prepared to negotiate with British leaders like Smith whose forthrightness appealed to him : I trust them , ' he said , I 'm prepared to take their word . ' There was much hard bargaining , with Lloyd George even prepared to resort to the threat of war , before Articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The serious misgivings of the Irish about the division of the island were to some extent lulled by Lloyd George , who , perhaps even sincerely , promised that the Boundary Commission which would be necessary would virtually erode Ulster out of a separate existence . The Articles , by recognising the separateness of the twenty-six counties , to all intents and purposes spelt the end of the Union.  |p191De  Valera , who still wanted external association ' , opposed the Articles , but on 7 January 1922 the Dail approved them as the basis of a Treaty with the United Kingdom , whereupon de Valera resigned . But in June 1922 elections for the Dail showed a majority of some 72 per cent in favour of the Treaty . Ireland was not to be settled by mere votes , however , and another painful outbreak of violence followed , this time with the Irish fighting one another . The I.R.A . split , with the Regulars under Collins supporting the Dail whilst the Irregulars fought against the acceptance of the Treaty . Fighting broke out after Rory O'Connor and Irregulars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Irregulars were de Valera and Cathal Brugha . In the course of clearing Dublin of Irregulars , the Regulars inflicted wounds which at last proved mortal on Cathal Brugha . Meanwhile , Michael Collins 's intelligence service was no longer reliable and he was in constant danger of betrayal . He had remarked that in agreeing to the terms of the Treaty he was signing his death warrant , and he was killed in a violent battle on 22 August 1922 at the age of thirty-one . He was no ordinary battle casualty , for he was shot in the back of the head . The civil war was efficiently , and at times ruthlessly , pursued by Willy Cosgrave , Richard Mulcahy and Kevin O'Higgins , and by the end of May 1923 the latest episode in the strife which has rent Ireland was over . In the meantime , the Treaty was put into force . A constitution submitted by the Dail was ratified by the Parliament of the United Kingdom in December 1922 . The Irish Free State was created , and British troops were finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the twenty-six counties autonomy in finance , justice , education and administration . The Royal Navy was guaranteed the use of ports at Queenstown , Berehaven and Lough Swilly . There was to be common citizenship with the United Kingdom , and the Irish Free State was to be a member of the Commonwealth , with Dominion Status . Virtually the sole remaining link with the Union was the Governor-General , and the first holder of that office alsop192provided a link with the days of the campaign for Home Rule with the appointment of T. M. Healy . Ironically , the Irish settlement ruined Lloyd George , for Bonar Law and the rest were determined to make him pay for the destruction of the Union . Ireland ' , writes Mr A. J. P. Taylor , ruined Lloyd George , as it had ruined Peel and Gladstone . But at least he was ruined by success , they by failure . ' zIreland was moderately ruled in the years after the Treaty , but in 1932 Eamon de Valera returned to office . In the same year he suspended the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undermined the position of the GovernorGeneral . In 1933 , appeals from Ireland to the Privy Council of the United Kingdom were abolished , and two years later British citizenship was abandoned . British citizenship was retained by Irishmen resident in the United Kingdom ? a convenient , if distinctly Irish ' arrangement . De Valera took advantage of the opportunity offered by the abdication crisis to remove the monarch from the Irish Constitution , and in 1937 the sovereign , democratic state of Eire ' was proclaimed , still recognised by Britain and the Dominions as a member of the Commonwealth . In 1949 the Irish Republic at last came into being . The long struggle had come to an end ? except for those Irishmen who will never acknowledge the separation of Ulster . Mediocrity and Illusion : Politics 1922 ? 1929CHAPTER SIXTEEN ... the second eleven .. . //THE statesmen of the 19205 appeared to many of their contemporaries , and to some historians , as mere shadows of the great figures who had dominated politics in the nineteenth century and ( in the person of Lloyd George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of distance lending enchantment to the view : although Mr Reginald Bassett has made out a strong case for Ramsay MacDonald , ' none of the others approached , in his own time or in the context of history , the stature possessed before them by Lloyd George or since by Winston Churchill . Unhappily , the predominance of second-rate politicians coincidedwith the illusion that most , if not all , was right with the world ? an illusion fostered as the Great War faded into memory and as a total of a million unemployed came to be accepted as normal . Bonar Law 's premiership was consolidated by the general election of November 1922 , which returned 345 Conservatives , 142 Labour M.P.s , and 117 Liberals , who seem to have been about equally divided between followers of Lloyd George and those of Asquith . Bonar Law 's cabinet was traditionally Conservative in complexionand undistinguished in composition . Its most establishedpolitical figure was probably Lord Curzon at the Foreign Office ; its most astute candidate for promotion was SenatorG Baldwin , now raised from relative obscurity to the Chancellorshipof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was concerned , Bonar Law dispensed with the Garden Suburb , which had proved such an irritant to Lloyd George 's colleagues as well as his opponents , but maintained the cabinet secretariat . Bonar Law appeared to be firmly established , with all the resources of power which had become available to a Prime Minister during Lloyd George 's time . But his political strength was not matched by his physical condition . He was an ailing man when he took office , and was destined to be removed with stark suddenness . Bonar Law had dropped Protection from the Conservative programme before the general election . The pressing economic question which confronted his government was the settlementof the debt with the United States . Baldwin went out to America as British representative , with instructions to settle only such debts as could be met from payments to Britain of debts owed by other countries . In spite of his instructions , he allowed the Americans to dictate very harsh terms , involvingBritain in annual payments of ? 34 million for ten years and ? 4o million thereafter . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Baldwin had made . The size of the American debt compelled Britain , whatever her diplomatic feelings in the matter , to exact reparations from Germany as far as she could . France was in any case determined to do so , and in 1923 occupied the Ruhr . The German economy , however , was in no condition to meet stringent demands , and the German currency collapsed . The speed and extent of the catastrophe is vividly familiar to those who collect the postage-stamps of the period . In May 1923 Bonar Law realised that he was suffering from incurable cancer of the throat , and he resigned , abstainingfrom recommending his successor to the King . The heir-apparent ( and certainly presumptuous , if not presumptive ) was Lord Curzon , who had added to his already formidable reputation during his tenure of the Foreign Office . But he was unpopular . He had shown himself imperious in manner and inconsistent in loyalty , and many members of the Conser/vative Party little relished his advent to the premiership . Their anxieties were groundless : King George V @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional thing in a difficult situation . There is no evidence that Bonar Law had any preference or even much interest in the matter of his successor ; the King believed that Bonar Law favoured Baldwin , and in any case there were serious objections to having a peer as Prime Minister . Stanley Baldwin became Prime Minister and was duly elected leader of the Conservative Party , thus reversing the customary sequence of events . His rise had been rapid , but characteristically undramatic . Drama , indeed , was uncongenialto him ; but beneath his tranquil exterior , with his soothing pipe and his talk of his pigs and of the English countryside , beat the heart of a successful businessman and a subtle , tough politician . Lloyd George saw through the disguise , and paid Baldwin the compliment of calling him the most formidableantagonist whom I ever encountered ' . Actually , Baldwin genuinely cared for a quiet life , and he did much to foster the illusion that the twenties were normal , tranquil times ? and that they would last . His greatest achievement certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them , based , as many of his political appeals were , upon the lulling formula You know my record ' , won over even as formidable an opponent as Ernest Bevin to a mood of resigned acquiescence , if not of conviction . Yet this was his most positive contribution to political and constitutional history : for all his failings it was well for the nation that Baldwin was in charge of its affairs in 1926 . Much of the dynamism and most of the dogmatism in Baldwin 's Government stemmed from Neville Chamberlain . Lloyd George described him , with cruel but perceptive relish , as a good mayor of Birmingham in an off year ' . Where Baldwin was conciliatory , Chamberlain was combative . Essentially conceited , he displayed an irksome tendency to treat his colleages and opponents as if they were second-rate Birmingham city councillors . Such an attitude might ? and did ? get things done at the Ministry of Health , but was to prove disastrous when he would represent the nation in conversation with Adolf Hitler.  | The one positive achievement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ministry of Health . In July 1923 yet another attempt was made to deal with the housing problem . Chamberlain 's spirit is evident in its parsimonyand in its apparent discrimination against the lowestpaidworkers . A limited governmental subsidy ( ? 6 million a year for ten years ) was provided to help in the construction of houses which were essentially of utility design . Prospects of further advance were suddenly thrown into the melting-pot in October 1923 , when Baldwin declared that any real solution to the problem of unemployment must depend upon a protective tariff . Since Bonar Law had dropped Protection before his victory in the general election , an appeal to the country was necessary . Such a political gamble was not quite in keeping with Baldwin 's love of the quiet life , and his real motives have never been satisfactorily explained : his biographer , Mr G. M. Young , suggests that Baldwin saw a crucial issue such as Protection as a means of closely uniting the ConservativeParty and of strengthening his own hold over it . The general election returned 258 Conservatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a genuine three-party situation was thus created . In the absence of an overall majority , Labour now became the alternative government , provided it could rely upon the support of the Liberals . Baldwin had succeeded in reuniting the Liberals by fighting the election on an issue which was fundamental to their political principles , but they still occupied only third place . On 21 January 1924 the Conservatives were defeated in the House of Commons . King George V once more acted with constitutional rectitude and summoned the leader of the next largest party to form a government . Since the general election of ' 922 , Labour representation in the House of Commons had been marked by a significant increase in moderate middleclassM.P.s , although there still remained a vocal and radical wing , broadly associated with the Clydeside constituencies . In 1922 , Ramsay MacDonald had been re-elected leader of the parliamentary party , though he had won only a narrow victory over J. R. Clynes . He was in many senses the architect of thep197Party and was at the height of his considerable powers , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was later to prove so distressing . Ramsay MacDonald 's great love , and at this time his forte , was foreign policy , and he combined the offices of Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary . Haldane , denied the Woolsack until 1912 in the pre-war Liberal administration , now regained it . Philip Snowden , the Robespierre of the Party in its early days , became Chancellor of the Exchequer . George Lansbury , the conscience of the left wing , received no office at all . The first Labour government was circumscribed by its dependence upon the Liberals ; but it was even more gravely handicapped by the economic situation of the country and by the problem of an unemployment figure still over a million . J. M. Keynes , who called for the solution of the problem of unemployment by a bold policy of expansion through public works , was far in advance of contemporary economic thinking , and the Government lacked the political courage and the resourcesto follow his lead . Nor was the solidarity of the workingclassmovement strong enough to spare a Labour government the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exert his powerful influence to have them called off . At the Exchequer , Snowden was concerned to balance the Budget . He returned to Free Trade with the abolition of the McKenna duties , but he felt bound to exercise a disappointingrestraint over expensive projects of social reform . Thus , spectacular reforms were out of the question , at least for the time being . But at the Board of Education , C. P. Trevelyanmanaged to offset the most disastrous effects of the Geddes Axe . He also instituted the Hadow Committee , which , when it at length reported in 1926 , set the pattern for future educational development by advocating a break at the age of eleven between primary and secondary education , thus firmly establishing the principle of secondary education for all ' ? a principle destined , however , to be compromised for too long by the inadequacy of financial resources . In spite of the Treasury 's stringency , the first Labour governmentmanaged to extend the housing programme through its Minister of Health , John Wheatley ( one of the Clydeside M.P.$ ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implementing the building programme was restored to local authorities , with a strict provision that houses must be built for renting . The confidence of the building industry was secured by the provision that the scheme would last for fifteen years . In fact , it lasted until 1932 , but it gave the building industry the chance and the confidence to expand . The Prime Minister 's talents and energies were devoted to foreign affairs , where he maintained on behalf of Britain an attitude of strict impartiality , especially concerning relations with France and Germany . Like Lloyd George , he realised the need to mollify France . His most fruitful work in this context lay in persuading the two countries to accept the Dawes Plan ? put forward by an American ? which attempted to draw up a programme of reparations payments which Germanycould actually carry out . Britain 's share of the reparationsserved greatly to assist her in paying her own debt to the United States . In the wider framework of diplomacy , Ramsay MacDonald was a devoted supporter of the League of Nations . He supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? in which the signatories pledged themselves to seek arbitration in cases of international dispute and to strive for disarmament , whilst pledging mutual support in case of unprovoked aggression . The Labour government 's attitude to Soviet Russia was naturally of interest to supporters and opponents alike . The U.S.S.R. was formally recognised , and some hard bargaining ensued , since Britain wanted the payment of the pre-revolutionaryRussian government 's debts . The Soviet Union 's price was a loan , backed by Britain . Haggling produced at first deadlock , then a compromise : a commercial treaty was to be signed at once , followed by Russia 's payments of her debts and Britain 's guaranteeing of the loan . Lloyd George fiercely denounced this diplomacy and sought once more to raise the spectre of Bolshevism . It was , in fact , Communism which helped to bring down the Government and to ensure its defeat in the ensuing generalp199election . Fears once more grew of sinister Communist influencebehind the Labour movement . The defeat of the Governmentin the Commons was provoked by the ill-advised action of the Attorney-General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing charges , and then dropping them , against the Communist J. R. Campbell for an extremist article in which he had urged soldiers to refuse to take up arms against the working-class either at home or abroad . No doubt there was a case against him under the Incitement to Mutiny Act , but it was tactless to prosecute ; by dropping the case , Hastings played into the hands of all the anti-communist groups in the House of Commons . The red scare ' again played its part in the election campaignwhen , just before polling-day , a letter was published in the Daily Mail purporting to come from Zinoviev , the president of the Communist International , giving instructions in revolutionaryactivities to the British Communist Party . The general election of October 1924 was duly marked by a great swing to the Conservatives , who won 419 seats . Labour held 151 seats , and the Liberals were massacred , returning only 40 members . Asquith lost his seat , and retired to the House of Lords . The first interesting feature of the second Baldwin administrationwas that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baldwin had declared in 1923 to be so necessary . The second is the curious fashion in which the chief offices in the Government were distributed . The greatest surprise , not least to the person who received the office , was the appointment to the Chancellorship of the Exchequer of Winston Churchill , whose known loyalty to Free Trade seemed to close the door on Protection . A much stronger candidate for the Exchequer , though perhaps excluded by his obvious family connection with protection , was Austen Chamberlain . He became Foreign Secretary and his brother Neville returned to the Ministry of Health , where he spent perhaps his most fruitful years in politics . Birkenhead , perhaps the ablest lawyer in the Government , became Secretary for India . Was Baldwin trying to alter the whole complexion of Conservative government , or was he perhaps simply safeguarding his own position in a cabinet which he had hitherto conspicuously failed to dominate ? Give peace in our time , 0 Lord ' , implored Baldwin in 1925 in response to a Conservative M.P . ' s unsubtle proposal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levy . Peace was indeed to Baldwin a dear delight ' , both at home and abroad . Abroad , during the twenties prospects of peace were bright in spite of French assertiveness . The war years and their aftermathwere fading into the distance . In December 1925 Britain joined with Italy in guaranteeing the Treaty of Locarno , a non-aggression pact between France , Germany and Belgium . Austen Chamberlain declined to be associated with French diplomacy in eastern Europe , and regarded the Polish Corridor through Prussia to the sea as no business of Britain 's . In the years which followed , hopes of peace were further consolidated : the European powers developed conciliatory attitudes , Germany was admitted to the League of Nations , and the Dawes Plan for the payment of reparations appeared to be working satisfactorily . The only real disharmony in which Britain was involved was the breakdown of naval talks in 1927 between Britain , the U.S.A. and Japan . In 1927 , too , the nations came together in the Kellogg Pact to make a formal renunciation of war as a means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was naturally bound up with the strength of the Empire . An epoch-making Imperial Conference was held in 1926 , which laid down the constitutionallines which were followed in making the great Statute of Westminster of 1931 . The British Parliament was prepared formally to renounce its sovereignty over the Dominions : the Crown remained as the symbolic link between them . Departmentsof the Government were established to deal separately with Dominions and Colonies , although the same man , Leopold Amery , presided over both of them . India remained a problem to be administered separately . In face of growing Indian claims for independence , the British government 's policy clearly tended towards the granting of Dominion status . This certainly seems to have been the//p201objective of Lord Irwin ( later Lord Halifax ) , who became Viceroy in 1926 . In 1927 , Sir John Simon presided over a statutory Commission which began to inquire into the whole future of the government of India . Its report in 1930 did not go nearly far enough to meet the demands of the Indian leaders : meanwhile , British statesmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India , which it was too easy to attribute to malign Soviet influences . Growing optimism about the diplomatic situation along with the practical need for economies helped to bring about a consistent decline in expenditure on armaments , until by 1933 only 21 per cent of the national income was devoted to them . So confident were the statesmen that until 1933 British strategic thinking was based on the assumption of a period of ten years of peace . But administrative machinery for the organisation of defence was consolidated . The Committee of Imperial Defence was restored and became the focus of the Government 's defence policy . After the embarrassment of the Chanak affair , a Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee was maintainedfor the co-ordination of policy . Unfortunately , the existence of such a committee weakened the arguments for the creation of a Ministry of Defence , without which there was likely to be more inter-service bickering than genuinely co-ordinated policy . Rivalries , indeed , were intensified as the R.A.F. came to assert its claims . Its power and prestige , especially that of its bombers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the decade after the war , and its status was recognised by the inclusion in the Cabinet in 1923 of the Secretary of State for Air , Samuel Hoare . The Royal Navy , with its immense traditional influence , managed to hold its own ? and , indeed , to develop its base at Singapore innocent of all consultation with the R.A.F. ? but the Army suffered most severely from the economies and the hidebound military theories of the period . The atmosphere of international reconciliation and the return to normality were reflected also in what came to be one of the most controversial actions of the Government . In 1919 , the Gold Standard as the basis of currency had been suspended for six years . In 1925 , Winston Churchill took Britain back to the Gold Standard . Gold coins were not reintroduced , but the value of currency in gold was restored as the standard for international financial transactions . The resumption of the Gold Standard was not in itself highly controversial ; what did cause argument was the return to the Gold Standard at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1919 relation of the pound sterling to the dollar was restored ) . J. M. Keynes argued that in fact , since 1919 , there was a 10 per cent difference in gold prices , favouring the dollar . This , then , amounted to a virtual revaluation of the pound against the dollar by 10 per cent . Long-term difficulties were obscured by the short-term advantages to Britain in overseas trade . Churchill at the Exchequer maintained very much of an old-style Liberal policy , though his balancing of the budgets was achieved by a good deal of juggling between the various accounts ? Philip Snowden was to remark that The Right Honourable Gentleman 's financial methods have been such that had his Budgets been company balance sheets he would have found himself in the dock ' . Although the Government refused to raise the levels of unemployment benefits , Churchill in his first budget introduced the contributory old age pension scheme . He reduced income tax to 4S in the pound and maintainedLloyd George 's expedients of death duties and supertax . By the mid-twenties , educational expenditure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and represented 2.2 per cent . Under the stimulus of Wheatley 's Housing Act during the Labour government , and Neville Chamberlain 's rigorous application of it , 100,000 houses were built in each year . There is ample evidence , too , that real poverty declined . Yet the Government faced a grave economic and social problem : over a million people were still unemployed . The economy was in an unhealthy and unbalanced condition . Imports had recovered , and stood in 1925 at a level 10 per cent higher than in 1913 . Industries catering for the home market had recovered , but exports had fallen seriously behind . in 1925 , they were 25 per cent lower than the level of 1913 : Much of the real difficulty lay in the need to expand exportsp203in markets which were not themselves expanding . There was a ready assumption , however , that the problem of exports could be solved simply by cutting prices : and prices could be cut by reducing wages . The serious consequences of such a policy were not understood : wages were already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly reduce home consumption too , by reducing the money available to buy goods . There was a further serious consequence of such an attitude . The twenties had been marked by a conspicuous lack of political bitterness . The majority of Labour M.P.s , for instance , were now moderate in their views : Labour and Conservative politicians were moving towards political harmony . Economic policy based upon wage reductions , however , shattered the tranquillity of the political scene . The trade unions naturally resisted , and this time their resistance went to the limit . Far from peace in our time ' , Baldwin found himself , in 1926 , confronted with a General Strike. *The conciliatory attitude which Baldwin in particular had adopted during the General Strike was largely tarnished by the Trades Disputes Act of 1927 . There was , however , some improvement in the economic situation : the home market continued to expand , and between 1927 and 1929 , exports increased slightly , though they were still 16 per cent below the level of 1913 . The balance of payments , however , taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurance and investment abroad , now showed a surplus of some 1oo million a year . In 1928 both sides of industry came together in the Mond ? Turner talks in an attempt to improve industrial efficiency . Production increased by 14 per cent between 1924 and 1929 , but in 1928 unemployment was still over the million mark . The national budget was balanced , but precariously so . Meanwhile , Neville Chamberlain achieved significant reformsof local government , although his attitude to the wider national problem was ambivalent : his enthusiasm for economic reform was genuine , but was chilled by his opposition to increased expenditure . Such opposition was reflected in his stringent application of governmental control over local authorities : in July 1926 , he put forward legislation to restrict local councils who practised Poplarism ' . Following the lead of George Lansbury in Poplar , such councils were paying higher rates of wages and reliefs than were officially allowed . In 1928 , the powers of local authorities which had developed during and since the nineteenth century were further established . The old Poor Law was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poor Law locally since 1834 , were abolished , and their functions taken over by Public Assistance Committees of the authorities of the 62 counties and 84 county boroughs . By now , about 40 per cent of the income of local authorities was derived directly from governmental grants . The Government also paid a total of ? 24 million to make up the loss to local authorities when agricultural land was freed entirely , and industry and the railways from 75 per cent of rates . In Parliament , during 1927 and 1928 , much energy was expended and much excitement focused upon a proposed revision of the Prayer Book . The fact of Anglican establishment rendered the Church subject to the authority of Parliament . Proposals to amend some of the services in the Book of Common Prayer to accommodate trends towards High Churchmanship , although approved by the House of Lords , were twice rejected by the Commons . The irony that some members of the Commons were not Christians , let alone Anglicans , was not lost on the clergy , and there was a good deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either by a typically English compromise , or because issues of ecclesiastical fashion and politicsno longer played the role they had exercised in the nineteenth century , Convocation gave authority for the new forms of service to be used . Such an action was illegal , but remaineduntil the work of the Liturgical Commission in the 1960s . The general election which was due in 1929 was held in May . It was the first general election based upon a democraticfranchise . In 1928 , the right to vote had been given to women over 21 on a basis of equality with men . The electionp205was a genuinely three-cornered affair , with the Liberals striving to regain their lost fortunes . Each party put over 500 candidates into the field . Baldwin and the Conservatives fought with the insipid slogan Safety First ' . Lloyd George and the Liberals ( Asquith had resigned the party leadership in 1926 and died in 1928 ) though weak in constituency organisation , put forward a dynamic programme , breaking with the classic Gladstonian economics , taking up the theories of Keynes and foreshadowing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the party , not least by spending his own political fund ; but he was still distrusted , and his claim that he could cure unemployment was not believed . Labour 's programmewas drawn up by no less a pundit than R. H. Tawney : Labour and the New Society was a moderate , rather academic document . It made its appeal to members of the electorate who found Safety First ' uninspiring , and who probably were more ready to believe Margaret Bondfield 's fatuous claim that unemploymentcould be cured by Labour in three weeks than to study the rather more complex reasoning of Lloyd George . For the first time , Labour returned most M.P.s ? 288 ; they still lacked an overall majority , since the Conservatives held 26o seats , and the Liberals , cruelly frustrated and very much the also-rans , held 59 . Baldwin resigned , and Ramsay MacDonald became Prime Minister again on 5 June 1929.  |p206The  Acid Test of the SocialRevolutionaries : The General StrikeThe General Strike is a challenge to Parliament , and is the road to anarchy and ruin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1926 was foreshadowed by many aspects of the economic situation after 1918 : indeed the threat of such a strike was present , implicitly or explicitly , on more than one occasion between the end of the war and 1926 . Stanley Baldwin , for one , expected such action sooner or later , and saw to it that he was better prepared for it than the union leaders themselves . Yet , paradoxically , the General Strike may also be interpreted as something of a surprise ? a left-wing aberration in a period when the trends in organised labour 's opinions were moving towards the right in the contextof growing unemployment which followed the collapse in the early twenties of the post-war boom . In fact , British industrial and commercial supremacy had gone for ever , a fact which was temporarily obscured by the false boom after the peace settlement ? a boom in prices rather than in production . So long as the apparent prosperity lasted , the unions were able to adopt a militant attitude . Whilst Lloyd George procrastinated in the face of the industrialunrest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade union leaders recognised the meagre power of the mere fifty-nine Labour M.P.s who had been elec/ted in the snap Coupon Election , and talked of direct action ' . The syndicalists seemed to be coming into their own , and there were frequent references to the threat of a General Strike ; but a practical organisation which could run such a strike was never worked out . As Mr Alan Bullock astutely remarks in his admirable biography of Ernest Bevin : This was all right so long as the General Strike was employed only as a threat and the Government found it expedient to compromise . But it was a dangerous game to play : when the Government made up its mind to call the unions ' bluff , as it did in 1926 , they had either to go forward ? a course for which they were quite unprepared ? or to retreat ignominiously . In 1919 there was a renewal of the Triple Alliance of the miners , railwaymen and transport workers : their plan was to gain mutual strength by agreeing beforehand on each union 's demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year a cut in railwaymen 's wages led to a rail strike . The clear need for closer co-operation between the unions led to the creation of the General Council of the T.U.C. , which replaced the old Parliamentary Committee . A triumph for the union movement was secured in 1920 by the remarkable performance of Ernest Bevin , who was dubbed the dockers ' K.C. ' after his evidence to the Shaw Inquiry into dockers ' conditions of employment . Bevin was one of the most remarkable and significant Englishmen of the century , who applied his untaught and passionate genius to the improvementof working class conditions through trade union organisation . It was an ominous symptom of the confused and troubled post-war economic situation , however , that the 16s a day which Bevin won for the dockers lasted only until 1923 , when mounting unemployment forced the dockers ' wage down to 1os a day . Ominous , too , was the disaster of Black Friday ' . Early in 1921 , attention was focused upon a basic national industry , coal . The mines were returned from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drastic wage-cuts . On 31 March 1921 the miners called for help from the Triple Alliance and on the following day a national coal strike began . The Triple Alliance called for a strike of its members ( which might well develop into a General Strike ) for 15 April . The miners ' executive was in some confusion , however , and there was a drastic lack of liaison which angered the National Union of Railwaymen and led the Triple Alliance to call off its strike . The miners , who stayed on strike until 1 July , felt themselves betrayed by their fellow-workers . " Black Friday " was a severe defeat for the trade unions and a bitter one to accept ; it was not , however , a " betrayal " , and the responsibility must rest at least as much with the miners ' leaders as with the other members of the Triple Alliance . Unfortunately , the lesson of 1921 was not learned , with the result that five years later the trade union movement was to suffer an even worse defeat for almost identical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1922 the potential of the trade union movement was increased by the creation of the Transport and General Workers ' Union . It had 1500 branches and 300,000 members , and its architect was Bevin , who , as first General Secretary of the T.G.W.U. , wielded immense power . Trade union militancy , however , continued to be handicappedby unemployment . Membership fell by nearly two million from 1920 to 1921 . The natural reaction in such circumstances is for trade union attitudes to move to the right . Professor Mowat makes the very significant point that the General Strike was thus not typical of working-class attitudes during this period . The springboard for the General Strike was , once again , the mining industry , in which a crisis developed at the end of June 1925 , by which time the artificial boom in coal which had followed the occupation of the Ruhr during 1923 and 1924 had subsided . On 30 June the mineowners posted notices to end an agreement made in 1924 . Wages were to be cut , whilst profits were retained , and hints were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working day . The owners ' notices were posted two months after Britain returned to the Gold Standard : The miners ' , wrote Keynes , representp209in the flesh the " fundamental adjustments " engineered by the Treasury and the Bank of England . ... ' The miners determined to fight , and were firmly supported by the T.U.C. A Court of Inquiry under H. P. Macmillan found largely in favour of the miners . On Friday 31 July the Cabinet staved off a dangerous situation by providing for a governmental subsidy and the appointment of a Commission under Herbert Samuel . Baldwin was attacked by some of his own right-wingers for yielding to trade union intimidation ' . But whatever else he was doing , he was buying valuable time , for it seems likely that in 1925 the Government was not yet prepared to cope with a prolonged strike . In September 1925 , the Organisation for the Maintenance of Supply ( O.M.S. ) was created ; but it served to supplement preparations already made by the Emergency Powers Act of 1920 and by Baldwin 's early restorationof the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baldwin 's biographer , its arrangements were complete and Baldwin sat quietly waiting on events ' . That the situation was becoming critical was reflected in the violence of the speeches of A. J. Cook , a leading syndicalistand secretary of the Miners ' Federation . On 14 October 1925 , acting under the authority of an Act of 1797 and at the instigation of the Home Secretary , Joynson-Hicks , who saw a Communist under every bed ' , the Government arrested 12 leading Communists and searched their houses . Sentences ranging from six months to a year 's imprisonment put them safely out of the way in case of trouble . The report of the Samuel Commission on 11 March 1926 leant broadly towards the miners and against the owners . It proposed the nationalisation , not of the mines , but of royalties ; the reorganisation of the industry by the amalgamation of pits ; improved research and distribution ; better working conditions . It pointed to the immediate economic necessity of a reduction in wages and advocated district settlements rather than a national agreements . The owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it would be possible to say without exaggeration that the miners ' leaders are the stupidest men in England if one had not had frequent occasion to meet the owners ' . By 13 April deadlock was reached . The miners had summed up their attitude as not a minute on the day , not a penny off the pay ' , and stood firm for a national agreement . Anything less was greeted with Herbert Smith 's characteristic Nowt doing ' . Deadlock persisted when on 22 April the owners put forward terms which would have cut wages in the Durham and South Wales coalfields below the rates which had existed in 1914 . Baldwin made a final and unsuccessful effort at a compromiseat a joint meeting on 23 April . On 30 April the lock-out notices took effect , and on 1 May the T.U.C. informed the Government that they had taken over the negotiations . A General Strike seemed imminent ; once more the unions were unprepared . The General Council of the T.U.C. began detailed preparations for running a General Strike only three days beforehand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the miners had handed over to the T.U.C. They claimed that the organisation of the strike had been handed over , but not the authority to negotiate any concessions . In general terms , the T.U.C. wanted the Government to enforce the acceptance of the Samuel proposals ; the miners took a firmer , though less practical , stand . As either a precaution or a provocation , the Government announced its preparations , and proclaimed a National Emergency under the terms of the Emergency Powers Act . Ernest Bevin responded by claiming that war has been declared by the government ' , 9 and the call went out for a strike from midnight on 3 May . Negotiations went on until the last minute , although they were complicated by the fact that the delegates of the miners themselves returned home . Finally , the Government broke off negotiations after printers had refused to print a Daily Mail leader ? an action which members of the National Society of Operative Printers and Assistants took on their own initiative and which was eagerly seized upon by the militants in the Cabinet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 21Ip211later to deny that he did so in order to avoid the possibility of surrender by the T.U.C.Now that the crisis had come , most of the advantages rested with the Government . Many historians agree ? however reluctantly ? that the conduct of policy during the General Strike was Baldwin 's greatest triumph . He was well-prepared and had at his disposal the remarkable organising talent of Sir John Anderson ( Permanent Under Secretary at the Home Office ) . The Prime Minister succeeded in holding in check the extreme right-wingers among his colleagues , some of whom sought to provoke a full-scale revolution in order to suppress it once and for all . Do n't forget the cleverest thing I ever did ' , Baldwin reminded G. M. Young , I put Winston in a corner and told him to edit the British Gazette ' ? which Churchill duly accomplished in a very vigorous and one-sided fashion ! The unions ' answer to the Gazette was the British Worker . Ernest Bevin strove manfully to compensate for lack of longtermpreparation : he maintained communications by means of despatch riders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level of local trade union groups . The strike began quietly . Support was solid on the first day , but the Government 's plans worked smoothly , and an ostentatious armed food-convoy from the docks to Hyde Park on 8 May was hardly necessary . Volunteer labour readily went to work , and students were widely employed . Although their spirit was that of rag week rather than of strike-breaking , there is some substance in Mr A. J. P. Taylor 's assertion that this was class war , in polite form ' . Later in the week , there was violence in Glasgow , Leeds and Barnsley , especially over the use of blackleg labour on buses , and there were further disturbances in the east end of London , and in Liverpool and the north-east . Elsewhere , however , there were demonstrations of goodwill between police and strikers . There were constant negotiations behind the scenes . The King and the Archbishop of Canterbury , Randall Davidson , were trying to mediate , and Samuel reopened his Commission . But the miners still stood firm by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , regarded as somethingof a legal oracle , pronounced a General Strike illegal , and on 11 May Mr Justice Astbury followed suit in court . The effect of Simon 's pronouncement has probably been exaggerated , but the key to the whole issue was undoubtedly that when the T.U.C. leaders realised the full revolutionary implications of the situation , they hastened to withdraw from it . If there was to be revolution in England , now was the time , but the leaders of the working class were neither prepared for it nor disposed to undertake it . On 12 May the General Strike was called off . The T.U.C. leaders made little impact on a placid Baldwin . Bevin in particular was very unhappy : his efforts to win guarantees against victimisation were met with an enigmatic You know my record ' . Once more the miners felt betrayed by their fellow-workers . There seems to have been genuine misunderstanding , in a situation complicated by the stubbornness of the miners on the one hand and the anxiety for a settlement at almost any price felt by J. H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Council of the T.U.C. was prepared to accept the recommendations of the Samuel Commissionas the basis for a settlement , and the miners were not . Peace came as a surprise and an anticlimax ? and as a great annoyance to many of the strikers . Victimisation followed hard on the heels of the settlement : railwaymen were especiallybadly treated , and many found themselves refused work unless they would accept markedly worse terms of employment . Such experiences led to local extensions of the strike . Baldwin spoke strongly against such victimisation and the situation became more stable , although no less than a quarter of the membership of the N.U.R . was still out of work as late as October 1926 . The strike in the coalfields lasted until December , and created a severe economic setback . Half a million other workmen were kept out of work . But the conditions among the miners , who in the end had to yield to worse terms , were so appalling that the Lord Mayor of London opened a Miners ' Relief Fund.  |p213So  ended a threat of revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reasonable attitude throughout , appeared as the saviour of parliamentary government . The trade union movement was weakened : its total membership fell below 5 million . Experience of actual labour during the strike had enlightened many members of the middle class , and helped to bring about a measure of social reconciliation . But the Conservatives had a harvest to reap : the failure of the General Strike was followed in 1927 by the Trades Disputes Act , which included the provision that a General Strike was illegal , and the stipulation that trade union members must in future contract in ' if they wished part of their trade union subscription to be allocated to the political levy ' for Labour Party funds . The Act served to strengthen the ranks of organised labour , who reacted strongly against legislation so obviously directed against them , and the Trades Disputes Act in part accounted for the improved fortunes of the Labour Party in the general election of 1929.  |p213I  know a lot of you shook your heads over the National Government . If I might whisper in your ears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think that was the sort of thing we wanted ? Not at all . RAMSAY MACDONALD at Easington , I2 October 1931 ' THE second Labour government took office at a cruelly inauspicious time , although the worst omens were not immediately apparent . Indeed , the situation seemed not unpromising . The international climate was friendly , domestic issues promisedpolitical harmony rather than rancour , and the Prime Minister was widely respected and admired . The composition of MacDonald 's administration reflected the moderate tone of politics generally . After some rather embarrassing haggling , Arthur Henderson became Foreign Secretary . His rival for the post , J. H. Thomas , was created Lord Privy Seal with special responsibility for dealing with unemployment , which was the burning issue of the day , and which Labour had been elected to cure : Miss Margaret Bondfield , who became Minister of Labour , had indeed declared that the problemcould be solved in three weeks . The only left-winger in the Cabinet was the patriarchal George Lansbury , who became First Commissioner for Works . His influence within the Governmentwas minimal . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure in the Government was one who put the brake hard on any progressive measures which involved increased governmental expenditure : Philip Snowden was transformed from the socialist Robespierre into the Iron Chancellor . At the Exchequer , he was the unshakeable advocate of the old-style , classic ( though increasingly out/moded ) Treasury doctrines of economic and financial policy . In addition , he was passionately devoted to Free Trade . In an administration whose members floundered in the sea of economic misfortunes which struck them , Snowden , with his firm convictions and his ready flow of acid invective , found little difficulty in dominating his colleagues . The economic blizzard , however , was as yet the faintest cloud on the distant horizon . In its early days , the second Labour government enjoyed a period of success , notably in foreign policy . MacDonald 's own prestige abroad was high , and Henderson became a popular and respected Foreign Secretary . In August 1929 , at The Hague , Snowden made a characteristically outspoken defence of Britain 's claim to her share of reparations . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and collection of reparations , was accepted . Henderson 's reputation and his devoted work for the League of Nations were recognised by his appointment to the presidency of the World Disarmament Conference which was called for February 1932 . MacDonald himself made a successful visit to the United States , and a measure of agreement was reached with the U.S.A. and Japan at the London Conference which met in 1930 to consider the limitation of navies . Britain , the U.S.A. and Japan agreed to restrict their navies in the ratio of 5:5:3 , and Britain pledged herself not to have more than fifty cruisers . The good work of the Conference was somewhat vitiated by France and Italy , who refused to subscribe to the agreement , largely because Italy was insisting upon naval parity with France . Meanwhile in October 1929 the Government had resumed diplomatic relations with the U.S.S.R. , this time in a less inhibited fashion than had been attempted in 1924 . Britain 's imperial reponsibilities presented MacDonald 's administration with opportunities and with serious difficulties . On 31 October 1929 , before the Simon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irwin , made a definite promise of dominion status for India . But the time had passed when dominion status would have satisfied the aspirations of the Indian leaders : in December 1929 , the Indian Congressp216declared independence , and Gandhi led a great campaign of civil disobedience . In June 1930 , the Simon Commission 's report was published : it recommended responsible government in the provinces , and negotiations on the central governmental power in India . MacDonald called a Round Table Conference , which assembled in November 1930 , but which was boycotted by the Indian Congress . Gandhi was , however , conciliated , and he attended a second Round Table Conference , but by that time Labour was out of office . Not everyone in Britain , let alone in India , was in favour of the Government 's policy . Winston Churchill would not even accept the Conservative Party 's version of it , and resigned from Baldwin 's shadow Cabinet ' in January 1931 . Elsewhere , the Government made less progress . Negotiations over the future of Egypt broke down , whilst Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financed by the Zionist movement , provoked the Arabs into resistance . A White Paper published in October 1930 pronounced that immigration must cease . The Zionists were outraged at such a repudiation of the Balfour Declaration , and all of MacDonald 's conciliatory skills were needed to stave off a crisis . In domestic policy , there were some positive achievements before good intentions were swept away by the accelerating crisis . There was no outspokenly socialist legislation , but some mild compromises were made with the principle of stateintervention . The Coal Mines Act of 1930 fixed a 71-hour day , but left the mineowners to fix prices and quotas . A commission was proposed to reorganise the coal industry . In 1931 , the Agricultural Marketing Act provided facilities for better organisedpricing and marketing of farm produce . Herbert Morrison laid the foundations of what in 1933 became the London Passenger Transport Board , and Arthur Greenwood maintained the housing subsidies . But much more was blightedand killed off by the downfall of the Government . Trevelyan , for instance , failed to pass a bill to raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and attempts to repeal the Trades Disputes Act of 1927 were thwarted.  |p217The  crippling problem of unemployment remained to be dealt with . In June 1929 , there were 1,164,000 unemployed . Under the pressure of economic events the figures rose uncontrollably : in June 1930 , to 1,911,000 , and by the summer of 1931 to 2,707,000 . Traditional methods could do nothing to stem the tide , although the Cabinet was determined to stand firm by the rates of unemployment benefit . Radical measures , when recommended , were rejected . A progressive solution stemmed from the studies of those ministers appointed to advise J. H. Thomas . In January 1930 , proposals were put forward in the so-called Mosley Memorandum . Oswald Mosley advocated policies which were in part derived from Keynes and which went further than Lloyd George 's proposals of 1929 and anticipated the New Deal which President Roosevelt was to inaugurate in the United States . Mosley proposed to prevent the effects of the worldwidedepression from wrecking Britain . Imports were to be stringently restricted , whilst home agriculture was to be protected and subsidised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulk purchase , wherever possible from the Dominions . The Government should control the banks and grant credit freely to enable industry to expand and absorb the unemployed , whilst the Government scrutinised investmentand modernisation . There was to be an ambitious programme of public works ? roads , slum clearance , and so on ? financed by loans from the Government . The school-leaving age should be raised to fifteen immediately , and old age pensions should be payable at sixty . The scheme was far too avant garde to be accepted , especially by Snowden . The Memorandumwas rejected in May 1930 ; Mosley resigned , and carried his programme to the country at large and to the Labour Party Conference in particular . There , in a vote of 2,297,000 , Mosley was defeated by only 205,000 votes . He formed a ' New Party ' , and then became a Fascist . One of the minor tragedies which sprang from the events of 1929-31 was the dissipation of the undoubted talents of Oswald Mosley . The crisis which wrecked the Labour government in 1931 was not primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general . It was essentially focused upon financial confidence and the place of sterling in world markets . In fact , as Mr A. J. P. Taylor has pointed out , the terms of trade in 1930 moved 30 per cent in Britain 's favour , with prices of imports falling whilst exports maintained their price-levels . The weakness of the Government derived from its strict financial orthodoxy , especially that of Snowden , who was determined that the Budget must balance , and that the unorthodoxies of Churchill 's tenure of the Exchequer must be redressed . In 1930 , Snowden increased income tax to 4S 6d in the pound , and proposed a tax on land-values , whilst allowing the Safeguarding Duties to lapse . In short , the Budget was strictly in accordance with Snowden 's rigid orthodoxy and his devotion to Free Trade . In February 1931 the May Committee was appointed to inquire into possible governmental economies . Meanwhile , the effects of the appalling collapse of the Wall Street Stock Market in October 1929 were beginning to be felts On 11 May 1931 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support it threatened the stability of the entire German economy . On 20 June President Hoover proposed a one-year moratorium on international credits . Britain agreed to a standstill on her German credits ; she got no reciprocal protection from France . The London bankers were now threatenedwith the worst possible dividend of a policy which had been financially lucrative but vulnerable : they had lent over long terms at interests as high as 8 per cent or 1 co per cent , especially to Germany , whilst borrowing , particularly from France , on short term at interests as low as 2 per cent . The French began making massive withdrawals of gold from London . The situation , now largely a matter of confidence , was not helped by the publication of the report of a committee under Lord Macmillan , which was destined to exercise its positive influence later , with its arguments for a managed currency . Immediately , however , it drew attention to the fallaciesof the established economic theories and pointed out that Britain 's apparently healthy balance of trade was dependent upon invisible ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hit by the effects of the world-wide depression . Alarm and despondency were thus further increased . The Government was not prepared to deal with the situuationby methods other than the established ones . Nor should the ministers be too readily blamed for this shortcoming . As Mr Bassett has pointed out , there is a tendency to forget that the new , expansionist ideas which were so successful in the United States under President Roosevelt became fashionable only after these events . Even Keynes was by no means settled in his arguments whilst the crisis had to be dealt with , and Ernest Bevin , in his advocacy of expansionist economics , was far more adventurous in his thinking than most of his trade union colleagues . The Cabinet , then , was agreed upon the basic need to balance the Budget and preserve the pound . There were differences over method , and over the extreme to which economies should go . A recommendation from a Royal Commission that unemployment benefits should be reduced was rejected by a group of influential ministers , who took a firm political stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall in the cost of living the unemployment benefit had increased in value . Meanwhile , Snowden 's emphasis upon the seriously unbalanced state of the Budget caused a further loss of confidence . His budget of April 1931 was essentially a stalling operation : he was awaiting the report of the May Committee , which would inevitably back him in much more stringent measures . On 30 July 1931 , Parliament adjourned for the summer . On the following day , the May Committee 's report was published ? a piece of timing by which Snowden ensured the postponementof parliamentary discussion of its recommendations . The proposals of the May Committee were drastic in the extreme , and certainly did nothing to alleviate the immediate crisis of confidence : Hugh Dalton records that Keynes called the report the most foolish document I ever had the misfortuneto read ' . ? May 's Committee calculated a budget deficit of ? 17o million . The annual payment of ? 5o million//p220into the Sinking Fund for redeeming the national debt was regarded as sacrosanct . Deficiencies were to be met by ? 24 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million , with a 20 per cent cut in unemployment benefit . MacDonald and his colleagues went off on holiday , but by 11 August the run on the pound had become so serious that the Prime Minister was recalled to London . Attempts to raise loans , particularly in the United States , now faced pressures for evidence of serious retrenchment before money would be forthcoming . Cabinet discussions which began on 20 August hinged especially upon whether retrenchment should include cuts in the unemployment benefit . For the T.U.C. , Bevin expressed forthright opposition to such cuts and the T.U.C 's attitude may well have been decisive . On 23 August nine members of the Cabinet were determined to resign rather than agree to the size of the cuts proposed . There followed a political situation which was confused at the time and has been worse confounded since by politiciansand historians alike . The general impression that Labour had been betrayed held sway until Mr Reginald Bassett produced a study of 1931 which is masterly in its detail and convincing in its argument . ' The hard facts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ August a National Government was formed . Since a general election in such a time of crisis was unthinkable , some form of coalition was inevitable . What caused surprise was that Ramsay MacDonald remained as Prime Minister . The idea that he should do so originated with Herbert Samuel ( who was acting as leader of the Liberals in the absence of Lloyd George , who was seriously ill ) . Samuel 's idea was supported by Baldwin , and was regarded as congenial by King George V , who had a high regard for the Prime Minister . MacDonald took with him into the new Cabinet Snowden and two other Labour members ( Thomas and Lord Sankey ) , together with four Conservatives ( Baldwin , Chamberlain , Hoare and Cunliffe-Lister ) , and two Liberals ( Samuel and Lord Reading ) . Mr Harold Macmillan has recently emphasisedMacDonald 's action in shielding the future careers ofp22Iyounger Labour men by not taking them into his government . He warned them , indeed , that by following him they would be putting their heads into a noose . Why did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other parties ? Why , indeed , did he not resign earlier in the crisis ? Mr Bassett finds the answer in MacDonald 's high and idealistic view of Labour 's mission : Labour ought to shoulder the burden , and therefore he prolonged his efforts to reach agreement with his colleagues . Many members of the Labour Party , including the dissidents in the Cabinet , felt sure that the Prime Minister would resign and leave the formation of a coalition to the other two parties . MacDonald himself probably thought the same on 23 August 1931 . But who would become Prime Minister ? Lloyd George , who might have risen to the occasion , was out of action and would scarcely have won Conservative backing , and it was by no means certain that the Liberals would support Baldwin . Thus the appeal to the Prime Minister in personal terms by the King must have carried great weight with him . There seems little real doubt that MacDonald was taken by surprise : the idea that he had plotted the betrayal of Labour in advance has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ill-judged quip to Snowden ( of all people ) after forming the National Government that every duchess in London would be wanting to kiss him . The Prime Minister himself described the events of 23 and 24 August as very painful ' , and there is no serious reason to doubt his sincerity . Far from betraying Labour , he may , by shielding the younger Labour men and his refusal to allow the Labour government to run away from the crisis at an early stage , have done much to preserve the future of Labour , first in opposition and then as a potential government . At the outset , MacDonald and his colleagues regarded the National Government as an interim measure to deal with the immediate crisis , after which the parties would revert to their normal alignments . This was clearly a miscalculation . Even more serious was MacDonald 's gross underestimation of the bitterness and vigour of the opposition to his actions within the Labour Party . In the early days of the National Government there was caustic mutual recrimination across the floor of the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participation in Cabinet decisions . This goes far to account for the virulence of Snowden 's attacks upon the Labour Party , in whose service he had devoted a lifetime . The T.U.C. pushed Labour into opposition . MacDonald naturally could not remain leader of the party , and was replaced by Arthur Henderson . On 31 August , the Hampstead Labour Party went so far as to expel MacDonald from membership . As far as the immediate financial crisis was concerned , the creation of the National Government brought credits of ' 8o million , chiefly from the U.S.A. Snowden , in his autumn budget , duly balanced the accounts by reducing the payment into the Sinking Fund to ? 20 million , by increased taxation amounting to L76 million , and by economies of ? 7o million , to be achieved largely by cuts in salaries : public servants generally lost 1 o per cent of their salaries , but policemen forfeited only 5 per cent , teachers as much as 15 per cent . Unemployment benefit was cut by 10 per cent . On 15 September the sailors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay cuts , refused to put to sea . Confidenceabroad was again disturbed : money in ever-increasing amounts was withdrawn , and by 19 September the latest credits were exhausted . Two days later , Britain went off the Gold Standard . Clinging to the Gold Standard had in many ways been the root cause of the trouble , for gold supplies throughout the world were simply inadequate to meet vast expansions of population and commerce . But gold stood for stability ' and had hitherto been regarded as the supreme article of financial faith . Now events had overcome theory , and Britain had passed to a managed currency ' . Most of the anticipated disasters never materialised . The external value of the pound fell by about 20 per cent , whilst internally its value was virtually unchanged . Thus the cost of living remained fairly stable , whilst foreign purchasers paid less for British exports and therefore bought more of them . Strong arguments may be marshalled to explain MacDonald'sp223formation of the National Government . It was , of course , harder to justify his leadership of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than anything else , added intense bitterness to the resentment already felt by the majority of the members of the Labour Party . MacDonald seems to have hated to lead his own supporters against Labour . Not so Snowden , who attacked with a vitriolic relish . His election campaign broadcast on 17 October 1931 had great influence . Dismissing the manifesto of the Labour Party with contempt , he declared : I hope you have read the Election programme of the Labour Party . It is the most fantastic and impracticable programme ever put before the electors . All the derelict industries are to be taken over by the State , and the taxpayeris to shoulder the losses . The banks and financial houses are to be placed under national ownership and control , which means , I suppose , that they are to be run by a joint committee of the Labour Party and the Trade Union Council . Your investments are to be ordered by some board , and your foreign investments are to be mobilised to finance this madcap policy . This is not Socialism . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Government won a massive victory and the Labour Party was , at least temporarily , crippled . The National Government won 554 seats : 473 of them were Conservatives , 35 were Liberal followers of Simon , 33 Liberal followers of Samuel , and 13 Labour followers of MacDonald . Labour returned only 52 members , its leadership passing to George Lansbury , who was the only member with experience in the Cabinet.  |p224The  Locust Years ( I ) : Piecemeal Solutions at HomeThe lot of man is ceaseless labour , Or ceaseless idleness , which is still harder , Or irregular labour , which is not pleasant . T. S. ELIOT , The RockTHE consolidation of the National government in the general election of 1931 ? the acknowledgement that a temporary political expedient had become an established political structure ? threw party politics into the melting-pot . The election campaign , in which each party contributing to the Government had been able to put forward its own differing policies within the framework of the comprehensive government which MacDonald led , had foreshadowed the remarkable agreement to differ ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflicting principles concerning free trade and tariffs in 1932 , and indicated the paradoxical situation in which politicians could cling to their political ideals whilst at the same time submerging them . The bitter reaction against MacDonald in the Labour party made it abundantly clear that the Prime Minister 's own political future was utterly dependent upon the continuation of the National government . He , Snowden , Thomas , Sankey , and the handful of National Labour M.P.s were traitors ' , and the Labour party , although it was to prove that it was not ruined by their treason ' , was for a time seriously weakened . The experience of 1931 had done much to destroy the trade union movement 's confidence in the parliamentary party , now led by Lansbury ,  |p225Cri|p|ps  and Attlee , none of whom was particularly congenial to the rank and file membership of the trade unions . Certainly , the personal antipathy between Lansbury and Ernest Bevin did nothing to heal the breach , and it was indeed Bevin who was to drive Lansbury from the leadership . MacDonald had asked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received it , but he was to find himself , as Joseph Chamberlain and Lloyd George had done before him , the prisoner of the Conservatives , who yet again had used a coalition as a springboard for their own political fortunes . The Conservatives dominated MacDonald 's Cabinet , both in numbers and in policies . They provided eleven out of the total membership of twenty . Baldwin , the Conservative leader , held the largely honorific office of Lord President of the Council , but was recognised as the heir-apparent to the Premiership ; the elevation of Snowden to the House of Lords made way for the promotion of the strong man of the Conservatives , Neville Chamberlain , to the Chancellorship of the Exchequer . For a time , however , all was not well with the harmony of the Conservative party . There was a determined effort , led by the Beaverbrook and Rothermere newspapers , to oust Baldwin from the leadership , with the proclamation of the Empire Crusade ' . Baldwin , however , proved unexpectedly resilient , and more than a match for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominate policy from the Exchequer , and to wait for the Premiership to fall into his lap in due time . The other embarrassment to the Conservatives , and one which was to grow with the years , was Winston Churchill , who cried from the political wilderness against official policy , first concerning India and then , on much better grounds , against the Government'sforeign policy . The Liberals were in a wretched state , split into three . The followers of Simon were out-and-out supporters of the National Government , tariffs and all ; the Liberals led by Herbert Samuel were much more inhibited by the traditional Liberal gospel of free trade ; Lloyd George led a family group of four in outright opposition and watched Ramsay MacDonald relive his own experiences in a Conservative-dominated coalition.  | The Government had been elected to deal with the effects of the Great Depression , and its task was therefore fourfold : to solve the grievous social and economic problem of unemployment ; to balance the Budget ; to restore a favourable balance of payments ; to restore confidence in the pound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of success ; at the same time , great opportunities were wasted , and the success which was achieved was bought at the price of continuingunemployment . A society was produced in which those who were in work enjoyed a rising standard of living , but in which too many had no work at all . The dole ' was at best a partial solution , especially when it was made dependent on the humiliation of the means test . There was a failure on the part of politicians like Chamberlain , in spite of the strictures of ArchbishopTemple ' and others , to appreciate that there is a dignity and fulfilment in labour for which even the most efficient soupkitchenis no substitute . So the Government 's economic and financial policies were piecemeal , with no real attempt at an imaginative solution of deep underlying problems , and no breadth of vision comparable with that of theorists like Keynes or practical statesmen like Roosevelt . The solution on which many of the members of the Government , especially Chamberlain , had set their sights was the abandonment of Free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an impending protectionist policy provoked a great influx of imports , and led to an emergency measure in November 1931 , the Abnormal Importations Act , which imposed an immediate duty of 50 per cent on a wide range of goods , and reserved to the Government the power to impose duties up to 100 per cent . British agriculture was similarly shielded . A Cabinet committee under Chamberlain was set up to enquire into the balance of trade . Its recommendations were predictable , since it was packed with protectionists . There was no really searching enquiry , such as had been promised to the electorate during the general election ; and in any case , there existed no really detailed and practical statistics on which the committee might have relied.  |p227The  Cabinet committee reported in January 1932 , and the practical implementation of its recommendations was embodied in Chamberlain 's Import Duties Bill , which came into effect on I March 1932 . There was to be a general tariff of 10 per cent ; but Empire goods and practically all raw materials and foodstuffswere exempt . An Import @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who had already made such a melancholy contribution to history in 1931 . The Committee was empowered to recommend increases up to 333 per cent . It might also recommend decreases , but rarely did so . Over the next few years , the general effect of the protective policy was that about a quarter of all imports were free of duty , whilst something like half paid 20 per cent . In July 1932 , at the Ottawa Conference , something very much like Joseph Chamberlain 's Imperial Preference was at last put forward as governmental policy . What was created was far from being Free Trade throughout the Empire . The dominions accepted preferential treatment from Britain , and reciprocated , not by cutting their duties on British goods , but by increasing those on foreign produce . The system was extended in 1933 to include colonial produce , and in 1934 quotas ? the bargaining power of the tariff ' ? were introduced . The long-term economic effects of the Government 's policy were that between 1930 and 1938 , imports from the Empire increased from 25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whilst exports to the Empire grew from 37.5 per cent to 45.6 per cent.3 The immediate political consequence was to drive Samuel to resignation in September 1932 , along with Snowden , who embarked upon a vitriolic campaign against Ramsay MacDonald and all his works . Snowden 's success may be judged by the half-informed denigrationof MacDonald which has persisted to the present day . The Conservative flavour of the National government was now even more pronounced : it now was virtually a Conservative administration , aided and abetted by MacDonald , Thomas and Sankey , and of course Simon 's Liberal-Nationals . In 1932 , Chamberlain converted over ? 2000 million of War Loan from 5 per cent to 31 per cent , thereby saving immediatelysome ? 23 million ? an economy which totalled some L86 million a year by 1936 . He aimed , by a policy of cheap money ' , to stimulate expansion , and did succeed in creating a boom in housing : from 1934 onwards , more than 300,000 houses a year were being built ? more than double the output of the 1920S . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion was achieved without unbalancing the Budget , although he had miscalculated in 1932 , and still had a deficit in that year of L32 million . So there was none of that priming the pump ' of the economy , for which Keynes was pleading , as the solution of the unemployment problem . Britain did recover economically , partly as a result of governmentalpolicies , and also because of a general revival of world trade , which by 1937 had revived almost to the level of 1929 . The nation 's share of that trade increased , but largely through growing imports ; exports were at a level below 85 per cent of those of 1929 . Britain was cushioned to some extent by a consistent fall in commodity prices . Her balance of payments improved from a deficit of ? 104 million in 1931 to a favourable balance in 1935 , but too much of her income was derived from investment overseas , which was tending to be reduced as gold was exported . Production also revived : in 1932 , it had been 15 per cent below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent above the 1929 level. ? Two examples are indicative : steel production had been 9.6 million tons in 1929 ; in 1931 it had tumbled to 5 ' 2 million tons ; by 1937 it had reached 13 million tons . Coal , facing competition from other fuels , did not revive to a similar extent : from 244 million tons in 1930 , it fell to 207 million tons in 1933 , and revived to 241 million tons in 1937 . The revival of the steel industry owed much to amalgamations and general reorganisation , the price exacted by the Import Duties Advisory Committee for a protective tariff . Shipbuilding never really recovered until the war , although in 1934 , by the North Atlantic Shipping Act , the Government subsidised the completion of the Cunard liner Queen Mary . Agriculture was heavily protected and subsidised , and between1931 and 1937 its output volume increased by one-sixth . The Milk Marketing Board was set up , and subsidies were paidp229on milk for school children and for nursing mothers in the depressed areas . The price of wheat was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and oats . By 1939 , the annual cost to the Exchequer of this reinvigoration of agriculturewas L 1oo million . Agriculture indicates that the Government was prepared to undertake such direct responsibilities , and there were , indeed , three examples of nationalisation : the London Passenger Transport Board in 1933 , coal royalties in 1938 , and the creation of B.O.A.C. in 1939 . Yet unemployment persisted , and although the statistics were more favourable than in many other countries , they must stand as an illustration of the shortcomings of national policy generally during the 1930s . Between August 1931 and January 1933 , the total was nearly 3,000,000 ( 23 per cent ) ; in August 1933 , it fell below 21 million ; in July 1935 , below 2 million ; and in July 1936 , to I , 600,000 ( 12 per cent ) . Meanwhile , the Government had passed two important pieces of legislation so far as Britain 's imperial role was concerned . In November 1931 the Statute of Westminster gave legal recognition to the status already achieved by the dominions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : these were to hold sway in the dominions only at the request of the dominions themselves . The Crown was to be the symbol of the free association of the members of the British Commonwealth of Nations ; the succession and royal titles were to be subject to the assent of the dominions . In 1935 , the Government of India Act was passed . It was a step forward , though it did not meet Gandhi 's demands at the second Round Table Conference in September 1931 for partnership and the immediate handing over to the Indians of control over foreign policy and defence . The Act of 1935 , bitterly opposed by Churchill , provided for an all-India federation ( which never came into existence ) , virtual cabinet government in the provinces , and a separate government for Burma . Ireland added to the burdens of the National government . In 1932 , de Valera succeeded the moderate Cosgrave , and set out to exploit the greater freedom given by the Statute of Westminster . In 1933 the oath of allegiance was abolished , the dignity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annuities were withheld . Thomas , as Dominions Secretary , contested these moves , and economic sanctions were applied in retaliation for the withholding of land annuities : a small-scale tariff war followed . In 1935 de Valera repudiated British citizenship . In June 1935 MacDonald , whose powers were failing , and who by now was revealing an embarrassing tendency to say less and less whilst speaking at great length , exchanged offices with Baldwin , whilst in November of the same year , the National Government was re-elected , with a total of 428 supporters in the House of Commons . Now led by Attlee , Labour revived , with 154 M.P.s , whilst the Liberals had 17 plus Lloyd George 's family group of 4 . There were 4 members of the I.L.P. , and 1 Communist . Baldwin , in his third term as Prime Minister , provided his customary lethargic leadership , although he was presented with one situation in which he might shine . In January 1936 King George V died . His successor , Edward VIII , had established something of a reputation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarmingly radical tendencies when confronted , for instance , with the effects of the Depression in south Wales . But a crisis developed over his wish to marry Mrs Wallis Simpson , an American divorcee . Both the Church and the Government were opposed to such a marriage , and the King was mistaken when he thought he had found a solution in the proposal that he should marry Mrs Simpson without her receiving the title of Queen . The King had his supporters , notably Winston Churchill and Lord Beaverbrook , but Baldwin insisted that he must give up either Mrs Simpson or the throne . The King chose to abdicate . He made a broadcast address to the nation which was dignified and intensely moving ; both qualities were conspicuously lacking in the unctuous performance of Archbishop Lang of Canterbury , who administered a distasteful clerical kick to an opponent who was not only down but out.  |p231Edward  VIII was succeeded by his brother , the Duke of York , who was untrained for kingship , shy , and afflicted with a stammer which his biographer thinks may well have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was fortified by a charming wife and an idyllic family circle , and was destined to play his regal role supremely well in the ordeal of the war to come . Baldwin retired in May 1937 and handed over to Neville Chamberlain , who applied his supreme self-confidence to the problems which now beset the nation.  |p232The  Locust Years ( 2 ) : Shirking the Issues AbroadOur enemies are little worms . I saw them at Munich . ADOLF HITLERTHE story of British foreign policy in the 1930S is a sorry tale which assumes the proportions of tragedy , not merely because of its results , but because in many ways it was a genuine reflection of British attitudes , or at least of those of citizens who considered foreign policy at all . Too many Englishmen , at most periods in our history , have adopted the attitude of Stanley Baldwin , and have literally or metaphorically fallen asleep when foreign affairs were under discussion. =Certainly it is true that the nation and its leaders were seriously ? and understandably ? preoccupied with the great issues of national survival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirties . Not merely did domestic affairs occupy men 's minds , but they were directly relevant to some of the important diplomatic issues of the day . For instance , it was scarcely realistic to plan in terms of large-scale rearmament whilst the financial stringency of the time forbade the necessary expenditure . There is no doubt , too , that a strongly pacifist sentiment made itself felt , especially during the early years of the decade . The glamour of the First World War had faded , and the literature and drama of the period spoke only of its futility . A play such as R. C. Sherriff 's journey 's End , which enjoyed great success , still conveys its sombre and essentially pessimisticp233message , although much of its dialogue , with its emphasis on good chaps and the virtues of understatement and the stiff upper lip , is seriously dated by now . Men who had experienced the holocaust shrank from the prospect of their own exploits being repeated by their sons . There were many particular expressions of this general state of mind . In February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overrated sounding-board ) carried by 275 votes to 153 the motion that this House will in no circumstances fight for its King and Country ' . In October 1933 , at a by-election in East Fulham , the Conservative candidate emphasised the need for rearmament : a Conservative majority of 14,521 was turned into a Labour majority of 484o . Whilst it is true that domestic issues such as the means test played a crucial part in the campaign , a strongly pacifist note had been sounded , and Stanley Baldwin , for one , regarded East Fulham as a nightmare ' . Opinion shifted only gradually . As late as June 1935 , in the celebrated Peace Ballot , the majority of some 1 1 ? million citizens who took part still returned predictably pacifist answers to carefully loaded questions , but by that time the answers to the last of the questions in the ballot reflected a majority feeling in favour of collective security , even at the risk of war . The great vehicle for diplomacy in the early thirties was still the League of Nations , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S.A. and Russia , Britain still had the opportunity of playing a leading part . It was the nation 's peculiar disadvantage , however , to be represented by two successive Foreign Secretaries whose cleverness outweighed their wisdom ; both Sir John Simon and Sir Samuel Hoare tended to react to situations with responses so flexible as to have no backbone . Support for the League was in any case half-hearted and the major issues were confused . There were two great hopes for peace : disarmament and collective security . But they were contradictory:2 if one supported the League of Nations and disarmament , one effectively drew the teeth of the League 's Covenant , for collective security without arms to enforce it was a mere paper formula . Conversely , individual national rearmamentimplied a contempt for the League . Collective security without rearmament was widely canvassed and accepted within the British Labour Party , for instance , whilst most of the strongest advocates of British rearmament tended to be found on the right of the Conservative Party . Serious and sincere attempts to bring about general disarmamentwere made during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar efforts have done since , upon the rock of resentment at inspection of one 's resources by other nations . The Geneva Disarmament Conference opened in February 1932 under the presidency of Arthur Henderson in an auspicious climate . The forces of occupation in the Rhineland had been withdrawn and reparations payments had been suspended in 1931 and would be abandoned in 1932 . The problem for the disarmers was , of course , Germany . There was a good deal of sympathy with the view that the Germans had been harshly treated at Versailles ? as indeed they had . They now claimed equal status , and parity in armaments with France ; in fact Germany had already rearmed beyond the prescribed limits . Britain was in a quandary : she sympathised with legitimate German grievances , but was in no position to guarantee France in case of German bad faith . A characteristicallyclever but meaningless formula was devised : Germany was granted equality of rights in a system which would provide security for all nations ' . 3 The situation was complicated , though few at the time appreciated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 January 1933 , in spite of the waning fortunes of the Nazi Party in the Reichstag . Those German politicians and businessmen who helped him to power were setting out to ride on a tiger . The resumed Disarmament Conference set out to define the sizes of national forces . Germany was indeed given parity with France , to the indignation of Winston Churchill , who in discussing British defence needs produced the shocking heresy Thank God for the French Army ! ' Hitler was conciliatory , whilst maintaining the claim to parity . In October 1933 Simon and the French proposed a five-year period of inspection . Whether intentional or not , this was a trap into which Hitler declined to step . On the same day he withdrew from thep235Conference and gave notice of Germany 's resignation from the League of Nations . Those who had ears to hear remained deaf to this ominous and obvious warning-note . No man received more encouragement to become a compulsive gambler than Hitler : nobody called this bluff , and it killed disarmament . The Geneva Conference was adjourned sine die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security was being put to the test elsewhere . In September 1931 , the Japanese invaded Manchuria ( an event which some contemporary historians have interpreted as the true beginning of the Second World War ) . China appealed to the League , the response of whose members was marked by a serious underestimation of the true scope of Japanese intentions and ambitions . Britain proposed an inquiry and appealed for a cease-fire : the actions of the League were dilatory and its attitudes were confused . Early in 1932 the fighting was extended and the conflict spread to Shanghai . The Chinese invoked articles 10 and 15 of the Covenant , which should have led to the impositionof sanctions . In May a truce was agreed over Shanghai ; the irony of appealing to the League was that nothing could really be achieved in the Pacific without the participation of the League 's non-member , the U.S.A. , and Britain failed to back up the American proposal of non-recognition ' of Japanese conquests . Japan thus felt free to create the puppet-state of Manchukuo , and in February 1933 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The importance of the Manchurian episode spread beyond Asia : the League had failed an important test , and a dismal precedent had been set , of which the European dictators were only too ready to take advantage . As for Britain , she had been too ready to compromisewith the aggressor , another precedent which she was to follow in her European dealings . Hitler 's advent to power produced an ambivalent response in Britain . Labour , of course , detested Fascism , but not strongly enough at this stage to modify the party 's antipathy to rearmament . The Conservatives also disliked Fascism , but tended to regard it as an alternative to Communism , and thus perhaps as the lesser of two evils . That Hitler constituted a potential threat could not be denied , and Baldwin pledged the National Government to maintain parity with Germany in the air . The R.A.F. was thus to be extended , even if at the expense of the Army . In any case , projects of rearmament and such general plans to meet a war situation as existed were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was taken in March 1935 with the publication as a White Paper of the Statement Relating to Defence . Its contents clearly recognised the need for measures of rearmament and a withdrawal from reliance upon collective security . Still the British response was half-hearted ? unlike Hitler 's , for he used the Statement as a pretext for restoring conscription in Germany ! A limited attempt at some form of collective security was pursued in April 1935 , when MacDonald joined Laval of France and Mussolini in the so-called Stresa Front , which sought to guarantee against breaches of the international order Even more questionable was a private agreement made with Hitler in June 1935 , that the German Navy should be allowed to reach 35 per cent of British naval strength , with a special concession in favour of submarines ! Germany could have 40 per cent of British submarine strength , with as much as too per cent if she faced danger from Russia . After King George 's Jubilee in May 1935 , Baldwin became Prime Minister and Simon was replaced as Foreign Secretary by Sir Samuel Hoare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations with India . Anthony Eden was being groomed for stardom and joined the Cabinet with special responsibility for League of Nations affairs . Italy was pursuing aggressive designs on Abyssinia . Britain again proved too accommodating when dealing with aggression , although she was perhaps genuinely embarrassed by Mussolini 's assertion that he wanted in Abyssinia only a position comparable with that of Britain in Egypt . Attempts to buy him off having failed , Hoare produced a despicable piece of verbal and political juggling . Like Simon , he was to prove adept at producing clever solutions which were no solution at all . Now he propounded the formula that Britain would support thep237League wholeheartedly if all the other members were as wholeheartedas Britain was . Understandably not discouraged , Mussolini attacked Abyssiniaon 3 October 1935 . Economic sanctions were applied , and Mussolini 's aggression brought about the first really significant shift in British Labour opinion : the T.U.C. urged that Italy should be held in check even at the risk of war . The Labour Party Conference was more divided : George Lansbury as leader put forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scathing personal attack by Ernest Bevin : I hope you will carry no resolution of an emergency character telling a man with a conscience like Lansbury what he ought to do . If he finds that he ought to take a certain course , then his conscience should direct him as to the course he should take . It is placing the Executive and the Movement in an absolutely wrong position to be taking your conscience round from body to body to be told what you ought to do with it . Bevin 's attack , and his account of Lansbury 's disloyalty to decisions of the National Council of Labour , swung the vote , in spite of the shudders at his brutality . He was unrepentant . He knew more of Lansbury 's guile and subtlety than most of the delegates , and he dismissed the episode ? Lansbury has been going about in saint 's clothes for years waiting for martyrdom : I set fire to the faggots ' . The affair drove Lansbury from the Party leadership ; it did not transform Labour 's attitudeovernight . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the Commons he consistently opposed rearmament until 1939 . Amidst the alarms of Mussolini 's attack upon Abyssinia , a general election was held in November 1935 . Domestic issues again predominated in the campaign and in the minds of the electors . Baldwin ? still haunted by the nightmare ' of East Fulham ? deliberately played down the necessary scale of rearmament : I give you my word that there will be no great armaments ' . The National Government and its diplomacy were confirmed in office , although Labour gained loo seats . Pressure was mounting for more effective action against Italy , particularly for an oil sanction which , if applied , must prove decisive . British diplomacy , however , was overshadowed by the fear that if war broke out , Britain would be left to fight Italy alone . Hoare produced another compromise , no more tasteful than the first . Britain and France ( in the unprepossessingperson of Laval ) would see that Italy got the Abyssinianplains whilst the Emperor Haile Selassie , the Lion of Judah ' , was relegated to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaked to the French Press , and Baldwin diverted the righteous indignation which fell upon the Governmenton to the head of Sir Samuel Hoare , who was officially described as tired ' and sick ' , and was replaced by Eden . The problem of Italy remained unsolved . On I May 1936 Haile Selassie was driven into exile , and Mussolini , in the sort of fatuous gesture of which he was a master , proclaimed the second Roman Empire . In an appalling scene at Geneva , Haile Selassie protested to the League with great and touching dignity in the face of disgraceful derisive hooting by Italian journalists . A spineless end was written to a humiliating chapter when , at Neville Chamberlain 's insistence , sanctions against Italy were withdrawn on 18 June 1936 . Hitler took his cue and played his greatest piece of bluff to date . On 7 March 1936 a token force of German troops re-entered the demilitarised Rhineland , Hitler apparently having reassured his nervous generals in advance that the troops would be withdrawn at once if they were opposed.6 Later it became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joined Churchill in recognising the fact at the time . This was the moment to call a halt to Hitler 's European adventure and perhaps drive him from power in a disillusioned Germany . But France did nothing , so what would Britain do ? Baldwin explained that she had no forces with which to oppose Hitler , and that in any case public opinion would be against such action . He may well have been right on the second count , and may well have overestimated the amount of force necessary on the first . He went on , though , to promise France and Belgiumprotection ' if they were attacked by Germany ? surely a far more dangerous contingency than the **32;857;TOOLONG task of resisting in the Rhineland . Churchill , certainly , was confident that existing forces were more than adequate for that task . A strong proposal for action against Germany came from Russia in the person of Litvinov , who proposed sanctions against Germany . The source was naturally regarded as suspect , and nothing was done . Hitler blandly announced that he had no territorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impact of the further failure of collective security to which he had pledged himself during the general election campaign of 1935 . Rearmament , meanwhile , went ahead , and its most significant progress was made in secret . It is perhaps not too much to suggest that in many respects the Battle of Britain was won in 1935 when Robert Watson Watt invented radar ; it was developed through the enthusiastic advocacy of Henry Tizard and did something on behalf of Fighter Command to balance the R.A.F. 's emphasis on bombers . In the summer of 1936 the Spanish Civil War broke out and overlapped into European diplomacy as the rebels received help from Italy and Germany and the Republican government received help from Russia . Direct British interventionwas confined to the activities of volunteers , some 500 of whom lost their lives in the Republican cause . Both Britain and France were concerned above all to prevent a general European war on the issue , but the efforts of their NonIntervention ' Committee were vitiated by blatant Italian and German cheating . When action was taken , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submarines , which were in fact Italian , sank British , French and Russian ships which were carrying food and non-military supplies to the Republican government . Britain and France set up anti-submarine patrols and the sinkings ceased forthwith . After the coronation of King George VI , Baldwin retired and Chamberlain entered into his inheritance . Eden remained as Foreign Secretary in an administration which was still strongly preoccupied with its domestic programme and which tended to incur the hostility of the permanent officials of the Foreign Office . Chamberlain was dogmatic and opinionated . Well described by Mr A. J. P. Taylor as a meticulous housemaid ' 7in domestic policy , his interference ( with that of his adviser , Sir Horace Wilson ) in diplomacy was potentially dangerous and most certainly irksome to Eden . Britain 's strategical position was weakened in 1937 when the new Irish constitution was made and the three naval bases which had remained to the Royal Navy in southern Ireland were handed over to Eire . In Palestine , too , Britain faced trouble as hostility between Jews and Arabs increased , stimulatedby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Royal Commission recommended partition , which was found to be impossible . In May 1939 a White Paper prescribed the limitation of Jewish immigration into Palestine , and thus went back upon the Balfour Declaration . Under Chamberlain rearmament now gathered pace as the Government sought to match Hitler 's own account of his armed strength , which he characteristically exaggerated . In April 1937 Chamberlain proposed a special tax on profits from armaments , and provision was made for ? 46o million of the extra cost of armaments to be met by borrowing , rather than from immediate taxation . In 1938 craft and engineering restrictions were relaxed and preparations were made for switching production , particularly for changing to aircraft production . In February 1939 , authorisation was given for aircraft production to the limit ' . Whilst he prepared for war , however , Chamberlain 's policy bought peace ? at a price , and for a time . This has given rise to the claims of his apologists that his policy was deliberately to buy time in which the country could rearm . This was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his intention at the time is scarcely borne out by events . His policy , indeed , was marked by a fundamental error , in so far as he treated Hitler and Mussolini as orthodox statesmen . He seems to have believed that they were so , and was encouraged in his view by the reports of his ambassador in Berlin , Sir Nevile Henderson . Henderson may , of course , simply have told Chamberlain what he thought he wanted to hear . In any case Chamberlainp241should have been enlightened by the serried ranks of stormtrooperswho were on display during his visits to Germany . Chamberlain 's fundamental belief may well have been that Germany was too strong to be crushed , and would inevitably dominate eastern Europe and the Balkans . He certainly shared with many British statesmen a low view of the potential strength of Soviet Russia . British opinion was still overshadowed , too , by a consciousness of the injustice of the Versailles settlement and by the sneaking feeling that there was some justice in the German claims . There was , too , a rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the editorship of Geoffrey Dawson , fostered the feelings that Germany had just claims , whilst Labour 's attitude , though moving towards rearmament , was still equivocal . All these factors , coupled with the feelings of others than Neville Chamberlain that events in Czechoslovakia , for example , were a quarrel in a faraway country between people of whom we know nothing ' , provided the ingredients of disaster . The Empire , too , played its part : the Imperial Conference of 1937 was strongly in favour of appeasement . Yet the true nature of the Nazi government could not be ignored . The intensification of the persecution of the Jews was vividly indicated in the increasing numbers of Jews who were seeking refuge in Britain and America . Before Hitler presented another major crisis , other disputes remained to be dealt with . In November 1937 China again appealed to the League . The problem was handed over to a Nine-Power Conference in Brussels and Britain pledged herself to act if the United States did ( an unlikely contingency ) . In February 1938 trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain proposed to make it conditional upon Italy 's withdrawal from Spain . Chamberlain consulted with the Italian ambassador over Eden 's head and the Foreign Secretary resigned in protest , Lord Halifax taking over the Foreign Office . Eden did not now associate himself with Churchill , but his resignation provoked rumblings of Conservative discontent : twenty-six Conservatives abstained from voting after the debate on his resignation speech.  |p242Hitler  marched on . On 13 March 1938 he took over Austria . The question of the Sudeten Germans incorporated in Czechoslovakiasince the Versailles settlement loomed on the horizon . The French wavered in their support of the Czechs , and Sir Nevile Henderson in Berlin was in favour of appeasing Hitler . The inevitable crisis came in September 1938 . On 13 September the Germans in the Sudetenland staged an unsuccessful revolt against the Czechs , and two days later Chamberlain and Sir Horace Wilson flew to Berchtesgaden , where Hitler demanded self-determination for the Sudeten Germans . Daladier for France compelled Britain to guarantee the remnant of Czechoslovakia , and on 21 September , President Benes of Czechoslovakiafelt bound to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk the withdrawal of all support by Britain and France . Encouraged once more , Hitler stepped up his claims . Chamberlain again flew out , and at Godesberg on 22 September was confronted with Hitler 's demand for the immediate occupation of the Sudetenland , which was modified into an agreement not to act before 1 October ? which in any case was the earliest date by which his troops could be ready to move in . The warning-signs were by now too vivid to be ignored . Labour and the trade unions now joined unequivocally in the growing support for the Czechs and demands for resistance were increasingly heard . Preparations for war went ahead . Air-raid precautions were instituted and gas-masks distributed to provincial centres ready to be handed out . The Foreign Office was still not clear in its attitude , but assumed that if the Czechs were attacked , France would make war on Germany , and Britainand Russia would help her . On 27 September , the Fleet was mobilised . Then another attempt at conciliation was made . Appeals to Mussolini to mediate led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was a marked lack of coordinationbetween Chamberlain and Daladier , and the Munich conference produced a settlement virtually along the lines already laid down by Hitler at Godesberg : the occupation of the Sudetenland was to be spread over ten days.  |p243After  the Czechs had been thus sold out Chamberlain concluded a personal agreement with Hitler which affirmed the determination of their two nations not to go to war : Chamberlain waved the pathetic scrap of paper as he stepped from his aeroplane on his return , and spoke of his belief that it signified peace for our time ' . If Chamberlain believed this , he deceived himself , and many of his countrymen shared in the deception . The relief with which the Munich agreement was widely greeted was soured somewhat by the resignation of Duff Cooper , the First Lord of the Admiralty , and by thirty Conservativeabstentions when Labour divided the House of Commons on the issue . The general anxiety over Czechoslovakia had given an increased impetus to rearmament and to the further implementationof existing plans . The target for the army was now a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Civilian preparations were also stepped up and in November 1938 the distinguished civil servant Sir John Anderson was made Lord Privy Seal and given responsibility for air-raid precautions . Plans were laid for the evacuation of children from London and coastal areas . On 15 March 1939 Czechoslovakia disintegrated and tumbled into Hitler 's pocket . Slovakia became independent ' and a Germanprotectorate was established in Bohemia and Moravia on the reluctant invitation of President Hacha . Though its fate might have been foreseen , the actual event greatly stiffened national resolve in Britain . On 17 March , in a speech in Birmingham , Chamberlain adopted a much firmer attitude towards German aggression . Hitler now threatened Poland . He demanded that the free city of Danzig should be handed over to Germany , and that the Polish corridor to the sea should be seriously modified . There were ominous rumours of German troop movements . On 31 March Chamberlain announced to the House of Commonsthat if Poland were attacked Britain would support her , and on 6 April a mutual guarantee was agreed with Poland , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain without themselves guaranteeing Britain's safety in return . Lloyd George pointed out that such a guaranteewas to all intents and purposes futile , especially without the assistance of Russia , whose advances the Government had already spurned over negotiations on the security of Rumania . On 26 April the Government announced the unprecedented step of conscription in time of peace . The measure was , however , only a half-hearted one , and could scarcely bear any immediate fruits . Meanwhile , pressures were increasing for the broadening of the composition of the Government , and particularly for the inclusion of Winston Churchill . A letter on the subject to The Times from Lady Violet Bonham Carter and other leading Liberals met with an editorial refusal to publish , yet another disgraceful episode in Geoffrey Dawson 's editorship of the paper : the letter appeared in the Daily Telegraph . Negotiations with Russia were pursued in a very halfheartedand dilatory fashion . Both sides were distrustful , but a warning-note for the British negotiators was sounded with the dismissal of the conciliatory Litvinov , and his replacementby Molotov . Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a commercial agreement with Germany , and four days later , European diplomacy was shattered by the signing of the Nazi ? Soviet Non-Aggression Pact . Poland was now indeed in mortal peril , and German provocations in Danzig increased . Hitler had been led by Ribbentrop to expect that Britain would again back down and her refusal to do so embarrassed him , but his plans were too far advanced to be called off . On I September German troops invaded Poland . Once more , the British Government delayed , even after sending a strong note to Germany requiring the removal of German forces from Poland . Mussolini was offering mediation ; Britain , however , agreed to talk only if German troops were withdrawn . On 2 September Chamberlain spoke in terms of British action only if the Germans had not promised that they would withdraw ? one step back from the assertion that Britain would hold back only if the troops actually werep245withdrawn . The House of Commons was indignant : Arthur Greenwood rose to speak for the Labour Party , and was greeted with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right-wing critic of Chamberlain , Leopold Amery . Greenwood successfully expressed the feelings of the House , and Chamberlain was forced into sending a formal ultimatum which expired at II am . British Summer Time on Sunday , 3 September 1939 . The House of Commons had saved the dignity of the nation.  |p286The  Roaring Twentiesand the Pensive ThirtiesI journeyed to London , to the timekept City , Where the river flows , with foreign flotations . There I was told : we have too many churches , And too few chop-houses .. . I journeyed to the suburbs , and there I was told : We toil for six days , on the seventh we must motor To Hindhead , or Maidenhead . If the weather is foul we stay at home and read the papers . In industrial districts , there I was toldOf economic laws . In the pleasant countryside , there it seemed That the country now is only fit for picnics .. . T. S. E L I O T , The RockTHE Great War of 1914 ? 18 was a cataclysmic episode in the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not all of them were immediately apparent , especially in Britain . In the economic context , for example , once the immediate post-war boom had collapsed , there was a dangerous tendency to blame the war for the economic malaise and to expect that , given time , conditions would improve . The truth was rather that the early symptoms of the country 's economic sickness were apparent before the war . Socially , despite the influence of the battlefield as a factor in integrating society , post-war Britain was far indeed from being a classless utopia . It has been estimated that in post-war Britain , r per cent of the population owned two thirds of the nation 's wealth , whilst 75 per cent of citizens owned less than , E i oo each . '  |p247Politically  , the war had undoubtedly stimulated tendencies towards democracy , as in the electoral reform of 1918 and the introduction of votes for women . The creation of a democraticfranchise was not , however , immediately reflected in supportfor the Labour Party . But the confidence of the working class had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dividend of war . In 1924 wage-rates were 11 per cent higher than in 1914 , but already the important qualification had to be made that such rates applied to those fortunate enough to be in work . By the 19305 the gloom of the effects of the great depression was intensified by the menacing shadow of political events abroad , and to the hardship of unemployment there was added the indignity of the means test . Especially unhappy was the spectacle of unemployment concentrated in the towns of the depressed areas ' . At least in the countryside , the unemployed worker had the distractions offered by nature and by his own garden ; in the towns which had made the traditional industries of Britain great there was little recourse for the unemployed save street corner idleness ' . The new light industries which were catering for the home market escaped the effects of the depression , but they were not established in areas which needed them . Two-thirds of the working population of Jarrow were unemployed in 1934 ; as late as 1937 the unemployment figure in Wales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much more quickly , and provided another stimulus to the drift of population to the South . The problem of unemployment , which seemed to defy solution , provided material for economic and political theorists . In his classic General Theory of Employment , Interest and Money ( 1936 ) J. M. Keynes formulated the arguments on which he had been working and which he had been advocating since the war . Here were theories to control the cycle of trade and to make adventurous use of budget deficits . Not surprisingly , other theoretical solutions veered drastically towards the left . At this stage , not enough was known of the brutal nature of Stalin 's regime , and Soviet Russia was often superficiallyregarded as a socialist paradise . There was support for the idea of a popular front ' of the left , and Victor Gollancz 's Left Book Club exercised considerable influence . At the other extreme , Mosley 's Fascists were aping their European counterpartsand from 1934 onwards there were open clashes between Communists and Fascists , especially in the east end of London . The Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brigade . The population continued to rise , although much more slowly . In 1921 the population of Great Britain was 42,769,000 , and ten years later reached 45 million : the rate of increase was 5 per cent in a decade , compared with i o per cent in the ten years before the war . By 1938 the birth-rate was less than two-thirds of that of 1900 , and the death-rate continued to fall . Tuberculosis , the scourge of nineteenth-century life , was in retreat against the forces of modern medicine : deaths from tuberculosis declined in England and Wales from l o66 per million in 1922 to 657 per million in 1937 . Increasingly , the population was housed in the suburbs of towns and cities , in ribbon developments ' of factories and poorly planned semidetachedhomes . The motor car was now firmly established as an ingredient in British life . Austin and Morris made small , mass-produced family cars ' . Between 1922 and 1930 there was a threefold increase in the number of cars in Britain , which totalled over a million in 1930 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had almost doubled . Cars were not now merely used for holidays and weekends . They became normal everyday transport for many people . The 19305 witnessed increasing regulation of the motorist : in 1934 , the driving-test was instituted , along with the imposition of a speed-limit of 30 m.p.h. in built-up areas . Later , Belisha beacons ' , now familiar as indicators of pedestrian crossings , were invented . But there was no really farsighted programme of road building to meet an entirely foreseeable need ; a real chance to tackle the problem of unemployment by a valuable project of public works was largely ignored . In public transport the motor bus was replacing the electric tram , but it was in civil aviation that most impressive developmentswere now taking place . In 1930 , 22,045 passengersp249were carried in British-owned aircraft , and tourism as an industry was expanding rapidly in importance . In everyday life , meanwhile , further extensions of educational opportunities were linked with increased governmental influence . Since 1918 , the school-leaving age had been fourteen , but there was room for great improvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than 25 per cent of classes in English schools contained over sixty pupils each . Governmental supervision was reflected in diverse ways : free places in secondaryschools were made more readily available , whilst the Burnham Committee made teachers ' salary scales uniform throughout the country , and the Government 's involvement in the finances of education was further marked by the establishmentof the University Grants Committee . The serious literature of the period lost touch with society in general , although it does reflect much of the apathy which T. S. Eliot captured in The Hollow Men : We are the hollow men We are the stuffed men Leaning togetherHeadpiece filled with straw . Alas ! Our dried voices , when We whisper togetherAre quiet and meaningless As wind in dry grassOr rats ' feet over broken glassIn our dry cellar ... . The established novelists were Thomas Hardy , Arnold Bennett , Joseph Conrad and John Galsworthy , whose attitude was by now more conformist than in his earlier work . H. G. Wells was lapsing into increasing pessimism . Kipling , Bridges and Yeats were the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing , much of which reflected the influence of Freudian psychology . D. H. Lawrence preached against false moral values and against the rape of the countryside and its society by industrialisation , whilst Aldous Huxley was concernedfor ethics in an increasingly scientific age . Neither was easy to read , but the two greatest novelists of the time , James Joyce and Virginia Woolf , in their rebellion against established forms and values were difficult almost to the point of impossibility . The unhappy paradox of a really large reading public coming into existence just when serious literature became so difficult goes some way to account for the great popularity of the lightweight , though skilful , works of P. G. Wodehouse , the crime stories of Edgar Wallace , and detective fiction generally . The greatest poet of the age was T. S. Eliot , one of the outstandingrevolutionary figures in the whole history of English literature . The Waste Land was published in 1923 . Eliot 's style is difficult ; much of his work is clearly a pessimistic commentary upon the indecisiveness of his times , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the middle-class conscience , and its reactions to the plight of the working class , may be found in the plays and novels of J. B. Priestley , notably in English journey ( 1934 ) and in such writings of George Orwell as The Road to Wigan Pier as well as in the poetry of W. H. Auden , Stephen Spender and Cecil Day Lewis . An important publishing development was the advent of paper-backed books , with Penguin Books at sixpence a copy , introduced in 1935 . On the stage , Shaw 's St Joan was movingly played by Sybil Thorndike , but the sharp edge of Shaw 's satire was blunted by this time . More fashionable was the superficial philosophisingand affected wit of Noel Coward , who added a touch of maturity to the antics of the bright young things ' . The theatre was in any case open to the challenge of the cinema , which was now making its own claims as an art form . Most of the films which drew increasingly large numbers of people away from the music halls and theatres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infant British film industry by providing for a quota of British films on the cinema circuits . And the greatest of the early stars , far outlasting and outshining the appeals of Rudolph Valentino and Mary Pickford , was a cockney , Charlie Chaplin , the first true genius of the cinema and one of the great comic actors of all time . Mr A. J. P. Taylor has , indeed , credited Chaplin with a wider appeal than that of Shakespeare . In 1929 the talkiesp 251began , and with them the great era of the cinema , which would last until the challenge of television . During the i 930S the British film industry was enhanced by the talents of Alexander Korda , and the war gave a further stimulus , with the need for really good propaganda . Films like Pimpernel Smith , The Way Ahead and San Demetrio , London , dated though they may be in technique , have a good deal to teach later generations about attitudes to oppression and to war . The visual and plastic arts of the period matched the difficulty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversial ? sculptors flourished : Jacob Epstein and Henry Moore . A transforming influence in everday life was the development of broadcasting , the history of which is so perceptively narrated and analysed by Professor Asa Briggs in The Birth of Broadcasting ( 1961 ) . Authority was vested from the beginning in the G.P.O. In 1922 the British Broadcasting Company was founded and four years later it became a public corporation . Broadcasting soon became more than merely a medium of entertainment . News broadcasts became an important feature of transmissions . The first and greatest Director-General of the B.B.C. was John Reith , a man strongly convinced of the moral responsibilities of broadcasters who imposed standards which verged upon the puritanical . He was caricatured as a moral censor , but he was right . In its early stages , the powers of broadcasting might well have got out of hand . The B.B.C. had a real contribution to make to the cultural life of the nation . In 1930 , for example , the B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra was founded and during the 19305 The Listener came to provide its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1932 the voice of King George V was heard on Christmas Day in the first of the long series of annual broadcasts from the Monarch to the nation and the Commonwealth . Obviously broadcasting added greatly to the drama of events like the abdication crisis , with its memorable and moving broadcast by King Edward VIII . And the war was literally brought home to millions . None who heard it can forget , for example , the heartrending dispatch from Arnhem by Stanley Maxted , nor Robert Reid 's account of the liberation of Paris . One of the war correspondents , Richard Dimbleby , became a truly national figure after the war , with the extension of broadcast commentaries and of television programmes . Broadcasting inevitably challenged the Press . Northcliffe died in 1922 and his vast newspaper domains were divided . The Times passed into the hands of a trust in the family of Astor . In 1930 the Daily Herald became the subject of a joint venture by the T.U.C. and Odhams Press . But the outstanding popular newspaper by the outbreak of the war was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established itself with racy journalism and spicy illustration ? a less crude sensationalism than that of the early days of Harmsworth . The newspapers now fought an all-out war for circulation and the advertising revenue which only circulation could attract . Door to door canvassing , offers of free gifts , and even for a time free insurance policies , were the weapons . A most interesting venture began in 1938 with the publication of Picture Post , a high quality illustrated weekly which employed some brilliant journalists and photographers . Picture Post died under the post-war assaults of television , but its library of photographs is unsurpassed . Life in general was marked by the further emancipation of women , who after a fashionable imitation of mannish appearance in the 19205 returned to femininity in the 19305 . The outward signs of class barriers began to break down with more uniformity in masculine attire and more informality in fashions generally . Facilities for games increased as never before : a favourite method of commemorating George V was by the provision of playing-fields . Hiking , and keeping fit generally , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Youth Hostels Association . Gambling , particularly on horse racing and the football pools , flourished . Dancing was popular , especially during the roaring twenties ' ? the era of the bright young things ' . The thirties reflected a more sombre and pensive mood , although the mood was not predominantly religious . The Church had lost the hold it once possessed , in spite of the impact of one of thep253greatest Christian leaders of modern times , William Temple , who became Archbishop of Canterbury in 1942 . His death before the end of the war was a national disaster , for he had much to contribute to the post-war world and especially to British society which , after the roaring twenties and the pensivethirties was to pass through the furnace of the Second World War.  |p254The  Phoney War ' andthe Fall of ChamberlainYou have sat too long here for any good you have been doing . Depart , I say , and let us have done with you . In the name of God , go ! //LEOPOLD AMERY in the House of Commons , 7 May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimatum which the House of Commons had coerced Neville Chamberlain into sending to Germany , expired at 11 a.m . The guarantee to Poland which the British Government had made in March 1939 was now to be put into effect , though how , and with what resources , was very much a matter for conjecture . Ambassador Kennedy of the United States was not alone in recognising the futility of the guarantee as far as Polish territorial integrity was concerned , but if nothing else it was a springboard for resistance to Hitler at last . Within a week the Dominions had followed the British lead . The British Empire and France now stood ? however reluctantly or halfheartedly ? against Nazi tyranny . A by-product of Chamberlain 's policy of appeasement ? though surely not the main objective which some apologists have contrived to see in it ? was that time was provided for important preparations to be made . The time was used with varying degrees of efficiency , and in general plans were better made on paper than they were carried out . The resources of manpower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underestimated , and some policies were only half-heartedly applied . For example , the creationP255of the Ministry of Supply in July 1939 was gravely weakened by the existence of the independent supply organisations of the Admiralty and the Royal Air Force , so that the new ministry worked only for the Army . Conscription at first had been introduced only in a form to provide for the future , and only one batch of men ever actually took part in the preliminary militia ' training which had been prescribed . Such preparations for war as had been made enabled some domestic rearrangement to be efficiently carried out . Gas-masks were promptly issued , and a blackout was imposed . Among new ministries , the Ministry of Information was established . A large-scale evacuation of children , some with their mothers , was organised . A million and a half people were officially moved out of supposedly dangerous areas , and some two millions more made their own arrangements for removal . The transportation of the official ' evacuees was excellently organised , but details of billeting and financial and other long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensued inspired a harrowing play and at least one brilliant satire . ' An important social consequence of evacuation , however , was an increase in mutual understanding ? though not necessarily , at first , of mutual sympathy ? between city-dwellers and country people . Another shortcoming of evacuation was that anticipation of where air-raids might occur tended to be somewhat inaccurate : in any case , during the early months of the war there were no air-raids , and by January 1940 about a million evacuees had been lulled into a false sense of security and had returned home . Ration books had already been printed before the war , and a shadow ' Ministry of Food was in existence . The actual application of rationing was stimulated by a popular enthusiasm for it , and it was organised on a basis of national registration , which also obliged every citizen to carry an identity card . Economic controls were established , placing a strong emphasis upon purchase within the sterling area , and a most significant precedent was created when the Government introduced food-subsidies to offset a rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously lacking in dynamism . Chamberlain was never a war minister in either spirit or action . He failed to persuade Liberals or Labour to join his Government , which he did at least succeed in broadeningby the inclusion of two opponents of appeasement in Anthony Eden ( who became Dominions Secretary ) and , significantly , Winston Churchill as First Lord of the Admiralty . Winston is back ' went out the ebullient signal to the Fleet . Yet what Chamberlain conspicuously failed to convey was the necessary sense of urgency and vitality . Any national enthusiasmwhich might have existed for a crusade against tyranny remained largely unexploited . In fact , the early stages of the war were marked by a bland optimism on the part of the Government , based upon the comforting illusion that Germany was teetering on the brink of economic collapse . This no doubt explains , amongst other things , the curiously old-world response of the Secretary of State for Air , Sir Kingsley Wood , when it was suggested that his bombers , which , after an early raid on the Kiel Canal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps set fire to the German forests . Are you aware , ' he demanded , that it is private property ? Why , you will be asking me to bomb Essen next . ' Four divisions of the British Expeditionary Force were sent to France under the command of General Gort ? who was on notoriously bad terms with the War Minister , Leslie Hore-Belisha ? and placed under the supreme command of the French General Gamelin . Whilst the Germans were occupied in Poland , French patrols crossed into Germany , but withdrew to the deceptive security of the Maginot Line when challenged . Hore-Belisha was the victim of a conspiracy by the generals when he complained of inadequate British defences along the Franco-Belgian frontier . Chamberlain dutifully sacrificed him and he was replaced by Oliver Stanley in January 1940 . Meanwhile , in an attempt to undermine Italian influence , forces were built up in North Africa , under the supreme command of one of the ablest and most amiable of British generals , Sir Archibald Wavel1 . ' Though action there wasp 257delayed , the Middle East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At sea , the belief in Germany 's economic vulnerability led to an emphasis upon the traditional weapon of the blockade . But the effectiveness of the German U-boats threatened to turn such a strategy inside-out , in spite of the immediate introduction of the convoy system . Within nine months , 800,000 tons of merchant shipping were lost , although the loss was more than replaced by using reserve shipping and by new launchings . The fighting ships suffered too . In September a U-boat sank the aircraft-carrier Courageous and in November an unprecedented disaster occurred when the battleship Royal Oak was torpedoed actually within the defences of Scapa Flow . But in December the Royal Navy achieved the first real victory of the war . The German surface-raider Graf Spee was attacked in the Atlantic by the cruisers Ajax , Achilles and Exeter , and forced to run for shelter into the neutral port of Montevideo . When the time-limit allowed by international law expired , the Graf Spee was scuttled in face of a gathering fleet of overwhelming strength . The war situation was confused in November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a campaign to help the Finns . Churchill had a scheme to mine the route by which iron ore was carried from Sweden to Germany , and such a plan might have been co-ordinated with a move through north Norway and Sweden to assist Finland . By the time such an operation was ready , however , the Finns had made peace in March 1940 . But on 9 April the Germans occupied Denmark and the Norwegian ports , so the British campaign was revived . It was badly bungled at Narvik , which was not taken until 28 May . There a vital lesson was to be learned , for air power proved to be the crucial factor . It was the mishandling of the Norwegian campaign which brought about the downfall of the Chamberlain Government . An historic debate was opened in the House of Commons on 7 May . Called at the instigation of the Opposition , the debate was distinguished in its early stages by the virulence of attacks from the Conservative right wing upon the Government's handling of the war . Sir Roger Keyes , resplendent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conduct of the Norwegian campaign , and a high point of drama was reached when Leopold Amery , who had long been a friend and supporter of Chamberlain , reiterated the stinging words first heard in the House nearly three centuries earlier : You have sat too long here for any good you have been doing . Depart , I say , and let us have done with you . In the name of God , go ! ' On 8 May the Opposition declared their intention of forcing a division on what had by now become a serious motion of censure . Chamberlain , not uncharacteristically , turned it into a personal matter and appealed to his friends . He aroused the righteous contempt of a shadow from the past . David Lloyd George , whilst attempting to shield Churchill , whom he warned not to allow himself to become an air-raid shelter ' for his colleagues ? for Churchill was standing loyally by Chamberlain ? poured scorn upon the Prime Minister : It is not a question of who are the Prime Minister 's friends . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The nation is prepared for every sacrifice so long as it has leadership , so long as the Government show clearly what they are aiming at , and so long as the nation is confident that those who are leading it are doing their best . I say solemnly that the Prime Minister should give an example of sacrifice , because there is nothing which can contribute more to victory in this war than that he should sacrifice the seals of office . After Churchill had clashed violently with the Labour benches in the final speech of the debate , the Government had a majority in the division of 81 . But more than 30 Conservatives voted with the Opposition and a further 6o abstained . Chamberlainwas virtually defeated , and he sought unsuccessfully to form a national government . Once more the House of Commons had saved the soul of the nation . Two men were possible successors : Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary , and Winston Churchill . There were many Conservativeswith long memories who preferred Halifax , as well as a significant proportion of the Labour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flared up again during the debate . On 10 May , the day on which the German onslaught in the west was opened , Chamberlain met both men . On this , perhaps the most important event in his life , the usually garrulous Churchill sat silent . At last Halifax abdicated his claim on the grounds that his position as a member of the House of Lords would make the conduct of such a war very difficult . On the evening of I o May the King commissioned Winston Churchill to form a government . Churchill 's hour had come , and he met it with tranquillity . He recalled that he slept soundly , with no need of comforting dreams , for facts are better than dreams ' . P260Churchill in the GreatTraditionI have nothing to offer but blood , toil , tears and sweat . You ask , What is our policy ? I will say : It is to wage war , by sea , land and air , with all our might and with all the strength that God can give us . . . You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one word : Victory ? victory at all costs , victory in spite of all terrors ; victory , however long and hard the road may be. //ALTHOUGH Winston Churchill never referred to the elder Pitt 's proud and worthy boast at the outbreak of the Seven Years War ? My lord , I am sure I can save this country and nobody else can ' ? it is perhaps not too fanciful to wonder whether it was in his mind when he took office . Churchill wrought a transformation : those who remember 1940 recall a curious sense of exhilaration in face of mortal danger , as if the broad daylight of truth had scattered the mists of selfdeceptionand inane optimism . Nothing to offer but blood , toil , tears and sweat ' was strangely more digestible than scraps of paper and peace for our time ' ; Churchill 's uninhibited slanging of Corporal Hitler ' and his gang of Nazis ' ( the last mispronounced with contemptuous relish ) was distinctly more palatable than insipid diplomatic references to Herr Hitler ' . What manner of man so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remarkable men of history , and such creatures beggar all attempts at easy definition . He was an aristocrat by birth , haunted by the early death of his father , who promised so much and fulfilled so little . Winston was determined to live his life to the full before a similar fatep261overtook him . Sadly out of tune with the traditional education offered by Harrow , he was none the less captivated by the magic of words , the joys of literature and the excitement of history . ' He joined the Army , which was a fashionable occupation for the junior scions of the aristocracy , and turned to journalism , which was not . He insolently upbraided Kitchener for his behaviour in the Sudan , and his own exploits in South Africa early made him a national hero . When he turned to politics he became , predictably enough , a Conservative M.P . But like Lloyd George , he was never a party politician in the usual sense . Nothing is more certain than that , but for the coincidence of his genius and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister of a Conservative , or of any other sort of government . Indeed , he remained as great an embarrassment to many orthodox Conservatives in the years after the war as he had been in the decade preceding it . Churchill 's defection to the Liberals in 1904 and his return to the Conservatives in the twenties have been stigmatised as mere political opportunism , but such judgements are superficial . The truth is that no party could hold him ; this may have been a weakness of party , or of Churchill , but beside men of his stature most party politicians appear mere hacks . Yet political genius is many-sided : its very volatility may produce grievous and dangerous errors of judgement as well as moments of sublime perception . For example , there is no doubt that after his dynamic and progressive social reforms as President of the Board of Trade under Asquith , Churchill 's attitude to organised labour and the use of strikes assumed a complexion which was pregnant with genuine menace . Baldwin was right when he remarked that his greatest achievement during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tell him to edit the British Gazette . But when crisis came Churchill 's genius overrode his prejudices . Perhaps his most far-sighted ministerial appointment was that of Ernest Bevin to the Ministry of Labour , though no two men ever had less in common . And the humanity of the man overcame all : at least as revealing about Churchill as his precipitate haste to summon troops to deal with strikers were his tears as he stood amidst the ruins of East End homes during the German blitz on London . The biographer might multiply his shortcomings . His tenure of the Chancellorship of the Exchequer during the twenties was highly controversial , and J. M. Keynes could write without too great injustice of The Economic Consequences of Mr Churchill . His attitude to India , motivated by old-style high imperial principles , was so misguided as to make him a reactionary even by Conservative standards . In person , he could be arrogant , bullying ? conversations and Cabinet meetings often proved to be monologues ? and unjust , as he was to Wavell and Auchinleck , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his particular brand of genius . If in his personal attitudes he is perhaps reminiscent of Pitt the Elder , he matched that great statesman in many of his appointments to command in the field of battle . It is true , of course , that in 1940 , as in the days of Pitt the Younger , it was Britain as a whole who saved herself by her exertions ' and did much to save Europe by her example ' , but such exertionsand such an example did not arise spontaneously : it was Winston Churchill more than any other individual who called them forth . His weapon was the old-established political artistry of the orator . As President Kennedy was to put it , he harnessed the English language and sent it into battle ' . Reports of his speeches in the House of Commons , and above all his broadcast addresses to the nation , struck a responsive chord in the hearts and minds of his fellow-countrymen . It is difficult to hear them on record , a quarter of a century and more after they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emotions which they aroused at the time . Churchill avoided the administrative confusion which had marked Asquith 's government during the First World War from the outset . He at once appointed himself Minister of Defence , without attempting to set any limits to his function , and established a small War Cabinet , which he set out to dominate . All I wanted ' , he wrote , was compliance with myP263wishes after reasonable discussion ' . Neville Chamberlain led the House of Commons and became Lord President of the Council ( until October 1940 , when he retired mortally ill and was replaced by Sir John Anderson ) . Clement Attlee was made Lord Privy Seal ( and formally became Deputy Premier in February 1942 ) . Lord Halifax remained as Foreign Secretary until he became Ambassador to the United States in December 1940 and was succeeded by Anthony Eden . Arthur Greenwood , a respected pillar of the Labour Party , held office in the War Cabinet until February 1942 . Such was the original War Cabinet . Various alterations and additions were made as the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who was made Minister of Aircraft Production in August 1940 and held various appointments within the War Cabinet until February 1942 , and Ernest Bevin , who entered the War Cabinet in October 1940 as Minister of Labour ? a vital office in a full-scale war waged by a democratic country . Sir Kingsley Wood ( Chancellor of the Exchequer ) also joined the War Cabinet at the same time . Churchill 's first appointments to the service ministries were politically comprehensive , with Anthony Eden at the War Office , A. V. Alexander ( Labour ) as First Lord of the Admiralty , and Sir Archibald Sinclair ( leader of the Liberal Party ) at the Air Ministry . Churchill 's advent to power coincided with crises of the severest magnitude . Early on 1 o May the Germans , without declaration of war or even the fabrication of a pretext , poured over the frontiers of Holland and Belgium . British and French troops advanced into the two countries at considerable strategic risk to their own heavy armour , but the German forces were overwhelming and in face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air , the Dutch surrendered on 15 May . On the same day the R.A.F. bombed the Ruhr for the first time . French strategy was based upon the static defensive networks of the Maginot Line , which ceased at the Belgian frontier and ignored the complication of troops transported over it by air . In any case , the Line was probably compromised by infiltration and treachery on the frontier . French political and military authorities during the thirties had turned a deaf and irritated ear to the arguments of Brigadier Charles de Gaulle , who had pressed for a mobile strategy of the sort which the Germans were now practising with such success . As early as 14 May the concentratedGerman forces broke the French defences at Sedan and the whole defensive strategy collapsed . Without reserves , the French army was powerless , and in no more than five days the German Panzers reached the sea near Abbeville . The French supreme commander , Gamelin , was dismissed , and replaced by Weygand , who lived in a dream-world of paper strategies . By 27 May any attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapsed , and the evacuation of the B.E.F . was ordered . The B.E.F . retreated on Dunkirk . Calais was valiantly held until the last possible moment to protect its flank , whilst some of the younger divisional generals , notably Alan Brooke and Alexander , fought a masterly withdrawal against appalling odds . The fall of Calais and the collapse of Belgian resistance opened both flanks . The evacuation from Dunkirk was widely regarded as a miracle . In response to broadcast appeals , 86o vessels of all shapes , sizes and ages set out to cross the Channel to join the Royal Navy in carrying off the cream of the British Army . On the beaches , the soldiers formed orderly queues for the boats whilst the German dive-bombers were hampered by fighters in the air and by the soft sand which muffled the explosions of their bombs on the beaches . The operation lasted from 27 May until 3 June : 338,226 soldiers were evacuated , including nearly 140,000 Frenchmen . Virtually all the equipment of the B.E.F . was lost ; but the men were saved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was to be built up during the remainder of the war . Further attempts by Churchill in person , and by the dispatch of two divisions to France to stiffen French resistance , were in vain . Weygand and Petain were determined upon an armistice , and Petain ? a pathetic remnant of the hero of Verdun of 1916 , now callously exploited by the politicians ? had his way on 22 June . Eleven days earlier the Italians had declared war . P265Now might have been the time for careful consideration of how to make the best settlement possible . Such a course was never considered : a German peace offer was contemptuously brushed aside , and Churchill 's bland assumption that of course . . . we shall fight on ' was widely accepted . An immediate strategical problem posed by the French surrender was the fate of the French Fleet , which , if it fell into German hands , could become a vital factor in the war at sea . French ships in British ports were taken over , but the MediterraneanFleet at Oran was less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battleships and a battle-cruiser in harbour . The operation was painful to all concerned , not least to Churchill ; the French government broke off relations , which freed the exiled de Gaulle from some of his embarrassments in trying to rebuild French strength overseas . Free French ' forces became a significant factor in the struggle , along with the forces of other governments in exile . The prickly pride of de Gaulle ? the heaviest cross I have to bear is the Cross of Lorraine ' , said Churchill later ? was to cause diplomatic anxiety , but his spirit contrasted wholesomely with that of the miserable French government established at Vichy . Events had made it very clear that the decisive immediate struggle was to be in the air . For a time the German successes had outrun their expectations and their organisation , and they were unprepared for an invasion of Britain at once . Before such a task could be undertaken they had to achieve superiority in the air to counteract the threat of the Royal Navy in the Channel . So the Battle of Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed in 1940 was largely the creation of a determined and far-sighted officer , Air Marshal Dowding , who resisted political pressures for spectacularoperations and husbanded his precious resources in men and machines . The imperious vitality of Lord Beaverbrook stimulated aircraft production , but shortage of pilots became a pressing problem which could only be dealt with in the longer term . Fighter Command won the Battle of Britain on the ground as well as in the air by masterly plotting of enemy aircraft , and by direction of the R.A.F. fighters made possible by a chain of                     