@@774023

txt ernized , much of Africa was Europeanized , yet none of these as similation processes seems to have been retarded by the fact that the assimilating peoples were of a racial type different from that prevailing in the culture to which they were assimilating . Accul turation refers to cultural change at the level of individuals , as when an immigrant to a country gives up his " old country " ways and adapts his behavior to the ways prevailing in the host country . The radical de-Africanization of Negro slaves in the United States is a good example of the possibility for persons of different racial types to adapt themselves to a common culture . Finally , when one considers the rapidity of cultural change and the slowness of evolutionary biological changes , the racial explana tion of cultural variability makes very little sense . Biologically , four generations ( four completions of the reproductive cycle ) can have only an infinitesimal effect on the nature of hereditary traits . For all practical purposes , man has the same biological equipment today that he had four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the changes that have occurred in most parts of the world in the last 100 years have been profound . If these cultural changes had to wait on a change of racial type , they could not have developed so rapidly . Altogether , it seems to take a considerable act of will to hold to a biological explanation of cultural variability in the face of con siderations like these . One kind of rearguard action in the modern retreat from biological determinism can be discussed , however . This is the idea and program of eugenics , a science based on the belief that the quality of human life could be greatly improved through selective breeding , a program to insure the " survival of the fittest . " The impetus for eugenic programs comes from such observations as these : ( 1 ) reproduction tends to be highest among the poorer and less educated classes of a society ; ( 2 ) modern medicine has spared mankind the rigorous application of the rule of survival of the fittest , because persons with hereditary defects ( poor eyesight , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass along their deficiency ; and ( 3 ) modern warfare is especially geared to kill off the " fittest " since only the healthiest are selected by " selective service " to risk the hazards of combat . Such tendencies , // eugenicists argue , will affect human society adversely by lowering the level of biological capacity for the development of cultural products . Eugenic programs aim at the encouragement of reproduction by the " fit " and at control of reproduction among the " unfit . " Eugenic programs may or may not involve racist overtones , depending on whether they classify different races as fit or unfit . Where judgments of racial fitness are made , they tend to be highly ethnocentric . Eugenics is based probably on an overestimation of the role of genetic factors in the determination of human behavior . Given the accentuated technological developments in the world , it is possible to argue that cultural " progress " is not at all inconsistent with a somewhat diminished level of biological capacity . Even where sheer physical accomplishments are concerned , it may be that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly outperform their predecessors ( the " four-minute mile " was once considered impossible for runners ; now it is almost commonplace ) , this greater physical performance being based on such technological gains as a better knowledge of nutrition and of ways to train the body for athletic efforts . So long as facts like these can be readily cited , it seems that eugenics will remain a minor factor in the determination of human culture . Geographic explanations . Another tempting explanation of cultural variability is that of geographic determinism . Ways of life certainly vary between people in different parts of the world , and the possibility that variations in culture are causally related to variations in geographic conditions must seriously be considered . Geographic determinism comes in two flavors , mild and sharp . The milder form of geographic determinism makes note of the fact that the physical environmental conditions of a given region furnish both the materials and the motives for the elaboration of cultural forms in given directions . The fact that the physical environment is dominated by mountains , a sea coast , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology and , perhaps , the moral outlook of a people . The appellation " hillbilly " denotes a cultural orientation , suggesting the importance to this way of life of the physical isolation between families and communities that a mountainous topography tends to produce . // One measure of the influence of geography on culture is the observation that the language of a people tends to include an elaborate vocabulary to differentiate the various aspects of a dom inant geographic consideration . Thus , Arabs are reported to have some six thousand words to denote variations in kind and condition of the camel , the principal animal in this desert culture.13 Seacoast people similarly have rich vocabularies of terms referring to life at sea ; and great rivers produce along their banks a way of life and a vocabulary which are preoccupied with the vagaries of " old man river . " Impressive as these correlations of geography and culture may be , it can be noted that the degree of this relationship may be declining under the influence of technological developments . A technology for flood control , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impact on the culture of the people living along its banks . The introduction of air conditioning into tropical and subtropical regions allows for ways of life that are not so heavily influenced by the local physical environment . The technological development that makes possible rapid transportation exposes people to a variety of geographic environments . For some favored persons , at least , the geographic setting may be altered to suit the mood : the Swiss Alps in the summer , the Riviera in the winter . The geographic environ ment of Miami , Florida , or Boulder , Colorado , does , indeed , deter-mine largely the ways of life found there ; but , given the mobility of people into and out of such places , they are not the best examples of geographic determinism , which assumes that persons inhabit a given region permanently and that their culture is dictated by geographic conditions of that region . The fact that persons may choose their geographic locales under modern conditions weakens the explanatory power of the theory . A more extreme form of geographic determinism would hold that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy of a people is influenced by geographic conditions . Popular notions of this kind abound ; passions are more easily aroused in tropical climates , sexual frigidity is common in polar regions , intellectual vitality is low in the tropics , etc . A major scientific theory of this type was Huntington 's attempt to show that the more highly com plex ways of life have developed in the temperate regions of the // earth ; neither extreme heat nor extreme cold is conducive to the development of " civilization . " 14 The historian Arnold Toynbee has similarly attempted to relate " civilization " to geographic conditions , although his theory is somewhat different.15 Toynbee sees civilization developing through a series of " challenges " to a society 's existence which are met by adequate societal " response . " A somewhat harsh or difficult geo graphic environment is seen by Toynbee to be most conducive to civilization because such environments present challenges severe enough to begin the challenge-response cycle . The influence of the lowland topography of Holland , with the ever-present danger of flooding from the sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition . In contrast to Huntington , Toynbee sug gests that some environments may be too temperate to stimulate the work of civilization . Theories of this type tend to falter on their inadequate consid eration of the range of human cultures in different times and places . With reference to Huntington 's theory , it is true that the contempo rary major world powers are concentrated in the temperate geo graphic zones and , from an ethnocentric viewpoint , these might be considered the more " civilized " peoples . But historical analysis would indicate many exceptions to this theory at earlier periods . By present Western standards , the Maya and Aztec civilizations of subtropical Mexico were more culturally " advanced " than the nomadic tribes of American Indians who , during the same period , inhabited the more temperate regions of North America . The Middle Eastern " cradle of civilization " was in an essentially desert region , hardly a temperate climate . Toynbee 's theory also has its difficulties . Granting his view that " challenge " is necessary to the development of a complex culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only or even the major challenges to a society 's existence . Famine , disease , and war ? to cite one trilogy of historical miseries ? have perhaps been of greater historical importance as cultural chal lengers . A critical point has also been made that the people who inhabit " difficult " geographic regions like Holland may have mi grated to the territory and brought with them technological knowCultural Variability and Change 63 how developed in other areas in which geographic challenges were less severe.16 CULTURAL CHANGE We defined culture in the previous chapter as a traditional way of life , one which tends to be " here today and here tomorrow . " The fact of ethnocentrism alone would tend to perpetuate a way of life ; people tend to value the ways to which they are accustomed and to " uphold and defend " that way . Nevertheless , changes in culture do occur . Sociological analysis is concerned with how and why these changes in a group 's way of life occur . Evolutionary Theories The notion of an evolutionary process of cultural change has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a highly respectable version of the process involved in the " origin of spe cies . " As an explanatory approach in social science , evolutionism has involved , in various proportions of emphasis , the notions of : ( 1 ) the extremely slow rate of cultural change , and ( 2 ) a series of " stages " ? from primitive to modern ? that all cultures tend to go through . Slow rate of change . The view that human culture changes only very slowly was well expressed in Sumner 's book , Folkways : We see that we must conceive of the mores as a vast system of usages , covering the whole of life , and serving all its interests ; also containing in themselves their own justification by tradition and use and wont , and ap proved by mystic sanctions until , by rational reflection , they develop their own philosophical and ethical generalizations , which are elevated into " principles " of truth and right . They coerce and restrict the newborn gen eration . They do not stimulate to thought , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embodied in the mores . They never contain any pro-vision for their own amendment . They are not questions , but answers , to the problem of life.77 Any wholesale " reorganization " of culture is thus impossible , ac64 INTRODUCTION TO SOCIOLOGY cording to Sumner . " We might as well plan to reorganize our globe by redistributing the elements in it . " 18 An important modification of the view of the conservative char acter of culture is the theory of culture lag.79 Ogburn distinguishes between " material culture " and " nonmaterial culture " and points out that many parts of the nonmaterial culture are adaptive to mate rial conditions in that they involve the regulation of human behavior in relation to material objects . Government , for example , is an adaptive part of the nonmaterial culture , enacting and enforcing laws that deal with permissible uses of land or of an automobile . A problem arises for a society when material conditions change more rapidly than the society can evolve new forms of nonmaterial cul ture to regulate them . An example cited by Ogburn is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws to match the very rapid changes in the material culture which threaten the destruction of virgin forests . Another frequently cited example is the lag . in devel opment of required safety features in the manufacture of automo biles that will compensate for the escalation in power of automobile motors . The culture-lag theory seems to suggest that what is needed is a speeding up of changes in nonmaterial culture to catch up with faster changes in material culture . This implication may contain a value judgment with which not everyone would agree . Why not just as well make the judgment that change in material culture is proceeding too rapidly and should be slowed down ? ( A " moratorium on inventions " has occasionally been seriously proposed . ) Despite such controversies in practical policy as to what should be done about culture lag , the generalization about the differential rates of growth of the two aspects of culture seems to be valid . Evolutionary stages . Early anthropology was preoccupied with the notion of inherently " primitive " and " modern " forms of culture . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ary theory of human culture , the Law of the Three States ( see the discussion in chapter 1 ) . Sir Henry Maine , a British anthropologist , postulated a primitive form of culture based on status and a modern // form based on contract.20 A comparison of primitive and modern forms of marriage would suffice to indicate the difference . In primi tive marriage , wives were the property of their husbands ; in modern marriage , the wife is free to contract or dissolve the union , and the marriage is based on mutual obligations . Spencer argued that primitive society was inherently egoistic and militaristic . One aspect of his grand " law of evolution " is the increasing heterogeneity of social life and , along with this , the growth of an altruistic morality and an industrial social organiza tion.21 Durkheim agreed with Spencer about the evolutionary ten dency toward increasing heterogeneity but challenged vigorously the notion of " primitive egoism , " arguing instead that primitive man is characterized by an excess of altruism or , in Durkheim 's terms , by a strong collective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolved a greater altruism , modern society has , in Durkheim 's view , elevated individuality to something of a religious principle , creating the " cult of the individual . " 22 Evolutionary theory of this type has lost favor among contempo rary social scientists . One critic , having asked what happened to the popularity of Spencer among intellectuals , concluded that " Spencer is dead . " " He was the intimate confidant of a strange and rather unsatisfactory God , whom he called the principle of Evo lution . His God has betrayed him . We have evolved beyond Spencer . " " Better acquaintance with the variety of forms of primitive culture has led to a skepticism about the possibility of establishing any one form of culture as more " primitive " than any other . It has been dis covered , for example , that so-called primitive people have ways of life that are , in some respects , more complicated than those of so-called modern people . For instance , some primitive people have systems of reckoning kinship that make many subtle distinctions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tems of some of the more " advanced " societies . // Another observation damaging to the evolutionary approach is the discovery that the cultural ways of modern people are not so different from those of the primitives as we would perhaps like to believe . Horace Miner made this point rather humorously in his satirical essay on the body rites of the " barbarous " Nacirema ( whose resemblance to the American who " brushes his teeth twice a day and sees his dentist twice a year " is purely intentional ) . According to Miner , the " mouth-rite " of the Nacirema involves " inserting a small bundle of hog hairs into the mouth , along with certain magical powders , and then moving the bundle in a highly formalized series of gestures . " The mouth-rite is followed up by periodic visits to the " holy mouth-man , " who has a " variety of augers , awls , probes and prods " with which to " enlarge any holes which decay may have created in the teeth . " 24 Perhaps it takes more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condescending way of Malinowski : Looking far and above , from our high places of safety in the developed civilization , it is easy to see all the crudity and irrelevance of magic . But without its power and guidance early man could not have mastered his practical difficulties as he has done , nor could man have advanced to the higher stages of civilization.25 Although unilinear evolutionary theory ( from this stage to that stage ) is today dead or dying , there are some attempts to maintain a multilinear evolutionary approach to cultural change . Steward , a contemporary anthropologist , argues that there may , indeed , be inherent stages in the development of culture but that we must first identify some of the major types of cultures and then describe how different types evolve along different lines.16 For example , farming societies which are widely separated have followed similar evolu tionary lines of early settlement in small permanent villages along moist river banks , followed by irrigation and canal-building activ ities that have produced major changes in general culture and so cial organization . Other kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of subsistence , for example ? have fol lowed quite different evolutionary lines . Contingent Theories The major alternative to evolutionism as an approach to explaining cultural change is the view that culture may or may not change in a given direction , depending on the presence or absence of certain factors which are seen as causing change . From this contingent view of cultural change , the problem is not one of discovering any general direction of cultural evolution but of assessing the weight of various factors in producing change . In dealing with such ques tions , all the problems of causal inference as discussed in chapter 2 are involved . It may be , for example , that certain variables ( such as population growth ) are related to certain cultural changes ( such as the growth of secularism ) without there being any causal connection between them . This is possible if population growth and secularism are both the result of some other causal factor , say , the industrial revolution . One variety of contingent explanation of cultural change is the one-factor or deterministic theory of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argue that changes in patterns of organiza tion of productive activity have the major influence on changes in all aspects of culture . Marx contends that the " real facts " of any society are the relations that men enter into with other men in the process of producing their subsistence.27 If culture is ideational , Marx would say that culture is economically determined since pre vailing ideas are simply rationalizations for the position of the dominant economic class ; " the ruling ideas " are the ideas of the " ruling class . " 28 Technological determinism places primary empha sis on the techniques that prevail in a society . The anthropological classification of cultures as plow culture or basket-making culture is an implicit assertion of the influence of technology on all aspects of culture . Deterministic or one-factor theories of all kinds tend to run into some of the same kinds of problems as those encountered with the biological and geographic determinisms that we discussed pre viously . Correlations between any one form of culture and any one // form of technology , economy , or any other " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actor theory of change would emphasize the com plexity of causation of cultural change and insist that ( 1 ) the im petus to cultural change may come from a variety of sources , not simply from changes in one factor ; and ( 2 ) whether change de velops or is arrested at an early stage depends on a variety of contingent factors . Concerning sources of change , a distinction can conveniently be made between internal innovation and external culture contact . Some changes are initiated within a society as discoveries and inventions are made , as persons learn to deal with old problems in new ways . Exactly why some societies are inventive in this way and others seem to produce few new ideas is not at all clear . Perhaps the sociologist 's contribution to understanding the matter is his suggestion that invention occurs in those societies that institu tionalize it , where there are definite social mechanisms ( such as funded research ) to support and reward innovative activity . A soci ety which gives vigorous support to research activities in science and engineering will tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate cultures , the min gling of people from different cultures should lead to assimilation or the disappearance of cultural differences . The process of cultural diffusion refers to the passage of traits native to one culture into a culture in which these traits have heretofore been alien . The recent diffusion of American culture throughout the world has been a source of dismay to many travelers who go in search of exotic cultures only to find the natives drinking Coca-Cola and dancing the latest American dances . Whether cultural change originates in internal innovation or ex ternal contact , the process by which a new idea spreads is likely to be a complex one , with many new ideas never catching on . In most societies , most inventions are at least temporarily ignored or resisted , and ethnocentrism tends to guarantee that cultural contact will not lead immediately to the adoption of " alien " ways . One factor influencing the acceptance of an invention or an alien way is the degree of material content of the cultural element . Change tends to be accepted more readily when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonmaterial aspects as religious ideas or ideas about appropriate systems for the punishCultural // ment of crime tend to change less rapidly . There may be two major reasons for this difference . First , the superiority of a new idea about material things can be more easily demonstrated . A people confronted with a new system of crop-raising can readily test that system in comparison with the old system ( especially if they have an institutionalized testing system like the agricultural experiment station ) . The tests of superiority or inferiority in something like a religious system are far less obvious . Second , the nonmaterial aspects of culture are likely to be more fundamental to the people who adhere to that culture . The basic values of a culture are the core around which other cultural elements are arranged . People can accept a new mode of transportation without disturbing this central core , 30 but a competing system of values is much more threatening to the total integration . Even with purely material technologies , however , people tend to resist the adoption of new ways , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that influence the rate of " diffusion of innovation " in a population . Farming and medical practice are two areas that have been much studied in this regard.37 Farmers do not always immediately adopt a superior farming technique , some-times preferring an older way of doing things that is less efficient , perhaps , but also more " satisfying " ; for example , the preference for handpicking crops over harvesting them by machine . Nor do doctors always prescribe a " new and better " drug to their patients as soon as it comes on the market . Studies in the diffusion of innovation have been concerned with assessing the relative effects of formal and informal channels of communication . Do farmers , for example , find out about a new technique and become persuaded to use it primarily through read ing experimental station bulletins or upon the recommendation of the agricultural extension agent , or are they more influenced by the attitudes of their friends and neighbors toward innovations ? A study // of innovation in medical practice32 suggests that there is a kind of " two-step flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " opinion leaders " in the medical community are influenced by advertising and other " outside " agents ( such as drug company representatives ) to adopt an innovation ; the colleagues of these opinion leaders tend to follow their lead . Persons interested in bringing about a cultural change in an area are likely to be sensitive to the necessity of " converting " opinion leaders . When a President of the United States used the slogan of the civil rights movement ? " we shall overcome " ? in a public statement , there was much re joicing that an influential leader had thus identified himself with the change that this movement was trying to bring about . SUMMARY In popular anthropology it is fashionable to refer to the bewildering variety of human cultures . The social scientist shares to some extent the popular sense of wonder at the variety and instability of culture , but his professional concern is with the analysis of variabil ity and change , both the causes and the consequences of these phenomena . The sociologist is especially interested in those effects of cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different cultures . The ethnocentric rejection of people with " alien " ways and the communicative " misunder standings " of people who speak different languages are typical sociological concerns . The causal explanation of cultural variability and change involves many complex problems of causal inference . Sociologists have tended to reject as oversimplified such theories as the biological or geographic determinism of variability or , indeed , any one-factor explanation of the origins of variability and change in human cul ture . The evolutionary theory of social change , postulating a set of steps or stages through which every culture inevitably passes , is likewise often rejected as too easy an explanation of a complex phenomenon . Given these skepticisms about simplified or monistic explana tions , sociological explanation tends to move to a less rigid struc ture of explanation , committing itself only to a search for " factors " or " contingent " events which , if they occur , will produce certain kinds of cultural change . In this more open explanatory structure , // the sociologist is freer to exploit some of his more general notions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , the general notion of the importance of " informal " levels of social influence to an understanding of the process by which a technological change is introduced into a culture . // SOCIAL ORGANIZATION PART THREE The assertion was made in chapter 1 that the concepts of " social organization " and " social structure " represent ideas that are fundamental to what is most uniquely sociological in the study of human behavior . In this section we attempt to elaborate on these basic concepts . Perhaps the most basic feature of social organization is its interindividual feature , the fact that the organization of human behavior can be understood only if that behavior is thought of as something occurring between two or more persons . It takes two to tango and nine to make a baseball team , and the quality of relationship between this two or among these nine is a problem of preeminent sociological interest . In the three chapters in this section we examine social organizational matters from three different perspectives , ranging from society at the largest or most macroscopic level to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of groups representing problems of social organization at an intermediate level of inclusiveness . Although not all problems of social organization will locate themselves neatly and obligingly in one of these three categories of inclusiveness , we can at least illustrate something of the range of emphases in different kinds of sociological studies of social organization . 73 Society CHAPTER // The sociological usage of the term society differs from some of the popular usages of that term . Most notably , in sociology society does not denote a group of persons of superior social status whose activities would be reported in the " society " pages of a newspaper . Like the term culture , society has a wider meaning than the popular restriction of the term to refer to an elite group of people . Society as External Constraint A closer approximation in popular usage to the sociological mean ing is expressed in references to the effects of prison in rehabilitat ing an inmate to prepare him to go back into society as a law-abiding citizen . In sociological usage , a society is also the sort of entity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be out of or alienated from society , the latter view being expressed by Simmel , who insists that " the fact that in certain respects the individual is not an element of society constitutes the positive condition for the possi bility that in other respects he is . " ' Following the lead from popular thought that an individual exists in or surrounded by society , let us consider what it may mean from the individual 's viewpoint to live in a society . Whatever a person does or even thinks , he may find that there are prevailing " arrange ments " for that doing or thinking among the people with whom he associates . If , for example , he considers marriage , he finds that 75 the necessary arrangements for this event are already largely anticipated in the customary ways of his society . He may even feel that , once he has committed himself to this fatal step , the imple mentation of his decision will be taken over by others and executed according to their plan ; he may feel himself almost a passive spec @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society is summarized quite well in Durk heim 's view of society as having the twin characteristics of exteri ority and constraint.2 Society is exterior to the individual in that it exists independently of and often in spite of his own will ; it is in the nature of " social facts " that , as with the other hard facts of life , he must accept society and find a way to live with it . Society is con-straining in that , as we shall discuss in chapter 13 , there are numerous devices by which the society can enforce its expectations on the individual . Sociologists have , at least since Durkheim , insisted on the exis tence of a level of " reality " beyond that of the individual psychol ogies of human beings . Much of the rationale for the existence of sociology as a discipline distinct from psychology is based on this assertion that the societal order of reality can not be " reduced " to the level of individual psychology . Society as a Social System We began with the popular conception of society as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above the individual person . The wisdom of popular usage can carry us a step further , toward the notion of society as a social system . Pop ular complaints about the constraints of " the system " ? 1 hate to buck for promotion in that way , but that 's " the system " around here ? indicate popular awareness of the term . The sociologist like-wise tends to think of a society as a " system , " but he adds to the popular notions certain more technical characteristics which we can call the system properties of integration and equilibrium . Integration . Any system ? physical , biological , or social ? can be analyzed as having parts : organs of a body , molecules of a com pound , etc . The idea of integration is that there is some relationship among those parts and between the parts and the whole system . // Sorokin defines two fundamentally different kinds of integration : causal-functional and logico-meaningful . ' Causal-functional inte gration refers to the notion that the parts of a system are causally related to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are parts . Variability in one part is a " function " of variability in other parts . Also , the maintenance of the whole system is a function of the operation of the parts ; a living organism as a system can not continue to exist unless its various " vital functions " are being per-formed by its various parts . These ideas about system integration lead directly into the controversial area of sociological functional-ism , which we shall discuss a little later . Logico-meaningful integration refers to a quite different relation-ship between system parts and wholes . A system is logical when it " makes sense " to the human mind and meaningful when its char acteristic features can be described in a communicative process . The various parts ( notes ) of a symphony are not related to one another in any causal way , but they are related in that , when played together , they create an overall sound that is called music . We have encountered an idea similar to that of logico-meaningful integration in the discussion of cultural integration : the insistence that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when one sees the theme or pattern that integrates these various traits . In the same way , there may be societal themes or patterns that distinguish between different kinds of social systems . Equilibrium . The equilibrium conception of a system is the notion that a system tends to be self-maintaining , resisting change in existing patterns of integration . A physical system like a rock and a biological system like an animal are systems in the sense that they resist environmental forces that might disintegrate them . Rocks resist being broken up by blows , animals have food-gathering instincts to ensure their nourishment , etc . Typically , the scientist is interested in the " mechanisms " by which a system insures its survival ; for example , the metabolic mechanism of a " warm-blooded " animal functions to maintain a constant internal body temperature in the face of fluctuations in external temperature . The application of the idea of equilibrium to society as a self-maintaining entity is a highly controversial one , as we shall see . Society 77 The application of system concepts to society has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Principles of Sociology , ' has an early chapter entitled " Society Is an Organism " in which he argues that , like a biological organism , a society is sustained by the operation of its major vital systems . The long treatise which followed was largely an elaboration on this theme , analyzing in detail the various systems or " institutions " of a society . More re cently , works like Human Society by Kingsley Davis ' and The Social System by Talcott Parsons ' have carried forward this tradition of examining society from a social-systems perspective . To complete our preliminary definition of society , we should note that not every social system is a society in the usual definition of the term . Although the concept social system can apply to units of analysis as simple as the association of two persons , if this associ ation is characterized by integration and equilibrium maintenance , these simpler units are not ordinarily called societies . Society refers to a system with a structure which is complex enough that it approaches the level of self-sufficiency . ' People may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although a boardinghouse or a college classroom may be " social systems " in some respects , they clearly are not societies by virtue of their lack of self-sufficiency . In this sense , a society is simply a very complex social system . FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS OF SOCIETY The school of sociological analysis that most consistently employs social-systems analysis of society is the approach called function alism , the focus of a major controversy in contemporary sociology . Some varieties of functional analysis emphasize equilibrium prop erties , others focus on integrative properties of systems . The views of Robert Merton and of Talcott Parsons will illustrate these two approaches . Merton 's Views Robert Merton defines the " central orientation " of functionalism as " the practice of interpreting data by establishing their conse78 INTRODUCTION TO SOCIOLOGY consequences for larger structures in which they are implicated . " ' Thus Merton identifies functionalism with an interest in one kind of causal-functional integration : the functional relation between parts of social systems and the whole system . The part-to-part relation-ships seem to be outside the scope of functional analysis as Merton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social prac tices there are , Merton believes , important cautions that the soci ologist should observe , and he criticizes many of his colleagues for failing to observe them . ' One frequent error is in adopting a " pos tulate of functional unity , " which assumes that each part of a social system is so thoroughly integrated with the whole that a given practice has the same consequences for each other part ; what 's " good " for one part is equally " good " for others . In fact , Merton suggests , there are numerous conflicts of interest between , say , the workers and managers in a factory social system . The fact of such conflict introduces the necessity of indicating what consequences there are for which persons in a society whenever functions are being ascribed . Merton 's viewpoint car ; be criticized by showing that you can carry this caution to the extreme by denying that there is any func tional unity between any persons , by denying really the whole idea of integration.10 Functionalists who are a little more tough-minded than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanisms to overcome just such conflicts of interest . American society , with its multiplicity of potentially warring religious denomi nations , has apparently evolved a kind of nonsectarian religion of " Americanism " as a new sort of functional unity in the area of religion . " A second criticism by Merton is the tendency of functionalists to adopt a " postulate of universal functionalism " which insists that all existing practices contribute in a vital way to the maintenance of some social system . Some practices are , in fact , dysfunctional , tending to the destruction or change of society , and some are Society 79 simply nonfunctional , perhaps because they are survivals from an earlier time in which they had some function . Merton may be sug gesting a valuable liberalization of viewpoint in ascribing functions , although the idea of dysfunction introduces some very serious problems in sociological explanation . It would seem that you can not explain some practice ( the requiring of a college degree for a particular line of work , for example ) by ascribing to it a positive function in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as it tolerates functional ones . ( How can one argue that attaining a college degree is dysfunctional for a woman who is destined to be " only " a housewife if most college-educated women turn out to be tolerable wives ? ) Many sociologists prefer to remain with the " postulate of universal functionalism , " , trying to discover hitherto unknown positive functions of " undesirable " social conditions . This strategy may have motivated Durkheim to the " discovery " of a positive function of crime : the fact that crime creates the occasion for collective punishment which reinforces the sense of righteousness on the part of the people who participate in a ritual of punishment . ' ' Merton also criticized the adoption of a " postulate of indis pensability , " i.e. , because a practice is vital to a social system , it is also necessary to it . The mistake here is illustrated in the argument ment that , because religion produces " social solidarity " ( a Durk heim thesis ) and because this solidarity is necessary to a society , religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be valid if there are " functional alternatives " or , in cruder language , if there is " more than one way to skin a cat . " A very secular belief system , like communism or humanism , might be an adequate functional alternative to religion in producing social solidarity . In fact , it seems that most functional analyses do operate with a kind of " indispensability " notion , but only after some examination of the specific historical context which makes a given social prac tice indispensable in this situation . Some exotic customs ( such as the " rituals of rebellion " in Zulu society13 in which , on occasion , women are allowed to attack men physically and verbally ) may be explained by showing : ( 1 ) it is a functional necessity that dominated // groups ( as Zulu women are ) have some outlet for their aggressiveness ; ( 2 ) the society prohibits the dominated group from expressing aggression in everyday life ( Zulu women can not nag their husbands on a day-to-day basis ) . Since the " functional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the periodic rebellion rituals become indispensable , but only in this society with these restraints on the adoption of functional alternatives . Finally , Merton criticizes the tendency to confuse function with purpose or aim . Some writers refer to the function of a social practice when they ascribe motives to the people who practice it : the " function " of religious worship is to secure supernatural aid for men 's endeavors , etc . In fact , some of the consequences of social practices are latent functions , outcomes of social acts that were neither intended nor recognized by the people who engage in them ( as opposed to manifest functions , whose consequences were intended by the participants ) . A function of marriage , for example , may be that it reduces conflict between members of the same sex by taking people of the opposite sex out of circulation , that is , removing them as a source of sexual rivalry . If this is a social consequence of marriage ( as we shall argue in chapter 8 , it is certainly a latent one , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict with others of his own sex . As we noted in chapter 1 , the idea of latent functions contributes to a sense of the great complexity of the connections between things in the social world . Sociological facts tend to be less obvious than they seem . Merton thus raises an important problem concerning the relation between the consequences of human action and human awareness of these consequences . Being the calculating sort of animal that he is , man tends to act with the intention of producing certain consequences and of avoiding others . The idea of latent functions suggests that he often fails in his intentions . But suppose a man has studied sociology or simply has unusual insight of human behavior and becomes aware of functions of his actions that previously were beneath the level of his consciousness . How will this new consciousness affect the consequences of his future acts ? For those who believe that " awareness " is a panacea for human problems , the effects must clearly be to the person 's advantage ; recall the Scripture , " Ye shall know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But consider another possibility . Some things we desire as outcomes of our actions may be attainable only if they Society 81 come as unconscious or unintended by-products of actions . " Fun " may be most elusive when we are most determined to have it and most accessible when our attention is focused elsewhere , just as we may have to stop trying to go to sleep before we can sleep . The frantic determination of some of our acquaintances to " have fun " or " be happy " because it 's New Year 's Eve and everybody else is doing it will illustrate the self-defeating character of some of our actions when we pursue our aspirations too directly.14 A few examples from sociological research will further illustrate this possibility . According to several observers , including David Riesman , Americans are growing increasingly self-conscious about the necessity of leading sexual lives that will allow them to enjoy a maximum possible amount of sexual " experience , " and they worry about this a great deal and may consult friends , psychiatrists , or lonely hearts columnists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a great deal of social reinforcement of people 's sexual anxieties has developed around sex . In this vein , one sociologist has written of the contradictions and limitations of " sex as a more or less autonomous institution . " 16 In a study of junior colleges , Clark found that one of the functions of this type of college is " cooling out " people who are academic failures , making it possible for them to preserve a modicum of self-respect in a situation in which they could not make the grade elsewhere . " Of course , this function is effective only if it remains latent , since people would probably not enroll in such a college if they knew that it had this kind of consequence for the careers they hoped to pursue . A sociological study of some forms of popular religion has made a similar point.76 The creation of self-confidence and the promotion of greater earthly success have been among the traditionl latent // functions of religious activity . But when popular literature preaches the " power of positive thinking " and other ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pursue secular outcomes di rectly . However , positive thinking may be as difficult to attain as having fun or being sexually satisfied : the very consciousness of the effort detracts from the possibility of success . It may be , in short , that some functions must remain latent if they are to be func tions at all . Parson 's Views More directly in the tradition of Spencer 's treatment of societies as social systems is the recent work of Talcott Parsons . This work follows earlier attempts to define the " necessary conditions " or the " functional prerequisites " of a society as a social system.19 Func tionalists of this type have tended to follow Radcliffe-Brown 's view of functionalism as developing a kind of physiology of social sys tems , a description of the way the system operates to provide for its vital needs.20 Parsons developed a theory to the effect that every social system is characterized by four kinds of system problems.21 Parsons calls these system problems functional imperatives and labels them " adaptation , " " goal attainment , " " integration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To understand these functional imperatives , it is helpful to know that Parsons is interested in two major contrasts in types of human social actions . On the one hand , there is a distinction between instrumental and consummatory social action . Instrumental action is that by which a system " lays up stores " for the future . Social systems as well as individuals apparently display behavior of this kind . One anticipates a " hard winter " or a " critical audience " and prepares for these contingencies by accumulating fuel or polishing the lecture . Consummatory action , in contrast , is aimed at immedi ate gratification of desires or fulfillment of needs ; the individual or social system " cashes a check " and expends its resources to pro-vide for current needs . Society 83 On the other hand , certain behavior is focused on some relation of the system to an external environment , especially to the accom-plishment of some task of the system . Other behavior has a more internal focus in that persons in a social system are primarily concerned about their interpersonal or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal psychological problem of squaring his behavior with his own self-conceptions.22 Parsons was familiar with and influenced by the findings of Bales , who experi-mented with small-groups situations and found a sort of " phase movement " in the kinds of action which prevailed in groups at different times.23 At some times groups with assigned tasks con-centrate hard on those tasks , suppressing members who " horse around , " and exchanging sharp words in the heat of discussion concerning the best ways to approach a task . At other times , groups seem preoccupied with repairing the social and emotional " dam-age " sustained in the course of concentrating on a task . Apologies are given , jokes are told to break the tension , and group members generally relax into a more sociable kind of interaction . Bales found , interestingly enough , that different group members special-ize in either task or social-emotional leadership . Groups typically have a " most popular " and a " best worker " distinction , and seldom would one member receive both accolades . The application of the two distinctions in social behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one another would yield the four functional imperatives as indicated in the following diagram:24 // Each of these imperatives will now be discussed . Adaptation . A social system requires that ways be found to produce the general facilities required for the accomplishment of the system 's goals . For a society as a social system , this imperative refers mostly to economic activities , the production of the goods and services that people require . With other social systems , there may be other kinds of adaptation imperatives . A school as a social system requires that a certain number of professionally qualified teachers be recruited to provide one of the " facilities " without which educational goals could not be achieved . Goal attainment . It is never enough for a social system to have a supply of facilities adequate to meet its needs . There is still the problem of the application of these resources in specific programs of collective action . Often the application involves the necessity of deciding whether to apply facilities to one purpose or another . A school system must decide on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to repair the roof.or to make a down payment on an automobile . At the societal level , Parsons uses the term polity to refer to the goal-attainment mechanisms of a society ; the legislative and administrative processes of government are approximately what he has in mind . Pattern maintenance and tension management . This cumbersome terminology is used by Parsons to denote the imperative of a social system that it maintain , as a condition of its collective existence , properly motivated individuals . Apathy , hostility , and a condition of being too " up tight " are personal traits that are dysfunctional for social systems . Pattern-maintenance mechanisms are those which produce individuals imbued with the basic values that the prevailing culture emphasizes . All the indoctrinating or moralizing practices in a society ? its educational and religious institutions , for example ? have primarily this kind of functional relevance . Tension-management mechanisms are devices which encourage people to let off steam in ways that are not subversive of the system 's order . We mentioned earlier the Zulu " rituals of rebellion " as presumably having this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in chapter 3 that our Dionysian weekends and holidays are tension-management devices that allow us to go back to our Monday mornings for another week of Apollonian ritualism . Integration . Properly motivated individuals are no ultimate guarSociety 85 antee of social order . Though everyone may be properly indoctri nated with a belief in the " sanctity " of a contract , it still may happen that disputes about the conditions imposed by a contract will arise between the contracting parties . Most social systems require " ref erees " of one sort or another to keep such disputes within the realm of peaceful competition and to avoid violent conflict . At the societal level , Parsons refer to the legal system as society 's mech anism for mediating disputes between persons . He thus splits the institution of government into a polity aspect dealing with the making and enforcement of decisions and a legal aspect dealing with judicial procedures for settling disputes and maintaining " law and order . " CHANGES IN SOCIETY One of the most frequent criticisms of functional analysis is that it emphasizes the sources of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the element of change in them.2S Some func tionalists have denied the validity of this criticism , claiming that the initial focus on the mechanisms that maintain social systems is not a denial of the fact of change but simply a strategy of adopting the assumption of equilibrium as a starting point.26 With this con troversy in mind , we shall look at several theoretical viewpoints concerning the most effective ways of explaining change in social systems . Dialectic Theories of Change There is one perspective on change that tends to reject at once the perspectives of both the functionalists and most of the critics of functionalism . Recall Sorokin 's view that the integration of social systems may be of a logico-meaningful rather than a causal-func tional nature . If a society has no causal connections between its parts , then any attempt to account for change by studying the over-all effects of changes in key variables is doomed to failure . To Sorokin , the most important level of integration of social systems // is the logico-meaningful . At any given time , a society tends to be organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur , this principle must change , but it can only change because of the inherently unstable or dynamic character of all phenomena . " Sorokin 's view is one variety of a dialectic theory of change , as we shall discuss below . First , however , since Sorokin 's view is somewhat influential and is both continuous with and a departure from earlier views about differences in kinds of societies , it would be worthwhile to look at his idea of the fundamentally different types of first principles existing in social systems . Sorokin sees all of history as a dialectic fluctuation between sensate and ideational forms of sociocultural organization ( with a third mixed type , the idealistic , which we shall ignore here ) . A sensate society has a logico-meaningful integration around the first principle that the measure of all value is the gratification of individual appetites ; that society is seen as " best " which allows maximum individual happiness ? the " greatest good of the greatest number " ( the classic statement of a utilitarian philosophy , which Sorokin sees as a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast , incorporate the first principle that the mea sure of value is absolute faith in a supernatural being and that individual wills must be subordinate to that of the supernatural ? " not my will be done , 0 Lord , but thine . " Although existing societies show mixtures of these elements , they tend more and more to approximate one or the other of these polar types . In a basically sensate society , there is little tolerance for the " impracticality " of the man of faith who refuses to " face facts " and , in a basically ideational society , there is little tolerance for the " sin of pride " and a fear of the damage to religion of too much concern for things of " the flesh . " The social organizational corre late of this essentially cultural or value conflict is found in Sorokin 's distinction between the contractual form of social relations that tend to prevail in sensate societies and the familial relations that dominate in ideational societies . These essentially self-explanatory terms correspond closely with the distinction made by Tonnies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society 87 between organic and mechanical forms of social solidarity , terms which we shall define in the following chapter . The fluctuation between sensate and ideational forms is ex plained as the result of the operation of a dialectic process . As each form comes to be realized in its " pure " state , there begin to appear contradictions that tend to disintegrate the system . Sorokin sees the " crisis of our age " 28 as a disintegration of a sensate system . Here we can see how the dialectic operates . A purely contractual society has great contradictions . The logical conclusion of the individuality that a sensate system encourages is the situation in which the individual is completely amoral , subor dinating himself to no principles of right conduct , justifying any action if it is conducive to his personal sensual gratification . When this point is reached , the " law of the jungle " is reestablished ; men do anything they can get away with . Warfare , revolution , and crime are typical ways people promote their individual ambitions . At this stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones . Sorokin saw the rising authoritarianism of the 1930s and 1940s as a logical outgrowth of an " over-ripe " sensate system . Only when men experience sufficiently the miseries engendered by their per sonal ambitions will they begin the movement toward a more idea tional system . Like Peter Rabbit , man will not be satisfied to " culti vate his own garden " until he has suffered the consequences of overindulging his sensate nature in MacGregor 's garden . The " wise resignation " that Comte thought would result from the complete application of science will come , according to Sorokin 's view , only when science and other sensate ways of thought are abandoned in favor of more religious faith and a more " godly " form of relation-ships , namely , the familial form.29 Functional Theory of Change Despite the persistent criticism of functionalism that it is incom petent to deal with the problem of change in social systems , Par-sons and other functionalists have attempted to explain change // from a functionalist perspective.30 Parsons identifies two major types of change which he calls equilibrating process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are required by a social system as a condition of its maintenance . A society in which social mobility is a strongly emphasized value may require many changes in intimate relationships as families and friendships break up under the pressure of individuals moving physically or in social status . The process of growing up or of change from one age status to another is another instance of equilibrating process . Contrary to the criticism that functionalist views foster an image of societies as utopias in which " nothing ever happens , " 31 there may be much ferment and many traumatic and ecstatic experiences ; however , equilibrating-process changes are confined to the smaller units of social interaction . Structural change is a more radical level of change , referring especially to changes in the basic patterns of values in a society ? a change , for example , from a sensate to an ideational set of values . Social systems tend to resist any changes in these values , treating exponents of change as deviants and punishing or otherwise at-tempting to contain the spread of innovative ways of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a social system if it con tains so many mechanisms to repress deviance ? Parsons distin guishes between exogenous and endogenous sources of such deviance . Endogenous sources refer to the stresses and strains that arise from the operation of normal social processes . Perhaps those very people who suffer from the operation of " the system " ? those who are widowed by warfare conducted on behalf of the society , those who are losers in a system of survival of the fittest ? will tend to become alienated from the system that has inflicted their mis fortune.32 Societies try to deal with such alienation by finding ways , Society 89 in the words of one sociologist , to " cool out " such persons , to help them adapt themselves gracefully and peaceably to the fact of their failures.33 Such practices seem to be illustrations of what Parsons means by the " reequilibrating mechanisms " of a social system for dealing with deviance . Exogenous sources of change arise from the fact that societies exist in an environment that includes other societies . Culture contact , as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people from one society to the alien values of people in another society . Deviance may result if people come to prefer those alien ways , if young people in an Oriental society , for example , are at tracted by the values of a Western way of life and begin to act in ways that their elders define as subversive of traditional ways . One might hypothesize an interaction between endogenous and exo genous sources of deviance . It may be , for example , that the alien ated people within a society ? the young or the members of a racial minority , for example ? are less influenced by the ethno centrism of their own people and more likely to take favorable attitudes toward alien ways . It may also be that the fact ( or even the suspicion ) of alien influences on a person may lead to his failure within a society and a resulting alienation . A scientist may , for example , lose his government job on the suspicion of his Com munist connections . Regardless of the source of deviance , societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanctions are brought to bear against deviance . But these mechanisms do not always succeed ; the behavior of young people may get out of hand . Structural change does not occur , however , until behavior that is widespread but nevertheless deviant is finally accepted as right and proper . In the early history of capitalism , as Weber de-scribes it , the capitalist entrepreneur was generally considered an immoral deviant from traditional attitudes toward right and proper business behavior.34 ( For example , there was a traditional concep tion of a " fair price " at which goods were to be sold , and the supply-demand pricing based on what the traffic will bear was seen as exploitative . ) Only when capitalism became the accepted and ideo logically glorified way of life could we speak of a structural change , // in Parsons ' terms . Changes in values tend to develop more slowly than changes in actual behavior ; hence the often-noted " hypocrisy " of people in social systems who do not accept the rightness of others ' engaging in a behavior in which they themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation of change , noting that although it treats deviance as the source of change , it gives no coherent account of how deviance is generated ; the tendency is to analyze the effects of deviance from " whatever source . " 36 Dahren dorf proposes instead a view of social systems which will show how deviance or the tendency to change is " structurally generated . " From this viewpoint , one begins with the observation that , in every social system , some persons are dominant and others are subor dinated , and the subordinate persons have an inherent tendency to rebel against the system that works to their disadvantage and to try to change it . Although there is this tendency toward revolution ary change , change may in fact be retarded by the element of " constraint " of revolutionary activity . There are several kinds of " conditions " ( independent variables ) that have to be favorable if the revolutionary potential is to be realized . Conditions of organization . Many subordinate groups either are never aware of their common interest in revolution or , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together and form effective fighting organizations . Someone may have to plead with them ( " workers of the world , unite ! " ) and even then a combination of subordinate-group apathy and dominant-group suppression may keep them from organizing . Conditions of conflict . Even if they are effectively organized , subor dinate-group members may work out compromises or accommo dations by which they are able to tolerate their disadvantaged positions . Minor improvements in their social positions under the existing system may deter people from revolution . Society 91 Conditions of change . Even if they define their situation as intol erable and use desperate revolutionary tactics , subordinate groups are likely to find that the rulers maintain a near-monopoly on the use of force and will employ it in police-state fashion to suppress any potential revolution . A successful revolution may depend on some failure of will on the part of rulers , some hesitance in the use of the force they possess.37 Comparison of Functionalist and Conflict Theories Dahrendorf 's theory of social conflict does not seem to eliminate the difficulty that he raised with functional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of granting that change may come from " whatever source . " If Parsons does not explain the origins of deviance systematically , Dahrendorf likewise does not explain the origins of constraint systematically . The tendency toward change is " structurally generated " in Dahrendorf 's theory , but the constraints that retard change are not so generated . Rather , these constraints are the " independent variables " in Dahrendorf 's theory , and inde pendent variables are never explained in the explanatory system in which they are the explaining factors . Parsons prefers to treat deviance and the attempt to control deviance as the independent variables in explaining change.38 This controversy can say something useful to us about the use of " models , " such as the notion of a social system in sociological explanations . Is a society really an equilibrium-maintaining entity , as in the models of Spencer and Parsons , or is it really an arena of conflict of the powerful and the weak , as in the model that Dahren dorf inherited from Marx ? Perhaps it is really neither , or at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true " conception of society . The value of any scientific model is perhaps in its power to stimu late fruitful kinds of questions about some phenomenon.39 For instance , does one get more explanatory mileage by assuming // inherent stability and treating change as problematic ( Parsons ) or by assuming inherent change and treating stability as problematic ( Dahrendorf ) ? Each sociologist has his opinion and the student will form his own as he learns more about the field of sociology and comes to know more about what is his " own thing " in the study of sociology . SUMMARY Society is that inclusive level of social organization that provides a social environment within which all the major activities of a person are promoted and regulated . Societies are often analyzed from the viewpoint of their being social systems , complex entities with selfmaintaining properties and/or a functional interdependence of their parts . Three major differences about the most appropriate way to study society have been suggested in this chapter . The first involves the relative importance of the integration and the equilibrium characteristics of society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dysfunctional consequences of social practices for a society ( Merton ) or by analyzing the " mechanisms " that enable a society to survive as a " living " entity ( Parsons ) ? Second , should a society be conceived primarily as a social system with integrative and equilibrium properties ( the functionalists ) or as a " meaningful " integration of elements which can only change by the operation of dialectic contradictions in the various forms of integration ( Sorokin ) ? Third , should one assume , for purposes of dealing with social change , an inherent tendency toward stability and attempt to explain change ( Parsons ) or an inherent tendency toward instability and an attempt to explain restrictions of change ( Dahrendorf ) ? Since all of these controversies represent quite fundamental variations in ways of studying societies sociologically , the reader may find it worthwhile to spend the time necessary to acquaint himself with some of the technicalities of theoretical viewpoints of the type presented here . Society 93 Groups CHAPTER 6 In this chapter we shall undertake to analyze the kind of social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of inclu siveness one notch below that of " society . " If a person lives in a society , he typically is also a member of a number of groups which may themselves be considered as existing in a society . A group is a number of people involved in a pattern of association with one an-other ; typical groups are a clique of friends , a political party , a flying saucer club . The key to the nature of human grouping is the notion of association , and we shall open with a consideration of some of the meanings and implications of human association . Later , we shall consider special associational problems involved with dif ferent types of human groups . NATURE OF HUMAN ASSOCIATION Man is a social animal in the sense that he lives with others of his own kind . This living together of men is called association by the sociologist , who insists that the patterns of association between men as they form groups constitute a level of reality that can not be reduced to the psychologies of the individual actors ) What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The fact of association has a number of implications for the behavior of persons involved in these patterns of association . A few of these implications will now be discussed . 94 Sharing of Fate The phrase " guilt by association " is a recognition of the fact that persons tend to be judged by the company they keep . This is one illustration of the fact that what happens to one member of a group tends to happen in a similar way to those who are associated with him . John Donne gives poetic expression to this sociological fact in asserting the shared fate of all men : No man is an island , entire of itself ; every man is a piece of the continent , a part of the main . If a clod be washed away by the sea , Europe is the less , as well as if a promontory were , as well as if a manor of thy friend 's or of thine own were ; any man 's death diminishes me , because I am involved in mankind , and therefore never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolls for thee.2 Without quarreling with Donne 's important insight on the inter-dependence of human fates , we could note that this sharing of fate among group members is clearly a variable in different conditions of association . The " black sheep " of a family in a small rural com community will probably have a greater effect on the social reputation of his entire family than would be the case in an urban community , where the anonymity of life insures the possibility of concealing such family problems . The interdependence of fates of the world 's nations ? expressed positively in movements such as the formation of common markets and negatively in the real possibility of local arguments between small countries expanding into world wars ? is a product of recent changes in the patterns of international associa tion . The social conditions which promote involvement and dis involvement of persons and groups with one another are prime problems of sociological explanation . One feature of human behavior with reference to shared fate is the tendency of persons to try to avoid being blamed for the failures of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up , a political party loses an election , a baseball team misses the pen nant . The tendency is to treat the failure as a kind of crime and ask , Who did it ? ( Only sometimes are the involved persons satisfied with the explanation , " It 's just one of those things . " ) People are notori ous for their tendency to point fingers away from themselves , but Groups 95 certain people are highly suspect in cases of organizational failure ? the eldest son of a family , the chairman of a political party , the manager of a baseball team , for instance . The more specialized the individual 's contribution to the success of the groups of which he is a member , the more he is judged by his personal " record " and the less he is blamed for organizational failures . Thus , a pitcher on a baseball team and an " extra-point kicker " on a football team have very specialized roles in organized groups , and pitchers are less likely than other players to end their playing careers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other " generalist " responsibilities involve a greater sharing of individual fate with that of the group . Being " dangerous " in this way , such positions may be filled only because people in these positions are more highly rewarded in money and prestige . Organization When people are moved to get together , it is often in the interest of accomplishing some task in an orderly and organized fashion . The motive for this getting together is often a recognition of the shared fate of persons ; we had better " hang together " else we shall surely " hang separately . " The organization of a group of persons gives each individual his part to play in the accomplishment of a collec tive task and insists on the loyalty of each person to those other group members who rely on him . Groups of associated persons display wide variation in their degree of organizational effectiveness . The well-drilled football team and the well-oiled political machine are examples of highly organized associational endeavors . On the other hand , there are notoriously underorganized systems ; Will Rogers pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do n't belong to any organized political party ; I 'm a Democrat . " We shall look now at two major variables in determining the organizational effectiveness of a group : the problem of competence and that of experience . Competence . Effective organization assumes the competence of individuals to play their individual roles . The importance of com petence is seen in the effort during recruitment to secure the " best qualified " persons to join the group . This is perhaps especially so // in the selection of leaders ; sometimes a special committee is estab lished to conduct a nationwide search for a highly qualified man to serve as president of a college or as a member of the cabinet of the President of the United States . On the other hand , a recent work , written with facetious intent but with a degree of sociological insight , has suggested that selective processes tend to choose in-competent people for leaders . ' More precisely , the " Peter Princi ple " states that people tend to be promoted in rank and responsi bility until they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job that is just beyond their capacity to fulfill . The competent worker is made foreman , a job that is just a little " beyond him , " a competent professor becomes an incompetent dean , etc . There is certainly a degree of plausibility in the " Peter Principle " although it assumes a cultural condition which values " getting ahead " professionally or " bettering oneself " socially . Assuming the prevalence of such values , one could criticize the practicability of Peter 's prescriptions for avoiding the operation of the " principle " that he articulated . " Peter 's prophylactics " consist mostly in urging men to resist the temptation to seek or accept promotion from a position that they can fill competently to one in which they must fail . Such suggestions seem to run against the spirit of a " get ahead " society . Perhaps the most important truth in the " Peter Principle " is that men do perform more competently before they reach their highest levels of responsibility , but part of this competence may be stimu lated by the persistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe they deserve to be promoted . In many organizations there are " bright young men " waiting in the wings to assume leadership when the incompetent but tenured leader finally dies , retires , or transfers . There thus tends to be a per sistent sense of frustration or alienation from " the system " that holds people back . The securing of competent performance by these " underemployed " persons may depend on a creative use of their frustration ; perhaps a person tends toward high-level per formance " to show the bastards " how wrong they are in retarding his promotion . Experience . In addition to competent performers , an effectively organized group usually assumes some experience on the part of Groups 97 the members in dealing collectively with a given kind of problem . A seasoned combat outfit is likely to be more effective than a green or inexperienced one . It is also true , however , that veteran troops may suffer from battle fatigue and may therefore be less effective than a fresh batch of troops . Likewise , a person who has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to surrender himself fully to the spirit of a second . This reservation aside , effective organization requires that asso ciated persons somehow acquire experience . Ideally , people like to develop experience through " rehearsal " situations before they are expected to perform " live . " Armies hold maneuvers , sports clubs schedule practice sessions , publishers critique manuscripts before they publish them . Even the period of premarital engage ment can be seen , in many respects , as a rehearsal or trying-out of a couple 's relations to one another and to friends , relatives , and the general public . ' A limitation of rehearsals for gaining experience is that , no matter how realistic the training conditions , they can never quite duplicate the real-life situation . However rigorous their rehearsals , the cast of a play can not know how they will perform until they actually are on stage opening night , and many a carefully trained combat team has panicked when the first real bullets began to fly . Some interesting compromises between rehearsal and performance are sometimes developed . Broadway plays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testing , and ball clubs hold exhi bition and spring-training games which do not count in the season 's standings . On a more individual level , sometimes a would-be col lege student , unsure of his capacity for academic work , decides to try himself by enrolling in a two-year college with the idea of trans ferring later if he finds he can make it here . In no case does it appear that completely satisfactory experience can be gained in any of these anticipatory ways . The school of " hard knocks " may ultimately be the training ground for the acquisi tion of experience . The veteran members of a group tend to hold this view , looking with disdain on the " ninety-day wonders " fresh out of a training institution and still infected with the impractical theories that are taught in the schools . // Sociability People do not always have specific purposes in mind when they associate with others . " Let 's get together " may mean " let 's get on the ball and get this job done , " but it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " let 's make love . " Sometimes such associations are rather formally structured social occasions or get togethers , but often the association is informal or spontaneous : a chat with an acquaintance , the exchange of greetings on a street , a petting epi sode in an automobile on a Saturday night . Whether formal or informal , such nonpurposive kinds of association will be called sociability by the sociologist . The human tendency to engage in sociable forms of interaction has excited the curiosity of some sociologists . Simmel believed that each of the serious or purposive kinds of human association has its counterpart in a " play-form " ; conversation is the play-form of discussion ( serious talk ) , contest games are the play-form of war-fare and other serious opposition , flirtation is the play-form of seduction ( serious sexual association ) , etc . ' The tendency to " play " was seen by Simmel as having an important function in promoting serious associational life . Often our realities are too grim for us to look at them coolly and objectively ; by converting them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our " troubles , " for example ) we can face these realities without being overwhelmed . Whatever the functions of sociable behavior for more serious associational life , much of human sociability must be seen as motivated by the desire for association with others for its own sake . The only purpose for sociable behavior is the pleasure of the par ticipants . Simmel noted in this connection that sociable occasions are governed by rules that are inherently democratic , the " principle of sociability " being that " everyone should guarantee to the other that maximum of sociable values ( joy , relief , vivacity ) which is con sonant with the maximum of values he himself receives . " ' From this viewpoint , certain kinds of association are not sociable , al-though they may have the outward appearance of being so . If one or a few individuals monopolize the " fun " during a sociable en-counter , such as when a royal family sometimes uses its " court " to Groups 99 amuse itself at the expense of the courtiers , there is perhaps no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a cat amusing itself with a mouse . HUMAN COMPARED TO NONHUMAN ASSOCIATION Grouping or association is not unique to the human species . The association of members of an animal species is common . Pack , school , colony are a few of the terms to denote the living together of members of an animal species . In these groups may be found all of the characteristics of human association that we have just discussed . The " social insects , " for example , have a high degree of shared fate and of species organization . Different members of a beehive make special contributions to the maintenance of the hive , and all members tend to be similarly affected by changes in the environmental conditions of the hive . Members of many animal species appear to be " sociable , " showing signs of what humans may call " enjoyment " in the presence of one another and indulging in much playful behavior . While human association is not unique in any of these respects , it does appear to be unique in some other respects . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or type of consciousness that accompanies the process of association . Other animals do not , in all likelihood , give any thought to their associations with one another ; no " canine relations commission " has ever been formed among dogs to promote harmony among the various breeds . Men , on the other hand , do worry about " whether this marriage can be saved " and they do verbalize their pleasures in " getting to know you . " Much of human behavior is influenced by this consciousness of association as persons attempt to initiate and sustain desirable associations and to terminate or avoid undesirable ones . Another aspect of human consciousness as related to association or group membership is the degree to which association is determined by the meaning that persons have for one another . With other animals , living together refers to immediate physical presence . A wolf pack is simply a number of wolves who travel together and the associational rule is probably " out of sight , out of mind . " With man , the situation is quite different . Isolation ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with physical separation . Being " lonely in a crowd " is a recognition of the fact that persons often feel dissociated from the persons immediately around them . // On the other hand , people may feel quite close to loved ones from whom they are far removed physically . A man and woman may be married even though they are separated and communicate only by letter or telephone , or not at all . A person 's " associates " may be the writers of books or the characters in them . A person may feel that he " knows " Hamlet or Perry Mason better than he knows some-one with whom he works every day . No sociological study of human association can properly avoid a concern with the way people themselves conceive their associations with other persons . ' Cooley seemed to have this in mind when he observed that " the imagina tions that people have of one another are the solid facts of society . " ' A second contrast between human and nonhuman association is in the normative regulation of human association . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we often say , makes nothing in vain , and man is the only animal whom she has endowed with the gift of speech . And whereas mere voice is but an indication of pleasure or pain , and is therefore found in other animals ... the power of speech is intended to set forth the expedient and the inexpedient , and therefore likewise the just and the unjust . And it is a characteristic of man that he alone has any sense of good and evil , of just and unjust , and the like , and the association of living beings who have this sense makes a family and a state.70 The exact degree of emphasis that should be placed on the normative element in human association is a matter of controversy in sociology . Talcott Parsons , on the one hand , found that the works of classic writers such as Durkheim , Weber , and Pareto converged on the importance of the normative element , " and this redefined classic tradition is carried forward in Parsons ' own work . Critics like Dennis Wrong , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis on normative regulation obscures the many ways in which Groups 101 men are not the " oversocialized " creatures that many sociologists imagine.12 Homo homini lupus ( " Man to man is a wolf " ) may contain more than a grain of sociological truth . Whatever degree of emphasis the normative regulation of asso ciation deserves , we are clearly dealing with an important order of fact about human association . The moral indoctrination of children is liable to be heavily laden with rules related to the formation of group memberships : find yourself a nice Jewish girl , do n't go out with hippies , join the Boy Scouts , etc . In choosing his associates and in maintaining relations with them , a person is likely to be made aware continually that he is conforming to or deviating from the expectations of others in these matters . CLASSIFICATION OF GROUPS Given the importance of the concept of the group to sociological analysis , it is not surprising that sociologists have been much concerned with attempts to refine the analysis by identifying some fundamental forms of the human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an easy one to solve . If one counts as " groups " such diverse aggregates as the members of a family , the members of an office staff , and the members of the Paducah Batman Fan Club , the variety of different groups in the world is almost innumer able . Each group has its own identity , its unduplicated individuality , and any pigeonholing of groups into categories will necessarily do some violence to this individuality . But the classificatory problem for sociology is not unique to that science . All scientific classifica tions do some violence to the radical individuality of empirical phenomena , but there is no alternative if the science is to generalize about these phenomena . Regarding the study of groups , the ques tion is not whether to classify or not to classify but rather how to think most usefully about different kinds of groups . The latter question is still controversial , and one accordingly finds different solutions to the problem of classification in the socio logical literature . One solution would place in one category all groups having a common aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious groups , ignoring some obvious differences between , say , a very small sect of believers in an esoteric divinity // and the huge congregation of an urban nondenominational church . Similarly , one might employ such categories of generalization as political groups , domestic ( family ) groups , medical groups , work groups , play groups . Critics of classifications based on a group 's purpose or " content " will say that such a set of categories will not allow for uniquely sociological insights to be brought to bear on the understanding of what it means for behavior to be determined by group membership . The economist , for example , may be the specialist required to understand what is unique to work groups and the political scientist could surely tell us most about the behavior of persons in political groups . Many sociologists have followed Simmel 's insistence that sociology makes its unique contribution when it classifies social phenomena in terms of similarities in form rather than similarities in content . " To apply this distinction to the current problem , each group has certain form-properties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of which have the same purposes of content-properties . Thus there are the categories " large group " and " small group , " and a large religious group is more similar in form to a large criminal group than it is to a small religious group . One accord ingly finds such special fields of study in sociology as the sociology of small groups or of complex organizations . PRIMARY AND SECONDARY GROUPS One of the most fundamental formal distinctions among groups is that which classifies them as primary or as secondary groups.14 A close-knit family and a group of close friends are illustrations of primary groups . A large political party and an army are examples of secondary groups . The form-properties that distinguish these two types include the properties of degree or type of intimacy , integration , and formal structure . In the following section we shall examine the distinction between primary and secondary groups in Groups 103 terms of their differences in relation to these form-properties.75 Once the distinctions are made , we can begin to see some of the important complications and exceptions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The distinction . Relatively intimate interaction occurs among mem bers of a primary group , while impersonal interaction prevails among members of a secondary group . The dimensions of intimacy are twofold , and differentiating between them will help us to under-stand the distinction between primary and secondary groups . In the first place , intimacy involves a more intensive level of asso ciation , a deeper emotional involvement on the part of the partici pants . Members of a family or a group of friends become attached to one another , a fact that becomes vividly clear when a member of such a group detaches himself or is detached from membership . Losing a husband or friend or child is a serious matter , as anyone who has had this experience knows . However , losing a member of one 's political party or a fellow employee is not likely in itself to involve any high degree of emotional trauma . Second , the association of primary group members is extensive . In other words , there is breadth or scope as well as depth to the involvements of primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group members tends to be more special ized or focused on a single topic of interaction . In a secondary group such as a political party or a college classroom , there are always some aspects of each member 's life which are none of the business of the other members , such information being outside the scope of appropriate interaction in this kind of group . Among family members or friends it is much harder to define what is not appropriate to the association . A person reveals more different facets of himself to members of his primary group ; it is notoriously difficult to keep secrets from one 's family and friends . // Some complications . Many secondary groups provide some inten sive and extensive involvements for their members and many pri mary groups are relatively lacking in these characteristics . In a secondary group like a political party or a trade union , some mem bers will attach themselves with deep emotion to the group , making a " big thing " out of a group membership that other members treat more casually . Likewise , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there may be pressures by some members to extend the scope of group interaction . For example , a college faculty or a ladies ' sewing circle may be urged to go outside its usual realm of activity and " take a stand " on some political issue of the day . The presence of a group " fanatic " and the recurring pressures to extend the scope of secondary group activities are indications of the persistent tendency of primary forms of associa tion to spill over into secondary groups . Human beings are , after all , emotional creatures , and few groups , however hard they may try to minimize emotional attachment or to keep behavior and emotion compartmentalized , can escape these counterpressures . On the other hand , primary groups tend to have elements of emotional superficiality and specialization that are not anticipated in their definition . Many primary group " involvements " are sus tained not so much by deep emotional attachment as by resignation to alliances from which people can not extricate themselves . It would be a hopelessly idealized view of marriage or friendship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always on emotional attachments . Marriage may be the " thing to do , " particularly if the woman is pregnant or the man is facing military induction , and people may be neighborly , not so much because they like or are attracted to their neighbors but because neighborliness is the " norm " in one 's community.76 Much of the mystique of primary groups as unions of soul mates can be dispelled by a few sociological observations on the processes by which people come to form primary groups . Mar riage , for example , tends to be heavily influenced by situational op portunities and pressures . The rather impersonal nature of mate selection is captured in the popular view that such secondary groups as colleges , work groups , and social clubs tend to be " marGroups 105 riage markets " for their single members ( or for those contem plating a change of spouse ) . " The frequency of marriage between " the only singles on that weekend hike , " or between bosses and secretaries , or doctors and nurses is sufficient to encourage many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their potential as sources of primary group formation . Primary groups also typically involve elements of specialization , the keeping of secrets , and the view that there are some things that are none of the business of other members . A marriage , as Simmel points out , would be essentially impossible sociologically if the marriage partners were completely candid with one another about all their past , present , and contemplated activities.78 The " right to privacy " in the home that people demand and receive is not only the right of the family as a unit to keep secrets from those outside the family but also the right of a child to keep a diary and of a husband or wife to keep a purse or a desk drawer that is exclu sively his own " territory . " These observations support Simmers view that the distance or " reserve " that people maintain in their association with others can not be effaced completely even in the most intimate of primary groups.19 Integration The distinction . A major problem in the sociological study of groups has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together , or accounts for their durability , or for the willing ness of people to join them . Rather than a single answer to this question , it appears that a somewhat different answer must be given for the two types of groups ? primary and secondary . Primary group members , perhaps because of the intensive and extensive involvement of themselves with each other , are bound together by a close feeling of identification with the group . The // " we-feeling , " the sense of oneself as a relatively insignificant member of a larger whole , prevails more strongly in the primary group . Tonnies used the word Gemeinschaft to describe the rela tions between persons bound together by a we-feeling or sense of community.20 Durkheim wrote of a mechanical solidarity in which persons feel bound together by their similarities , expressed in the " collective conscience " of a common moral community.27 Secondary groups , since they demand less depth or scope of in volvement on the part of members , must depend on other sources of integration to account for their durability . The ties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more in the nature of what Durkheim called " organic solidarity . " 22 Group members are mutually dependent on one another , somewhat in the way that the different organs of the body are interdependent . This type of inte gration can coexist with a very weak identification of members with the group , with a greatly lessened we-feeling . Tonnies discussed a Gesellschaft kind of social relationship in which the contract be tween independent persons is the model of social interaction , with all parties getting something out of it.23 Similarly , secondary groups seem to be sustained largely by the fact that individuals can use membership in these groups for their own purposes . Complications . Secondary groups quite typically attempt to enlist the we-feeling of their members . A corporation tries to generate a feeling among its employees of being " one happy family " ; a college faculty emphasizes the common feeling of colleagueship among its professors . However , there is likely to be an element of strain in these attempts , reflected in the characterization of such efforts as pseudo Gemeinschatt . One critic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization men " comments with some distaste on the tendency of corporations to require their employees to view their company as a kind of benevolent extended family.24 In a similar vein , Riesman comments on the " false personGroups 107 alizations " by which other-directed individuals attempt to embue work with an intimate associational atmosphere.25 The false or pseudo character of such efforts suggests the dominant feeling that secondary groups should not attempt to approximate the associa tional characteristics of the primary group . Another viewpoint is that of Cooley , who argued that the more formally structured or institutionalized forms of group activity always will and legitimately should involve an attempt to translate such primary group ideals as equality , charity , and brotherhood into complex organizational patterns.26 Although different value judgments have been made regarding the attempt of secondary groups to elicit a we-feeling , there has been a rather general rec ognition of the problem of mixing primary with secondary bases of integ ration . The Gesellschaft or contractual elements in primary group inte gration can not easily be dismissed . People may form friendships or love relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formation of a " we " spirit , but they may also make calculations of expediency in considering the formation or reten tion of these associations . One 's friends may be seen as " useful " in advancing an occupational or a political career , and family rela tionships may be kept in good repair in anticipation of " hard times " when the person may need the aid of his family . Although in West-ern societies marriages are based on personal compatibility , legally such relationships are treated more as contractual arrangements in which divorce is possible only if one party is not living up to his side of the " bargain " ? a husband is accused of nonsupport , a wife of infidelity , etc . Incompatibility per se is not a ground for divorce in many states , and people mutually desiring a separation must often pretend that they are adversaries in a civil suit.27 Although the term has never become popular , we might suggest that legal atti tudes toward marriage and divorce indicate some tendency toward pseudo-Gesellschaft integration in primary groups . Formality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // sense that there are highly patterned and predictable forms of association among the members of these groups . But , whereas formal organization characterizes the secondary group , informal organization is the basis for association in primary groups . The distinction . For a group to be formally organized means at least two things . First , it means that the group is characterized by a definite and official plan or blueprint which outlines the specific job or office of each member of the group . Formally organized groups are often called bureaucracies . Max Weber wrote in detail of a rational-legal bureaucracy , 28 and by the " legal " aspect he prob ably had in mind the division of organizational activity by formal offices . The holder of an office is bound by " the law " or by a set of rules which define precisely what he can and can not do in that office . The bureaucratic nature of a political organization is ex-pressed in the phrase " a government of laws , not of men . " In the United States , presidents are elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidency goes on , and each incumbent of the office swears to " uphold the duties " of that office . The rules which govern association of people in bureaucracy are , then , rules that define the official relationship between the different offices of that group . " The law " says the president shall nominate , Congress shall advise and consent ; the teacher shall make study assignments , the student shall execute those assign ments . One way of analyzing further this formal organization is to distinguish between line and staff , a distinction which indicates that there are two kinds of rules for relating offices . The line refers to the structure of authority in an organization . Line defines the chain of command or stipulates which officeholder may legitimately give orders and expect to be obeyed by which other officeholders . The organization of the army by division , regi ment , company , platoon , and squad commands is a good example . The staff side of an organization refers to those officeholders who are officially designated to give advice and technical assistance to various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technical specialists and advisors who assist an army commander ; a similar function is filled by the president 's cabinet and by the Groups 109 relatively recently created " specialists " in the enlisted ranks of the American armed forces . Primary groups are sharply contrasted with secondary groups in the matter of bureaucratic structure . In a family , or in a group of intimate friends or close neighbors , association is based not so much on the members ' " offices " as on the personal characteristics of the various members . Association is governed less by a blueprint or " the law " than by mutual interest in one another and mutual gratification because of this interest . If a citizen were to request some service from a bureaucrat , that official would quite appropriately consult a book of regulations telling him whether he could legitimately honor the request . A husband who dealt with his wife 's requests by attempting to go by " the book " would probably be seen as violating the spirit of a primary association . A second dimension of the distinction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Formally organized groups are those which exist for some specific purpose , and association is closely regulated by the purposes or goals of the group . Every secondary group is an association for the advancement of some interest , although it is not always obvious what that interest may be ( as when an apparent candy store is actually a collecting point for gambling bets ) . Primary groups , on the other hand , are informal in the sense that they are based on no purpose-defining charter , no " we the people , in order to ... " preamble . The " pledge of allegiance " by which most secondary groups commit their members to loyalty to the special purposes of the group are almost unknown in the primary group realm . Compacts made between lovers or friends , even when " written in blood , " are invariably pledges of personal loyalty rather than of mutual loyalty to any cause . Complications . Secondary groups are seldom as completely formal as the foregoing definition would suggest . When we examine bureaucracy with its official blueprint for each office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a way that departs from " the law " of that organization . Some persons in high official authority actually have little influence on collective decisions while others in lower positions exercise much unofficial influence or leadership . Thus , the actual operating line may diverge considerably from the official one . Individuals may also become " experts " in some areas of organizational activity in ways unanticipated by the official blueprint , so // that the formal staff structure is circumvented or supplemented by unofficial channels of technical advice and assistance.29 A new officeholder in a bureaucracy may find that he must learn much more than is specified in the official job description of his own and other offices in the organization . He must learn the ropes ; he must learn the identity of the " Miss Jones " who really " runs things around here . " It appears that no bureaucracy adheres to " the book " so strictly that these elements of informality and resistance to legal authority are entirely absent . The holders of offices are more than officeholders , they are persons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucracy has been a prime source of sociological interest in this sort of group.30 There are several reasons for the typical development of these extralegal elements in bureaucracy . Part of the subversion of for mal authority comes from the fact that people who are members of a given bureaucratic organization may have informal associa tions outside the bureaucracy that influence their performance in office . " A lower echelon member of a bureaucracy who has a " friend in power " may use his personal influence to gain advantage from that powerful officeholder . Related to this is the effect on an officeholder 's performance if he has been promoted from an infe rior office . Although the rules of his office certainly do not require this behavior , he may see it as his special obligation to " take care of " his former colleagues or of those who have helped him gain the promotion . Finally , the actual power of an officially inferior member of a bureaucracy may be enhanced by the fact that he enjoys a greater tenure than someone at a higher rank and can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example Groups 111 is the typical mental hospital , in which such authoritative figures as the medical doctors are likely to be short-term medical trainees serving a required residency in psychiatry , while the low-ranking attendants tend to be old-timers who are well enough acquainted with the local situation to weather out any reforms initiated by authorities who are here today but gone tomorrow . There is a simi lar situation in many military organizations ; the top sergeant of an outfit who is a career soldier may use his greater longevity to attain dominance over the " Lt. Fuzz " who is a junior reserve officer on a short tour of active duty . In many countries , the civil service , pro tected in their jobs by tenure laws , have been able to subvert the wills of the elected public officials who are technically their superiors . " Another persistent source of tension for formal authority in a bureaucracy is the effect of the professional orientation of many of its members . A lawyer who goes to work for a law firm , a psy chiatrist for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find that his loyalty to the professional standards of his calling are inconsistent with the demands of authoritative people in the bu reaucracy . A doctor may be required to release patients before they are " medically " ready , a military chaplain may be expected to propagandize for his country 's military operations , a professor in a church-related school may be obligated to support religious values in his teaching , etc.34 Some professionals ? those who have been called " locals " ? will resolve this dilemma in favor of loyalty to the employing bureaucracy . Others ? the " cosmopolitans " ? will resist bureaucratic authority if it is seen as inconsistent with the expectations of professional colleagues.35 There frequently is con flict between the organizational loyalists and the professionally oriented members of a bureaucracy . Sometimes this takes the form of staff people , who tend to be more professionally oriented , chal112 INTRODUCTION TO SOCIOLOGY lenging some of the status prerogatives of line members , who tend more toward bureaucratic loyalty.36 The characterization of a secondary group as a special-purpose group is an oversimplified version of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group members always subordinate their personal goals to the goals of the group . Actually , the problem of securing loyalty to organizational goals is a chronic difficulty of most special-purpose groups . In most groups of this kind , members seem to be less than fully committed to the goals of the group as a whole . Apathy and corruption are two chronic problems of second-ary groups . Leaders of many groups complain of mass apathy among their members , of a lack of strong commitment among the rank and file.37 In a complex society a person is typically a member of many secondary groups , and any one of these ( e.g. , a political club ) has the problem of competing effectively with other associations for the person 's time , energy , money , and emotional involvement . Provid-ing incentives to avoid member apathy is thus a problem generic to secondary groups . These incentives may be in the nature of " bribed cooperation " 38 ? the offering of monetary or other material reward for participation ( with the understanding that this is his full-time job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplement these extrinsic appeals with an appeal to members ' sentiments . The goal of the association is represented as a " cause " worthy of devotion apart from the extrinsic rewards . So-called voluntary associations depend almost entirely on their ability to induce mem-bers to participate for the glory of the cause . The problem of corruption arises from the possibility that individual members of a secondary group may " use " their official positions for their own purposes rather than for those of the group . A policeman may use his power of arrest to extort bribes from law violators in a maneuver which circumvents police responsibility for arresting offenders . The holder of an office may neglect the less dramatic duties of his office to concentrate on those which , if per-formed with obvious success , will gain him promotion to another Groups 113 office ( the professor neglects his teaching duties to concentrate on the publication or research that will bring him promotion ) . The fact that special-purpose groups are made up of men with private goals means that the group goal is always endangered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such corruption by a system of inspection , often surreptitious . But inspection can fail when the inspectors themselves are implicated in corruption ( as is sometimes true of police forces ) or when custom within a group forbids close inspection ( as is true in teachers ' resistance to inspection of their teaching methods under the guise of academic freedom ) . Many groups depend also on a careful screening of potential members to avoid those who might be corrupt . Another technique is to establish a code of ethics by which individuals will refrain from corruption because it is inconsistent with their professional commitments . Primary groups are not always , if ever , the purely informal groups indicated in the definition . In the first place , there are certain elements of legalism or bureaucracy in most primary groups . To be a member of a primary group ? to be a friend or lover or neighbor ? is , in some respects , to occupy an " office " with rules of behavior independent of the particular " officeholder . " In a given society , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his friend 's troubles , that a " neighbor " will look after one 's house while he is on vacation , etc . There are also some bureaucratic elements in the American family . " Laws " do exist , in a sense , which define the " office " of father or mother or child and which tell what the holder of any one of these offices can legitimately expect from other officeholders . But these laws are gross or rudimentary , defining little of the detail of the relations of parents and children and almost totally ignoring certain other relations ? the relation of brother and sister or of grandchild and grandparent , for example . There seem to be no legal norms at all governing the obligations of friendship . The sociologist could hardly safely ignore the special-purpose feature of many primary groups . If primary groups typically do not have goals that define their reason for being , they do frequently engage in group projects . A family project could include paying off the mortgage , putting a child through college , or nursing a sick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have said about the problems of secondary groups in motivating members toward group goals could be said about the . problems of primary groups in eliciting member loyalty to their projects . The // difference between the two kinds of groups is one of intensity and not one of kind . Although a family may fail to complete a project , the failure can be dismissed as less important than the quality of personal relationships achieved because " we at least tried . " Sec ondary groups are evaluated more directly on their productive out-put , and it is less easy to justify an action which accomplishes nothing except the pleasant " togetherness " of its members . Seri ous secondary group life is no " picnic . " OTHER FORMAL DISTINCTIONS In addition to the distinction between primary and secondary groups , some other variations in the formal properties of groups have engaged the attention of sociologists . " We shall discuss briefly three such variations here . Size Ever since Simmel noted the effect of the " number of members " in determining the nature of association within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences of variations in group size . One of the most fundamental variations in the nature of the group occurs , according to Simmel , in the shift from a two-person to a three-person group , from a dyad to a triad . The level of intimacy attainable in a three-person group is much reduced , as expressed in the popular saying , " three 's a crowd . " Some of the intensity of the dyad is based on the sense of identification it engenders in each member ; if one member dies or abandons the dyad , the " group " is broken up . A triad can survive the departure of one member by closing ranks and eventually replacing the lost member . Most important , perhaps , is the possibility of subgroup cleavage by the introduction of a third party , since two parties may form an alliance or coalition against the third.41 The triad is , in short , the smallest size at which many of the distinctively sociological features of group association can be seen . Beyond the dyad-triad distinction , increasing size seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 115 Simmel . Beyond a certain size , a group must have a more compli cated authority structure , not simply one " boss " with a number of undifferentiated followers . The problem of " span of control " must be faced by every larger group . Although a leader can give orders , he can only insure their execution by the limited number of people under his direct supervision.42 At this point the line structure of a group begins to emerge ; the top leader directly controls only a few subleaders , each of whom in turn controls a few members under his command . A large group may accordingly find that its " admin istrative " structure is greatly elaborated . The " chieftain " of a large family may find that it is impossible to operate a joint enterprise like a family camp-out without some delegation of authority ? the " big " children to supervise the " little " ones ? or without a great deal of attention to coordinating the various specialized " commit-tees " ( wood gathering , clean-up , dish washing , etc. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some groups is ascriptive : a person is assigned to a family , a military unit , or a school classroom , often without either his advice or consent . Membership in other groups is achieved : a person 's own effort and volition may determine his membership in a church or a political party . So-called voluntary associations seem to have some associational patterns that are influenced by the ability of persons voluntarily to enter or leave them . Such groups must concern themselves rather constantly with their " appeal " to their membership . If an association for the advance ment of such-and-such cause finds that the goals of the group no longer interest members , there may be a " goal displacement " process whereby group aims are made more appealing to the membership.43 Groups which gain their members by essentially involuntary processes ? a public school , for example , which is pop ulated by the children who live in an area and must attend that school ? may confront some alienation of their members ; however , the inability of the members to " leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a factor in moderating con cern over the group 's appeal to the membership . // Legitimacy Our discussion earlier of the normative character of human asso-ciation indicated that the formation and maintenance of groups is not a matter of indifference to a wider society . People are expected to join certain groups ( marriage , church ) and not to join certain other groups ( a conspiracy to commit murder or a political party with a " foreign " ideology ) . Every group is only more or less legiti-mate from this wider perspective . The more illegitimate the group , the greater will be its " public relations " problems ? problems that are generic to human groups but which are exaggerated in certain situations . The relatively illegitimate kind of group often must provide se-curity for itself from hostile regulation emanating from a distaste for its goals among outsiders . A criminal gang must consider the possibility of police suppression ; even a relatively " legitimate " business must be concerned about government regulation of its product or its pricing policies . One common group maneuver in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-optation in which hostile persons are dealt with by including them in the political structure of the group . A university may invite dissident students to join the board of trustees , thereby giving them vested interests in promoting the administration 's goals . The Tennessee Valley Authority originated as a program with many utopian goals concerning the reorganiza-tion of the overall social life of the Tennessee Valley . But TVA encountered strong local vested interests in the agricultural col-leges and the agricultural extension service . This hostility was ultimately dealt with by including more leaders of these opposition groups in the governing structure of the authority.44 The dilemma of co-optation as a security strategy was well illus-trated in the TVA case . As more of the hostile forces were co-opted into the authority structure , the " organizational character " of the TVA itself began to change : there was a significant accommo-dation of TVA policies to local vested interests . To save itself organizationally , a relatively illegitimate group may have to " sell its soul . " Groups 117 SUMMARY Men share with most other animal species the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind . Getting together ( association ) has a variety of meanings : ( 1 ) the sharing of a common fate by a number of people ; ( 2 ) a joining together to promote some organized activity ; ( 3 ) a sociable meeting for the mutual enjoyment of the associated persons . Other animals associate with similar motives and with similar consequences , but only human association is symbolic or dependent on the meanings that individuals have for one another , and only man seems to be regulated by any " norms " governing his association . Although some of sociological analysis is thus interested in human grouping in general , much is centered around the attempt to define types of groups and to distinguish the patterns of association that are characteristic of each type . The most prominent classification of groups is the distinction between primary and secondary groups . As " pure types , " the primary group is based on greater intimacy of members , on their ties to one another through an emotional bond or feeling of " we , " and on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group is impersonal , integrated by members ' calculations of expediency , and formal or bureaucratic in character . Actually , existing primary groups will display many secondary group features and secondary groups contain primary group elements . Some of the most fundamental problems in the sociological study of groups involve the difficulties of primary and secondary groups in maintaining their " purity " of type in a real world of persistent mixtures of the personal and the impersonal . Groups are also distinguished by such formal properties as size , mode of recruitment ( voluntary or involuntary ) , and the degree of their legitimacy or moral acceptance by the wider society . Since these are form rather than content distinctions , the characteristics and problems of a type of group will be common to all such groups even though they have disparate substantive features . A sect of exceptionally pious religious zealots and a gang of pickpockets may both be classified as " illegitimate " or outcast groups and will have similar characteristics and problems of security in dealing with a hostile outside world . However much the layman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contents , the sociologist has a habit of making generalizations about categories that make strange bedfellows in the world of groups . // Social Interaction CHAPTER 7 Although human association occurs in groups of various sizes , most social behavior is ultimately reducible to the interplay of behaviors of two social actors . Although the captain who gives the private his marching orders may represent a vast bureaucracy ( the army ) , the command and the obedience or resistance to it is , in the last analysis , an interpersonal event between two people . It is this most microscopic level of analysis , namely , the phenomenon of social interaction , that shall concern us in this chapter . FORMS OF SOCIAL INTERACTION A study of the forms of social interaction is a study of the various ways in which the behavior of one person can influence the behav ior of others . There are two fundamental forms , with many varia tions on each and many borderline situations . If each behaving person is seen as striving toward the satisfaction of certain per sonal goals , other persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the accomplishment of these goals . Thus , social inter-action may take various forms of cooperation or of opposition . Cooperation There are two dimensions of cooperation in interaction which we shall examine , a consummatory dimension and an instrumental dimension . ' 119 Consummatory . Sometimes the cooperation of another person is required to provide a gratifying response to oneself . Human beings seem to require the approving responses of others to themselves or , at least , a social recognition of their existence . As William James says : No more fiendish punishment could be devised , were such a thing physi-cally possible , than that one should be turned loose in society and remain absolutely unnoticed by all the members thereof . If no one turned around when we entered , answered when we spoke , or minded what we did , but if every person we met " cut us dead , " and acted as if we were non-existing things , a kind of rage and impotent despair would ere long well up in us , from which the cruellest bodily tortures would be a relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible ; it seems to be approached rather closely in the well-advertised anonymity of life in large cities in which , it is often said , it is almost impossible to elicit the notice of people in public places who are busy with their own affairs . ' Although some people find such an atmosphere personally liberating , others undoubtedly react with " rage and im-potent despair " to being consistently ignored by others . " A great many of our social interactions involve the attempt to elicit the notice of others . The behavior of a young man going through the ritual of courtship is a social behavior of this nature . So is the cry of the child for bottle or mother , and so is the agony of the professor attempting to write a book that will receive good reviews from his professional colleagues . Instrumental . Sometimes the cooperation of other persons is needed to help the person to attain goals that require the concerted effort of a number of people . Goffman has written of the importance of " teams " of persons cooperating to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 A group of actors on a stage must have this kind of teamwork ; likewise , a husband and wife have to operate as a team to keep their signals straight if they are to give a show of solidarity before such audiences as their children , their friends , and their relatives . This kind of teamwork in " impression management " is , of course , only one special case of a larger class of interactions : all those in which some sort of collec tive action is accomplished by a division of labor or by the advan tages of strength in numbers . Cooperation assumes that individual persons have certain mutual interests that bring them together to accomplish what they could not accomplish as individuals . Opposition Social interaction does not always proceed on the basis of mutu ality of interest of the participants . There are real differences of interest between persons , and the hostile interaction of two suitors for the same girl is as real and as social as the polite interaction at a social gathering . Politicians organize political campaigns and football teams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who can hinder as well as those who can advance the personal goals of a social actor . These anticipations of opposition by others lead to the forms of interaction called competition and conflict . In competition , the opponents follow a common set of rules which define fair and unfair means of opposition . Thus , in an athletic contest , it is " no fair " to slug ; in " ethical " business , it is " no fair " to cut prices below a certain level . In conflict , this agreement on rules governing opposi tion is not present . We say that " all 's fair in love and war , " although the statement about sexual competition is basically false , and there may even be some rudimentary international standards of " de cency " in warfare . Nevertheless , there are areas of social life in which interaction is of the relatively amoral or cutthroat variety . In the area of business practice under capitalist conditions , there have been two major theories . In Karl Marx 's view , economic rela @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tion of one class by another . ' Only with the proletarian revolution and the coming of the classless society would amoral conflict be converted to peaceful competition . Sociologists who are more favorably inclined to capitalism have argued that the anomie ( norm lessness ) that prevails in much of business practice is a result of the newness of large-scale industry and the slowness of standards // of decent business behavior to emerge . The argument is that the need for standards of peaceful competition will tend to bring these standards into existence . ' Accommodation The form of interaction called accommodation is a peculiar mixture of the elements of cooperation and opposition . Accommodation has been called " antagonistic cooperation , " ? meaning that one actor may help another in spite of his hostile feelings toward that other . The uneasy peace that occurs between persons or groups when neither side is willing to carry on the conflict is a good exam ple of accommodation . Wars seldom end with the unconditional surrender of one side and the victory of the other . ' Rather , persons or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roic exertions of war : " better Red than dead . " In the contemporary cold war between East and West or between the Soviet Union and China , the antagonism on both sides is kept from turning hot by a mutual fear of the consequences of the other 's military power . A recent study seems to suggest that much of the interaction between persons can be understood as a subtle form of accommo dation.10 Goffman maintains that interacting persons are somewhat like stage actors in that they are concerned with creating impres sions upon audiences . The act is tailored to what the actor imagines will look good to his audience . But audiences are aware of this tendency of persons to play a role , and they often try to look behind the facade of self-presentation to discover the " real " character behind the mask . Otherwise , audiences can be duped to their own harm by actors , such as con men , who assume the pose of respect-ability to defraud the unwary . There is always an element of potential conflict , then , between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience which would like " the truth . " Since actors so often create an image of themselves that " the truth " will not sustain , there is always the // danger to the actor that the audience will gain information that will discredit his performance . Much of Goffman 's book is a discus sion of how an actor plays the " information game , " giving audi ences information he wants them to have and concealing discred itable information . In spite of this potential conflict between actors and audiences , instances of actors being discredited seem rather rare . Social life is so organized that , by and large , people go along with the im pressions we try to foster . When one person tells another of one of his exploits , the listener will , in all politeness , accept the story without outwardly challenging it . " If a person claims some response from others ( respect or trust ) to which he is not entitled and if he gets caught in the falsehood , he loses " face , " which is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in social interaction in any society , not just in the Oriental . Perhaps some realization of this by social actors lies behind what Goffman calls the " working consensus " in interaction . This is an implicit bargain among social actors that each will not embar rass the other but will go along with responses that are fundamental to each actor.12 Such an interaction situation would fit the percep tions of many observers that there is much hypocrisy or expedience in social behavior and that good manners often require the soft-pedalling of one 's ideal conceptions of what behavior ought to be . The concept of social interaction as embodying the form of accom modation seems to cover much of what we call polite behavior . SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS Each personal act of mutual influence can be classified as coop erative , competitive , conflicting , or accommodative , or as some other form of interaction . However , the orderliness of social life depends on the important fact that these individual acts tend to occur repetitively . If person A treats person B with respect on one occasion , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peated whenever A and B have occasion to interact . A social rela tionship exists when there is a pattern of repeated interaction Social Interaction 123 between two or more persons or groups ; or , as Weber puts it , when there is a high " probability " of a given kind of interaction.13 A love relationship , for example , is defined by many individual interactions involving the mutual devotion of two persons . A relationship of enemies is defined by repeated acts of conflict . From the viewpoint of the interacting persons , a relationship exists when each party can accurately predict what kind of act is likely to be forthcoming from the other person . A husband knows , for example , that if he makes certain praising comments to his wife , she will respond in certain predictable ways . Without this ability to predict the responses of those with whom we interact , we should find ourselves in the sort of psychologically intolerable sit uation depicted in a Franz Kafka novel . This knowledge on which predictable interaction is based has its origin in social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the others with whom he interacts . The question is , How does this knowledge develop ? The answer seems to depend on whether the relationship in question is a personal relationship or a status relationship.14 Personal Relationships Much of our knowledge of other persons is based on our past experience with those particular persons . Through prolonged ac quaintance with a woman , a man learns " her ins , her outs , her ups , her downs . " The process of becoming acquainted is a process in which each party develops an increasing ability to predict the other 's response to a wide range of situations . Interaction between strangers must be especially guarded because one can never be sure , for example , whether a particular comment will offend the stranger . ( One might notice the rather guarded and ambiguous remarks of people at a party who , under the " sociability " impulse , must talk with others with whom they are not well acquainted . ) Becoming acquainted seems to be a rather delicate operation in which each party makes " guarded disclosures " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what actions will probably bring about favorable reactions . A major problem for sociological study of personal relationships is the problem of who becomes acquainted with whom . Among the conditions which encourage acquaintance are the factors of propin quity and social equality . Innumerable studies have shown the importance of propinquity : the fact that intimate association ( friend-ship , marriage , etc. ) tends to follow the lines of least geographic resistance , lines defined by physical closeness.16 Equality is a factor because mutual exchange of information seems to be especially difficult between persons of unequal social standing . As we shall see in chapter 11 , a great many kinds of association tend to be restricted to social equals . Status Relationships The social order which results from the ability of persons to predict the actions of one another does not depend entirely on personal acquaintance . One can often initiate some line of interaction with a total stranger and be quite confident of the stranger 's reaction , provided we know the status of the person . A person 's status refers to his membership in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male , doctor or patient , etc. , and is not limited , as in popular usage , to the " high " or " low " prestige position of the person . Status relationships involve predictability in interaction arising not from personal acquaintance but from acquaintance with the typical behavior of individuals in a particular status or category . A person gets on a bus , pays his fare , and then confidently expects that his driver will deliver him to the destination announced on the front of the bus . Personal acquaintance with the driver is entirely unnecessary to secure this confidence . It is sufficient for passenger and driver to know that the person with whom he is dealing is a person of a certain category , that drivers generally drive to an nounced destinations , and that passengers generally put bona fide money into a token box and quietly take a seat . Of course , there may be " mad " drivers who steal busses and drive them over cliffs and " mad " passengers who are aboard for the purpose of cornSocial // mitting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective cate gories do n't act like that , and only an extremely paranoid person would worry much about the possible exceptions . We can , as Thomas has said , carry on social life on the mere " inference " of the behavior of others : We live by inference . I am , let us say , your guest . You do not know , you can not determine scientifically , that I will not steal your money or your spoons . But inferentially I will not , and inferentially you have me as your guest . " In thinking of these categorical expectations that people have of one another , we are in the presence of some fundamental socio logical concepts , and careful distinctions must be made . The term expectations is ambiguous , sometimes meaning an individual 's pre-diction of what will happen ( I expect it will rain tomorrow ) and sometimes meaning the individual 's idea of what ought to happen ( I expect you to be here at five o'clock ? or else ) . Our ability to anticipate the actions of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of expectations , which we shall call existential expectations or stereotypes and normative expectations or roles . Stereotypes . A stereotype is an idea about how people in a cate gory usually behave . " Negroes are like that , " " boys will be boys , " " that 's what little girls are made of , " " what can you expect from a mere child ? " ? all of these represent stereotyped judgments about the nature of people in a category . People who think of themselves as liberals may deny that they react to others in terms of stereo-types , but the sociologist will be skeptical of the denial . By operat ing with stereotypes about how people in a particular category generally will act , we spare ourselves the impossible task of getting personal knowledge about each person with whom we interact . For a great many purposes of interaction , the idiosyncracies of personality can well be ignored . Roles . People who are members of a given category or status ? father , minister , bus driver , American ? behave by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social norms that define appropriate behavior for persons in that status . A role is a set of // norms attached to a status.78 Anyone can predict the behavior of persons in a category provided , of course , that he is familiar with the role or set of norms governing that status , and further provided that the person is conforming to those normative expectations . In chapters 13 and 14 we shall discuss some of the sociological explanations of conformity and nonconformity tolsocial norms . An ticipating that discussion , we can say that persons conform to norms governing their status categories because there are social sanctions ( punishments ) to deal with nonconformity ( an improperly behaving bus driver may lose his job ) and because persons become identified with their statuses and conform to role expectations by the operation of their own consciences . To fail to perform the role expectations of a father may subject the deviator to a range of social censures as well as to a guilty sense of his own failure . DISORDER IN SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS Any participant in social interaction knows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected pattern . The " misunderstanding " and the disagreement about appropriate role behavior are common features of social life , and they are of as much interest to the sociologist as are the more orderly kinds of interaction . Disorders in Personal Relationships When people form intimate relationships or become personally estranged , the process is not likely to be wholly anticipated by the interacting individuals . Many relationships are formed by people becoming involved in ways contrary to the intention or understand ing of those undergoing these involvements . When a more intimate relation is willed , events may occur to frustrate this will ; the road to romance is proverbially rocky . Estrangement may also occur by rather incomprehensible processes . The sociologist can , perhaps , make two kinds of contribution to the understanding of these processes . First , he can try to point out some of the origins of involvement and disinvolvement in the social influences affecting the involved Social Interaction 127 persons . He can , for example , show how , once a couple makes a tentative commitment to a closer or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divorce ) , other people begin to treat the couple in a way that makes it difficult to retreat from these commitments . " Second , he can try to describe some of the consequences of these uncertain situations for other aspects of social behavior . For example , the themes of popular songs have been analyzed to show how the love song evolves as a device to alleviate the stresses as sociated with the uncertainty of courtship interactions between men and women.20 Another source of disorder in personal relationships is the diffi culty persons have communicating to one another precisely what are their mutual expectations . Social psychologists have described a kind of communication disorder in some families as a pattern of " pseudo-mutuality. " 21 In this pattern , all members of the family communicate a high degree of personal liking for one another , and the family as a whole maintains a strong front of solidarity . Ele ments of personal hostility are present but are not permitted to be expressed . There appears to be a relationship between this kind of communication disorder in family life and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mental disorder in which confused thought processes are prominent . Disorders in Status Relationships We have emphasized the importance to social order of the fact that people can interact with one another on the basis of categorical expectations . But orderliness in social relations will not be the out-come of status interactions if there is significant disagreement among people about the appropriate expectations for people in different categories . What are the expectations of a woman ? a congressman ? the personal secretary of a political leader ? On // these matters there may be many disagreements and many ambiguities . The stereotypes or the roles which apply to an individual may be inconsistent or conflicting . Much attention has been given in sociology to the phenomenon of role conflict , and the same considerations could presumably apply to the problem of stereotype conflict . The term role conflict has come to be used in two somewhat different ways . First , a person experiences role conflict when he finds himself simultaneously occupying two or more statuses , with conflicting norms attached to the various statuses . It is typical in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familial status ( father ) and an occupational status ( employee ) . Role conflict is experienced when a person must decide whether to interact on the basis of one or the other of these statuses . A man , for example , who hires workers for a company may have to decide whether to follow the occupational norms which require that he hire the best available worker or the familial norms which require that he look after his son , perhaps to the extent of hiring his son in preference to more qualified applicants . In his conformity to the role expectations of either status he will violate the expectations of the other status . Company rules against nepotism are aimed at avoiding deviance in the familial direction . A related form of role conflict may arise from the phenomenon of status succession , which is the passage of a person from one status to another . Where the roles involved with the successive statuses are conflicting , and where there is a period of uncertain transition between the statuses , serious role conflict may result . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of children and of adults , but there seems to be confusion about the status of the adolescent . He is liable to disappoint the expectations of some persons if he fails to " act his age " and of others if he is too " pushy " or " precocious . " The uncertainty in interaction introduced by status succession is a probable reason for the prevalence in most societies of rites of passage for leaving childhood and entering adulthood . In American society there seems to be a notable absence of " puberty rites . " Is a boy a man when he is old enough to drive a car ? to vote ? to fight ? We can note more definite rites of passage from bachelorhood to marriage ( the wedding ) , from life to death ( the funeral ) , and from the status of student to that of graduate ( the commencement ) . These ceremonial recognitions of status change // tend to ease the tension of role conflict in situations of status succession . Perhaps we should note here that it may be not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipation of such status changes that introduces problems of role conflict . A person may persistently violate the expectations of others for people of his category if he orients his behavior toward a group to which he aspires to belong . The enlisted man who hopes to become an offi cer , the teacher who hopes to become a principal ? these individu als may , through " anticipatory socialization , " 22 behave in ways that are defined as deviant by their less ambitious colleagues who dis approve of this kind of bucking for promotion . A person who has recently succeeded to a higher status position also may face a role conflict based on the expectation of his former colleagues that they now have a friend in power who will look after their interests . If the person 's behavior is influenced by what might be called " residual socialization " ? a continued orienta tion toward the norms of a group to which the person formerly belonged ? he may fulfill these expectations but , in the process , violate the expectations of his new colleagues . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occu pying different statuses either simultaneously or consecutively . But the term role conflict has another meaning which involves conflict within a single status . A status occupant ? for example , a school-teacher or a policeman ? may find that different people demand that he play his role in different ways . The behavior that satisfies the teacher 's students may violate the expectations of parents or school supervisors . Consensus or agreement among these various " criterion groups " 23 can never be assumed . Where dissensus pre vails , the person may experience as much role conflict in a single status as he would experience as a simultaneous or consecutive occupant of different statuses . Role conflict of both types is a prominent feature of interaction in all but the most simple and least changing societies . A number of sociologists have shown that the individual , when faced with a // " damned if I do and damned if I do n't " interaction situation , learns to adopt maneuvers or mechanisms for resolving these conflicts.24 He might , for example , evade the expectations of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting in accord with these expectations : " I would love to give you a discount on this merchan dise since you are such a good customer , but the boss forbids it and would give me hell . " Since these maneuvers are not always completely successful , a great deal of unpredictability in the be havior of persons in different categories still exists , a fact which probably adds color and interest to social life and provides addi tional employment for the sociologist . SUMMARY The interaction of people with one another may take various forms of cooperation or opposition . When opposition occurs , it may be peaceful and normatively regulated competition or it may be a vio lent free-for-all . Much human behavior , however , involves a deli cate compromise or accommodation between outright hostility and genuine cooperation . One of the most pervasive tendencies of people in their dealings with others is their willingness to tolerate and to try to get along with them . Social relationships are formed when people develop predicta ble and recurrent patterns of interaction among themselves . Some of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of getting acquainted , but a great deal of it is based on the fact that people hold certain normative expectations about how people in different categories should behave and pre dictive expectations about how they generally do behave . Con formity to these role and stereotype expectations is one source of predictability in social interaction . This conformity does not always exist , however . For one thing , there is often a degree of uncertainty or confusion about the per sonal or status expectations that people have . For another , the expectations applied to a person occupying one status may con flict with the expectations applied to the same person when occupying another status or in one that he has just left or anticiSocial Interaction 131 pates entering . Even within one status , the role expectations may be conflicting ; it is literally impossible , for example , for an author to write a textbook that will please everybody , since there is a lack of consensus on just what subject matter should be covered and how . // INSTITUTIONS PART FOUR Throughout the discussion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence human behavior . Nowhere is this social constraint on behavior better seen than in the study of institutions . Writers have commented , sometimes with much pathos , on the dis crepancy between behavior based on primary human impulses and behavior demanded when human endeavor is organized at the level of institutions . ' A man may have , by personal temperament , certain predispositions of religious expression or some strong pref erence for ways of making his living . He may find , however , that there are no organized religious institutions which support and encourage his religious beliefs , no economic institutions which will accommodate his attitude toward work . To associate with others at all religiously or economically , he may have to join a church whose tenets he does not fully accept and take an unsatisfying job in order to feed himself . The relationship between individual impulse and institutional form does not always work out this way , of course . What usually happens is that people adapt their impulses to the nature of the existing institutions ; as is sometimes said , they make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argues , for example , that capitalism has created a kind of " market mentality " among people in capitalist countries , making them amenable to the continual monetary cal culations that a capitalist economic institution requires . Perhaps 133 every society tends to develop a " social character " to match its institutional forms.2 Whatever the relation between institutions and human behavior , we are certainly dealing with fundamental kinds of sociological facts when we attempt to describe and explain institutions . In the following three chapters we examine three basic human institu tions : family , religion , and government . Except for space limita tions , we might similarly treat such other institutions as the eco nomic institution , education , recreation , science , medical practice . Two major sociological perspectives on the study of institutions will be incorporated in our approach ? systems analysis and differ ential participation . Social systems or functional-structural analysis . Following Spen cer 's view of society as an " organism , " institutions may be seen as the " organs " or functional parts of a society . The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physiology " of society which will indicate the functions or social-system contributions of each insti tution . In looking at the functions that have been ascribed to institutions , we shall try to remain sensitive to the problems raised by Merton ( see chapter 5 ) , especially the possibilities of " func tional alternatives " and " latent functions " in the area of institutions . A special sociological problem in the study of institutions is the process of institutionalization by which institutional functions come to be relegated to specific agencies charged with the performance of those functions . Historically , there was education before there were schools , religion before there were churches , government before there was the state . The sociologist is interested in the social conditions that have led to the emergence of such specialized agencies as schools , churches , factories , recreational associations , etc . The structural side of this analysis will concern itself with some of the many forms that a given institution takes in different societies . We shall notice the tendency in the studies of each institution to develop typologies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A major problem in the study of institutions arises when this variation in institutional forms is treated as a dependent vari able and questions are raised about the independent variables that determine these variations . For example , under what conditions // does one find a democratic rather than an authoritarian form of political institution , a socialist rather than a capitalist form of economy , etc. ? Differential participation in institutional activities . Although we have suggested that institutional forms tend to channel and limit individual behavior , it is obvious that not all persons are equally susceptible to having their behaviors determined by the institutional forms . There are deviating individuals in all societies who attempt to substitute illegitimate forms of behavior for the institutionally sanctioned ones , and apathetic persons everywhere who do not involve themselves to the degree that is institutionally demanded . There are , in other words , individual differences in quantity and quality of participation in each of the institutions . A psychologist would undoubtedly approach the explanation of this participation variability in personality terms , treating the participation as one manifestation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we suggested in chapter 1 , is quite different . He tends to interest himself in questions dealing with the categories of people who participate at different rates in the social institutions : Why do more women than men go to church ? Why do poor people have larger families than rich ones ? With each institution that we examine , we shall consider a few of the many findings of sociological research with reference to the question of what kinds of people participate in what manner and with what degree of intensity in the activities involved in that institution . // The Family CHAPTER 8 The family is a socially regulated system of cohabitation of men and women , together with the offspring of this cohabitation . The institution of the family is found in all societies . FUNCTIONS OF THE FAMILY The family involves a combination of sexual and parental activities and is society 's institution for the regularization of these activities . No society leaves sexual intercourse or the care of children to the spontaneous tendencies of human nature . Although there may be instincts related to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of behavior in these areas that tends to be expected socially . Sexual Functions The universality of marriage , the sexual aspect of the family , appears to correspond to the biological nature of human beings , although it is not necessary to postulate a mating instinct in order to account for human marriage . The human sexual makeup is such that an orderly system for the regulation of sexual intercourse seems to be a necessity for societal survival . There is no reason to suppose that the sex impulse is stronger in man than in other animals , but the impulse is a more constant element in human psychology . The alternation of periods of sexual heat and sexual indifference is found in only very attenuated form in man , who has no mating season . The temporary alliances of male and female that one finds in much of the animal world would not suffice for man . Add to this biological reality the fact that opposition 137 for sexual partners can be as hostile among humans as among other animals . Since human society is based on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sexual relations ? giving specific persons legitimate sexual access to specific other persons and strictly denying disapproved kinds of access ? would seem a workable solution to the problem of social conflict that potentially exists because of the sexual nature of man . A functional explanation of the universal social regulation of sexual relations tends to follow some such line of argument . Parental Functions Reproduction . The first function of the family with reference to children is the simple fact of bringing them into existence , the reproduction function . The necessity for biological reproduction for the survival of a society is obvious ; what is not so obvious is the societal tendency to expect that children will be born to people who have established the permanent sexual relationship called marriage . In his " principle of legitimacy , " Malinowski articulated what he considered a universal sociological law to the effect that " no child should be brought into the world without a man ? and one man at that ? assuming the role of sociological father , that is , guardian and protector , the male link between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' While Malinowski 's " principle " may represent a uni versal norm , it does not necessarily represent a universal practice ; witness the very high rates of illegitimacy in some societies ? certain Caribbean societies , for example . ' This may suggest the weakness in some situations of the norm which restricts reproduc tion to married people . It has been shown , for example , that the mother of an illegitimate child in the lower social classes is not especially likely to experience social " isolation " as a result of bear ing a child out of wedlock . ' Further analysis of situations of apparent tolerance for illegiti138 INTRODUCTION TO SOCIOLOGY macy may , however , show that unwed mothers and illegitimate children suffer many social handicaps . In the case of the Caribbean societies , there is a social condemnation of illegitimacy , and the high rates of illegitimacy seem to be a reflection of the weak bar-gaining position of many women who can not demand marriage as the price for sexual privilege . ' Even in societies in which illegitimacy is common , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the many ways in which a society depends on the family to perform functions with reference to children , a sociological father as well as a mother is a sociological necessity . ' No dependence on a " paternal instinct " could suffice to insure the provision of a stable relation between fathers and their biological children . Maintenance . Families also have a maintenance function with reference to children . The extreme physical helplessness of the human infant , as compared with the relative self-sufficiency of the young of most other animal species , requires that children live with adults who will feed them and supply their other physical neces sities . There is , of course , a great deal of cultural variation in the duration of the period of " helplessness " and economic dependency of children . In some societies children marry , go to work , and are otherwise on their own at relatively young ages . In other societies , children delay work or marriage until they complete their educa tion ; even after marriage they may depend on the help of their parents in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a biological limit to the definition of children as self-sufficient beings . To the chagrin of some parents , no child has yet been born with a built-in self-feeding or self-diapering mechanism . With respect to child maintenance , there have been occasional social experiments in constituting some other agency as a func tional alternative to the family . ' In the Israeli kibbutz , the desire to The Family 139 free women from child-care drudgeries so they can engage in pro ductive communal labor has led to the establishment of communal nurseries that take over most of these maintenance chores . ' How-ever , the tensions created by this system demonstrate some of the difficulty of establishing a functional alternative in the maintenance area . ' A less extreme alternative is the day nursery or day-care center found in many societies which makes it easier for mothers of even very young children to work outside the home . Aside from such purely physical aspects of individual psychology is threatened . The need for affection undoubtedly varies between individuals and is influenced by social conditioning ; however , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the very life of the infant . The high infant mortality rates ( and rates of psychological disturbance ) of infants who are raised in institutions can not , appar ently , be explained by any lack of strictly physical care of these children but seems to be related to the inability of hospital or institutional personnel to provide the kind of cuddling and warm emotional response that babies appear to require.10 Some kinds of emotional response within the family may , how-ever , become dysfunctional to the individual 's psychological integ rity . The overprotection of children has frequently been seen as a source of psychological difficulties . Green attempted to show that " neurotic " behavior patterns of middle-class boys are related to a pattern of " absorption " of the boys ' personalities by their parents , who have ambivalent attitudes toward their sons but profess a great love for them . Some other children ? the children of some Polish-Americans , for example ? are treated by their parents with harshness and with little evidence of sensitivity to the children 's emotional needs ; but because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's personalities , the children avoid neuroses by a rather complete emotional rejection of their parents . " Socialization . A major requirement of every society is that its young learn to conform to the basic elements of its culture . The family , which has access to the child during his impressionable early years , is perhaps the natural agency for the socialization of children in basic beliefs , ideals , and preferences . The socialization function is another area in which there are frequent attempts to establish functional alternatives to the family . A revolutionary political regime is likely to feel that parents are too reactionary in their moral and social views to be trusted with the task of creating the " new man " required by the revolution . Accord ingly , schools for the indoctrination of the young are established in Communist and other totalitarian societies . In the Soviet Union , according to some evidence , the Communist regime has carried on a long-term struggle with the family for the hearts and minds of Russian children . The family seems to lose the struggle in most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and parents are afraid the children will reveal their anti-Communist views , or because parents recognize their own lack of contact with the newer social trends and acquiesce in the view that they are unfit to educate their children for the Com munist society in which it is assumed the children will live.12 Similar resigned attitudes may occur wherever there is an especially severe generation gap . Immigrants from a foreign country may realize that their children can not grow up in the " old country " ways of the parents and may gladly ( or grudgingly ) allow the public school teacher and other " natives " to take over the burden of socialization of their children . Social control . Socialization does not , of course , occur overnight and , during the period of his moral immaturity , the child 's behavior The Family 141 is likely to be a threat to social order in some ways : he may destroy property , disturb the peace , " innocently " insult handicapped people , 13 etc . Accordingly , there is a pervasive need for the social control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are likely to be one or more adults along to make sure that the chil dren behave themselves . Because of its frequent physical contact and close emotional relation with the child , the family is in a good strategic position to exercise discipline over his behavior , and the family accordingly tends to be a prime agent of social control . " Status ascription . A less obvious parental function relates to the family 's role in the process of status ascription . As noted in chapter 7 , a society gains in harmony and orderliness to the extent that each person in that society can be assigned a definite place or status in the social structure . Babies are a problem in this respect , since their " place " can not be determined by any of their own per formances . It is highly convenient for persons who interact with children to know " whose little boy are you ? " and to ascribe to the child the status of the parents . While the permanence of these as criptions is a variable , it seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will influence in some degree his own status . INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF FAMILY FUNCTIONS The institution of the family in Western society furnishes a good example of the process of institutionalization . In this case , there has been a trend toward the emergence of special agencies to perform functions that were once performed within the family . Schools have taken over many of the socializing ( and possibly the status ascription ) functions of the family . Churches provide re ligious indoctrination ; insurance companies and governmental welfare departments assure economic security . It has been argued that the family , having lost a great many of its functions , has come increasingly to specialize in one function : the provision of affection or emotional stability to its members.15 It may be , however , that // even these companionate functions of the family are coming to be institutionalized in outside agencies . The marriage counselor , the psychiatrist , even the " advice " columnist of the daily newspaper may be seen as emerging institutionalized forms for dealing with the companionate functions of the family . STRUCTURAL VARIABILITY IN THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the most casual of students is the great variability in forms of the family among the various peoples of the world . Social scientists have developed a number of typologies to classify different forms of family structure . We shall now examine several dimensions of structural variability in the family . Wherever possible , we shall venture into the difficult area of sociological explanations of why the family takes the forms that it does in different societies . Number of Marriage Partners The family institution of a society defines the number of persons involved in a marital cohabitation . The dominant form in Western societies is that of monogamy , the marriage of one man and one woman . Monogamy is by far the most common form of marriage in the world today.16 Given an equal number of men and women , it is the form that maximizes opportunities for marriage . Perhaps it would not be too ethnocentric to suggest that this is the " natural " form of human marriage and that it is only the alternative forms that require special explanation . The generic term for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of marriage involving the cohabitation of more than two persons . Most polygamy in the world today is in the more specific form of polygyny , the marriage of one husband with more than one wife . Societies dominated by Islamic culture permit or encourage polygynous marriage , as did the traditional subculture of the Mormons in the United States . Polygyny seems to be related to the existence of a social structure which features great concen trations of wealth and power in the hands of a few men , with the mass of the population being poor and powerless . A multitude of wives is a status prerogative of the powerful and is , of course , at The Family 143 the expense of wives for the poor . " Polyandry , the marriage of one wife and more than one husband , is extremely rare in the world today . Where it has been practiced , it has been associated with extreme poverty of a whole population and with female infanticide , which reduces the relatively unproductive female population and produces a surplus of men . Eligibility for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which persons are eligible to marry which other persons . There are invariably rules of endogamy , which require that a person marry within a field of eligibles , and rules of exogamy , which require that a person marry outside a field of ineligibles . The variability arises from the great diversity of ways in which these fields are defined . Rules of endogamy . Typical rules of endogamy are those which require marriage within one 's own religion , social class , race , or place of residence . Intermarriage is a serious problem from the standpoint of many groups , but the definition of what constitutes mesalliance will vary greatly . Members of certain religious sub-cultures experience greater social disapproval when marrying out-side their religious group than when marrying someone of another nationality or race . By contrast , a white Protestant Southerner in the United States would be able to marry outside his religion or nationality with less censure than if he married outside his race , the latter kind of intermarriage being a violation of his state 's miscege nation laws.78 The relative strength of different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative importance to people of vari ous of their social categories . A relatively classless society will // not exert much pressure to marry within one 's social class . A more rigidly stratified society will demand social class endogamy more stringently . Herberg has shown that the strength of endogamous rules requiring marriage within one 's nationality group ( Polish , German , etc. ) is apparently declining in the United States ; at least there is an increasing amount of intermarriage of this type . At the same time , there has been no apparent decline in religious en dogamy , i.e. , the tendency of Protestants , Catholics , and Jews to marry within their own faith . Herberg argues that these facts are a reflection of the decline of nationality as a basis of personal iden tity and a persistent tendency of Americans to believe that everyone should " belong " to one of the three major faiths . " Rules of exogamy . The most important kind of exogamous rule is that which requires marriage outside the group of one 's own rela tives , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is found in all societies . One plausible sociological explanation of the incest taboo is that it protects the family from the interpersonal conflict that would probably ensue if members of a family were in competition with one another for the sexual favors of other family members . Supporting this interpretation is the evidence that a sort of incest taboo also exists among close friends , for example , a rule against dating the girl or boy friend of one 's own best friend . One study of patterns of sexual relations among homosexuals found that men who constituted a clique of friends did not have sexual relations among themselves but were expected to confine themselves to outsiders for sexual partners . As one of the inter-viewed homosexuals put it : As far as I know , people who hang around with each other do n't have affairs . The people who are friends do n't sleep with each other .... It 's always easier to get along with your gay friends if there has been no sex . Mind you , you might have sex with somebody you just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you wo n't have sex with him any more as soon as he joins the same gang you hang around with.20 The Family 145 An alternative explanation of the incest taboo is the influence of " role inertia " on social relationships . Once people have become accustomed to interacting with one another in one pair of social statuses ( e.g. , brother and sister ) , it is difficult to shift to another set of statuses ( e.g. , husband and wife ) .21 An experimental demon stration of role inertia was the finding that children are reluctant to call a woman who marries their father by the title " mother " if they previously knew her on a first-name basis.22 Societies vary greatly in their definition of persons who are in-eligible to marry one another . The various states of the United States ( which , in this legal system , constitute subsocieties for pur poses of family legislation ) differ rather widely in the degree of relationship that would make couples ineligible to obtain a mar riage license . If the sociological explanation that the incest taboo limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ineligibles would be wider in those societies in which kinship is traced care-fully through many degrees of relationship.23 In American society , which is not meticulous in its tracing of distant kin relationships , the exogamous laws can be rather simple and permit marriage between any persons related no more closely , for example , than first cousins . Patterns of Courtship The process by which men and women " get together " to form marriages , i.e. , the process of courtship , is a matter everywhere of social regulation . Other animals ? for example , many bird species ? have elaborate mating instincts that allow a set ritual of approach and response between male and female ; human marriage requires cultural regulation to insure an orderly and predictable process . Courtship practices show much cross-cultural variability . One important difference is found between those cultures in which persons are allowed to choose their own marriage partners and those in which marriages are arranged by the families of the prospective bride and groom . This variation in procedure tends to // be accompanied by a difference in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriages are arranged between families , the arrangers tend to consider the economic and social status , and other practical qualifications of the prospective spouse : Is he a good provider ? Can she cook ? People in societies which permit individual choice in marriage partners tend toward more romantic considerations , with less emphasis on objective qualifica tions of a " good match . " The theory in societies with arranged marriages is that " love " is the outcome of long years of living together and is by no means a prerequisite to marriage.24 Romantically oriented courtship systems are frequently criticized as being dysfunctional for marital stability and satisfaction.25 Being in love may be one of the poorer prognosticators of marital satis faction . Love may involve a great deal of idealization of the object of love , a process that is fairly easy under the romanticized condi tions of courtship , but one that tends to lead to disillusionment when people settle down to the more prosaic aspects of daily living together.26 The high rate of divorce in societies with romantic conceptions of courtship may reflect the limitations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been shown that there is much resis tance to arranged marriages in some of the countries that have them.27 Moreover , young people from countries with more romantic courtship systems express a greater interest in marriage and more anticipation of a successful outcome than do those from countries with systems of arranged marriage.28 The higher divorce rates where romantic courtship is practiced may be misleading , too . Most divorced persons in the United States remarry rather quickly ; 29 their disillusionment with a specific marriage partner does not seem to precipitate a more radical disillusionment with marriage per se . The Family 147 Place of Residence The cohabitation which the family involves means that there is invariably a place at which husband and wife live together . There are social definitions of the appropriate place for married persons to live in every society , but the variability in the ways this place is defined constitutes another source of structural variability in the family . Perhaps the major problem of a society in defining place of residence for a family is specifying the relationship between an individual 's family of orientation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ includes his parents and siblings ) and his family of procreation ( the family which he establishes upon his marriage and which includes his spouse and children ) . Since the incest taboo guarantees that families of procreation will never be formed between people in the same family of orientation , marriage everywhere means that one or more of the partners to a marriage must " leave home " when he marries . Family institutions always specify an approved practice in this regard . Basic forms . The form most familiar to American readers is that of the neolocal ( or nuclear ) family , the situation in which husband and wife establish a household away from the families of orientation of either spouse . Opposed to the neolocal family is some form of the extended family , in which a married couple establishes residence in the family of orientation of one of the spouses , with the result that several generations of persons may be represented in one household . Two more specific forms of the extended family are the matrilocal and the patrilocal family , in which residence is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the husband 's family , respectively . Both the matrilocal and patrilocal forms are fairly common . We expect to find extended family households in societies with agricultural economies or wherever land or other real property is maintained in the hands of a family over several generations . In these situations , marriage is a matter of exchange of persons between households , and the household which loses one of its members is likely to be compensated with a dowry or bride price . In more industrialized economies , property is more fluid and less a matter of family domination and for this reason , perhaps , the neolocal pattern of separate households for each marriage is more common . The " revolution " in family forms that is occurring today in // developing countries is largely a matter of a shift away from ex-tended family forms and toward neolocal forms.3o Problems of generation integration . The effect of a neolocal resi dence pattern on family life has been a frequent focus of socio logical interest . One effect is that it tends to isolate older people from close relationship with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own lives , and a parent of one spouse who lives with a married child is likely to be a source of in-law problems for the other spouse and an intrusion on the " privacy " of all mem bers of the family . The growth in the use of nursing homes for the aged is partly the result of the difficulty of integrating older people into neolocal households . The extent of this separation of families of procreation from families of orientation in modern societies may , however , be exag gerated . The parents of a married couple may continue to provide such economic benefits to their children as interest-free loans , free babysitting , and " gifts " of economic necessities and luxuries.31 A study of the lives of working-class older people in London found an unexpectedly frequent pattern of continued mutual relationship between the elderly and their married children . A married daughter would , for example , tend to " run up to see Mum " daily and Mum might , in turn , help the working daughter by watching the grand-children or helping with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procreation families precludes such daily contact , certain practices in modern societies tend to provide for periodic renewals of contact of other-wise separated families . In the United States , Christmas seems to be the time for family get-togethers.33 Were the world to be de stroyed on Christmas day , some future archeologist digging in the ruins would discover the skeletons of many people of various ages The Family 149 on the same site and conclude that our family pattern took very much an extended family form . Patterns of Authority A family is a miniature government in that decisions have to be made and executed which affect the welfare of each family member . The form of this government may be a democratic consensus in volving all members of the family , or it may be some kind of authoritarian structure in which one person makes and executes decisions . The terms matriarchal and patriarchal designate a wife-dominated and a husband-dominated household , respectively . So ciological research has cast doubt on the existence of any clear cases of matriarchy in the world . In matrilocal systems of residence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually discover that one of the wife 's male relatives is in fact the authori tative figure.34 Except possibly in " Blondie " and other comic strip and TV depictions of the wife-dominated family , the husband tends everywhere to wear the pants , if an authoritarian structure exists at all . Most family systems in traditional , agricultural societies have been patriarchal . In Roman law , the power of the father ( patria potestas ) extended to the extreme of a legal right to determine the life or death of members of his family . There has been a notable shift in forms of the family in Western societies toward a decline of patriarchal authority and toward a democratic , if not a matriarchal , form . Since the turn of the century , women have gained so many " rights " outside the family ? to vote , to attend college , to hold jobs , to be active in public life ? that it would be surprising if the availability of these alternatives outside the family did not affect the ability and desire of women to resist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that women who work outside the home tend to have more influence on decision-making within the family than do those who are housewives only.35 // The emerging family authority pattern in an era of " emancipated " women seems to involve some combination of ( 1 ) a sharing of decision-making between husband and wife , the rule being that decisions must follow adequate discussion of the issues , and ( 2 ) a division of authority with the understanding that , for example , the husband will make major decisions about place of residence or occupational employment and the wife will make major decisions concerning the treatment of children . Sometimes , of course , this division is skewed toward an uneven distribution of authority , with one of the spouses having authority only to boss the goldfish . Role Differentiation Within the Family Besides these varied definitions of roles in terms of authority , we find in different family systems different cultural definitions of the behavior that is expected of persons occupying different family statuses : husband , grandmother , daughter , nephew , etc . Consider ing only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some soci eties , there is a high degree of differentiation of their separate roles ; in others , husbands and wives are partners in most family activities . In family systems with a differentiation of husband and wife roles , there is frequently a specialization of the husband in " instrumental " activities and of the wife in " expressive " activities.36 The husband is the breadwinner and the taskmaster for the family ; he is expected to maintain a level head at all times and suppress any troublesome emotional expressions by himself or other members of the family . The wife , in contrast , is expected to be the family 's social-emotional specialist , maintaining a warm home environment and a more lenient attitude toward children , often being the confidante who listens to their troubles . This is the traditional role differentiation pattern , bolstered by the general cultural definition that " the woman 's place is in the home . " As women have acquired education and career aspirations and as men have acquired more leisure time to spend at home , this traditional pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , men are called upon to help out with household work and are expected to spend time with their children.37 Increasingly , The Family 151 women are working outside the home , acquiring outside interests , and contributing to family income.38 There is considerable evidence , however , that in American society the norms governing the roles of the sexes have not caught up with these changes in actual behavior . Many families are still ambivalent about careers for their daughters , and sometimes urge them to " play dumb " with boys lest they frighten away marriage prospects in a society in which males are still expected to dominate intellectually.39 Many families display embarrassment when it be-comes publicly known that the traditional role differentiation has broken down . Many a husband who cheerfully accepts the task of diapering the baby at home will leave this chore to his wife in a public situation . Systems for Reckoning Descent The earlier discussion about status ascription indicated that much of a person 's general social status depends on that of his an cestors . But each individual has many ancestors ? two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often of varie gated social statuses . It would be most difficult to trace status through this ancestry unless some simplification were made in the system of reckoning descent . For example , each of a person 's eight great-grandparents had a different family name . If all of these names were preserved to provide the person 's family name , his last name would be quite unwieldy . The usual simplification is to designate either the mother 's or the father 's family of orientation as relevant for this purpose . Thus , we have matrilineal and patri lineal systems of reckoning descent . With a patrilineal system of naming , a child 's paternal grandfather 's father would be the only one of these eight great-grandparents whose name would be taken by the child . To some extent , a family institution may be bilateral , allowing status to be ascribed based on both sides of a person 's family . The wedding announcements that appear in the society pages of Ameri can newspapers are careful to provide information on the lineage // of both the prospective spouses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name with about equal frequency rel atives from both their mother 's and their father 's family of ori entation.40 In Western societies , however , the family is clearly patrilineal with reference to naming practices . In other respects , Western societies are tending toward a more bilateral system . The inheritance of property , for example , seems to become more bi lateral as property has become more fluid and therefore more easily divisible so that it can be bestowed on daughters as well as sons . Even in naming practices , some interesting patterns of bilateral-ism can be observed . Although a child takes the family name of his father 's family of orientation , his given names may be taken from the family name of his mother 's family of orientation . Mary Thomas marries John Jones and their child is named Thomas Jones or Thomasina Jones . The trend toward bilateralism in naming is shown in a study of the practices of American middle-class families in selecting given names for their children.41 Children are named for relatives of either the father 's or the mother 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major change in pattern in that , of children born in the 1920s and earlier , there was a strong tendency to name sons for someone in the father 's family of orien tation and daughters for one of the mother 's kin . More recently , bilateralism has become more fully realized , with sons and daugh ters increasingly being given names from either side of the family . The author of this study attributes this change to the improved relations between married couples and their in-laws ; it becomes easier , for example , for a man to name his son for his father-in-law if their relations are friendly . An increasing " social symmetry " be tween the families of orientation of husband and wife may make the bilateral tracing of descent by their children easier to achieve . Variations in Kinship Orientation A final area of variability in the structure of the family concerns the distribution of interest and attention to different aspects of kinship . The Family 153 We might use the terms filial , conjugal , and parental to designate some of the different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society like that of traditional China , which empha sizes filial relationships , a person 's principal domestic obligations are to his parents , and the elderly are treated with great respect.42 In a conjugally oriented society , the relationship of husband and wife and their mutual happiness takes precedence over other kin-ship relations . In a parentally oriented or child-centered society , the conjugal , filial , and all other kin relationships are subordinated to what is believed to be the welfare of the children . Filial piety seems to disappear with the breakup of traditional societies and their tendencies toward extended family households . The idea of a child-centered family is a more recent and still con troversial concept . Some observers of American life have seen the upsurge in birth rates and the movement to the suburbs which followed World War II as causally related . Since suburbs tend to be defined as good places to raise children , 43 their popularity may have been related to the increasing willingness of Americans to organize their domestic lives around the presence of children . PARTICIPATION IN THE FAMILY Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems of regulation of sexual and parental activities . There is , however , a major limitation of functional analysis in explaining human behavior in familial matters . If society requires that , by and large , people marry , confine their sexual intercourse to spouses , bear children and care for them , it is still clear that a certain amount of variation from the expected pattern is tolerable from the stand-point of a social system which may sustain both the individual who wants a home and family and the one who is altar shy . A few bachelors and a certain amount of extramarital sex will not be likely to threaten the integrity of a society 's familial system . Within these limits of functional tolerance there will be much variation in the degree to which different persons or categories of persons partici pate in the family institution . Several dimensions of this variation will now be discussed . // Marital and Nonmarital Sex The husband-wife relationship does not maintain a monopoly on sexual intercourse in any known society . Indeed , while all societies create special sexual privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of societies have taken approv ing or lenient attitudes toward premarital sex and toward occa sional indulgence in extramarital sex by married persons.44 This observation will suggest that one of the first variables to consider in accounting for the rate of participation of different groups of people in premarital and extramarital sex is the subcul tural difference in definition of the degree of expected exclusive ness of marital sex . In groups with puritan sexual standards , a boy or girl is expected to save himself for the future spouse and absolute fidelity to the spouse after marriage is expected . In some other groups , there is a great deal more leniency or understanding of the " human nature " that expresses itself in nonmarital sex . In still other groups there is a positive status premium placed on premarital or extramarital sexual conquests.45 This subcultural or normative dimension in sexual behavior is highlighted when one considers the differential rates of participation of men and women in nonmarital sex . Kinsey 's studies of American sexual behavior found that some 50 percent of American women are virgins when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in this category.46 Concerning extramarital sex , approxi mately 26 percent of married women and 50 percent of married men were estimated to have had this experience by age forty.47 Perhaps these differences reflect the well-advertised double stan dard for sexual behavior in this society.48 Men expect to marry The Family 155 virgins although they feel little constraint for their own virginity.49 The expectation that a married man will occasionally play around is not matched by a similar leniency in judging the unfaithful wife . The Kinsey studies also suggest another major difference in rates of participation in sex outside marriage : social-class differences . Incidence of premarital intercourse for men ranged from 98 per-cent for those with an eighth-grade or lower education to 68 percent for those having some college education.50 There was relatively little difference by educational level in the number of men who eventually had extramarital affairs , but men with lower educational levels tended to have their first extramarital relations at a much earlier point in their marriages.57 In the area of sexual behavior , " middle-class morality " seems to operate less stringently in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only child are indications of the possibility that some couples may underparticipate in parental activities even though they participate in marital sex . The use of contraception has produced a separation between sex and repro duction , and its use is a variable between persons that has inter ested the sociologist . There is a normative dimension to the degree of participation in childbearing just as there is to the degree of marital fidelity . Some religious groups proscribe contraception and the norm for a married couple is to " be fruitful and multiply . " In other normative systems there is an ethical orientation toward childbearing that argues that people should have no more children than they want or can reasonably care for . Beyond such normative considerations , it appears that family size is much influenced by expedient considerations . For those engaged in agricultural occupations , a large number of children may be highly rewarding economically . In much of the United States , for example , most agricultural work is accomplished by family labor and the more children a family has , the more hands there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children // make no important contribution to the family economy ; each child is simply an extra mouth to feed . A more subtle kind of expediency for encouraging large families is the situation found in some societies or groups where a woman 's social status depends almost entirely upon her participation in motherhood . In patrilocal societies a wife is a " stranger " in a family dominated by her husband 's relatives and , until she bears children , she may enjoy no prestige at all in the household.52 In a somewhat milder form , many American women may feel out of it socially if they are childless , especially when they observe how the society plays up motherhood in such institutions as Mother 's Day . That considerations of expediency can take precedence over normative values is shown in studies of the differential use of con traception between Catholics and persons of other religious groups that do not proscribe contraception . American Catholic wives are about as likely as non-Catholic wives to use contraception , if one controls for such intervening variables as social class and national origins.53 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is condemned by their church creates , of course , some serious problems of self-definition for those who so participate . Family Stability Although marriage in most societies in contracted " until death us do part , " some provision for the divorce or separation of married persons is found almost everywhere . In the United States , a country with relatively high overall divorce rates compared with other mod-ern nations , 54 there are great differences in the divorce rates among different categories of people . For instance , the poorer and less educated have higher divorce rates than the wealthier and more educated ; urban couples have higher rates than rural ones ; blacks have higher rates than whites ; those who marry at younger ages have higher rates than those who marry at older ages.55 Explanation of these rate differences is likely to involve some difficult problems of causal inference . Take the well-known case The Family 157 of the supposed instability of marriages among Negroes . Although the difference in legal divorce rates between the races is small , the rate of informal separation of husbands and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Part of the explanation undoubtedly relates to the fact that blacks are overwhelmingly members of the lower classes . The material and social-status deprivations of members of these classes tend to create . major problems for marital interaction ; when money is chronically short , marital discord may focus on such " trivial " matters as the husband 's insistence on spending money for cig arettes or beer , or the wife 's " extravagance " in buying clothes . The difficulty of lower-class people in holding jobs ? they tend toward types of employment where they are susceptible to being laid off ? creates an insecurity in the status of the husband in a society where role definitions are likely to demand that he be the family 's breadwinner . The instability of Negro marriages may simply reflect the exaggeratedly weak economic and status positions of blacks in the United States . On the other hand , there may be some factors in Negro family instability that are attributable to the specifically racial situation of the Negro in the United States . Frazier , for example , has argued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blacks harks back to the family situation of Negroes under slavery.57 Since the " maintenance " of a family was the burden of the slaveowner and not of the Negro husband-father , there was no economic incen tive for the owner to encourage the integrity of the marital tie . Indeed , it was the practice among some owners to separate the fathers from their wives and children on the theory that this would help prevent the formation of primary-group conspiracies against the slave condition . In postslavery times , slaveowner paternalism has been replaced by the " matriarchal " family , in which a woman and her children live with the woman 's mother and where the children are the products of the sporadic sexual relations of the woman with a man or a series of men.58 One study of New Orleans Negro families has // suggested that , among the Negro lower classes , men who are excluded by the matriarchal system from expressing their masculinity in stable families express it compulsively in the all-male gang , with its hell-raising , he-man values.59 There is much contemporary criticism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specifically Negro conditions.60 These criticisms tend to take the form of showing that the middle-class black family fully matches or even exceeds the stability of the white middle-class family . From this critical viewpoint , differences in family stability are products of social-class differences ; Negro family instability is a reflection of the disproportionate membership of blacks in the lower classes . SUMMARY The institution of the family deals with some of the most emotionally charged of human sentiments , those dealing with sex and the relationships of adults to children . Given the necessity for social order which requires that emotional expression be channeled into forms that are functional for a social system , we can understand the universal preoccupation with the social regulation of these behaviors . The basic functional requirements are that sexual activity be consistent with harmonious social relationships and that children fit into the scheme of social arrangements that prevails in a society . The family is not the only agency that could perform these functions ? indeed , through the institutionalization of family functions , many of these responsibilities have been transferred to other agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to do so . Social order requires not only that sexual and parental activities be regulated in some way , it demands that all the people in a society regulate these activities in approximately the same way . Each society represents a selection from a variety of alternative structural forms for the provision of family functions . The American The Family 159 middle-class family , for example , is often characterized as being monogamous , bilateral , neolocal , and romantically oriented . Most of the sociological distinctions of family form are " ideal types " ? pure forms that are seldom found in all their " purity " in real social life . The American family , for example , while basically patrilineal in naming practices , has important elements of matrilineality as well . The sociologist is alert to the problem of explaining the factors or social conditions that lead to the selection of one family form or another ( or a mixture of forms ) in a given society . As with all institutions , different categories of people participate with different levels of intensity in family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to marriage , some do not bear children , and some do not remain married permanently . For example , persons in the category labeled " lower class " can be shown to have high rates of participation in nonmarital sex , and low ' stability of marriage . These participation rates may be explained by the fact that people in this category share a subculture which defines the importance to be placed on institutional participation . There may also be considerations of expediency , it simply not being convenient or pleasant for the people in that category to fall in line with an institutionally prescribed mode for dealing with family affairs . // Religion CHAPTER 9 In Durkheim 's classic work , The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life , ' he noted that it is the tendency of men everywhere to divide the world around them into two great and mutually exclusive cate gories : the sacred and the profane . The profane world is composed of all those things toward which men take a casual attitude ; to Durkheim , the profane was synonymous with the mundane , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with things that are seen as extraordinary or demanding of special attention and respect in dealing with them ; they are , as Durkheim says , " set apart and forbidden . " Religion deals with the world of the sacred . The objects of religious interest represent extraordinary powers ; whether evil or good powers , they are superhuman in their strength . The religious life , in dealing with these objects , is constituted by two compo nents : beliefs and rituals . Beliefs are the ideas that men have about the nature of the sacred powers and about how they operate . The rituals are the actions that men take to try to bring themselves into a desirable relationship to the sacred . The rituals may aim at avoid ing harm by malevolent powers or eliciting aid from the beneficent ones . FUNCTIONS OF RELIGION Religious belief and ritual are found in all human societies . In ex plaining this universality functionally , there have been two major 161 tendencies : ( 1 ) to look at the correspondence of religion to indi vidual psychological needs and ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " functional imperatives " of a social system . Individual Needs Our discussion in chapter 5 of tension management as a social-system requirement would indicate that the sociologist is not un concerned with the problem of the psychological stability of individuals . One way of looking at religious beliefs and ritual functionally is to ask , What kinds of persistent tensions in human thought may religious belief and practice help to manage or con trol ? We shall look here at two frequently asserted peculiarities of human psychology : man 's need for rationality and for predictability . Man 's rationalizing need . One observation about the peculiarity of human psychology is that man appears to be the only animal that raises the question , Why ? He wants the events that he observes around him to make sense and he has little tolerance for a view of life that it is " a tale told by an idiot , full of sound and fury and signifying nothing . " Consider a typical situation in which the question why is raised . A man is informed of the unexpected death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Oh no ! " he is asking , " What hap pened ? " He wants to know why this death occurred . He may see the results of a scientific autopsy and gain some satisfaction for his questioning when he sees the coroner 's verdict on the cause of death . But the man 's questioning may demand further answers : Why did it have to happen to this man ? The biblical Job , observing that he had obeyed well all God 's commandments , could not understand why God had visited numerous afflictions on him . The anthropolo gist Fortes finds a parallel to the Job story in the religious myth ologies of primitive West African cultures . ' Such stories indicate the human concern with justice and injustice or , as it is sometimes put , the problem of evil , the explanation of unrewarded virtue and unpunished evil . Weber saw the different major religions of the world as using // alternative ways of rationalizing evil . ' Some religions have a notion of heaven or an afterlife in which each man will get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his earthly life . Other re ligions may insist that what appears to be evil events in the world is in fact part of a grand and benevolent plan of a deity whose ways are inscrutable but " altogether righteous . " The tendency to demand explanations for earthly events , while generally human , apparently varies to a considerable extent among different individuals . Some people are able to live rather well with a perception of life as meaningless in certain respects , perhaps even adopting and enjoying a philosophy such as existentialism , which refuses to rationalize what is seen as a thoroughly irrational human existence . ' There are other persons ? James mentions the writers Bunyan and Tolstoy5 ? who are continually tortured by their perceptions of earthly evil and who demand a religious rationali zation . One other personality type in this regard is described by James , ' namely , the person whose " sky-blue optimism " leads him quite literally to see no evil , whose natural inclination is to exercise what today is referred to as the " power of positive thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a personality nature , but they do not deny a general human tend ency to employ supernatural explanations of events on earth . Man 's need for future reassurances . Another major feature of human psychology is the human tendency to anticipate the future and to react emotionally to perceptions of what fate or destiny that future may hold . The future existence of any living thing is highly uncertain ; its very life may be terminated by any one of innumerable possible future events . Man is apparently the only animal who anticipates these possibilities , worries about them , and self-con sciously takes action to avoid unfavorable futures and to secure favorable ones . No dog , we may assume , has fretted over a question like , Where is my next bone coming from ? Religion 163 Although any man 's future is uncertain , there may be some elements of predictability about it and some outcomes that can be controlled to some extent . If a man fears contracting a certain disease or hopes to win a wife , he can employ the technologies available in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires : he can get an inoculation or start using a " man 's deo dorant . " He may also be reassured when he hears about the high percentage of men in his society who get married or the low percentage who contract the disease that he fears . Sometimes , too , his optimism about the future will depend on his own tendency toward wishful thinking and the tendency of others to reassure him that " it will work out fine . " For example , parents of a child with paralytic polio , worrying about his chances for recovery , will get reassurances from others in the form of a recitation of known cases of quick and successful recovery . ' With all these nonreligious sources for predicting and controlling future events , it might seem that man would not need recourse to supernatural help . But notice an important limitation of all these naturalistic aids ; their reassurances about the future are only in terms of probability , indicating the likelihood of a favorable future . There is still a chance that things will not go well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " just my luck " if some of those rare misfortunes should befall them . This way of thinking about luck highlights a very widespread tendency in human thought : the notion of man 's " ill-starred destiny " portrayed so powerfully in the Oedipus myth and other great tragedies of ancient Greece . ' If the tendency in popular thinking is to imagine that luck runs against one , we can well understand the tendency to attempt to counteract bad luck or , more positively , to attempt to produce a favorable future by obtaining good luck or Godspeed for one 's endeavors . ' So-called enlightened people tend to label as " super stition " such practices as carrying a rabbit 's foot or eating black-eyed peas on New Year 's Day to bring good luck . But the same people may " pray for God 's blessings " on the leaders of their nation in an attempt to bring peace to the world . This view of the psychologically reassuring functions of religion // will suggest that the intensity of religious activity will tend to vary with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will suggest ( what is not entirely true ) that there are " no atheists in foxholes , " no atheists among the very old or very sick or among any group faced with imminent death.10 Malinowski 's anthropological work also stressed these notions . Among the Trobriand Islanders he studied , there was very little tendency to resort to appeals for supernatural aid for group en deavors when the people were relatively sure of the favorable out-comes of their activity . When hunting in a familiar territory with a known supply of game , men simply sharpened their hunting weap ons and largely ignored the supernatural . But if a tribe were about to embark on some uncertain venture , like a war with unknown outcome or a hunt in unfamiliar territory , there would be an effer vescence of religious activities . Malinowski gave a similar interpretation to the highly religious content of most rites of passage , those ceremonial recognitions of major changes of status of persons , such as the puberty rites when a person enters adulthood , marriage rites when he marries , funeral rites when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are invariably sources of anxiety about the future : Will the boy acquit himself well as a man ? Will this marriage work ? Will the spirits of the deceased hover around and make trouble for the living ? Malinowski saw the rites of passage as helping to alleviate these anxieties by giving future reassurances to the involved per-sons . Radcliffe-Brown , a colleague of Malinowski , took vigorous exception to this functional interpretation of the rites of passage.12 However , Radcliffe-Brown had , as we shall shortly see , a different functionalist perspective , tending to see the functions of religion from quite a different angle . Societal Needs Social scientists like Weber and Malinowski adopt a functionalist view which emphasizes the necessity to a society of dealing with Religion 165 problems inherent in human psychology . Ideas like those discussed above are accordingly prominent in their work . Others , like Radcliffe-Brown and Durkheim , launch their functional analysis from a different starting point , i.e. , the needs of a society rather than the needs of individuals . Two aspects of such societal needs deserve discussion . Religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a society that we discussed in chapter 5 was what Parsons calls pattern maintenance : the development of individual members who are committed to uphold and defend the society 's fundamental values . Our discussion of the variability of culture among peoples and the variability of the forms of basic social institutions will stress the essentially arbitrary character of the selections that any society makes among the alternative forms . There is nothing in universal human nature that requires a capitalistic form of economy , a monogamous marriage system , premarital chastity , etc . Yet a society that maintains these values and institutional forms requires that its members believe in the rightness of these forms . Otherwise , the alienation of men from the prevailing arrangements in their society would threaten the stability of those arrangements . As is true of other religious functions , there are nonreligious alternatives to religion as a means of pattern maintenance . There may be quite secular ideological systems that justify prevailing practices . A free-enterprise economy may be justified on grounds that it maximizes economic productivity . Premarital chastity may be justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more difficult . Unfortunately , the attempt to justify social forms on such utilitarian grounds is often frustrated by the discovery that it is expedient in terms of personal gain to violate major social values . Honesty may not be the best policy if by " best " one means the policy most conducive to personal gain . Furthermore , one can readily find examples of other forms used by other peoples without dire consequences or deprivation ? many socialist countries do quite well productively , and several societies permit a great deal of premarital sex and their marriages apparently are none the worse for it . The integrity of a social pattern may depend on most people 's believing that the pattern is right and proper , regardless of the relative expediency of conformity or deviance . At this point , reli- // gious belief systems may perform major functions for a society . The supernatural is often conceived as a judging being and one whose judgments on human behavior are supported by such mo mentous sanctions as eternal salvation or eternal damnation . Insti tutional forms are typically supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " divine right of kings , " a monogamous marriage system by the view that marriages are " made in Heaven , " a military regime by the belief that " God is on our side " in inter-national struggles . Radcliffe-Brown , observing the rituals involved in rites of pas-sage , " found a fundamental flaw in Malinowski 's contention that these rituals tend to relieve the anxieties of the persons involved . This is frequently far from the truth , according to Radcliffe-Brown . Often as not , the rituals seem to create anxiety because people become anxious lest they are not performing the rites correctly : Is the deceased actually getting a decent burial ? Should one have a church wedding and , if so , should it be intimate or public ? Is the dress for one 's daughter 's First Communion quite proper ? Perhaps a society requires a certain level of anxiety for its members , a continual wondering whether they are living up to the proper social forms . The rites of passage may be strategic points to reinforce these anxieties . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eulogized . While the eulogy may bear little relation to the man 's character when he was alive , it may raise in the living enough anxiety about their own moral characters to make them resolve to live more decently . It is also during these rites that the supernatural sanctions in support of social patterns are most di rectly stated : " What God hath joined , let no man put asunder . " The tendency of religion to support existing social arrangements is a source of complaint by persons attempting to bring about social change . Marx characterized religion as the " opium of the people , " a device used by a ruling class to divert people from con cern with their exploitation by these rulers . Some religions , however , have major commitments to values that are imperfectly realized in the social system in which they exist . Christianity , for example , has certain commitments to broth erhood and the advancement of the interest of the poor . In a society that violates the moral equality of men ( a racist society , for exam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the wealthy , we Religion 167 1 might expect organized religion to pit itself against some prevailing social practices . To some extent these possibilities have been realized in the " social gospel " of modern Protestantism , which has tended to support programs of social welfare , and in the prominent position in favor of racial integration taken by many religious bodies recently in the United States . But not always do these reforming tendencies become active . A study of the Protestant ministry of Little Rock , Arkansas , during that community 's school integration crisis showed that a majority of ministers took no active position in favor of integration despite the fact that integration was strongly supported by the national governing bodies of the various denominations . ' " These local ministers appeared to respond to the segregationist sentiments of their congregations rather than to the expectations of persons in the hierarchies of their churches.15 The latter were either powerless to enforce their integrationist sentiments or they encouraged min isters to respond to local pressures , expecting a growth in church membership and local financing . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Little Rock , neither did they chal lenge in any significant way the prevailing pattern of race relations . Creation of social solidarity . Durkheim makes the provocative as sertion that religion " unites in one moral community " all the per-sons who adhere to the religion.16 Through common participation with his fellowmen in religious rituals , the individual develops a sense of solidarity or of " we " as he comes to feel a part of some-thing larger than himself , some society or social group . Viewed in this way , religion is at the very foundation of human society , creat ing in persons the frame of mind without which social unity would be impossible . " There is much to commend the view that a latent function of group rituals is the promotion of social solidarity or unity among the people who practice them . Throughout the medieval period of // Western European history , the Christian church maintained a com mon ritual , and whatever social unity exists today in the West is largely a reflection of this history of religious unity . A political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , Adolf Hitler in Germany ? will find it useful to promote a mystical conception of the " holy " cause of the nation and a set of elaborate rituals to celebrate the national unity . A sociologically naive person may wonder why groups go to such trouble to organize elaborate rituals . Why , for example , does the government of the Soviet Union bother to hold national elec tions in a one-party system , or why do the political parties in the United States hold conventions to renominate an incumbent presi dent ? One explanation is that these actions are ritual reflections of group solidarity , a celebration of the Communist society or of democratic electoral procedures . Even groups as small as the family may depend on traditional group rituals as a basis for the we-feeling among family members.18 Although it is easy enough to assemble such cases in support of the view that religious or secular rituals have a socially integrating effect , it is also possible to find social situations in which religion has the opposite effect , that of dividing people into opposing groups.19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struggles between Mohammedans and Hindus in India in the 1940s , the continuing struggle between Jews and Arabs in the Middle East and between Protestants and Catholics in Northern Ireland ? these instances are hardly favorable to the view that religion " unites in one moral community . " Whatever unity exists may be limited to the unity of one religious group in opposition to other unified religious groups . Durkheim 's functional analysis of religion does not seem to account for these dysfunctional consequences of religious belief and ritual . Before the theoretical view of Durkheim is quite abandoned , how-ever , it might be well to explore the idea of some analysts , namely , that religious practice tends to evolve in the direction of accom modating religious conflicts in order to make it possible for various // religious groups to coexist in one social system . Parsons has ar gued that the separation of church and state in the United States is one reflection of accommodation to religious diversity . Recognizing that no one religious denomination was going to dominate the country , the Founding Fathers forbade all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influential account of the effects of this pluralism on the content of religion in America.27 He argues that there has evolved a single religion which unites Americans in one moral community ? a rather secularized belief in an " American way of life . " Each of the major faiths is seen by Herberg as having been constrained to soften the dogmatism of its peculiar theology in favor of providing broad ideological support for this " American way . " Thus , according to one account , social unity has been en couraged by developments in religion ; however , this unity has been achieved at a price in secularization of its appeal that many theo logians , including Herberg , find rather distasteful . INSTITUTIONALIZATION The process by which religious functions become formalized has excited much sociological interest . It appears that the church as a special agency dealing with religion is a fairly recent historical development . The family has traditionally included religious wor ship among its many functions , and supernatural powers have fre quently consisted of household deities peculiar to each individual family.22 Once a church is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be important differences in the degree of institutionaliza tion found in different kinds of church organization . Sociologists of religion have used the terms sect and denomination23 to refer to these different degrees of institutionalization . A sect is a religious body without a high degree of formalization of its internal structure . The leaders of sects are not likely to be for170 INTRODUCTION TO SOCIOLOGY mally trained , often basing their leadership qualification on some special " call " to religious ministry . Rank-and-file members of the sect are likely to participate very actively and spontaneously in religious ritual , as when they contribute to the spirit of a sermon by adding their " amens . " Religious feeling is close to the heart of the members , and the emotionality or fanaticism of their religious life tends to extend to all phases of their everyday lives . Denominational churches are more formally organized , with a trained ministry and a minimal role in religious ritual by ordinary members . Members of denominations are more able to treat their religious life as a separate department from that of their routine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a dialectic fluctua tion between the poles of sect and denomination on the scale of institutionalization.25 Churches tend to originate as sects , with little formal organization and an attitude of righteous hostility to the evils of " the world . " But , as the emotional fervor that generated the new sect subsides , churches find it increasingly necessary to routinize their activities and make some compromises with the world.26 Thus , the radical sect of nonconformists becomes the established church , with the institutionalization of a new orthodoxy . However , this routinization may so diminish the church 's ability to satisfy the primary religious feelings of its members that a fundamentalist reaction sets in and new sect-like churches are established in separatist movements . The history of Christianity ? from persecuted radicalism to established church to Protestant Reformation to es tablished Protestant denominations to fundamentalist revivals ? well illustrates the dialectic shift between highly institutionalized denominations and weakly institutionalized sects.27 STRUCTURAL VARIABILITY IN RELIGION The extent of variation in religious practice between societies and over time is probably as great as the structural variation in the Religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the distinctions of religious form that have helped to organize sociological thinking about variability in this institution . Magic and Religion Many social scientists would distinguish between two forms of religious belief and practice , calling one of these basic forms magic and reserving for the other form the term religion . Magic is based on the belief that the supernatural operates according to certain mechanical principles and can be controlled by the mastery of definite manipulatory formulas . The dominant attitude toward the supernatural in magical practice is one of coercion of these powers . Magic is not typically organized into a " church " but is the special prerogative of an occupational group or cult . Therefore , as Durk heim sees it , magic does not unite people in a " moral community . " 28 Magic does not seem to create social solidarity , although it may have any of the other functions of religion discussed above . Religion differs from magic in that the typical attitude toward the supernatural is more humanized . Anthropomorphism ? conceiving the nature of the supernatural after the character of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gods are seen as having wills like the wills of men , and they can only be appealed to in a propitiatory manner , by persuading them of the worthiness of the human beings who seek their favor . With the growth of this notion of supernatural power as a " judge " of human conduct , as a " significant other " for judging oneself , the ethical content of a religious system becomes prominent . A reli gious ethic is a prescription for the kind of everyday life that an individual is expected to lead . By living such a life , a practitioner of one of the great ethical religions is expected to gain super-natural favor . The " book " of the religion ( Bible , Torah , Koran ) pro vides precepts for this good life and sometimes a description of an exemplary life , such as that of Christ or Mohammed . Religious instruction is not , as in magic , the teaching of mechanical formulas ; rather , it uses these precepts and examples to develop the religious " character " of the faithful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ethical content , the nature of the ethics // found in various religions differs considerably . This variation has interested several sociologists , most notably Weber , whose com parison of the different ethics of the world religions became the basis for his famous theory of the relation between religious and economic institutions . " Weber noted that most religious ethics have an " other-worldly " form that enjoins their followers from thoughts about success or failure in this life and urges them instead to con centrate on living a life that will guarantee immortality . From the viewpoint of this ethic , the work of economic production is at best a " necessary evil , " and the laying up of great material wealth is a dangerous incitement to concern with things of this world . Since they incorporate other-worldly ethics , the prescriptions for the good life as propounded by Catholicism , Hinduism , Confucian-ism , and even Lutheran Protestantism are seen by Weber as being unfavorable to the way of life or spirit of a capitalist economy , based as it is on the profit motive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a more " this-worldly " kind of religious ethic was required , and Weber believed that this incentive was supplied by the " Protestant ethic " or , more specifically , the " worldly asceti cism " of the Calvinist version of Protestantism . The Calvinist , believing in original sin , was highly concerned with the status of his personal soul ? whether he was damned or of the " elect " in God 's eternal plan for the predestination of each soul . He also believed in a transcendental God , one who does not communicate with men ; God does not answer prayers nor does he give men any revelations about the destiny prepared for them in immortality . The Calvinist is accordingly described by Weber as potentially in an acute state of anxiety about his religious future . Relief from this anxiety is provided by the Calvinist 's notion of the providential character of God , the notion that he is benevolent or just . Having this character , God surely would not allow one of his " elect " to suffer failure in this world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " sign " of eternal damnation . Bolstered with these reassurances and believing that all social institutions were divinely ordained , the capitalist entrepreneur could exploit his employees and defeat his entrepreneurial rivals with good conscience , being sure that whatever happens is part of " God 's plan . " He could also view his work as a calling , a divine Religion 173 mandate to work without regard to the luxuries derivable from the profits of his work . Thus he could participate in that peculiar " spirit " of modern capitalism , what Weber calls the " sober bour geoisie " spirit of hard work as an end in itself , with any profits from the work being incidental . The famous Yankee thrift , which glorified hard work , abstinence from luxurious consumption , and a continual drive to reinvest profits to " build up the business , " was encouraged by this religious ethic . Some of Weber 's favorite examples of men who demonstrated the " spirit of capitalism " were men like Ben jamin Franklin . Weber supports this provocative theory of a causal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of economy in two ways : ( 1 ) by showing a " logical affinity " between Calvinist theology and capitalist work ethics , and ( 2 ) by comparing the different religions of the world in areas in which capitalism did not develop.30 Weber 's strategy here was to show that , in countries like China and India , all the strictly material conditions for the rise of capitalism ( the evolution of a money economy , for example ) had developed long before the advent of capitalism . The one thing that held capitalism back in these countries , according to Weber , was the lack of a religious ethic which would provide moral justification for " sober bourgeois " capitalism . Weber 's work began a long controversy in social science about the validity of his hypothesis.37 A number of recent studies of eco nomic behavior in the United States have attempted to verify or refute the Weber thesis . Most of these studies involve comparing , in some way , the differential aspirations or achievements of Protes tants and Catholics in getting ahead economically . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Detroit found evi dence favorable to Weber 's thesis.32 An analysis of national survey data finds that American Protestants are more likely than Catholics to enter " high status nonmanual occupations . " 33 Other studies , // measuring economic behavior in different ways and controlling for such important intervening variables as the national origins of persons , have found contrasting evidence . Catholics may be as much or more influenced by the Protestant Ethic as are Protes tants , 34 and even Lenski 's study suggested that American Jews are the most economically ambitious and successful of the three major religious faiths.35 To some extent , such studies are really irrelevant to the validity of Weber 's argument . Weber insists that he is describing the situa tion in the very early history of capitalism , when it was still a deviant form of economic activity and appeared to require a great deal of religious conviction to withstand the general disapproval of busi ness conducted in this new " spirit . " Once capitalism becomes the dominant economic form , Weber admits , it no longer requires reli gious justification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , some of the free enterprise ideology men tioned above . Perhaps fairer tests of the Weber thesis would be to study the relative aspirations or achievements of Protestants and Catholics in countries where capitalism is not the dominant form ( in some of the socialist or welfare state societies in Europe , for example ) . RELIGIOUS PARTICIPATION Functional analysis of religion , like that of the family , will not explain all the variations of intensity and style of religious activity of different persons . For one thing , even given a prevailing form of religious structure ? the secularized religion of Americanism de-scribed by Herberg , for example ? there will be a number of churches that provide alternatives for expressing this religious style . For another thing , a social system may tolerate a number of religious nonbelievers even if it demands that most people most of the time adhere to the prevailing religion . There are two kinds of variability in religious participation that the sociologist is interested in describing and explaining : ( 1 ) varia tion in the quantity or intensity of participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quality or style of participation by different // people . As always , the independent variables tend to be category differences in participation rates : men versus women , young versus old , etc . Here we shall consider only one basis of group differentials in participation rates ? the factor of social class . Nature of Religious Participation A major problem for the sociological analysis of religious behavior has been the development of a clear understanding of what is meant by " religious participation . " In contrast with familial participation , where a person either is or is n't married , is or is n't a virgin , there are no clearcut criteria to determine whether a person is or is n't a religious person . In everyday life we often find controversies arising around just this question : Is so-and-so religiously pious , apathetic , or hypocritical ? The sociologist , who is interested in studying reli gious behavior as a variable correlated with other kinds of social behavior , is faced with the same problem of devising valid measures of religiosity . Durkheim 's definition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the analysis of the meaning of religious participa tion . A person can conceivably believe very strongly in the theo logical notions of a given religious persuasion but , for whatever reason , may be a very marginal participant in the worship services and other collective rituals of the church . In Glock 's terms , such a person is high on the ideological component of religious participa tion but is low on the behavioral component.36 The reverse situation is also frequently observed : the person who attends " religiously " all the rituals of the church but who shows a low level of ideological commitment to any of its beliefs . Church attendance may be the thing to do in this person 's social circle and the thing is done when he has daydreamed through another sermon or has attended , at least bodily , the monthly meeting of the govern ing council of the church . Glock 's analysis of participation indicates two other dimensions of the phenomenon . One , a consequential dimension , distinguishes degrees of religious involvement by comparing those whose daily lives are closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has little effect on their secular activities . Related // but not identical with this distinction is an experiential dimension of religious participation . Some people experience or " feel " their religion very deeply ; others are like Freud , who says that , if there is such a thing as an " oceanic feeling " that many people call religious , he , for one , has never had it . " Given these various dimensions of religious participation or non participation , 30 it may be necessary to indicate the kind of participa tion one is trying to explain . Several of the studies of religious participation discussed below do attempt to define the kinds of participation involved in the study or to suggest that there may be different variables correlated with religious participation , depend ing on the kind of participation in question . Influences of Social Class on Religious Participation One of the most persistent and provocative hypotheses in the sociology of religion is the assertion that religious participation is strongly influenced by social-class position . Much of the interest in this hypothesis goes back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at its historical origin , expressed the interest of a specific status group . " Early Hinduism was borne by a heredi tary caste of cultured literati " ; 39 " Christianity began its course as a doctrine of itinerant artisan journeymen " 40 and became a " religion of the disinherited. " 41 Weber 's view suggests not so much that the quantity of religious participation is a variable between classes but that different classes tend to associate themselves with different religions that express their separate class interests . However , it is easy enough to move from this position to the view that some social classes show more intense religious participation than do others . If a given religion becomes dominant , as Hinduism is in India , Mohammedanism is in the Middle East , Christianity is in Europe and the Americas , it should follow , according to Weber 's thesis , that those classes // whose interests are least represented by the dominant religion would be least likely to participate religiously . If they do participate , we should expect them to participate in deviant religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The relationship between social class and participation in Chris tian religion has been of particular interest to sociologists , most of whom hail from so-called Christian countries . A very prominent idea is that Christianity as a whole has moved away from its identi fication with the " disinherited " and has taken on a strongly middle-class flavor as it has moved from the status of persecuted sect to that of established denomination.42 There are apparently two major consequences of this trend , corresponding to our two fundamen tally different ways of looking at differentials in religious partici pation . Association of different classes with different churches . The first such consequence is that this trend has been a powerful impetus toward the well-known schismatic tendency within the Christian religion , the splitting of the religion into many separate church organizations.43 As Christianity as a whole has evolved toward sup-port of middle-class social interests , the " disinherited " have split off from the parent religious body and formed churches whose rit uals and beliefs were more congenial to their lower-class interests . An examination of the social-class distribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether " social class " is measured by such criteria as educational level , income , or occupation , there is a high degree of specialization of the different denominations in the social-class composition of their membership . Baptist and Methodist churches tend to have predominantly lower-class memberships , Episcopal and Presby terian churches predominantly higher-class memberships.44 These figures probably underestimate the degree of social-class homoge neity of the individual churches that people attend . While the Methodist Church , for example , has a substantial minority of rela tively upper-class members , it is probably true that these persons // are highly segregated in congregations that cater to wealthy Methodists . The student may well exercise some caution in interpreting the sociological meaning of these correlations . The fact that a given denomination is predominantly lower class in membership may mean that religious participation promotes the social interest of that class , but not necessarily . One study of religion in a North Carolina community found a pattern of " social control " by which even the pastors of " mill churches " ( with a working-class congre gation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ing of the activities of the dominant business class.45 Three aspects of this social control may be of general signifi cance for American Protestantism . First , the control was exercised by the economic power of the dominant classes ; mill owners typically furnished church buildings and gave other financial aids to the mill churches . The holder of a church 's purse strings may influence greatly the social message of that church.46 Second , many of the mill churches were " mission " churches sponsored by the " uptown " churches with their middle-class congregations , and the parent religious bodies were able to control to some extent the behavior of mission pastors . Finally , there was a predominantly " other-worldly " style of religious ritual in the lower-class churches that Pope observed . Marx , in characterizing religion as an " opium of the people , " had assumed that working-class people would participate religiously in a capitalist society but that this religion would promise salvation in the next world and divert attention from their exploitation in the capitalist system . The exciting ? sometimes called " orgiastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seen as a compensation for earthly misery . With all these considerations in mind , one must approach cautiously any assumption that lower-class churches promote the status inter ests of lower-class persons . Churches with relatively upper-class memberships may , on the other hand , take positions on social issues that are favorable to Religion 179 the interests of the lower classes . The ancient ethic of noblesse oblige , the obligation of charitable treatment of the socially unfor tunate , is well represented in the Christian view of man as his brother 's keeper . The National Council of Churches , an affiliation of American denominations largely white , Protestant , and middle class in composition , has been a prime supporter of racial desegre gation . The liberalism of these national religious organizations has not , however , filtered down to local church activity in many cases.47 It may be entertained as a sociological hypothesis that , the more closely church officials must work with a congregation with a specific social-class composition , the more directly must they deal with the interests of the dominant social class in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the charitable ideals of his denomination , but his very survival and effectiveness as a leader may require that he temper his religious messages with an aware ness of which local toes are being stepped on . Social-class influence on religious participation or nonparticipa tion . These various accommodations by all Christian denomina tions to middle-class social interests provide a background for the second major hypothesis about the effects on religious participa tion of the evolution of Christianity toward a middle-class social orientation . If middle-class interests have dominated in the oper ation of Christian religion , we might expect that the " disinherited " have tended to abandon Christianity altogether . Studies of differential religious participation have supported this expectation , if participation is defined at the behavioral level and is measured by such criteria as church membership , frequency of church attendance , and involvement in the governing of church bodies.48 The unchurched , in the United States and elsewhere in the Christian world , are largely members of the lower classes , who tend either not to affiliate with churches at all or , if they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The lesser participation of the lower classes in formal church rituals is a matter of well-established fact ; the interpretation of this fact is still highly controversial , however . One view , which has some empirical support , is that the lower classes are no less reli180 INTRODUCTION TO SOCIOLOGY gious than the higher classes but are less likely to express their religiosity through participation in the formal activities of churches . In a study of religious behavior in several large American cities , Demerath found that , if you distinguish between a church-like and a sect-like form of religious participation , a higher-class position is conducive to church-like religious involvement and a lower-class position to sect-like involvement.49 Church-like involvement entails such behavioral measures as church attendance , while sect-like involvement deals with the degree to which church members see their religion as relevant to their daily lives ? the extent to which their friendships are confined to fellow church members , for example . Demerath 's sample of Protestant church members showed that lower-class persons tended toward greater religiosity in the conse quential component of religious involvement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be more funda mentalist in their religious beliefs ( e.g. , believing in heaven and hell ) , more involved in what Glock calls the ideological component of religious involvement.50 If such findings are meant to show that lower-class persons are equally as religious as higher-class ones ( though with different " style " tendencies ) , the interpretation can be criticized . It has been suggested that studies like that of Demerath deal only with church members , only with those " lower-class persons who are sufficiently involved in religion to belong to a congregation " 51 and that such persons may not be a representative sample of lower-class religious attitudes generally . Glock and Stark show that , if one uses data derived from surveys in which total populations rather than church members are sampled , higher-class persons are more likely than lower-class ones to hold to some of the basic beliefs of Christianity ( life after death , etc. ) .52 According to Glock and Stark , the low religious participation of the lower classes reflects a pervasive alienation of the lower classes from the established religious system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that lower-class people tend to define // politics as more relevant to their lives than religion , while the higher classes see religion as more relevant.53 European and Ameri can data show a rather striking correlation between low religious participation ( in ritual and in belief ) and a tendency to affiliate with a radical political party . These authors conclude that " there is excellent empirical support for supposing that religious involve ment and radicalism tend to be mutually exclusive . " 54 Where " status politics " becomes relevant ( as it is , for example , in Europe and Latin America ) , it may be that the relevance of " status religion " to sociological analysis tends to decline . There are many other differences in rates of religious participa tion by different categories of people that sociological research has established . For example , by most measures of religious participa tion , in the United States blacks participate more actively than whites , older adults more than young adults , women more than men , rural dwellers more than urban dwellers , third-generation im migrants more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mill of sociological interpretation ; we leave the reader with just the one example of analysis and controversy on the matter of social-class differences in religious participation . SUMMARY The universality of religious beliefs and rituals is fully consistent with the psychological nature of man and with some of the require ments of viable societies . Religion provides the individual with rationalization for or explanation of puzzling situations and with re-assurance about the future . For society , religion tends to give ideo logical support to the existing social values and institutional forms and to provide a basis of solidarity or unity for a people . With all these functions , major questions arise concerning the possibility of functional alternatives to religion ; can religion be replaced , for example , by a more adequate science and technology , or by a more secular ideology like communism or humanism ? Religious life is only more or less socially organized or institu tionalized in church activity , and the sociologist concerns himself // with those processes which lead to the greater institutionalization of religion as formal denominations or to the greater responsiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All the major world religions have developed an ethic to guide the daily lives of their members . This ethic may enjoin other-worldly concern with life in the next world or a this-worldly concentration on affairs in this life . The latter kind of ethic was seen by Weber as incorporated in the Protestant Ethic and as a major contributor to the rise of capitalism ? a highly controversial view , with evidence pro and con . Finally , we have considered social class as one of many sociological variables associated with variations in religious participation . The best evidence seems to be that Christianity , beginning as a lower-class church , has evolved toward a middle-class orientation which has resulted in : ( 1 ) a splitting off of lower-class elements from established religious bodies , and ( 2 ) a rather general alienation of lower-class people from Christian religion in its more organized aspects . Although lower-class people may be personally pious , they tend not to express this piety in any systematic participation in organized church activity . // Political Institutions CHAPTER // In sociology , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways that differ from some of the popular usages of these terms . We begin , therefore , with a discussion of four key terms of political analysis : power , authority , government , and the state . With most of these definitions we shall follow the direction of analy sis provided by Max Weber . Power Power is a feature of interpersonal relations of all kinds . Power exists whenever one person is able to exercise his will in determin ing the behavior of another person . ' The professor who gives as signments to his students has power ; the mother who controls a child 's access to the cookie jar has power . In virtually every social relationship there is power , although it may not be all on the side of one party to the relationship . ' Authority Authority is legitimate power , the ability to command by virtue of the recognition of the right of certain persons to give commands 184 and the obligation of others to obey them . Not all power is of this kind , of course . The bully who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an assignment on pain of failing the student ? these are among the numerous examples of power which those subject to it may define as illegitimate . A major theme of Max Weber 's sociology was the problem of how social forms , including prevailing distributions of power , become legiti mated as authority ; how , for example , the economic power of the capitalist entrepreneur was legitimated by the Protestant Ethic . ' The problem of authority in political systems will concern us throughout this chapter . Government Power and authority exist at the interpersonal level wherever there is interaction between persons . But the power of one friend over another or the dominance of a person at a social party are not usually defined as government . This term is reserved for those situations in which power and authority are exercised at the level of some group or society : the government of a family , a trade union , or of the United States . Although specific individuals may make and enforce decisions on all members of the group , the power is exer cised on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimated by reference to some notion about the welfare of the group as a whole . As we indicated in the discussion of the functional imperatives of social systems ( chapter 5 ) , there are two ways of describing the nature of the power which is exercised on behalf of a social system . When government is conceived as polity , power represents the process of deciding upon and enforcing policies of the system as a whole . A family decides to take its vacation at a specific time and place , a nation to commit its military forces at a specific time and place . When government is conceived as a legal system , govern-mental power refers to the enactment and enforcement of laws which regulate the behavior of each member of the social sys tem . Policies and laws are the products of political activity at the governmental level , and the question of how laws and pol icies are arrived at and enforced is a prime question of sociological interest . // The State Government , we have just seen , is found in groups of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found among people who occupy a given geographic territory that is usually involved in the studies of " governments " made by political scientists and soci ologists . The state , which is the agency that performs governmental functions , has been defined as having a " monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force within a given territory . " 4 By this definition , the state embraces a wide variety of political jurisdictions , includ ing those agencies that exercise the power of government ? a city , a county , a nation , or what is popularly called " the state . " FUNCTIONS OF GOVERNMENT : USES OF POWER Our following discussion of the functions of government will focus on the problem of why these power monopolies within territories appear to be functional requirements for societies . Later in the chapter we will deal with the question of the historical emergence of the state as a special agency for the performance of govern-mental functions . Social Control Our first observation about the functions of governmental power brings us back to the view of government as a legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that stands behind the law appear to be necessary , given the various ways in which people may be tempted to behave , ways that are subversive to social order . The possibility of being spanked , imprisoned , or even executed may be powerful factors in deterring socially disapproved behavior although , as we shall see in chapter 13 , legal punishments may be a relatively minor part of the total array of mechanisms of social control that a society uses to produce conforming behavior . An organized society without weapons-carrying policemen is probably a contradiction of the nature of human association under modern conditions . Even when the police themselves are equipped with a minimum of weaponry , as is the gunless London bobby , there is behind those policemen a structure of prisons and other penal institutions that may be designed to strike terror in the minds of // citizens . Some countries carry to an extreme the social-control possibilities of their police forces , putting police in plain clothes so that the would-be law violators are never sure which observer might be empowered to initiate legal violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notion in popular thought to the effect that legal violence may encourage rather than inhibit law violation . The policy of imprisonment is often criticized for creating an embittered man who comes out of prison both more determined and more technically equipped ( through learning from other experi enced criminals in prison ) to carry on a life of crime than he was before he entered prison . ' Similarly , it is frequently alleged that police use their weapons extralegally and excessively , and that this " police brutality " simply stimulates greater hatred for the " pigs " and for the laws that they enforce . One sociological study has reported on some of the motives for police violence . ' First , police tend to justify extralegal violence if they feel it is necessary to get a confession from a suspect . The feeling among many police is that , once an accused criminal enters the formal prosecution procedure , with all its legal safeguards of his " rights , " there is relatively little chance of his being convicted . Since police are judged professionally on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ( an arrest that leads to a conviction ) , there is a temptation to use extralegal violence to obtain incriminating evidence . Second , the study showed that police tend to condone violence if the Victim of the violence has somehow publicly humiliated or brought harm to a member of the police force . A " cop killer " is seen as deserving no mercy , and a person who openly resists arrest casts doubt on the potency of the police , an implication which the policeman may feel impelled to refute by an overly violent reaction . ' Perhaps the recent widespread police repression of the Black // Panther Party , a militant organization of gun-carrying blacks de-voted to " protecting " black communities from police , is largely explained as a reaction to the killing of policemen by members of the group and the public ridicule against established authority that the organization carries on . Whether police brutality or black mili tancy began this cycle of violence and counterviolence is , of course , a matter of controversy . Defense The same monopoly of weaponry that insures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defend the people of a territory against the military ambitions of external enemies . The affinity between the social-control and defense func tions of government is shown in the tendency for the same men and weapons to be used interchangeably for the two purposes , as when the governor of a state calls out the National Guard to deal with a domestic riot , or when the local constabulary is impressed into military service on the occasion of an imminent foreign invasion of a territory . The ease with which military personnel can be used to deal with problems of domestic order is , however , a variable be tween different political systems . In countries in which military and civilian powers are not so clearly separated , it is relatively easy to employ military forces to deal with emergency domestic situations . ' This functional interchangeability of military and police forces creates a major problem for the stability of government in a society . In many countries , the military coup or takeover of the domestic political apparatus is an ever-present possibility . In the United States there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tendency to lament any evidence of a power elite in which civilian and military leadership is interchangeable ' or the threat of an industrial-military complex which could exert undue influence on the society . In a cold war era , when so many of the policy decisions to be made by a government involve military considera tions , a special strain is placed on this traditional separation of the defense and social-control functions.10 // Welfare The federation of the United States was established to , among other things , " promote the general welfare , " and this aim is typical of the concern of government to establish programs or policies for the benefit of the residents of a territory . Many of the conditions that people define as beneficial to themselves are not easily attainable by their individual actions or by any combination of individuals that they can arrange . The schooling of children , for example , requires more organization and a larger accumulation of facilities than most individuals can muster . The largely futile attempts of white parents to produce " homemade " school systems to replace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are symptomatic of the problem . Some of the earliest efforts toward large-scale government were influenced by the need to evolve complex and bureaucratic organizations to deal with such massive problems as flood control and the irrigation of land . In discussing these welfare activities , we are again concerned with the view of government as a policy-making mechanism . In each society decisions must be made concerning the priorities of need in terms of welfare and the appropriate tactics for fulfilling these needs . Furthermore , these decisions must be made binding on all members of the society , lest the implementation of policies fail for lack of public support . It is apparently here that the power element comes into play again . A decision to commit the society to a poverty program may , for example , be repugnant to many people who may work for repeal of the decision in favor of other policies more to their liking . While most political systems tolerate such protests and agitations against established policy , no system apparently tolerates widespread refusal of people to pay taxes or otherwise support the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision of a popular American folk singer to withhold from her federal income tax payment an amount proportionate to the country 's expenditure for military policies that she opposes is a behavior that would be tolerated in no political system if widely practiced . The full power of " legal violence " will , if necessary , be brought to bear to enforce the expectation that every citizen , regardless of his personal will , shall provide a degree of support to the decisions made by the polity. // INSTITUTIONALIZATION The emergence of the state as a special agency to make and enforce law and policy for the people of a territory is another instance of the process of institutionalization . It is frequently as serted that power was used for collective purposes before there were special agencies established to exercise political functions . In relatively simple societies it may be that the formal machinery of the state is not required to maintain social control . In a rural community where " everybody knows everybody , " it is possible for persons to exercise discipline over the behavior of one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In primitive societies , as Maclver puts it , " custom serves to regulate many things that in a less primitive system are determined by law or decree . " Along with this notion of the informality of primitive forms of government , it is often thought that there was a lack of a territorial basis for whatever instruments of government may have existed in primitive societies . Sir Henry Maine writes that " the idea that a number of persons should exercise political rights in common simply because they happened to live within the same topographi cal limits was utterly strange and monstrous to primitive antiquity . " 12 What was not " strange and monstrous " to the primitive , according to this view , was the idea that the family or clan should serve as the unit of political organization . At least one anthropologist , Robert Lowie , has taken vigorous exception to this view of primitive societies as lacking in terri torially based government.13 He believes that students of primitive government , in their emphasis on the exercise of political authority within kinship units , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups , the membership of which cuts across family lines . In many societies there are , for example , " men 's societies " and " old people 's societies " made up of persons from various families living in a region , and Lowie sees the political power of these nonfamilial groupings as the germ from which the modern state has grown . Even Lowie says , however , that " it must // be conceded that the blood tie is frequently the overshadowing element in the governmental activities of primitive peoples . " 14 Whatever may be the truth about the character of primitive forms of political institutions , it seems clear that the growth of the modern state has resulted in a reorganization of political activities in at least three respects . First , there in an increasing dominance of territorially based po litical organization , with the modern nation-state replacing the family , the church , or other functional alternatives to the state as a monopolist of political power . The family , the church , and the vol untary vigilante committee are clearly subordinate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level of the state binds members of these groups , often against their collective will . The futile struggles of Mormons to maintain a polygamous marriage system or of some parents to refuse to send their children to officially accredited schools are lessons in the relative omnipotence of the state under modern social conditions . Second , there has been an expansion of the size or geographic extent of the territory within which a single political system is operative . Some of this expansion in the size of the modern nation-state is undoubtedly a consequence of international wars . War has typically resulted in the incorporation of the territory of a con quered people into the area dominated by their conquerors . Although warfare is thus often seen as a major force in creating the modern nation-state , war can also be viewed as a " great divider , " 15 producing schisms that make political union impossible . Under conditions of modern warfare , in which extensive military alliances are formed among combatant nations , victory in warfare is often the occasion for the division of territories which are then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe was carved up as a result of World War I , and World War II resulted in the apparently permanent creation of two Germanys . Under such conditions , warfare can probably no longer be treated as a major factor in the expansion of the size of the state . Rather , the force that apparently now most influences the movement toward enlarged states is the increasing economic interdependence of the nations of the world . The European and other " common // markets " have begun to evolve tariff regulations that apply in an area wider than the territory of any one nation , and aspirations are still being entertained that a more complete federation or a United States of Europe might develop from these beginnings . Finally , the modern state represents a movement toward a more permanent territorial organization of power . The earliest ventures in collective government were probably stimulated by such special contingencies as warfare or a group hunting expedition , and the earliest forms of authority represented submission to the leadership of persons who could organize these special activities . The author ity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the crisis.76 Where economic activity becomes more routine and less sporadic , as happens in the movement from a hunting to an agricultural society , the need for more permanent political organi zation becomes apparent . The ad hoc political organization of the hunting tribe would not suffice to satisfy political needs under more routinized social conditions . VARIABILITY IN POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS An interest in the variation of forms of political structure is at least as ancient as the writings of Aristotle and Plato . A classic expres sion of this interest is Montesquieu 's comparative study of political forms , The Spirit of the Laws ( 1748 ) . The modern political soci ologist is heir to a long line of speculation about the conditions that encourage one or another form of political structure . Authority One dimension of variability of political forms concerns the degree and type of legitimacy of the prevailing political order in different situations . As we have seen , legitimate power or authority is that power which is willingly accepted as right and proper by the people who are subject to its exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political sociologists : ( 1 ) the extent to which the prevailing order is a legitimate or authoritative one , and ( 2 ) the basis for the authority of a legitimate political regime . Degree of authority . One major tradition in political sociology emphasizes the near inevitability with which people accept as // legitimate the political system that prevails among them . Maclver , a proponent of this view , asserts that : Men obey because they are social beings ? or , if you prefer it , because they are socialized beings , trained and indoctrinated in the ways of their society . . . . Law-abidingness is the pragmatic condition of response to the whole firmament of social order . " This response may be reinforced by the devices available to rulers to impress their subjects with the majesty of the state . Mer riam distinguishes two such devices : credenda , or things to be believed , and miranda , or things to be admired.18 Credenda consist largely in the " myths " that grow up around an existing political order : the myth , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or of the power of government derived from a " social contract " such as a constitution . " Miranda tend to center around the elaborate ritual that a state employs to emphasize its majesty : the coronation of a king , the inauguration of a president , the pomp of a state dinner or a state funeral . These tend to impress the citizen with the dignity of his political institutions . The man who stands at the center of an inauguration pageantry and says , " I , Richard Milhous Nixon , " appropriates to his person some of the awesome dignity of the state , and this dignity no doubt gives his words the " authority " of irresistible command to many citizens of his country . In contrast , some political orders are based on a minimum of willing obedience and a maximum of terror tactics or raw power to enforce conformity . A so-called police state is a form of government in which the suppression of disobedience is carried to an extreme . Perhaps the key to a successful exercise of power in a police state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 20 Al-though rulers can not suppress every instance of disobedient be havior , they can sometimes create an atmosphere of uncertainty as to when and how the police may strike against suspects . The unexpected midnight raid , the use of paid informers , random purl ishments of people whether innocent or guilty ( every tenth man in // the village will be shot ) ? these are a few of the infinitely various devices to keep people submissive to a set of rulers who possess neither favorable credenda nor miranda with the people . George Orwell 's fictional account of a police state in 1984 illustrates some of these devices . The pervasive sense that " Big Brother is watch ing " tends to suppress any potential movements toward dis obedience . The totalitarian political regimes of recent years , the control exer cised over prisoners in concentration camps , 27 and even the control exercised by staff over inmates of such benevolently conceived " total institutions " as mental hospitals22 are illustrations of the possibilities of the exercise of control without there being any high degree of authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Having given police-state forms of political power their due , we return to the central sociological problem of the nature of authority in political systems . Given the difficulty of maintaining unlegitimated power , it is not surprising to observe a tendency for naked power to clothe itself with legitimacy and be transformed into authority . But there are a number of quite different styles of this " clothing . " The most influential typology of the forms of authority is that of Max Weber.23 We shall review the forms of authority defined by Weber and then assess the usefulness of this typology in understanding the nature of political authority in one country , the United States . First , there are political systems in which the authority of gov ernors is traditional in its origins . A purely monarchical government is of this type , the reigning monarch 's authority being guaranteed by the belief of his subjects in the legitimacy of the ruler as the heir of a legitimate line of rulers . This line may be thought to extend back to a heroic " founder " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Roman Catholic Church , which teaches that the current Pope is the present representative of a line of authority extending back to Saint Peter . Second , a ruler may gain authority through his personal charis matic quality , his ability to make people believe in his personal mission , often one which contradicts the established and tradi194 INTRODUCTION TO SOCIOLOGY tional political structure . Weber placed a great deal of emphasis on charisma as the source of social innovation , including new forms of political structure . Revolutionary governments tend toward the charismatic form , with a Cromwell , Washington , Mao Tse-tung , or Castro as the magnetic personality who holds together the diverse elements of a successful revolution . The third type of authority Weber called rational-legal . Rulers acquire legitimacy from the belief that they were duly elected or duly appointed in accordance with the society 's rules for the selec tion of officeholders and that their performance of official duties follows the due process of law in that society . This form of govern ment might also be called constitutional , if we think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political activity . A constitutional govern ment is " of laws , not of men , " and a ruler in such a system benefits from the belief of all citizens in his legitimate right to hold and exercise the power of his office . These types of authority are ideal types in the sense that no existing political system will be a complete embodiment of any one type ; however , these types are useful for analyzing and comparing political systems . Using Weber 's typology , we might ask how one could characterize the nature of political authority in the United States . On the surface , the system is almost completely a rational-legal one . The constitution of the country prescribes a set of rules for the election of officials and a set of limitations on the powers that they may legitimately exercise . The Supreme Court has evolved as the principal agency for exercising restraint against extracon stitutional uses of power by any of the branches of government.24 The strength of constitutional restraint on political power is shown in the willingness of the public to submit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but contrary to the preferences of most political leaders and most citizens . Further , there is a broader strain of legalism in the political attitudes of people in the United States . Once a piece of legislation becomes the law of the land it tends to be submitted to regardless of personal attitudes . The compliance of the South-ern states with unpopular desegregation decisions of the Supreme // Court is the most frequently cited example.25 Other examples include the finding that , while most American doctors and the American Medical Association opposed public medical insurance for the aged ( Medicare ) before the program was instituted , most doctors have cooperated rather fully with the program and have even developed attitudes favorable to it.26 The constitutional and legal conservatism of the American political system seems to be well established . On the other hand , there may be important traditional and charis matic elements in political authority in the United States . In the direction of traditional authority , it is interesting to note an appar ent tendency of the public to accept certain ideas about " legitimate heirs " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " throughout the country 's history ? the Adamses , the Roosevelts , the Kennedys ? in which the presumption is that any adult male is an heir to the family 's tradition of political leadership . We may also be developing certain ideas about legitimate heirs on a basis other than family lineage . Consider the vice-presidency of the United States , historically ridiculed as a dead-end political job ( a cartoon published while Lyndon Johnson was vice-president carried the following caption ? First man : You know , you never hear much about Lyndon Johnson these days . Second man : Lyndon who ? ) . There seems to be an increasingly common presumption that the current vice-president will receive his party 's presidential nomination when the incumbent president is ineligible or unavail able for renomination . Although there is nothing in the American constitution that supports this presumption , it may be emerging as a political tradition to accompany more established political axioms such as the old saw that the governors of New York and California are good presidential timber . The role of personality or charisma in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorite popular expression used by people to express their political independence is their assertion that they vote for " the man , " not " the party . " Voting for // " the man " seems often as not to come down to voting for the most likable candidate or the one with the best physical appearance . In one recent presidential election a woman was quoted as saying that , in deciding how to vote , she always pictured a wall of oval picture frames with pictures of all the American presidents ; the last frame is empty and she mentally places each candidate in the oval frame to see which looks best and she votes for that man . David Riesman attributes the recent emphasis on " glamour " in political leaders to a general change in American " character . " 27 The increasingly " other-directed " person has no clear-cut personal goals of any kind , and he does not really know what he wants from his political leaders in terms of support for given laws or policies , but he knows what he likes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " According to Riesman , what the American really likes in his political cal candidates is the appearance of sincerity ( a rather dangerous criterion , since sincerity can so easily be faked ) . This view touches a persistent theme in social criticism of American political life : the view that political candidates are too carefully " packaged " in the image-making style of Madison Avenue.28 Influence A different way of looking at variations in political structure is a consideration of the distribution of political influence . While the problem of authority refers to the problem of securing compliance to a given set of enacted laws and policies , the problem of influence refers to the ability of different people to determine the nature of the laws and policies that are enacted by a government . At one extreme we have a dictatorial form of political structure in which one man imposes his will in the making of laws and policies . At the other extreme we have a purely democratic form in which all persons within a social system have influence on political deci sions . Close to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political structure in which political influence is concentrated in the hands of a very few persons . Dictatorial and oligarchic forms . The more concentrated forms of political influence have excited much sociological interest . One // tradition in political sociology holds that oligarchy is an inevitable tendency in political structure . Michels ' " iron law of oligarchy " is a typical statement of such an elitist conception of politics.29 Michels bases his " iron law " on his observation of the internal political structure of European socialist parties . It was his view that , if one were to find anywhere a democratic structure with a large degree of rank-and-file influence on group decisions , one ought to find it in those political parties that supposedly represent the interests of the common man . In fact , Michels found these parties to be highly oligarchic ; a few men make the decisions for the party and select its leaders and rank-and-file views seldom have much weight . The oligarchic tendency that Michels describes is based on two major characteristics of the mass of members of an organization : ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apathy . Rank-and-file members are incompetent in the sense that they can have no adequate grasp of the technicalities involved in political administration . Ordinary citizens seem quite incapable , for example , of understanding the fiscal intricacies involved in the international balance of payments . For the administration of their affairs people must depend upon " experts . " As the distance between the expert 's and the ordinary citizen 's understanding of the technicalities of government widens , it becomes less and less possible for the general public to judge the merit of the handling of their affairs by these experts , who tend to detach themselves from the masses and become part of the ruling oligarchy . Michels notes also the frequently lamented indifference or apathy of the rank-and-file member : " There is no exaggeration in the assertion that among the citizens who enjoy political rights the number of those who have a lively interest in public affairs is insignificant . " 30 The low rate of membership turnout at a business meeting of a union or social club or at the primary election of a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 37 Even when people participate in activities such as labor unions , // they may be more motivated by primary-group considerations ( the satisfaction of " belonging " to a congenial group of peers , for exam ple ) than in actively promoting their political interests.32 When people are asked what is " worrying " them , they tend to cite such private troubles as financial insolvency and only very infrequently do they express much concern with the political issues of the day.33 The leaders of parties or nations , on the other hand , tend to be highly committed or interested in the group because , being leaders , they have invested more of their own fates in the success of their organization.34 With a highly committed leadership and an indifferent mass , the stage is set for a take-over of control by an oligarchy . " Though it grumbles occasionally , the majority is usually delighted to find persons who will take the trouble to look after its affairs . " 35 Although Michels does not personally despair of the " desperate enterprise " of combatting this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this " pessimist aspect of democracy . " 36 This " pessimist " viewpoint has colored sociological studies of the structure of political influence in nations , communities , and formal organizations . One investigation which aimed to examine the validity of the " iron law of oligarchy " was a study of the politics of the International Typographical Union.37 In this union there was , contrary to the situation in most labor unions , a great deal of rank and-file participation and influence on the decisions of the union leadership . But the ITU had some rather unusual features for a labor union . First , there was a long tradition of conflict of interest between different kinds of printers , and there existed in the union an unusual kind of " two-party " system in which each party had to compete //                     