@@773460

txt 230 Techniques of Regulation fluorspar and mica ) and natural rubber . Some of these stocks are very large ; there is enough tungsten for eight years ' normal peace-time consumption and sufficient tin and chromium for three years . Any commodity negotiation on bauxite , copper , manganese , tungsten or mica has to take the existence of these stocks into account . The experience of the only commodity which has been the subject of an international commodity agreement and has been stockpiled by the United States is worth examining . The United States acquired huge quantities of tin during the post-war period up to 1952 . The possibility that the US might discontinue purchases for the stockpile acted as a spur to the conclusion of the First Tin Agreement . At that time , there was a significant excess of production over consumption , with no prospect of the excess being removed by US purchase . The United States did not join the first four Tin Agreements ( 1956-76 ) , arguing that it could not subject national sovereignty regarding the disposal of stocks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Senate concur in US ratification of the Fifth Tin Agreement . Just as buying for stockpiling had an impact on the negotiations for an agreement , so too did disposals from it affect the functioning . In 1961 , the United States made the first announcement about the release of tin from stock , and the market immediately fell from ? 991 a ton to ? 935 a ton . By early 1962 , the US announced that out of the 349,000 tons of tin in stock 164,000 were considered surplus to its requirements . The magnitude of the quantity which threatened the market can be seen from the fact that world production in 1961 ( excluding USSR , China and other socialist countries ) was only 136,000 tons . Even though the United States did not dispose of 15 months ' production immediately , the availability of such a large quantity acted as a strong depressant on the market . The anguished reaction from the producing countries made it necessary for the US to negotiate with them . Such negotiations for orderly marketing of the surplus were held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note that the negotiations with the US were held with the Tin Council as a whole , that is with representatives from both exporting and importing countries . This implies that the groups inside the Agreement were able to arrive at compromises before negotiating with an important non-member . Here at least is one example of a successful co-operation between two usually conflicting groups . The actual quantities disposed of over the years since the programme began in September 1962 are shown in Table 9.2 . Of the total quantity of nearly 145,000 tons , approximately 125,000 tons were sold // commercially ; most of the balance was sold to AID . By July 1976 , almost all the tin authorised by Congress had been disposed of . At this time , the United States held three years ' consumption equivalent , though the target is only one quarter of that ? i.e. nine months ' equivalent ; a proposal for further disposals was therefore submitted to Congress . From Table 9.2 , it is seen that the disposals were highest between 1963 and 1966 and in 1973/4 . A comparison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would show that on balance the has followed a cautious policy and has released tin without too great a dampening of prices . Indeed , the disposals were an important stabilising factor in times of tin shortages . Without this extra availability tin prices in these periods would not.only have been much higher but the Tin Agreements would have been even less effective . Two further aspects of the operation of buffer stocks are of interest ? the question of financing them and the actual mechanics of operating them . In the case of tin , the burden of financing has been borne solely by the producers , all of whom are developing countries . Since stability of the market is conceded to be of benefit to importing countries too , the failure to support stockholding with resources must be viewed as a refusal by the importing countries to undertake their share of the burden . For a long time , there was no international financing support either . Since June 1969 , the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) has permitted member countries to borrow from it for financing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Commodity Agreement . The conditions under which money can be drawn and the repayment terms are stringent ; only if a member is in dire need , after borrowing its gold tranche , can it avail itself of the facility . The whole scheme is a short-term one . Since its inception , the facility has been used only once ? there being only one international agreement with a buffer stock ? and the exporting members of the Tin Agreement drew only a small amount , US $37 million , all of which has been repaid . The effect of throwing the burden of financing on exporting developing countries has been to require them to tie up resources that could be used for development . While on the one hand mechanisms for assuring earnings and transferring resources are being promoted , immobilising a part of the existing resources is a contradiction . The mechanics of operating a buffer stock are an important but neglected question . When does it buy ? When should it sell ? Should it make a profit or break even ? If it makes a loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercised on the operator of the buffer stock without denying him the flexibility of dealing in the market ? In the first three Tin Agreements , the price range between the floor and the ceiling was divided into three ranges ? in the lower the manager could buy but not sell , in the middle he could do neither , and in the top range he could sell but not buy . The middle range corresponds to the theoretical conception of a free market ' in actual practice it was not so , since any dealer in the market knew how the price would move as it approached either of the outer ranges . Speculation often became betting on a certainty . In the Fourth Agreement therefore the manager was given greater flexibility to operate ? buy or sell , cash or forward ? in the outer ranges also . This raises the question of how much the manager should actually buy or sell at a given time . His primary objective is , of course , to stabilise the market ; but he needs to balance it with profit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need not make a profit on every deal , how often and what quantum of losses can he be permitted to make ? He can no doubt be given guidelines , but a supervisory body can not control every transaction ; it can only conduct a post-mortem examination . This was dramatised in the last Tin Agreement when the buffer stock manager and his deputy were suddenly suspended and the Chairman of the Tin Council took over all their functions . Presumably , they had been behaving in a manner considered inconsistent with the standards expected of an international civil servant . To control an international official who operates in a volatile commodity market while giving him adequate flexibility is very difficult . // How effective has the buffer stock mechanism been in the Tin Agreements ? It is essential to have a clear answer to this question since this technique has acquired a reputation for effectiveness , particularly among the developing countries . The Dakar Conference recommended the creation of a fund for the financing of buffer stocks of commodities exported by the poor countries . The evolution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the detriment of other mechanisms will be examined in detail in Chapter 13 . Any conclusion drawn on the basis of tin experience can not automatically be deemed to be applicable to other commodities , since few of them will have a supporting US stockpile . In his book on the working of the Tin Agreements , William Fox has a chapter assessing the effectiveness of tin control.6 After examining the tin market in the 50 years between 1924 and 1974 ( except for the extraordinary period of the Second World War and its immediate aftermath ) , Fox asks and answers four questions . Has international control produced a greater tendency for production and consumption to keep in better natural balance ? In the pre-war period the surplus averaged about 13,000 tons a year and the shortages about 11,500 tons ; post-war , the average surpluses were slightly smaller at 10,500 tons , but the shortages were substantially larger at 19,000 tons . The relative balance during the Third Agreement was merely a coincidence of high production and high consumption . Have the agreements promoted efficiency ? Fox 's answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( or even willing ) to change the world pattern of production is expecting too much ' . Have the agreements given the tin industry longer-term price stability which the other non-ferrous metal industries have not had ? Tin does not seem to have attracted the general flow of new capital that might have been expected , and there are no signs that the other non-ferrous metals , without the advantages of a floor price , have found any difficulty in raising capital to maintain or expand production . ' What have the Agreements achieved ? So far as the use of the buffer stock has eased some of the problems ( of wide short-term and long-term fluctuations in prices , great depression in production and consumption , excessive dependence on the upswings and downswings of industrial activity in the developed countries ) or the use of export control . . . has preserved part of the world tin mining industry from extinction , the weapons of the tin agreement have been justified . ' Fox further points out the slow and , indeed , reluctant approach by so many members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate quantities the money and metal without which the buffer stock can not function effectively ' . In short , the buffer 234 Techniques of Regulation stock , like the quota mechanism , can operate successfully only within a limited range of variation between supply and demand ; it can do little to promote consumption , improve efficiency or attract investment . It needs adequate resources to be effective . Improving Market Conditions Improving access to markets either by quantitative assurances or by reduction of barriers , market improvement by promotion of consumption and research and development and by regulating the production of synthetics have all been dealt with extensively in the earlier chapters . All these require action by individual countries according to the degree of their responsibility by specific measures best suited to their economic structures and political philosophy . The particular case of the EEC 's policies on access towards countries associated with it will be considered in the next chapter . In dealing with the artificiality of prices in closed markets ( Chapter 7 ) three approaches to the problem of opening them up were identified . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the producing unit from the other vertically integrated sections ? involves the consideration of the complicated question of the relationship of multinational corporations with their host governments and , in particular , the issue of compensation . To venture into the pros and cons of this question , which is not susceptible to a standard solution , will mean straying too far from an analysis of commodity conflicts . Only the other two approaches will be examined here , by considering two specific examples , bauxite and bananas , since oil , the best known example , needs no elaboration . The success of OPEC is a result of effective co-operative action by the governments of exporting countries accounting for most of the market economy trade . The bauxite case illustrates both the unilateral approach by one exporting country and an attempt to enhance producer co-operation . As a market leader in bauxite , Jamaica , which accounts for one fifth of the world 's production and over half of world exports , has succeeded in increasing tax and royalty payments by the producing companies by appropriate domestic legislation . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ingots has also been imposed on each ton of bauxite mined , thus ensuring that a part of the increase in the price of the end product accrues to the country suffering resource depletion . Other actions by Jamaica include production control by imposing minimum production levels and gradually acquiring a stake in the mining companies . Jamaica 's success in increasing revenues as well as its control over production is due to its // superior bargaining power in bauxite . Jamaica is the world 's second largest ( after Australia ) supplier of bauxite ; half of the total requirements of the United States comes from this source ; and to the aluminium companies Jamaican bauxite is important in terms of quality , proximity and price . It must be noted that notwithstanding a substantial increase in the revenues of the producing country , the impact on the companies or importing countries is very little ; the net effect of doubling the price of bauxite is an increase of less than 10 per cent in the price of aluminium . An International Bauxite Association was established in March 1974 by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guyana , Sierra Leone , Australia and Yugoslavia . A proposal under discussion in the IBA is the possibility of a minimum price for bauxite designated in a bauxite dollar ' to protect it from the fluctuations in the major trading currencies . In contrast with the moderate success of some members of the IBA , the attempt made in 1974 by some Central American banana producers , members of UPEB , proved abortive . In order to increase the returns to the producing countries , the UPEB members sought to impose an export tax of US $1 per box , a fraction of a cent on the price of one banana . The major American companies ? United Brands ( formerly the United Fruit Company ) , Standard Fruit and Del Monte ? threatened and carried out boycott action against the governments which tried to put the tax into effect . Subsequent revelations , following the suicide of the President of United Brands , indicate that other unsavoury methods of influencing governments were also used . The coercive threat of ruining the economies of small countries by total stoppage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disarray ; some abolished the tax and some others reduced it to varying levels . United Fruit actually stopped cutting and shipping bananas in Panama , the only country to make a serious attempt to collect the tax . One reason for the failure of UPEB was that its membership was limited to a few Central American countries and other major producers such as Ecuador , Surinam , the Philippines and Ivory Coast did not join . The group as a whole lacked adequate market control and , in addition , was composed of countries more vulnerable to coercive action by powerful transnational companies . The lesson to be learnt from the oil , bauxite and banana examples is that in order to succeed against multinational corporations operating a closed market the producing countries must control a significant share of the market and must have sufficient holding power . 236 Techniques of Regulation The Multilateral Contract The main objective of regulation of quantities ? exports , imports , or stocks ? is the stabilisation of the price of a commodity ; the four mechanisms listed under regulation of prices ' attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the multilateral contract type of commodity agreement also has to deal with quantities , at least to the extent of allocating approximate shares of the total guaranteed quantity among exporters . The quantitative control over production , stocks and total exports is , however , left to be determined entirely by the individual exporting countries . The International Wheat Agreements are the only examples of regulation through this mechanism . The Wheat Agreements embody two sets of balanced obligations  - -  importers agree to buy certain guaranteed quantities at not less than the agreed minimum price and exporters agree to sell guaranteed quantities at not more than the agreed maximum price . Thus the quantity set consist of guaranteed access by importers and assured supply by exporters ; the price set is a mutual obligation to observe the price range . The earlier ( 1949 , 1953 and 1956 ) Wheat Agreements expressed the reciprocal quantity obligations in absolute terms . The later ( 1959 and 1962 ) agreements had more flexible provisions ; so long as the price was within the range the exporters agreed to supply all the commercial requirements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase a specified percentage ( usually 80 per cent ) of their commercial purchases . When the price went above the ceiling , exporter obligations were reduced to selling at the maximum price certain minimum quantities based on past average importers , and the importers were relieved of their percentage purchase obligations . The success of a multilateral contract type agreement rests entirely on the ability of the major exporters to hold stocks in times of surplus and to obey the supply obligations in times of deficit . The earlier Wheat Agreements worked because the major exporters , particularly the United States and Canada , had the resources to hold considerable stocks and also the discipline to forego higher than maximum prices for some quantities in times of shortage . The success of the wheat agreements was not repeated by the International Grains Arrangement 1967 . Since then the wheat situation has swung from one extreme ? surplus and low prices up to 1971 ? to the other ? global shortages , depletion of stocks and rocketing prices since 1972. // Indicative Price Ranges Like the multilateral contract mechanism , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this case supplies are even less controlled . Such agreements do not attempt to allocate , even approximately , market shares , though there may well be an informal understanding on this question . The achievement of the objective is left entirely to the exporting governments who regulate exports and stocks as they wish . The GATT-sponsored intra-developed country ' Arrangement Concerning Dairy Produce ' ( skimmed milk powder and butter fat ) has an indicative price/earnings target and the importing countries co-operate by ensuring observance of minimum prices . The informal international arrangements for jute-type fibres and sisal-type fibres also have indicative price ranges , but the degree of co-operation offered by importing countries is much less . The Gentlemen 's Agreement on whole milk powder also has an indicative price , but gentlemanly ' behaviour can not be defined ; for all one knows , it is just an informal cartel . A contrast is provided by the informal international Arrangement on Tea ? there are informal quota understandings but no agreement on an indicative price range . The unavoidable conclusion is that informal arrangements work only among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be spelt out in so many words ? it is just understood ' . It is interesting to note that co-operation by developed importing countries is more readily forthcoming for commodities exported by other developed countries . Indexation There are two techniques of price regulation which have nothing to do , on the face of it , with quantity regulation . Relating the price of a single commodity to that of its finished product and relating the price of all primary commodities to those of manufactured goods can both be called indexing ' techniques . But common usage has reserved the term indexation ' to the latter alone . There has so far been one successful attempt at single commodity indexation ? that of Jamaica in bauxite . This concept can readily be applied to a few more commodities . Since India exports iron ore to Japan and imports steel from Japan and since , as time goes by , India has to export more and more tons of iron ore to import one ton of steel , it is obvious that there is a deterioration in the terms of trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This example is not as far-fetched as the usual bales of cotton to tractors one , so easily attacked by the rich countries . At least in the field of minerals , an asymmetry is easier to prove and a correspondence 238 Techniques of Regulation between mineral and metal easier to establish . The concept of indexing ' the prices of all primary commodities to that of manufactured goods is not new ; the UNCTAD study on indexation has an Annex which traces it back to 1949 , to an expert group appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations which recommended a proposal for preserving the import purchasing capacity of a country experiencing a shortfall in export proceeds by transferring resources from countries which had experienced a balance of payments improvement . Needless to say , the proposal was not given any serious consideration . The technique of indexing as a means of protecting the import purchasing power has of late become a focus of confrontation and contention between the developed and developing countries . In December 1973 , the General Assembly adopted ? 95 countries voting for , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a study .. . of ways and means whereby unit prices of manufactured imports from developed countries and unit prices of exports from developing countries could be automatically linked ' ( emphasis added ) .8 Much has been written about the pros and cons of this proposal ; the SecretaryGeneral of UNCTAD also appointed an expert group of economists to advise him ; the group did not even acknowledge the existence of a deterioration in the terms of trade of developing countries , let alone find indexation feasible . An illuminating examination of the question can be found in Terms of Trade Policy for Primary Commodities.9 The paper defines the concept as guarantees by countries importing primary commodities to pay prices related to the price index of manufactured goods imported by developing countries ' and analyses possible methods of indexation , their feasibility , the costs and the adverse effects . The main conclusions are : ( i ) Deliberate action to turn the terms of trade in favour of exporters of primary products will meet political resistance in the importing countries on the grounds that ( a ) the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will get nothing in return . ( ii ) Payment of guaranteed prices depends on some intervention in the operation of the market by the governments of the importing countries . ( The paper does not add that this is unacceptable , as a general principle , to some important developed countries , e.g. the United States , ) ( iii ) There is a problem of selecting ( a ) the basket of manufactured goods , ( b ) the price quotations to which the prices of primary commodities would be linked and ( c ) the appropriate parity for each commodity , keeping in mind quality differentials and the relativities between different commodities . // ( iv ) In primary commodities facing competition from synthetics , it will be necessary for the importing countries to impose controls over expansion of synthetic production or taxes to reduce their competitiveness . ( v ) In primary commodities produced in both developed and developing countries , the problem of unintended benefit to the rich countries would arise . ( vi ) A guaranteed price can not be open-ended on quantities ; otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diminish because of higher prices , some exporting countries will be tempted to sell below the guarantee and the whole system will be undermined . ( viii ) Higher guaranteed prices will depress demand and have adverse employment and social consequences in the developing countries . ( ix ) If the scheme is limited to stated quantities of imports , quantitative restrictions on exports will have to follow in order to allocate market shares equitably , and inevitably production control must follow quotas . ( x ) It will be difficult to ensure that the benefits of the higher prices for a large number of commodities will be equitably distributed among the many developing countries . ( xi ) A general rise in commodity prices will have inflationary effects . There are two fundamental objections to the concept of overall indexation . The assumption that indexation will benefit all developing countries and only developing countries is false . Table 3.3 shows that developed countries account for nearly two thirds by value of exports of primary commodities and developing countries for just over a quarter . Any indexation of all primary commodities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of developing countries are also importers of raw materials . A country such as India exports tea and iron ore but imports oil , food grains , copper , tin , lead and zinc and so on . To increase the price of tea or iron ore is , on the basis of evidence adduced earlier , more difficult than to do so for oil or metals . If the prices of all primary commodities are indexed , some developing countries are bound to be losers . In short , indexation as proposed will benefit the developed countries and some developing countries , while some others will suffer a large net loss . This is very similar to the finding of the FAO study on the costs and benefits of removal of protectionism . The second objection is that indexation is unworkable . If the world can not achieve concerted action for a few commodities with few types or quality differentials , if it can not tackle the problem of one major commodity facing competition from 240 Techniques of Regulation synthetics , if it is unable to regulate the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is difficult to believe that it will be able to fix the right parities for the whole range of primary commodities , taking into account the effect of coffee on tea and copper on aluminium . Indexation is a blunderbuss which hopes to kill one bird by scattering shot in all directions ; it is not a magic spell that will make all the complications and conflicts of commodity regulations disappear . The puzzling question is why the developing countries attach so much importance to this concept , which is politically non-negotiable and practically non-enforceable ? As usual , there is a charitable and a cynical answer , both of which are partly true . The charitable one is that the proposal is only a reaction to the deep-seated frustration at the lack of action , or even acceptance , by the developed countries of the problem of deterioration in terms of trade . To the developing countries the decline is real and tangible , whatever economists may read from their figures . The cynical answer is that it is a brilliant political manoeuvre by some OPEC countries to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on oil-importing developing countries by seeming to champion the cause of all primary commodity exporters . There is no better way of doing it than by choosing the most impracticable method , one that has the added advantage of being politically unacceptable to the developed countries . Earnings Stabilisation Schemes It is possible to argue , theoretically , that most of the techniques of regulating quantities or prices are concerned with the returns to the producer of the commodity rather than with the foreign exchange earnings of the exporting country . This is true only in theory since there does not exist a single country which does not intervene in one way or another ( regulating production , marketing , taxes or exchange rates ) between the producer and the final consumer . Of the techniques considered so far , indexation comes closest to recognising the importance of export earnings to the exporting country , since its main aim is to protect the import purchasing power of countries . It is generally conceded that fluctuations in export earnings affect development since the benefits of price rises do not seem to offset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be of the same magnitude ' .10 Fluctuations disrupt investment planning , upset the internal balance of public finances and exacerbate balance of payments difficulties . Schemes for direct stabilisation of countries ' earnings have been discussed internationally for a long time . The 1949 expert group // proposal , cited earlier , was a direct stabilisation scheme . Subsequently , another expert group recommended the creation of a Development Insurance Fund providing for partial , but automatic , compensation of export shortfalls below the average of the immediately preceding years.11 A proposal recommended by UNCTAD I in 1964 for Supplementary Financing Measures ' and studied by the staff of the World Bank in 1965 was not acceptable to the developed countries . The two schemes of practical importance are the Compensatory Financing Scheme of the IMF and the recent Stabex scheme of the Lome Convention . The Compensatory Financing Facility of the IMF , started in 1963 , is geared to the balance of payments problems of countries dependent on raw material exports , especially those arising from sudden shortfalls due to natural causes . The conditions of drawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of repayment was quite short at five to seven years and the interest rate high . Further , the country had to be in dire need on its overall balance of payments ; that is , if the shortfall in earnings from one commodity were offset by increased earnings from another the country was not eligible . The amount that could be drawn was limited by fixing the maximum drawal at 25 per cent of the member 's quota ; in effect , the richer the country , the more it could draw . The shortfall was calculated not with reference to past earnings but also taking into account forecasts for earnings in the following two years . Because the scheme was so restrictive , the Fund had allowed drawings of only US $1.25 billion in the twelve years since the inception of the facility ; by the end of 1975 , about half the drawals had been repaid . A hundred million dollars a year for all the members of the Fund , poor and rich ( so long as they fulfilled the requirements , developed countries could also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not much of a transfer of resources . Indeed , the shortness of the repayment period shows that the principle of the scheme is not a transfer ' but only a temporary tiding-over loan , that too at near market rates of interest . That the terms were onerous at last came to be recognised ; the most important member of the Fund suggested , as part of Secretary of State Kissinger 's proposals to the Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly , that the terms ought to be liberalised . This suggestion was implemented in December 1975.12 The limit on drawings was increased from 25 to 50 per cent of the member 's quota and the maximum amount outstanding correspondingly increased from 50 to 75 per cent . Though the principle of projecting the earnings for the two following 242 Techniques of Regulation years was maintained , the projections were henceforth to be based on the assumption that growth in earnings would be at the same rates as in the recent past . Other improvements include making the assistance more timely and also making it available to countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proof that the terms had , in fact , been liberalised is seen by the sharp increase in drawings ; in the first six months of 1976 , approximately US $1.1 billion were drawn by 25 countries . An innovative feature of the Lome Convention not found in its predecessor , the Yaounde Convention , is the Stabex scheme . In essence , the scheme seeks to guarantee a level of earnings for the ACP countries on their exports to EEC ? not global exports ? of a selected group of primary products . The scheme also has the novel feature of providing more generous treatment to the least developed ( 24 ) countries among the ACP , the landlocked and island developing countries ( 10 more ) , as compared with the less disadvantaged ( the remaining 12 ) . The products covered by the scheme are : fresh bananas , cocoa ( beans , paste and butter ) , coffee ( raw , roasted , extracts etc. ) , raw cotton , groundnut products ( nuts , oil and cake ) , raw hides , skins and leather , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sisal , tea , wood and iron ore . The inclusion of the last commodity was agreed to by the EEC only for the sake of not jeopardising the achievement of overall agreement , for it remains firmly opposed to the extension of the system to mineral products ' .13 The basic principle of the scheme is to compensate , by a transfer from a special fund , shortfalls in earnings in any year of exports of these products to the Community . The first condition that any ACP country must meet before it is eligible to request a transfer is to prove that it is dependent on the product in which a shortfall had been experienced . A country is defined as being dependent when its earnings from the export of the particular product to all destinations are at least 7.5 per cent of its total earnings from exports of goods . The exceptions are : the dependence threshold is reduced for all products to 2.5 per cent for the 34 least developed , landlocked and island developing countries ; and for sisal the threshold is reduced to 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to claim a transfer , it must prove that the earnings from a particular product on its exports to the Community have declined in relation to a reference level which is defined as the average of earnings ( of exports to the Community ) over the preceding four years . If the earnings have declined by more than 7.5 per cent it can request a transfer ; the exceptions are : the 34 specified countries can claim if the // decline is 2.5 per cent or more ; for five countries ( Burundi , Ethiopia , Guinea-Bissau , Rwanda and Swaziland ) global exports and not merely exports to the Community are compensatable . The percentages indicated above are again threshold levels ; that is , no transfer can be claimed if the shortfall is lower . But the amount of the transfer itself is based on the actual shortfall , i.e. the difference between actual earnings in the shortfall year and the reference level . However , a transfer will not be sanctioned , or its amount can be altered by the EEC , if ( i ) the fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the EEC ; ( ii ) if the product does not meet the strict conditions of rules of origin ; ( iii ) if the product was not consumed or processed in the EEC ; and ( iv ) if the trend of the country 's trade reveals important changes ' . The total amount available for transfer for all the countries over the five-year life of the Convention is 375 million units of account ; each year , therefore , 75 million units of account are available on an average . Balances unutilised in any year can be carried forward to the following years , except , of course , from the last year . The transfers are interest free . The scheme also provides for repayments to the fund , though the 24 least developed countries do not have to repay ; in their case they receive a grant . Repayments are to be made , up to a maximum of the transfers actually received , over a period of five years after the transfer , if the prices in any year exceed the prices of the product in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports to the Community is at least equal to that of the reference level . The main differences between the IMF and Stabex schemes are : ( i ) the Fund scheme deals with overall balance of payments shortfalls while Stabex covers each commodity group individually ; ( ii ) the Fund scheme applies to all exports while Stabex guarantee earnings only on exports to the Community , with a few exceptions ; ( iii ) Stabex calculates shortfalls with reference to past earnings while the Fund projects possible earnings into the future for two years ; ( iv ) the terms of the Stabex loan are much more liberal and in many cases a grant is given ; ( v ) even when a loan , not a grant , is made , it is interest free . The criticisms of the Stabex scheme are : ( i ) the amount available each year , about US $90 million , is very small ( less than 4 per cent ) compared with the value of exports of the covered products by the ACP countries to the Community of approximately US @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unlikely to be available to all the applicants ; ( ii ) the product coverage is restrictive and excludes in many cases all but the most rudimentary processing ; examples of the 244 Techniques of Regulation products excluded are : carded or combed cotton , linters , sisal products , wood which is processed beyond being squared or sawn lengthwise ; ( iii ) some of the conditions , such as those dealing with trade policy measures and important changes in trade patterns , are vague and likely to lead to conflicts in interpretation ; and ( iv ) in combination with the free access provision the scheme places one group of developing countries at an advantageous position to the detriment of earnings and market shares of other developing countries exporting the same commodities . One judgement of the scheme is that it is a technically cumbersome , bureaucracy ridden and politically sensitive scheme for making transfers , the concessionary element of which is variable , to a selected group of countries without regard to any sensible criteria covering overall need for aid ' .14 This does seem a somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Community signed 24 transfer agreements with 17 different countries for a total value of 71.8 million u.a . The largest amount ( 15 m.u.a. ) went to Ivory Coast , followed closely by Ethiopia ( 14.4 m.u.a . ) . Congo ( 7.4 m.u.a . ) , Benin ( 7.1 m.u.a . ) , Niger ( 5.95 m.u.a. ) and Ghana ( 5.18 m.u.a. ) were other large recipients . Twelve of the 17 countries were least developed ' ; the grants to them account for over half of the total transfer . Nine different commodities figure in the list as suffering export shortfalls ; wood was by far the most important with 43.35 per cent of the total . Coffee , cotton , hides and skins and groundnuts were the other important commodities . At least its first year of operation indicates that transfer agreements were not too difficult to negotiate , that substantial transfers could be made and that the least developed countries benefited as much as the more advanced developing countries . Invigilation , Deterrence and Punishment This analysis of the various techniques began with the assumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commodities . During the course of analysis , the inter-relationship of the different techniques was also noted . Indicative price ranges go with informal arrangements , national stock policy with multilateral contracts and a quota system with production control , diversification and stock policy . The choice of techniques to be put into a given set depends on the characteristics of the commodity as well as the political acceptability of the set as a whole . The choice of form depends on the degree of enforceability considered necessary and acceptable by the participants . Enforceability is a crucial element in commodity regulation . It can vary from a gentlemen 's agreement ' to a treaty with elaborate provisions for // invigilation , deterrence and punishment . Why is there a need for policing provisions at all ? To answer this question , one has to look at the nature of the membership of the international understandings ( agreements , arrangements , understandings of whatever degree of rigidity ) . The examples studied show clearly that in order to be successful any understanding will have to cover a very substantial part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the better . But it is neither essential nor practicable to achieve total coverage . No understanding is universal , in the sense of including 100 per cent of the total trade , all the exporters and all the importers . There will always be members and non-members . The main difference between the two groups is that members accept obligations which nonmembers do not . The latter , however , do get the benefit of the results of the understanding ; if the price of a commodity is stabilised , if marketing becomes orderly and if prices are held above a floor by controlling supplies , non-members also reap the benefits . Indeed , they benefit more because they do not have to bear any part of the cost of regulation . This is analogous to non-members of a trade union getting the higher wages negotiated by it without having to pay the union dues . There does come a point , however , when it is not equitable for nonmembers to get away without paying a price , particularly if they jeopardise the members ' efforts by disruptive marketing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among members , there are two groups ? those who obey the provisions of the understanding and those who evade them . The distinction becomes particularly relevant in cases in which costs are associated with membership ? supply restriction , stockholding and production control . The analysis of the motivation of the different categories of exporters in Chapter 5 shows that the point at which compliance gives way to evasion is different for each one . No country can be classified as belonging permanently to one category or another . The temptations against complying vary as times change , and the success of any understanding depends on encouraging the former and discouraging the latter . Supervisory and control provisions therefore have to deal with the three categories of countries : ( i ) compliant members ; ( ii ) recalcitrant members ; and ( iii ) non-members . All understandings , however loose , have adequate provisions for reporting so that information is available to contemplate action , if necessary , to guard against the inroads of non-members , to reward the compliant and punish the recalcitrant members . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they have to include forecasts ( anticipated production ) as well as information on 246 Techniques of Regulation past events ( exports already made , stock held ) and that such information must be prompt and timely . As far as non-members are concerned , two things must be watched : they must not increase their market share at the expense of members and they must not undermine the understanding by exporting below the minimum price objective . The quantity problem is usually sought to be safeguarded by providing for a limit on imports from non-members by member-importing countries . The limit is based on past performance , generally the average of the preceding three years . Ensuring that nonmembers do not undercut members is more difficult . The only point at which control can be exercised is at the importing end . Importing members alone can take action to prohibit imports from non-member , or even member countries , below the accepted price level . Controlling imports quantitatively and prohibiting imports if made at low prices both involve import control mechanisms . The degree to which importing countries accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dislike import controls and usually plead absence of bureaucratic machinery . The argument is not a credible one for , when it suits them the United States has not hesitated to use import controls ( e.g. oil ) or even export controls ( e.g. soyabeans ) . The degree of cooperation received from importing members is shown by the example from the 1962 International Coffee Agreement shown in Table 9.3 . While the quantity of excess imports may seem small in relation to // total exports of over 50 million bags , these excesses were in addition to the clandestine and diverted quantities which are described in the next paragraph . As in the case of exporting countries , it only needs one major importer to break ranks ; others then feel obliged to follow suit . From the point of view of the exporting countries , full co-operation by the main importing countries is essential if their efforts to gain benefits that are commensurate in relation to the obligations they undertake are not to be frustrated . To be fair , one must add that in the subsequent agreement there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In most other agreements , importer support has been minimal . Dealing with recalcitrant members , on the face of it , should be an easier problem ? after all they have accepted the obligations and the penalties for not fulfilling them . In actual practice , however , disobedience turns out to be an even more difficult question to tackle . Once again the Coffee Agreements provide an example , because only they have made the most consistent attempts to improve control methods . In the 1962 Agreement , control over exports was minimal for the first couple of years and , with the introduction of the certificate of origin system , developed into one of checking performance after the exports had taken place . Both exporting and importing governments had to report quantities exported or imported by them so that the two could be matched . Overshipments by exporters carried a penalty of deduction of equal amounts from future quotas for the first offence , double deduction for a repetition ; after the third such offence , the member became liable to expulsion . But the agreement also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new markets ' were outside the quota , coffee could be exported , on paper , to non-quota markets and diverted on the way . The second loophole was clandestine shipping to a non-member country which appeared as exports from these non-members ? the so-called tourist ' coffee . All three types ( one blatant and two indirect ) of overshipments occurred during the life of the agreement , the peak coinciding with the year of the highest total exportable surplus ? showing the inverse correlation between high stocks and resistance to temptation . For example , Liberia , which had never had an exportable production of more than 60,000 bags , exported 798,000 bags of coffee in 1966 ? all of it from Ivory Coast . Nearly half a million bags were imported by one US company ? General Foods ? on false certificates of origin . About 40 per cent of all Ugandan coffee exported in 1966 is estimated to have come under the Kenyan imprint at that time Kenya was a non248 Techniques of Regulation member . Colombian coffee took a tourist ride to Aruba , which exported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1965 and 1966 . In most years an additional two million bags were diverted from new markets . The active connivance , and even encouragement , of American companies in frustrating the agreement must be noted . It was therefore surprising that the United States should take the initiative in proposing a system for controlling shipments before exports took place . Under the stamp plan ' , which came into effect on 1 April 1967 , each exporting country was distributed stamps ' equal to the quantity of permitted quota exports in any quarter ; the stamps had to be fixed to every shipment at the time of export . Importing countries agreed to prohibit entry to exports from member countries not having the requisite stamps . In practice , therefore , when an exporting country had exhausted its stamps it could over-ship only if it was prepared for the shipment to be denied entry ; the deterrent , in fact , was imposed on the importing companies , since they could not risk paying for coffee that they might not actually receive . The ingenious plan did work since it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While this solved one problem , the question of non-member exports remained . The 1976 Agreement tried to avoid this by having just two categories of markets ? member-quota and non-member-nonquota ; how well this will work remains to be seen . Human ingenuity being what it is , if a country wants to ship more and if a company wants to connive at it , no doubt ways will be found . Two important points arise from the above ? the inadequacy of penalties and the importance of importer co-operation . Commodity arrangements are international treaties ; short of war there is no way by which the international community can impose its will on a government that has decided to evade its obligations under the treaty . The ultimate punishment in any agreement is the threat of expulsion ; but in reality this is no punishment at all . After all , a country can withdraw from any agreement by giving appropriate notice . Expulsion or withdrawal will be a credible penalty only if this is followed by a tangible loss of market . So far experience has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent . Tourist coffee and non-member coffee can not find markets unless coffee-importing companies in the developed countries , with the tacit blessing of their governments , disregard the provisions which the governments have undertaken in an international treaty . Importing companies treat the agreements signed by their governments with cynical disdain . Such action wou , ld not be tolerated by any government with respect to // domestic legislation . But all market economy rich countries happily condone this when it comes to international obligations . So , when one talks about the lack of discipline among developing exporting countries , one must also remember that importing countries give equal encouragement to their citizens . If exporter indiscipline has a snowballing effect , so does importer illegality . Domestic enforcement of accepted international obligations must however be a willing exercise . No amount of penalties or threats of punishment can force governments to honour commitments which they feel , rightly or wrongly , to be against their national interests . The analysis of the effectiveness of the various techniques has shown that some do not work and can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : production controls , diversification , an integrated buffer stock for many commodities and indexation of all commodity prices . Other techniques sometimes work and sometimes fail . Export quota mechanisms , buffer stocks for individual commodities that are easily storable and multilateral contract agreements backed by adequate national policies of exporting countries ? all work within certain limits of supply and demand . Producer co-operation can be successful at reasonably high levels of market control . Informal arrangements succeed mainly among countries with similar systems and similar philosophies . Single commodity indexation is practicable . Some techniques , such as the Stabex , benefit a large number of developing countries , though not all , and help to solve problems of regulation for some commodities ; in a less liberal manner , the IMF Compensatory Financing Scheme does the same . One area in which improvement is needed is the equal sharing of burdens between importers and exporters . This applies both to costs of operation and to mechanics of control . Ability to hold on is essential in making many of the techniques work . Examples have been cited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerations to the detriment of long-term goals . In both groups , failure of one important country to hold the line has a snowballing effect . Countries sometimes comply with international understandings ; at other times , pressures induce them to evade or disobey . Evasion can not be enforced by just threats of punishment . There are no credible punishments that are purely economic and have no political consequences . It is in this context that the political compulsions that influence the attitudes and decisions of governments in commodity negotiations are analysed in the next chapter . Allies of equal resources also may differ in their readiness to help , the magnitudes and attitudes of assistance and their acceptability to appeals . The Arthasastra A recurring theme in this study has been that , while economic interests may determine the basic attitudes of governments to commodity negotiations , these are then modified by political considerations . Even when we sought to identify only economic interests politics kept intruding . For example , in Chapter 4 it was seen that the choice a country makes in belonging either to the developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specific economic interests of a country as an exporter ( or importer ) coincided with those of a group of exporting ( or importing ) countries , attitudes were motivated by feelings of solidarity based on identification with one camp or another . The solidarity of the centrally planned economy countries is essentially a political solidarity underpinned by a similar economic system ; in any case , the inter-relationship between politics and economics is more clearly recognised in Marxist philosophy . The fundamental political difference , which affects commodity regulation as much as any other aspect of international relations , is between the developed , the developing and the centrally planned . For reasons of greater economic interdependence , the analysis in this book has been concentrated mainly on the relations between the first two groups , though without totally ignoring the third . By the time , in Chapter 6 , the question of access came to be considered , the distinction between politics and economics was beginning to wear thin . In analysing other aspects , attention has been drawn whenever political considerations outweighed economic ones . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not just politics but super-power politics at that . The use of the word politics ' is perhaps inappropriate , because there is a presumption that the influence of politics is always to the detriment of good economic solutions ; words such as politics ' and politicking ' have come to acquire pejorative overtones . No such presumption is made herein ; politics ' is used here only as a catch-all phrase to cover all other national interests , extraneous to commodity interests ; that influence commodity negotiations . 251 252 The Politics of Commodity Negotiation Apart from the politico-ideological division between developed and developing countries , there are at least three identifiable political relations that cut across economic interests . These are the strategic power relationship , historical association and regional solidarity . In this chapter , specific examples of the three types will be analysed . The influence of politics on the forums in which commodity negotiations take place and their influence on choice of techniques will also be considered . The most fascinating example of regional solidarity and the influence of politics on commodity negotiations is provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agricultural Policy . A report in The Economist on an EEC farm ministers ' meeting sub-titled Farming is Politics ' , says : France 's Mr Christian Bonnet sought and obtained ? a higher milk price despite existing surpluses . Why ? Because the other ministers recognized his position would have been intolerable if he had to go back with empty hands to French milk producers . Mr Peart 's career seemed to hang on retention of the beef premium ? so his colleagues gave him that , albeit in diluted form . Germany 's Mr Josef Ertl agreed to a reduction of border taxes ; but only a partial one , so that he could argue to German farmers ( who benefit from retention ) that the system had not been abolished.2 The extent to which politics diverges from economics is shown by the following further quotations from the same report : The Council fixed a higher milk price than the Commission proposed . So the prospect is more surpluses . The Community already has more than 1 million tons of surplus milk powder in its stores . So the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feed and to stockpile some of the soya which would otherwise have been used for the feed . This is to try , probably unsuccessfully to appease the Americans , who are key soya exporters . . . The wine war between France and Italy seems to be over despite the riots and several deaths in the Midi while the meeting was going on . France imposed a special tax last September on imports of cheap Italian wine to placate the wine growers of the Midi , to the fury of the Italians . Now 4 million hectolitres ( about 90 million gallons ) of wine are to be distilled into industrial alcohol to mop up the wine lake . // The complications of the CAP and its financing are infinite ; since it is impossible to summarise them all within this study , one has to take refuge under the excuse that the EEC is a case of regional integration and not a pure case of international trade . Thus the focus in this chapter is limited to those aspects of the Community 's policy which have a direct bearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The EEC 's relationship with the less developed countries is the best example of the effects of a historical association . In contrast with the high drama of every commodity negotiation among the members of the Community , that between the importing European countries and the exporting former colonies is much less dramatic ; none the less it is important . For one thing , the Community 's approach , whether of the Six or the Nine , is generally less dogmatic and doctrinal and more pragmatically oriented towards finding specific solutions . The reason is historical association . Colonialism established economic interdependencies which have an imperative of their own . Achievement of politicial independence could not change these overnight . The erstwhile metropolitan countries still remain the major trading partners of the former colonies . Shipping lines , airline routes , telephone and telegraph communications ? all radiate like the spokes of a wheel from the centre to different points on the periphery . The close political relationship that subsisted after the achievement of independence was strongly underpinned by economic interdependence . Mutuality of dependence does not imply that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the metropolitan countries were less dependent , collectively with all the former colonies and individually with any one of them ; consequently they had a superior political position . So the negotiations necessarily had to take the form of more giving ' by the rich countries and more taking ' by the former colonies . Within this general framework , some special issues must also be noted . All negotiations of commodity problems with the less developed world are subservient to ( i ) all negotiations between the Community 's members on the same commodities and also ( ii ) to commodity negotiations between the Community and other developed countries . The first priority is obvious ; the second is due to the inherently greater importance of trade with developed countries compared with trade with the developing world . The less developed countries around the Mediterranean have a special place . While only some of them were fully fledged colonies ( others were mandated or condominium states ) , all 254 The Politics of Commodity Negotiation have a special political , strategic and economic importance to the Community . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries around the Mediterranean  --  Spain , Portugal , Greece and Turkey are all aspirants to full membership of the Community . The EEC therefore has to balance its political interests with the various groups in some order of priority . To take a specific instance , increased access to olive oil from Tunisia and Morocco affects oil imports from Spain or Turkey and also the Community 's own production . Imports of wine from Algeria add a further dimension to the hot dispute between France and Italy . The citrus fruit question affects every country in the mediterranean ? including Israel . So the Community 's ordered set of priorities in dealing with commodity problems seems to be : ( i ) Intra-Community problems on the whole range of the CAP ( with varying degrees of enthusiasm among the members for the CAP as it exists and on the need for change ) ; ( ii ) Intra-rich country problems ( grains , oilseeds etc. ) ; ( iii ) The candidate Mediterranean states ; ( iv ) Other Mediterranean states ; ( v ) Former colonies in Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Caribbean and the Pacific ) ; ( vi ) The rest of the world , in the following order : ( a ) the proximate countries in Central Europe ; ( b ) Asia ( the former British colonies ) ; ( c ) Latin American countries . The Community has Special Trade agreements with each one of the non-candidate Mediterranean states . With the fifth priority group it has made collective agreements . The evolution of the collective agreements between the Community and an increasing number of developing countries , mostly in Africa , is a good example of the adaptation of historical colonial association to changing circumstances.3 When the Treaty of Rome which created the Community was negotiated , special arrangements were written in , at the insistence of France , to protect the benefits which the colonies had as members of the Franc zone . Two principles of the first association convention ? compensation for benefits lost and a European Fund for Development ? have also remained the cornerstones of subsequent conventions . By the time the first convention ended in 1963 , most of the colonies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association and 18 developing countries ( the Association of African States and Madagascar , or AASM ) signed , with the EEC of the Six , The Yaounde Convention which came into force on 1 January // 1964 . This Convention continued the benefits of the earlier scheme with the addition of a new principle : the AASM countries were also to grant reverse preferences ' for EEC products imported by them . The second European Development Fund under this Convention had additional resources of 150 million u.a. , thus making 730 m.u.a. available for the five years of its life . The two principles recognised in this agreement were : ( i ) a country 's prior colonial status was a justification for the establishment by the EEC of discriminatory trading preferences in its favour ; and ( ii ) these preferences together with financial aid were appropriate tools for compensating countries for the consequences of the Community 's policies , particularly the CAP . During the life of the First Yaounde Convention , attempts were made to enlarge the number of countries benefiting from it , prompted by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A three-year negotiation with Nigeria led to the signing of an association agreement in 1966 , but this was never ratified . In 1969 , the Arusha Convention was signed between the EEC and the countries of the East African Community ( Kenya , Uganda and Tanzania ) ; this was less comprehensive than the Yaounde Convention as it had no financial transfer provisions . The first Yaounde convention was itself renegotiated between the EEC and the AASM with no significant changes and lasted till 31 January 1975 . During the ten-year life of the two Conventions so many changes had taken place that any instrument that followed had to be significantly different . The main changes were : the negotiation by the Community of a number of preferential trading schemes with various countries around the Mediterranean , the GSP which gave preferential treatment to imports of manufactures from all developing countries ; the gradual erosion in the value of the preferences to AASM countries due to repeated tariff cuts in different rounds of GATT , and , most important , the enlargement of the Community itself through the accession of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle that a former colony was entitled to compensation for loss of preferences had been recognised , the UK demanded similar treatment for the Commonwealth countries . The dilution of the benefits by the addition of a large group of countries was unacceptable to both the EEC of the Six and the AASM . As a compromise , it was agreed that only 20 Commonwealth countries in Africa , the Caribbean and the Pacific were entitled to the same treatment as the AASM . The seven Commonwealth countries in Asia were thus excluded . Eventually , 46 countries ( 19 AASM including Mauritius , 21 Commonwealth including Bahamas and six other African countries ) negotiated with the 256 The Politics of Commodity Negotiation Community of the Nine an agreement that has come to be known as the Lome Convention.4 While the Lome Convention contains seven Titles and as many protocols , the main ones are those dealing with access , earnings stabilisation and financial aid . Of these , Stabex has been analysed in the last chapter . In theory , the Convention provides totally free access into the EEC for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chapter 1 of Title I states : Products originating in the ACP states shall be imported into the Community free of customs duties and charges having equivalent effect . . . The Community shall not apply to imports of products originating in the ACP states any quantitative restrictions or measures having equivalent effect other than those which the Member States apply among themselves . In practice , the free access provisions are circumscribed by a number of important qualifications . The rules of origin which determine whether an ACP product is eligible for free access contain an enormous list of prohibited processing activities , including a large number in which the ACP may be expected to have a competitive advantage . Processed meat products , flour made from cereals , cigarettes containing more than 30 per cent imported material , even aluminium utensils if the import content is more than 50 per cent ? all these exported products are ineligible . Again , all commodities protected by the CAP are excluded . The value of the free access provisions is also whittled down by the access provided to other countries under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the free trade agreements with many European countries . Lastly , the Community has reserved the right to impose protective measures in what is , perhaps , the widest safeguard clause ever drafted ; if , as a result of applying the provisions . . . serious disturbances occur in a sector of the economy of the Community or of one or more of its Member States , or jeopardise their external financial stability , or if difficulties arise which may result in a deterioration in a sector of the economy of a region of the Community , the latter may take , or may authorise the Member of State concerned to take , the necessary safeguard measures . The effectiveness of the free access provisions will only be proved by // experience ; in its immediate operation , the Community has shown understanding of the problems of the exporting countries . For example , in applying the safeguard clause for beef , the special position of four countries to whom the commodity is important was recognised by giving them a quota equal to their best performance . An important change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferences . The reason for this is not so much generosity but US opposition to the idea that developing countries should grant preferences in a discriminatory manner to only some industrialised countries . Since any developing country granting such preferences could have been debarred from the benefits of the US scheme , ACP countries could not afford to grant them to the EEC . The Fourth European Development Fund , under the Convention , is substantially bigger , with resources of 3,000 m.u.a. ( including the Stabex amount of 375 m.u.a. ) for the 46 countries , compared with 905 m.u.a. in the Third // m.u.a. , is non-repayable grant aid . The incorporation of the main provisions of the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement within the CAP pattern is also a significant part of the Convention . The Lome Convention is important in many ways . First , it covers a large number of developing countries in different parts of the world . An agreement between 46 poor nations and nine industrialised ones is a hopeful sign that constructive action is possible . Second , the fact that the 46 negotiated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic conditions among them , shows that unity of approach can be maintained ; the group system need not always be confrontationist . Third , the Convention clearly recognises the inter-dependence of trade , earnings stabilisation and aid . There are two main criticisms . It is overly restrictive on access for processed and manufactured goods , thus making the Title on Industrial Co-operation more a pious wish than one of operational significance . The second criticism is that , by choosing a set of developing countries for special treatment , it discriminates against the rest , particularly the populous , poor nations of Asia . A conflict is thus generated between two sets of developing countries . While it is true that the excluded countries are placed in a position of comparative disadvantage , it is equally true that the Convention represents , on the whole , a valuable package for the 46 . The historical relationship between metropolitan countries and former colonies does not endure at the same level ; as time passes and the countries develop new economic and political relations , the old economic ties diminish . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Politics of Commodity Negotiation for the obvious reason that the process of decolonisation started there earlier . The imperial preferences of the pre-war period , transformed into Commonwealth preferences , have gradually lost their value . For a long time , the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement and the Colombo Plan were the main symbols of the Commonwealth association . The former has now been subsumed in the Lome Convention and the latter overshadowed by other newer programmes of technical assistance . The United Kingdom membership of the Community is the clearest indication of the weakening of the old economic ties , though a political connection still persists . The importance of the CSA as an example of guaranteed access , guaranteed higher prices and a built-in advantage to the less developed countries has been discussed earlier . The CSA also performed a useful bridging function in international negotiations on sugar . Since the group contained developed importing countries , developed exporting countries and developing exporting countries , it acted as an effective producer-consumer coalition and was able to perform mediatory roles . It is for this reason that one should take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridges across the great divide between the developed and developing . Strategic Power Relationship Even when ties of economic inter-dependence weaken there is still a residue of political co-operation which can make a positive contribution to reducing the level of confrontation . Political co-operation can also exist without the history of colonialism and its economic after-effects . This can be classified as the strategic power relationship ' and is exemplified by the interaction between the United States and Latin American countries . The United States has a philosophic dislike of commodity agreements , a dislike overcome only in two special circumstances : ( i ) when it has a substantial economic stake in a commodity ; or ( ii ) when there is overwhelming political compulsion . The United States has not only been a loyal member of the international Wheat Agreements but an active promoter , but only because it is the most important exporter of that commodity . It did not join the first four International Tin Agreements ; it has been a member of the Sugar Agreements only on the condition that its own sugar policy was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producer of copper , the US has no intention of joining the Council of Copper Producing Countries ( CIPEC ) . But one should not assume from this that US hatred of producer associations is even greater than its dislike of commodity agreements . The US is an observer ' in the International // 31 Sultana Producers ' Agreement , because California is the largest producer of raisins . The US participates in the Management Committee of the Arrangement on Dairy Products . If the US has not chosen to become a full member of such agreements it is because effective participation can be achieved without going through the arduous exercise of submitting treaties to the Senate for ratification . There are two examples of political compulsions prompting the US to join a commodity agreement . One is the decision to join the Fifth Tin Agreement . The reluctance to join the earlier agreements was seen in the last chapter to be due to the desire to retain freedom of action regarding releases from the strategic stockpile and not be called upon to justify them in the Tin Council even when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that reluctance was the need to be seen to be doing something for more than one commodity , as a part of the 41-point package presented to the Seventh Special Session of the UN . The second example ? the change in the US attitude to an international coffee agreement ? clearly shows the strategic power nature of the political compulsion . Since the termination of the war-time Inter-American Coffee Agreement in 1948 , United States policy on any kind of a coffee agreement was that enunciated in the Randall letter . In April 1956 , IA-ECOSOC voted to draft an international coffee agreement . The position of the United States was stated in the letter dated 27 April 1956 sent under the signature of the US Ambassador to IA-ECOSOC : The United States could not take the lead in negotiating an international agreement on coffee or become a participant in such an agreement . ' 5 The refusal to associate the US with a coffee agreement was categorical ; even if others succeeded in negotiating one , the US would not join it . By the end of the 1950s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on 1 January 1959 , Batista fled Cuba and the revolution succeeded . It was then that opinion in the State Department and in the coffee trade became alive to the fact that coffee was vital to many economies in that part of the world . A collapse of the market might well affect the US strategic interests with the prospect of Latin America going Communist ' . On Kennedy 's election as President , a further positive thrust was given as a result of the report of the Latin American Task Force appointed by him . The Alliance for Progress that followed had to have a proposal relating to coffee that could be seen to benefit many countries in Latin America , particularly the largest among them . So the President said : The United States is ready to cooperate with the Latin American and other 260 The Politics of Commodity Negotiation producing country governments in a serious case-by-case examination of the major commodities and to lend its support to practical efforts to reduce extreme price fluctuations . ' 6 Latin American countries had always relied for their developmental effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time of the Randall letter and after . The only change was that , after 1960 , not doing anything about it affected the United States politically and strategically . The complete reversal from the position of the Randall letter came in Treasury Secretary Dillon 's statement to the OAS-IAECOSOC meeting in August 1961 : The United States is prepared to join in a workable coffee agreement , to use its good offices to urge the participation of other consuming countries and to help in the enforcement of export quotas through the use of import controls . ' 6 The extent of this change is shown by the willingness shown to use import controls as a means of helping to police the agreement , a significant departure from the attitude to all other agreements on commodities which the US imports . The United States has continued this policy of full co-operation in the functioning of the Coffee Agreements . Two examples of the help given to the Latin American producers have been cited earlier ? US collusion with them to impose a settlement on African producers and the stamp plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regional Affinities Apart from the coffee case , the relationship between the US and Latin America is weaker than that between the European metropolitan countries and their former colonies . In fact , regional ties either tend to be very strong ( as in the case of the EEC ) or very weak . Even where regional co-operation is tenuous , the fact that major producing countries all belong to the same region is helpful in tackling commodity problems . The largest producers of oil are in the Middle East ; the very largest , with the power to withstand cutbacks in supplies ( equivalent to the ability to hold stocks in other commodities ) and the power to control the market , are all Arab countries . The lead taken by the Latin American countries was crucial to the successful negotiation of the Coffee Agreement . The ESCAP region provides four such examples ? the Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries , the Asian Coconut Community , the Pepper Community and the informal jute producers ' meetings . Barring a few exceptions , regional co-operation in the developing world is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well be a necessary first stage for a successful negotiation in a wider forum . // Choice of Negotiating Forum This leads to the problem of the multiplicity of forums which were described in Chapter 2 . The industrialised countries prefer to settle their commodity problems under GATT . Developing countries prefer to handle them under UNCTAD . The choice of a forum is a political decision made by the countries mainly interested in the trade in a particular commodity . In theory , UNCTAD , as the successor to ICICA , has the sole responsibility for recommending the convening of a UN Commodity Conference and for servicing it . This is a decision of the United Nations , accepted by all member countries . However , when a conflict arose between the United States and the EEC ( of the Six ) on access to agricultural commodities , the forum chosen to settle it was GATT . The ostensible reason was that trade in agricultural commodities was primarily a case of quantitative restrictions and other non-tariff barriers to trade . An additional reason , as explained earlier , was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the centrally planned countries were excluded , thus creating possibilities of trade-offs between the industrial and agricultural sectors of the two main contenders . The Gentlemen 's Agreement on Whole Milk Powder ' was negotiated under the auspices of the OECD and is serviced by it . Why do the rich countries prefer the OECD or GATT ? Because the OECD , and for the most part GATT , are perceived by the rich as well as the poor to be rich men 's clubs . The history of the OECD shows how these perceptions developed ; it is the successor to the OEEC ( the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation ) set up in 1948 to co-ordinate the recovery policies of Europe with the aid of the Marshall Plan . The OEEC had 17 members , the US and Canada being associated with it ; the OECD has 24 , membership consisting solely of developed countries . Two of the objectives of the OECD are to achieve the highest sustainable economic growth ' and to contribute to the expansion of world trade on a multilateral non-discriminatory basis ' . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the following : expanding the production and exchange of goods ' and the elimination of discriminatory treatment in international commerce ' . Since it came into force on 1 January 1948 and until the adoption of Part IV ( on Trade and Development ) in November 1964 , GATT and OECD were not dissimilar in spirit and attitudes . Even the adoption of Part IV , rightly hailed as a significant departure , was only a reaction to events . As Kenneth Dam remarks : 262 The Politics of Commodity Negotiation There can be little doubt that this step was a reaction to the preparations , already in progress , for the 1964 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and that the increasing grandeur of the format of Part IV during the year and one half of drafting was a reaction to the growth of UNCTAD from an isolated United Nations Conference to a permanent body commanding the allegiance of the entire less developed world . ' GATT changed but OECD did not . What the OECD thought of UNCTAD was : Many individuals regarded the United Nations Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups . In fact , one government representative reported at the Annual Aid Review that the impression had been given in his country that the industrial countries were being made defendants.8 ( emphasis added ) When the rich countries wanted to form a pressure group against OPEC , they narutrally turned to the OECD ; the International Energy Agency was created under its auspices . There is no indication that the OECD or lEA ever thought of asking developing oil importing countries whether they wanted to join the IEA , an organisation supposedly representing the interests of all importers of oil , not only the rich countries . Much as Dr Kissinger would like every one to believe that confrontation between the rich and poor nations was entirely the result of the oil crisis and the intransigent rhetoric of the developing countries , it was always implicit in the creation of the OECD . Every change of policy in the rich countries ? the change in GATT , Kissinger 's own 41 proposals ? came about only after the developing countries had brought the matter to the surface . No wonder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich with their own policies nothing gets done . Confrontation became a settled policy and was first identified as such in the OECD , not in any forum of the developing countries . The OECD has thus , for all practical purposes , become the Secretariat of Group B ' ( rich industrialised countries ' group ) in UNCTAD ; the developing countries ' Group of 77 ' lacks a similar institution . The group system did not originate in UNCTAD . The 15-year existence of the OECD and its threatened total hegemony in international trade and economic matters inevitably provoked those who were left out to get together . Thus , if the rich countries prefer the GATT , there is a reason for it ; it is their organisation . If the poor prefer UNCTAD , the reason is the same ; it is their organisation . Reference to international organisations in commodity negotiation would not be complete without mentioning the role of the Secretariats // of Commodity Councils in the functioning of International Commodity Agreements . One vital function that they perform is the collection of all relevant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The importance of this information-conveying role should not be under-estimated ; they not only gather facts but also information on the attitudes of the negotiators and their limits . Especially during the conduct of negotiations on vital questions such as quotas and prices , the Secretariat can influence the negotiations towards what they perceive to be an acceptable compromise . The successful chief executives of the Secretariats are those who , having built up a position of trust among the various parties , are able to perceive the possibilities of a compromise . An example quoted in Fisher 's book on the Coffee Agreements is the successful attempt made by the executive director to resolve the deadlock on the selectivity issue . His active secretariat brokerage resulted in a plan for a quota review ? known as the " Santos document " ? which served as a useful lightning rod in the ensuing discussions . ' 9 The role of the international civil servant in commodity negotiations is generally not understood and often misunderstood . He can not create a solution where none exists , nor propound one which is politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable chance of success ; in fact , Fisher is right in characterising him as a broker ' . Positive Politics In considering the influence of politics on commodity negotiations , emphasis has deliberately been put on its positive aspects . There are at least two successful examples whose complexity is as great as any so far described . Both concern the European Economic Community , whose machinery ? the Commission , the Councils of Ministers , the Summits ? has often been described as a nightmare . But the thing somehow works . Conflicts there have of course been and will continue to be ; the surprising thing is that the CAP has survived in spite of exchange rate adjustments , border taxes , conflict with other developed countries , admission of new members to the Community , wine wars and butter mountains . There are two reasons for this success . First , the participants have always considered that the benefits of regional integration outweigh the sacrifices they are called upon to make under the CAP . They fight to minimise the sacrifices to the last drop of ink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it means resorting to stratagems such as stopping the clock . There is , in short , a political will to succeed , because the will in this case comprehends pay-offs in other areas ? 264 The Politics of Commodity Negotiation strategic , political and industrial . The second reason for success is that negotiations are always on-going ; they can even be said to be permanent . In this context , a wine war is nothing but a continuation of negotiation by other means ; it is only a signal that the sacrifice demanded of one party is too great . This unequal sharing of the burden is consequently corrected in the next round . Within an accepted framework , adjustments are constantly being made . This is the lesson that one can learn from the CAP ; commodity negotiations can not be oncefor-all or infrequent affairs . The essence of the flexibility that has been consistently advocated in this book means continuous adjustment . The second example of the successful negotiation of a complex agreement is , of course , the Lome Convention . There were many conflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many negotiations had to be gone through before the ACP and the EEC could harmonise their separate positions ; only then could they attempt to reconcile the two . But it was done . One reason for the successful result was the disaggregated approach to different parts of the package . Small groups of interested countries negotiated the different bits on the understanding that agreement on any part was subject to agreement on the whole . In other words , a satisfactory re-aggregation was implicit . If 55 countries could agree on a complex package , it should not be totally impossible for 125 to do the same . Another example of historical association , described in Chapter 7 , is the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement , which guaranteed access to all Commonwealth sugar exporters , usually paid a higher than world price for such exports , paid an even higher price to developing countries , granted them a share of the growth in the market and even indexed the price to increases in costs of production . A favourite preoccupation of free marketeers ' is the chastising of preferential arrangements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Convention or the CSA . It is not necessary to equate them all with original sin . It all depends on how one looks at them . If the Lome Convention is seen as a conflict between the 46 and the rest of the 77 ' , a conflict is all that one will find . If , on the other hand , one recognises that the 46 have gained something , supports the gains and then asks what is to be done for the rest , perhaps one can build a structure on a constructive foundation . The importance of perspective also applies to other kinds of political associations . The strategic interest of the United States in Latin America can either be looked upon as an unfortunate effect of power politics or as a positive factor in promoting commodity arrangements which benefit them . In commodity negotiations , no relationship // is totally adversary . Importers and exporters were able to get together in the Tin Agreement before negotiating with an important nonmember ; a mixed exporter-importer group such as the CSA performs a useful bridging function ; if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is helpful in promoting international co-operation . This analysis of political influence points to a neglected aspect of the relationship between developed and developing countries ? the constituency problem ' . In a sense , the Mediterranean and the ACP countries can be construed as a constituency of the Community , which is prepared to undertake some obligations towards their development . To a lesser extent , the United Kingdom has a constituency in the former colonies , and , more tenuously , the United States has an interest in the development of Latin American countries . In theory , SouthEast Asian countries could provide a constituency for Japan and Australia , if these countries are prepared to accept a special role in the development of ASEAN and Indo-China countries . This leaves the populous South Asian countries without an identifiable sponsor ; a recent article , however , considers them as a constituency of the World Bank.10 Perhaps , lacking a single strong sponsor and having relations with all , multilateral financial institutions automatically become their main source . This emphasis on the positive aspect of politics shows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid is essentially humanitarian in motivation , but its contribution to global economic stability is a positive one . Historical association , regional co-operation , altruistic motivation ? all these can be harnessed . The question posed is simply : if countries want to do good for political reasons why not accept it instead of fighting it ? 7. // The poor , whether they are countries or individuals , have little place in the world . Jawaharlal Nehru The most common reason given for failure of commodity negotiations is that political will ' was lacking . This vague explanation was shown , in Chapter 2 , to be unsatisfactory because it is not a single tangible entity but covers a multitude of factors which together determine why viable economic solutions are often not deemed to be politically feasible . In blaming political will , it is rarely made clear whether the lack is that of individual governments or the aggregate will of all participants . It is unrealistic to expect that in a multilateral negotiation all participants will have an equal level of commitment to achieve success . In practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Governments have interests ; out of these interests , some of them conflicting , is born an attitude or a policy . The policy may vary from total opposition to a commodity agreement at one extreme , to lukewarm acceptance or let us go along if most others do ' in the middle , to the very rare total commitment to an agreement at the other . Attitudes may swing between let us wait and see ' to going all out to succeed in ngotiations . These may well represent the individual political will ; it is when one looks at negotiations in the aggregate that difficulties appear . The political will of the respective participants is not all equally important . Some countries are more important than some others and sometimes groups of countries may acquire a special , if temporary , importance . In other words , the political wills have weights ' . The totality of political wills is thus a weighted result of individual wills , which may themselves fluctuate over time . Without analysing the causes and interests that influence the attitudes and policies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give content to this concept . The reasons why commodity conflicts have to be analysed as a problem of political economy have been explained in the first two chapters . Summarised briefly , the theme is : the attitudes of governments to negotiations are determined by their economic interest in a commodity , which influences and is itself influenced by political considerations , all under an overall umbrella of systemic perceptions 267 268 Political Will and Bargaining Power and ideological beliefs . That the economic importance of a commodity to a country is the main factor in influencing its attitudes to regulation is so obvious as not to need much elaboration . An example is the attitude of the United States in promoting agreements in commodities in which she has a vital interest wheat , sultanas ; the US does not join the Tin Agreements because of an economic interest in preserving freedom of action on the disposal of surplus stocks . Having pursued policies which produce large quantities of surplus high-cost sugar , economic interests dictate that the EEC can not join a sugar agreement that can restrain the freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed or developing , that produces synthetic rubber is bound to be reluctant to consider control on synthetic production . Japan is naturally apprehensive about iron ore producers getting together , given the fact that a large part of her economy is so dependent on imports of cheap ore ; this dependence is also the reason why a tight control is maintained on the shipping of the ore . It is equally obvious that the higher the dependence of a country on a commodity , the greater the tenacity with which it will pursue the economic objectives of preservation of market shares and optimistion earnings . The relationship between the character of the exporter ? large or small , established or emerging ? and the different attitudes adopted to different aspects of regulation have been described in Chapter 5 . The change in the attitude of Brazil from pursuing production control and diversification in the 1962 and 1968 Coffee Agreements to their total abandonment in the 1976 Agreement is a direct result of the change in production in that country . The reasons for this change , discussed in Chapter 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic interest on political wills . Do countries follow a short-term interest or a long-term goal ? The Brazilian example would indicate that in a reasonably stable environment large exporters may follow longterm objectives but that in an unstable situation short-term advantages take priority . The example of the attitudes of importing governments in the Tin Agreements shows that the short-term advantage of lower prices is often preferred by consumers to the long-term one of promoting production by agreeing to higher prices . By and large , countries generally opt for policies that have short-term advantages , perhaps because they realise that in the ever changing commodity markets a long-term objective is intrinsically unobtainable . To paraphrase Harold Wilson ( A week in politics is a long time ' ) , five years is a long time in commodity trade . Political will , in relation to economic interests , is what a country thinks is likely to happen in the // course of the next two , or at most three , years . How are these economic interests modified by politics ? Without repeating the many examples quoted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as follows . Sometimes political considerations override ideological commitments and induce an interest in regulation when there are no vital economic interests precluding it . In some cases , commodity negotiations even have political pay-offs unrelated to economic advantage . In rare cases ( e.g. sugar ) , political interests may even override significant economic interests . Chapter 10 was devoted to a consideration of the special aspects of political associations that act to the advantage of primary commodity exporting countries , particularly some developing ones . Where a set of developing countries are clear beneficiaries , politics determine the choice of recipients . In all cases , the influence of politics on the attitudes of governments depends on who the participants are . Once stated , this is self-evident , but the obvious is rarely said in so obvious a fashion . It is usually cloaked under a vague concept of political will . The Individual Will Political will , even that of a single country , is not a constant , invariant to time . The mere fact that most governments take a short-term view of the commodity market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances change . At times of high prices , the keenness of exporters for regulatory mechanisms declines sharply ; at times of low prices it is the importers who lack enthusiasm for regulation . If in a single commodity an upswing in price reduces the will ' of the exporters , in a boom period the effect is more widespread . In booms , all commodity negotiations receive a setback and running agreements face severe strains and usually collapse . Political will is also directly related to the ability to hold on . The discipline of the exporting countries as a whole bears an inverse relationship to the total quantity of surplus or shortage . The higher the stocks the greater the temptation to break ranks . The temptation to evade international obligations is not confined only to developing exporting countries. - Examples have been given of the rich importing countries encouraging , or at least condoning , the evasion of obligations by companies in their countries . If one major importing country obtains large quantities of cheap tourist ' coffee , all others are encouraged to do so . Exporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , the political will of the participants changes if that of others change . From this it was also concluded that no country could be classified permanently as 270 Political Will and Bargaining Power being either a compliant member of an agreement or a recalcitrant member . The temptations against complying vary with time , and the success of any commodity understanding depends on encouraging observance and discouraging evasion . This can not be achieved by threat of penalties or punishment . Nothing can force governments to honour commitments which they feel , rightly or wrongly , to be against their national interest . Perceived national interest often overwhelms international responsibility . Thus the number of factors which go to make up so-called political will ' are many . Before one can even attempt to determine what the will of any country is , at any given time , a series of questions has to be answered first : Overall attitudes ( i ) Is it a developed or a developing country ? ( ii ) What is its attitude to commodity agreements in general and to the resource @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country an exporter or an importer ? State of the market ( iv ) What is the level of prices ? high or low ? ( v ) Which way are prices expected to move in the near future ? ( vi ) What are the total stocks of the commodity ? Are they adequate , overhanging or insufficient ? ( vii ) Is there a prospect of a downturn in production due to natural calamities or production cycles ? ( viii ) Is there a likelihood of political turmoil in a major producing or consuming area ? ( ix ) Is the market threatened by synthetics or substitutes ? The country 's situation ( x ) What is the degree of dependence on exports or imports ? ( xi ) What is the economic interest in the commodity ? ( xii ) If an importer , does it protect home production ? ( ) ciii ) If an exporter how large ? established or new ? ( xiv ) What is the level of stocks in the country in relation to its holding power ? ( xv ) What are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , processors , importers , consumers ? ( xvi ) What is the degree of control over production and marketing ? ( xvii ) Who are its political allies ? adversaries ? // In functioning agreements ( xviii ) What importance do importers attach to the agreement ? ( xix ) Who is most likely to break away ? ( xx ) Who is most likely to follow suit ? This list of twenty questions ' is not meant as a joke ; every one of them has a relevance to the shaping of the political will . In Chapter 3 , the 35 commodities were classified under nine major characteristics in order to assist in determining how they affected the attitudes of governments to commodity regulation and towards the other participants in a negotiation leading to such regulation . The 20 questions listed above are not only related directly to these characteristics but have also been modified to suit the influence of political considerations . If these can be answered with reasonable accuracy , one can predict the attitude of any country to a specific negotiation in view at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In theory , one could grade the country , say from one to five , for each of these questions and then assign arbitrary weights to each one . For example , the level of stocks could be postulated to be more important than expectations of political turmoil ; or , for a small exporter , dependence can be accorded a very low weight and so on . A composite number that would be roughly indicative of the political will ' of a country towards a negotiation could then be produced . No doubt drawing up a matrix and playing around with weights would be a fascinating exercise , but the utility of this forced mathematics is doubtful . In order to tackle the problem of variation in time , the will ' has to be monitored continuously throughout the period of protracted negotiations . Attempting to measure changes implies the belief that something can be done about them . If the temperature of the patient rises sharply , i.e. if the political will drops alarmingly , one must know which of the 20 causes ? and in what degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answers to questions relating to the status of the country ( developed or developing , exporter or importer ) will not change , the group of questions under the heading state of the market ' will have a major impact on attitude changes . What causes the change is often unclear ; it may be something as simple as a change in the minister dealing with the subject . Sometimes , even the fact that the will has changed comes as a surprise to other participants in the negotiations . 272 Political Will and Bargaining Power The Collective Will The quantification of the political will ' of any one country by itself is inadequate to determine the prospects of success for any negotiation . As noted earlier , it is the collective will ' , or the totality of individual wills ' , that matters . While it is obvious that there can be no meaningful coffee agreement without Brazil and Colombia or a sugar agreement without Cuba , how does one assign weights to medium and small exporters ? What importance is to be attached to coalition forming among them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different mechanisms of regulation , to the controversy between stability and resource transfer , to the importance of obtaining the co-operation of the major importing countries ? An attempt can , of course , be made to devise another list of questions . But the problem is not a quantifiable mathematical exercise in which lack of political will ' is denoted by Where w1 is the weight assigned to a given country ,   is its political will and A is an arbitrary number below which there is a lack and above which there is a sufficiency . Can not the weights be determined empirically by analysing past negotiations ? successful ones as well as failures ? in all the commodities ? The range of variation is so wide and the number of negotiations so few that any result based on historical evidence is bound to be subject to a very large margin of error . The ability of such a formula to predict , with any reasonable degree of accuracy , the outcome of a future negotiation is highly questionable . Bargaining Power Though the attempt to create a theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devote some attention to the bargaining strength of participants in a commodity negotiation , if only because this has achieved a certain vogue after the success of OPEC in raising oil prices . Further , examples of adversary , co-operative and collusive relationships have been identified as playing an important part in commodity negotiations . It is also illuminating to discuss bargaining power in the overall systemic context of the division between // developed and developing countries . The system elaborated in the Havana Charter imposed an absolute equality between importers and exporters of a commodity to the extent of prescribing equality of total votes between the two groups and requiring that decisions on substantive matters should be taken by separate two thirds majorities in each group . Equality of power between the two groups does not always induce equality of responsibility . For example , the degree of co-operation shown by importers varies ; developed importing countries show greater readiness to co-operate in negotiations which involve commodities of interest to other developed countries . Importer co-operation is minimal in commodities mainly produced in developing countries . The cases discussed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally reluctant to accept any significant obligations to ensure the observance of the terms of an agreement . They do not contribute to promotion funds , diversification funds or buffer stock finances ; they do not normally ( with one exception ) undertake any responsibility in the quota policing functions . They do not agree to co-ordinate the production of synthetics . All that they seem to do is to agree to continue to provide a market ; in other words , their contribution is keeping the doors at least partly open for products of developing countries . The implicit threat is that , if an agreement is not to their liking , access can be shut off . Obviously , this threat can not be applied in the case of products of developed countries for fear of retaliation in other fields ; hence the greater co-operation provided for these commodities . Once again , the asymmetric effects of the system are evident ; power derives from being near the centre , having possibilities of trade-offs and making the rules of the game . It is in this context that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone become relevant . The conclusion arrived at in Chapters 4 and 9 was that the success of producer action depended entirely on the ability to control a substantial share of the market and the ability to hold on . This aspect of controlling the market , as distinct from just having a share of the market , is an important one . For example , in the case of commodities where production and marketing is controlled by multinational companies , the share of the market that a country has is no indication of its ability to control the trade in it . The case studies on bananas , bauxite and iron ore prove that , in order to succeed against multinational corporations operating a closed market , the producing countries must first obtain control over a significant share of the market and also build up their holding power . Control of the market is 274 Political Will and Bargaining Power not synonymous with share of the market in cases in which a ready synthetic substitute is available . Equally , in a broad group such as oils and fats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a corresponding ability to influence the decisions of the market . In commodities wholly produced in developing countries , the history of attempts by producing countries to control the market has been one of failure ( e.g. the Cocoa Producers Alliance , Cafe Mundial ) . With their greater dependence on exports , the ever present need for foreign exchange and the very limited governmental resources for holding back supplies , the developing countries just lack economic muscle . In developed countries co-operation among producers is almost instinctive ; the United States and Canada pursue parallel policies for regulating the wheat market without actually forming an Association of Wheat Exporting Countries . As Rowe remarks : For all exporters the US " free " price was the bulls eye and thus the world " free " price was really set by one seller and not by four large exporters in competition with one another . ' 2 ( The word free ' was put in quotes by Rowe ? not by this author , who has been inveighing against the mythical concept of the free market ! ) Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power is derived from backing resources . It is necessary to reiterate that the main effect of the international economic system on developing countries is to increase their sense of vulnerability ; and vulnerability implies decreasing bargaining power . The success of OPEC has tended to obscure this basic fact . The fear that followed the discovery of dependence on imports for energy prompted a rash of studies that elevated all developing countries to a power status similar to OPEC 's . The US Council on International Economic Policy devoted its entire study on Critical Imported Materials ' to an analysis of the possible bargaining and control power of producer groups in the various commodities . It is now accepted wisdom that what worked in oil will not work for the other commodities . On the other hand , it is not generally realised that the oil-exporting countries are no less vulnerable than other developing countries . Even after their wealth has increased , they still depend on the developed world for the financial institutions to manage the money , for the greatly increased imports which they can now afford and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world produced predictable xenophobic reactions . In fact , their wealth itself has become a hostage . They may have gained some power and moved a little nearer to the centre in monetary matters , but in all others ? trade , industrial power , technology , management ? their dependence and vulnerability // continues to be as great as ever . The bogey of producer power is only a reflection of the confrontation that was created and developed by the OECD . Every time the frustrations of the excluded show themselves in some action ? creation of UNCTAD , oil price increase ? they are accused of creating confrontation . A system whose basic momentum is centrifugal can not but divide . Those who benefit from the system do not want its asymmetric effects brought to the surface ; those who suffer have no option but to confront the centre with the results of a system they had no hand in shaping . To talk about bargaining power in this context is another meaningless red herring . There is no equality or even commensurability of economic power between the developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade . The inequality of bargaining power between the developed and the developing in commodity negotiations is only a reflection of the inequality that exists in the international economic system . The point that the richer , more industrialised and more technologically advanced countries have a superior bargaining position is also obvious . It is all the more surprising that the bogey of developing country power has such a hold on the imagination of the public and the media in the better-off world . The patent incommensurability of bargaining power between the rich and the poor does not imply that , within the two groups , all countries have a superior bargaining position is obvious . It is all the the same in all commodities . Enough examples have been cited earlier to prove the point that major exporters or importers of a given commodity have a predominant , often decisive , voice in the conduct of negotiations . The whole range of economic , political and ideological factors comes into play in determining the actual power that a country can wield in negotiations . Often this is instinctively felt by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of political will , it is not possible to propound a theoretical formula for quantifying bargaining power that could be of practical utility . Is the effort to understand the factors behind political will ' or bargaining power a futile endeavour ? The temptation is to declare that commodity negotiations are so complex that attempts at understanding them should be given up . But agreements , however few , have been concluded in the past ; even though many have failed to run the course , some have worked successfully at least for reasonable periods of time . In all cases in which negotiations have been successful , the collective political will was , in fact , adequate . Therefore , in abandoning the search 276 Political Will and Bargaining Power for a theoretical framework which will supposedly explain everything one need not also abandon the search for a constructive approach which might increase the chances of success . This can only be done by looking for the positive elements in the past history of commodity negotiations and by building a structure that will include those while eliminating as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter therefore is in the nature of a summary of the analysis thus far undertaken . It places commodity conflicts in the systemic context outlined in Chapter 1 and attempts to identify the constructive strands which will promote success in commodity negotiations as well as the limitations that might inhibit it . The United States is ready to cooperate in serious case-by-case examination of the commodity market problems . President Kennedy , Alliance for Progress speech , 13 March 1961 The United States proposes to discuss new arrangements in individual commodities on a case-by-case basis . Dr Kissinger , US Secretary of State , Address to the Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly , 1 September 1975 The more things change , the more they remain the same . In 1961 , the United States declared its readiness to examine seriously commodity problems on a ' case-by-case ' basis . Fourteen years later , the United States , as part of a much heralded new initiative , proposed to discuss new arrangements in individual commodities on a case-by-case basis ' . On both occasions , the not-so-stirring words were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of position . What breakthrough ? In 1961 , the United States proposed the conclusion of a new International Coffee Agreement ; in 1975 , Dr Kissinger declared that we are actively participating in negotiations on coffee ' . In the 1960s , the United States was participating in cocoa and sugar negotiations and in 1975 it continued to do so . The only addition in 1975 was the declared intention to sign the International Tin Agreement , subject to Congressional consultations and ratification ' and with the proviso that we will retain our right to sell from our strategic stockpile . ' President Kennedy said in 1961 : Frequent violent changes in commodity prices seriously injure the economies of many Latin American countries , draining their resources and stultifying their growth . ' Dr Kissinger said in 1975 : The development programs ? indeed the basic survival ? of many countries rest heavily on earnings from exports of primary products , which are highly vulnerable to fluctuations in worldwide demand ... The unpredictability of export earnings can make a mockery of development planning . ' So , after 14 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the developing countries see themselves as gradually becoming less and less important in international trade in the 277 278 Aspects of Conflict Resolution entire period since the war . Reference to the statistics given in Chapter 3 will recall the facts that the share of the non-oil exporting developing countries in total world exports shrank from a quarter in 1950 to just over 10 per cent in the mid-1970s ; their share in primary commodity exports , excluding fuel , declined from two fifths to just over a quarter in the same period . Is trade important ? Can not developing countries achieve progress even if their share of exports and imports decreases ? There may well be divergent views on whether there has been adequate total development in developing countries ? both growth in economic terms and improvement in social welfare , in nutrition , health , education , employment opportunity and income distribution . But progress there has been ; defined narrowly as economic growth , significant advances have been made in national income , agricultural production , particularly food production , industrial development and in dissemination of technology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declining importance in trade , it still matters for a number of reasons . Given the facts that aid is becoming more unpopular and the debt burden is increasing , the role of the international trading and monetary system in promoting growth is obvious . Secondly , decreasing trade shares and declining terms of trade are two main reasons for the developing world 's perception of its vulnerability . Few countries can , or even want to , adopt the total self-reliance model ; if countries see themselves as part of an interdependent market economy world , their decreasing participation in it can not but be a source of frustration . Lastly , there is reason to be concerned at the political consequences of a system that is becoming increasingly closed as the rich countries trading among themselves in manufactures as well as primary commodities push back the peripheral countries to the outermost edges of the system . Apart from peripherality , some other concepts were identified as being relevant to the conflict between developed and developing countries over the international system as a whole . These were : asymmetry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and economics . Some conclusions applicable to the system in general were also indicated . Do these conclusions apply to the commodity trade sector also , or is it free from any or all the blemishes ? While it would be unduly repetitive to summarise here all the conclusions reached in the earlier chapters , it is nevertheless necessary to relate them specifically to commodity trade . The interrelationship between politics and economics in commodity negotiations has been amply demonstrated . In fact , it can even be argued that they // are even more inextricably intertwined than , say , in the field of trade in manufactures . Commodity production and trade occupy a special place in the domestic policies of most governments . In agricultural commodities , the social problems of the farming communities have always been given , in developed and developing countries , at least as high a priority as the economic aspects of agriculture . Minerals have a special place , just because they are non-renewable resources . It is no wonder that the post-war economic system , devised by the rich industrial countries , concentrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tacitly recognised the right of governments to be as protectionist as they pleased in agriculture . Since autarky is more the norm than the exception , commodity trade is likely to be more blemished than other parts of the system ; consequently , asymmetry is more likely . The distribution of gains from commodity trade has been analysed to see whether the system was as asymmetric in its operation in this sector as it is elsewhere . The perception of asymmetry by the developing countries is strengthened by their awareness of a number of effects decrease in terms of trade , erosion in import purchasing power , instability in commodity prices , unequal distribution of productivity gains and declining share of the exporter in the returns . An extraordinary effect of the system is that both booms and recessions affect the peripheral countries adversely ; contrary to popular belief , boom periods also benefit mainly the rich commodity exporting countries in terms of increases in earnings as well as in shares of the market . However , the asymmetric distribution of gains is not solely a result of the inequities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing countries ' failure to take action to obtain the advantages which the system can provide . Lack of aggression in selling , inadequate investment in product and market development and inability even to extract information from multinational companies were some of the shortcomings identified . The vulnerability of developing countries in commodity trade has been repeatedly stressed in the earlier chapters . A characteristic common to most developing exporters of primary products , except oil , is their lack of ability to hold on in times of stress ; this decreases their ability to regulate the market for any length of time . Every external force ? international monetary instability , inflation in developed countries , violent price fluctuations ? increases this vulnerability . On top of this , the widespread denial of access for processed and manufactured forms exported by the poor countries has a pervasive 280 Aspects of Conflict Resolution effect on development restraint . Not being able to obtain higher unit values reduces resources ; non-availability of export markets limits scope for industrialisation ; inability to diversify the export pattern puts poor countries even more at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development complicates economic planning and increases social tension and , being made to be permanently exporters of raw materials places them in a weak bargaining position in relation not only to the importing countries but also to the buyers of the commodities . If there is more politics than economics in commodity trade , if protection of farming communities is promoted regardless of cost and if protection of employment is more important than the burden on the consumer , the goal of efficiency must rank very low indeed in the eyes of governments . While there is no dearth of domestic pressure groups , there is no international public interest in efficiency ; there never has been . The two casualties of the system as it operates in commodity trade are the law of comparative advantage ' and the rewarding of efficiency in production ' . Whether cotton textiles and footwear can be manufactured more efficiently and at less cost in developing countries is irrelevant to most governments of rich countries , whose sole objective is the protection of employment . In the contest between the comparatively poor in the rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter always lose ; as Emmanuel rightly remarks , there is no longer any international solidarity of the proletariat . Except in isolated instances , governments always take the easy road of protectionism rather than the more complicated route of shifting labour from agriculture to industry or from low technology to high technology industries . Where is the promotion of efficient production , if the Community pays its farmers ? 100 a ton to produce beet sugar which it then proceeds to dump on the world market at ? 20 a ton ? The saga of the dairy products ' mountains is even more horrific ; in spite of a stock of 46,000 tons of butter and nearly half a million tons of milk powder , the EEC raised prices by 7.5 per cent in 1976 ; by February 1977 , the mountains had grown to 190,000 tons of butter and over a million tons of milk powder , all acquired at a cost of 1.5 billion US dollars . Since the EEC intervention price for butter is four times the world price , every export sale is another flagrant example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaches for its gun whenever somebody mentions efficiency ! Not that abandonment of the concept of efficient production is confined only to the developed countries . The fact is that in all countries there are no votes to be gained by promoting global efficiency .                     