@@773746

txt // A brief visit to the prison particularly during a weekday may give an impression of activity and purposefulness that has no connection with the lives of the inmates and the guards . The same pattern repeats itself each day and the twin goals are survival and filling time . Heck-stall-Smith , a journalist who went to an English prison for fraud , said : At first , the outward and visible signs ? the clatter of the machines in the engineering shop , the rattle and thump of the sewing machines , the flowers growing in the carefully tended gardens in summer ? give the illu-sion of purposefulness . But soon , as one day follows exactly the pattern of its predecessor , one realizes that nothing there has any significance . Everything is without purpose . This strange , grey , drab community exists only to kill time and for no other reason . Every one of those hundreds of men working away in the shops or on the grounds is concerned solely with counting the days until his sentence has run its course and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of justice.37 A new inmate may naively suppose that someone is going to try to reform or rehabilitate him in prison but he soon learns that the im-portant thing is to " do his time " and get out . The prison administra-tion would prefer him to do his time with a minimum of fuss and bother . A good prison record will help a person at a parole hearing and means a clean ticket ( no reported rule violations ) . This requires psychological withdrawal and numbness to one 's surrounding . Every-thing the inmate does in prison , including sleeping and eating , brings him closer to release . Mental patients can not view their activities this way . The prisoner can always say " Well , today is over , I am that much nearer release . " The mental patient in the occupational therapy work-shop can not say , " Well , I 've made a basket and it has consumed half an hour , I am that much nearer release . " PRIVACY The lack of privacy , even in institutions containing only single cells , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been many efforts to counteract this by giving inmates keys to their own cells and lockers , designing smaller dining rooms , and reducing the size of cell // blocks . However the economies of dormitory living , particularly in minimum security institutions , are always tempting to the budget-con-scious administrator . Other considerations such as reducing conspir-acies and encouraging social relationships are often used to buttress the arguments for dormitory accommodations . The trade-offs in terms of reduced privacy are known but are not clearly documented . Some institutions regard inmate privacy as an unnecessary luxury . Army recruits have to live in barracks dormitories ? why not prison in-mates ? The answer is complex . The likelihood of assault , homosex-uality , and inmate exploitation is much greater in the prison than in the army barracks . The recruit can go downtown during his free time and he has considerable freedom in walking around the base . I would not underestimate the needs of army recruits for some amount of pri-vacy , but the needs of prison inmates are more urgent . Architectural considerations greatly influence the amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shield inmates from staff may foster the development of a strong inmate culture with criminal values . Norman Johnston recommends against " honor dormitories " and the squad rooms because they tend to increase the strength of the inmate culture.38 Most wardens object to double cells because of the problems involving assault , homosexuality , exploitation of weaker in-mates , and so forth . Several accounts written by San Quentin prisoners on the topic " My Home the Prison " express the concern inmates feel about the partner with whom they must share a closet-sized cell : To see a stranger standing on the tier outside your cell one day with a bundle or box containing his belongings , is similar to what must have been felt by the young Indian brides or husbands when , according to Margaret Mead , they met for the first time after they had been married ! These same crowded and barren cells represent a haven for many prisoners against the tension and potential violence of tine San Quentin yard . On their free hours during weekends , many inmates return to their cells for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from the tension of the yard . Privacy in a single cell is not the same as privacy in a dormitory , and freedom from constant staff surveillance may leave the inmates open // to exploitation by other inmates . There are degrees and modalities of privacy ? visual , auditory , tactile , and olfactory . Sometimes privacy means absolute solitude , but other times it can mean getting together with one or two friends and chatting or playing cards . Among univer-sity students living off campus , privacy meant freedom of choice rather than isolation . Unlike dormitories , apartment living permits a student to choose the conditions under which interaction with others takes place . The other side of the coin is that this kind of privacy also leads to isolation and loneliness among some apartment dwellers.39 The technological means exist to create micro-environments which allow some degree of separation in group living . Students in college dormitories place their desks so as to minimize eye contact when they are studying . In a prison dormitory , the use of individual high-inten-sity lamps may permit each inmate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The placement of the ' ry set and the location of the bathroom will also affect privacy . In a youth facility , conflicts occurred : Because adjacent bedmates could n't agree on an open or dosed win-dow , on smoking or non-smoking ; the proximity of so many bodies led some inmates to claim discomfort from the smells of other inmates ' bodies , real or imagined ; light levels were so low on some bottom bunks that inmates would squint their eyes to be able to read ; inmates who tried to go to sleep anytime before lights out had to contend with noise levels above 80 decibels and the jolting of their beds either accidental or de-liberate : CONCLUSION It is important to document the effects of crowding and stimulus deprivation in prison to the extent that this information can be used to eliminate conditions that confine , constrain , and oppress people both inside the prison and outside . Such research can serve as a corSymptoms // rective to studies of selective volunteers which have generally come up with negative results . Edward Thorndike conducted an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Ventilation and concluded : With the forms of work and length of period used , we find that when an individual is urged to do his best he does as much , and does it well , and improves as rapidly in a hot , humid , sterile and stagnant air condi-tion as in an optimum condition . . . . We find further that when an in-dividual is given work to do that is of no interest or value to him and is deprived even of the means of telling how well he does it , and is in other ways tempted to relax standards and do work of poor quality , he still shows no inferiority in the quality of the product . . . . Finally we find that when an individual is left to do his own choice as to whether he shall do mental work or read stories , rest , talk , or sleep , he does as much work per hour when the temperature is 75 ? as when it is 680.41 The short-term crowding of human subjects has produced few del-eterious effects.42 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks have also been uninformative . As part of the Amer-ican space program , volunteers were confined in simulated capsules and more recently in undersea chambers . The TEKTITE 2 studies are instructive in this regard . TEKTITE 2 is a four-room dwelling created from two 12-ft-diameter cylinders joined by a tunnel , placed under wa-ter approximately 600 feet offshore . Electricity , drinking water , and communication were received through cables . There was round-the-clock monitoring of individual and group performance . Based on their observations , psychologists concluded that " both male and female Aq-uanauts can adapt successfully to life in a confined environment such as the TEKTITE 2 . Not only can individuals cope effectively with con-finement and isolation , they can also perform work roles effectively in such a setting . The amount of work accomplished by the Aquanauts was great ? probably surpassing the average daily time expenditure // of most scientists and engineers in normal , terrestrial environ-ments. " 43 The extent of human adaptiveness to noxious conditions may be an important issue for NASA , but I am not sure of its relevance for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to argue that because astro-nauts and aquanauts can tolerate confinement and crowding with seeming equanimity , prison inmates can do the same . The issues in crowding and captivity are connected less with pathol-ogy. ( how much and what kinds ) as with the quality of life . How do we want to live ourselves and how do we want other people to live ? The fact that institutions that confine and oppress produce pathological behaviors seems more an argument for eliminating such places than for continuing them as laboratories . 3 Models and Fads in Prison Design The call is out again for prison reform . This seems to occur every twenty years . In spite of this , nothing seems to really change . One rea-son is the lack of any consensus as to what imprisonment is supposed to accomplish . One of the most important developments in mental hos-pitals twenty-five years ago was the distinction between the therapeutic and custodial missions of the institution . However , correctional facil-ities should not emulate a therapeutic model that was appropriate for mental hospitals , even though this might temporarily result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large isolated prisons into mental hospitals , as some might advocate , would ignore the fact that the large isolated mental hospitals are themselves closing down . A more serious objection is that the medical model is not appropriate for the prison . One director of corrections wanted to build several maximum security facilities for " treating " violent offenders , moving inmates from the regular prisons to these new facilities for ninety-day " treatments , " after which they would be returned to the main-line prisons presumably cured or with their violent impulses reduced . There is no known medical treatment for violent or predatory offend-ers apart from surgical intervention and compulsory drug therapy , both of which the courts are looking upon in an increasingly skeptical manner when applied on an involuntary basis . The courts are also questioning the validity of " informed consent " for drugs or psycho-surgery in a prison system where parole hinges on the arbitrary deci-sion of prison authorities . The largest single source of outside income available to inmates in one California correctional facility is participa-tion in medical experiments which yielded them over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research and not medical treatment . This makes it necessary to develop models for correctional institutions that are specific to corrections rather than borrowed from other set-tings such as medical or educational institutions . When models are vague and ambiguous , a situation described by Humphry Osmond as a " model muddle , " they will be applied badly and inconsistently.i Here are some of the different images evoked by the concept of prison . The list is not intended to be exhaustive and it omits some of the cliche concepts like torture chamber and pleasure palace which do n't contribute very much to serious discussions about improving prison conditions . Warehouse . The prison or jail is considered a storage facility where people are put " on ice " for varying periods of time . Little at-tention is given to a program or change process . In its most humane form , this approach assumes that separation from the outside world constitutes punishment for a crime and a deterrent against future wrongdoing . For the architect the problem becomes a technical mat-ter of fitting a specified number of inmate stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of internal and peripheral security . Monastery . Although very few people want to see inmates abused physically , there are still vestiges of this attitude when it comes to pro-viding even a minimum of amenities for inmates . Some people will make the case for a drab and spartan prison environment to remind the inmate where he is , what he has done , and how low he has fallen . This philosophy has also been applied to alcoholics in hospital settings where the staff insisted that they live on the same ward as schizo-phrenics to demonstrate that they too were sick people . The alcoholics invariably missed the message and segregated themselves from the schizophrenics . I do not know of any evidence that a drab or ugly correctional environment is in anyone 's interest ? the inmate 's , the staff 's , or society 's . Accounts of men who have spent time in strip cells show resentment rather than repentance , anger rather than reflection . // When a person is hurt and angry , these feelings should not be compounded by putting him in conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to provide each inmate with all the amenities that would be found in a good motel room ? a comfortable bed , easy chair , bureau , TV , a private bathroom , and even individual temperature controls . This model need not specify the level of security outside the inmate 's room or what kinds of common spaces are provided . 4 . Apartment . In addition to all the features of a good motel room , the inmate is also provided with food storage and cooking facilities . This could be cooking as it is practiced in the free world or it could be some modified institutional variety that provides the inmate with a number of prepared frozen meals at the beginning of the week , selected from a list provided by the central kitchen , and cooked according to own preferences . The inmate 's cell could also contain ingredients for light meals and snacks of his own choosing . There is no restriction on the size or the location of a motel- or apartment-type facility . It could be any size and located in a rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peripheral security . 5 . Boarding house . Here one aims at a small number of people , probably no more than twenty , who occupy a single residence and share such common facilities as bathroom , lounges , and kitchen facilities if any . Inmate rooms are private or semiprivate and open into the common facilities . The level of security encompasses the total residence rather than the inmate 's room . The boarding house model is most appropriate for special-purpose facilities where inmates have something in common , and group pressure can be used to maintain order . There would be serious problems enforcing social norms with a constantly changing inmate population and no common purpose except propinquity . There are severe restrictions about the size of an institution using the boarding house model . In a penal institution composed of separate boarding houses , one would find difficulties in span of control if the number of houses exceeded eight or ten . The boarding house model is most suitable for one or two specialized residences within a large general institution or as a separate facility in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Compared to present-day facilities , this would be a much smaller institution , perhaps no more than 100 in48 TIGHT SPACES mates organically related to the surrounding community . It is the model presented in the book The Non-Prison.2 No effort is made to duplicate the services and facilities of a larger correctional facility or of the surrounding community . Instead the surrounding community is used to supplement the minimum facilities and services provided in the smaller institution . Its external appearance would not be too different from a convalescent home or a community hospital . Colony . One could also strive to create a new community within the confines of an institutional setting . This could involve single-fam-ily detached houses for inmates and their families as well as apartment complexes . Inmates and spouses could be employed on or off the grounds but would spend their evenings within the confines of the institution . As a penalty for breaking the law , the inmate 's freedom to leave the institution is curtailed but within the colony he would have most of the amenities and freedoms of people outside . Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain during the prisoner 's incarceration . I do n't know the effects of colony living upon the inmate 's family but this would have to be compared with the present situation where the family is denied a breadwinner and frequently loses contact with the inmate . Apart from a few institu-tions such as the leprosarium , American society has not been too en-couraging of such enclaves . The most recent development along these lines is the retirement community , but this involves a self-selected group of people of independent means . " Just like home . " This model is a delusion . A prison can never be just like home , nor can a college dormitory , a school building , or a motel . One can aim at the comforts of home without trying to re-create the inmate 's home within the walls of an institution . Inmates come from a variety of backgrounds , rural as well as urban , isolated shacks and crowded city apartments . There is no logic in a correc-tional facility trying to approximate the inmate 's previous physical en-vironment any more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which may have been pathogenic . But this does not mean that a correctional facility can not provide the inmate with a hu-mane environment rather than cold , sterile , institutional quarters . Warm colors , soft furnishings , and the amenities of a home situation are desirable without attempting to duplicate the inmate 's previous // home environment . A motel room need not look like a private home ; that it look like a good motel room is sufficient . The same can be said for a hospital room or a prison cell . When a false or inappropriate model is used , the building , which is the concrete realization of this model , is not going to do its job . AVOIDING A NEW FAD When it comes to institutional reform it is risky to promise more in the way of goods and services than can be delivered . There may be a considerable lag between the appropriation of money by Congress or a legislature and the actual completion of a correctional facility . Any delay is likely to antagonize inmates and staff who must live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities and who keep hearing about new buildings and improvements on the way . Disturbances can be expected when people 's expectations are raised without tangible signs of improvement in their lives . There is considerable virtue in a low-key approach to correctional reform in which media publicity is limited until the value of a new service or facility has been demonstrated . However political leaders usually want their domestic programs to have maximum public visibility and more media coverage is produced by building twenty of something than building just one . This is a wasteful approach in terms of both money and the lives of the people affected . Why repeat the errors of a massive public housing program which replaced habitable slums with inhumane sterile towers whose effects on their occupants were unknown ? Small pilot programs and prototypes seem a better course of action . It has been several years since the book The Non-Prison described communitybased facilities . It is now time to fund a few of those in different parts of the country to learn how they work . We do n't need to construct 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realistic to try three the first year , evaluate them , and incorporate what we learn into three more two years later . Nor is it necessary to apply literally the architectural plans presented in the non-prison book . It is the concept of the small community-related facility that is important and this will be expressed differently according to geography , climate , and the nature of the surrounding community . // We need pilot programs and prototypes rather than massive federal assaults . We do n't need a new approach so much as we need to try out many new approaches and find out the conditions under which each of them works or does n't work . Instead of assuming that one solution works everywhere , let us plan for diversity of needs . The Hawaii plan has been described in several articles ; 3 by all means we should try it out and see how it works , but we must remember that it is only a plan . Until it is tested we should not think of it as the prototype for every state . There is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Plan , do n't build " ? which has been heard before on the subject of mental hospitals . The former president of the American Psychiatric Association , Harry Solomon , was once quoted as saying that mental hospitals should be blown up . In the recent effort to close the large , isolated , and ineffective mental hospitals , many of which hardly de-served the name " hospital , " the goal was to replace the antiquated buildings with small community-based active treatment centers . Un-fortunately the legislators seem to have heard only half of what was said . When it was proposed , " Close up the large ineffective buildings and replace them with small active treatment institutions and com-munity programs , " all they heard was , " Close up the large hospitals . " The result was discharge of many patients into the community without adequate programs and facilities for them . The burden then fell on the counties to provide welfare for former " corridor-sitters " who became isolated and passive residents of proprietary boarding houses . Perhaps the reason was that closing institutions seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this analogy can be applied to cor-rections , it will mean the closing of large state institutions and more people in county and city jails for longer periods . We have to ask our-selves whether this is a desirable goal in view of the present state of city and county facilities . A recent Canadian study of former mental patients in foster homes has revealed a pattern of regimentation , inactivity , and social isolation reminiscent of the old back wards . In almost three-fourths of the homes , the boarders ate separately from the family and showed no interaction during meals , either with the foster mother or with each // other . Many of the house parents had created separate sitting rooms for the boarder which the foster parent or staff rarely entered . In most homes there was a lack of any activities , partly because of the absence of opportunities for work and partly because of the failure to encour-age personal initiative.4 An investigation by a staff member of the California State Assembly disclosed some of the weaknesses of county-operated mental health programs . In many cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board but little in the way of treat-ment . At Napa State Hospital , alcoholics were removed from an effec-tive treatment program and placed in an inferior county-operated program . Lacking experience and expertise in mental health matters , many counties overcommitted themselves to expensive in-hospital psy-chiatric treatment even for patients who did not require it . Bed care in a local hospital was found to be the most common ? and expensive ? therapy . With their funds thus committed , little was left to pay for newer , cheaper , and more experimental methods such as visiting thera-pists at the board-and-care homes . Finally , the Assembly analyst main-tained , " the method of phasing out of state hospitals has been abom-inable . There has been no long-range planning on these closures . They usually have been announced only a few months in advance . If county programs do not receive sufficient notice on these , we can only expect the present situation to get worse . " 5 The same issue of the newspaper carried an article on the imminent closing of a state correctional facil-ity only ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens and the employees . No announcement was made about the sorts of programs that would replace the facility . There is a deceptive logic to the phrase " Plan , do n't build . " No one has mentioned who is to supply the plans . If it is the same people or planning process that gave us the prisons we have today , there is cause for concern . One effect of the New Environmental Protection Act ( NEPA ) has been the creation of a new class of consultants whose major activity is writing environmental impact statements . These are often canned documents written according to a standard formula and lacking a serious commitment to environmental quality . There must // not be a dichotomy between programs and institutions . We can try them both in many forms . Nor can we afford to neglect the thousands of inmates and staff working in existing institutions . These people are in dire need of improved facilities and the courts are beginning to back up these demands . Few would disagree with the statement by Krishna Nehru , the younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year in a British prison for her part in the nonviolent resistance move-ment : Prison life does not reform , it only teaches cunning , lying , hypocrisy , and many other evil traits , making people unfit to live within a decent world.6 No one can argue that prisons improve a man or woman any more than a zoo cage reforms captive animals . This is not some liberal illu-sion about incarceration . At a large conference on prison architecture at which hundreds of prison officials , sheriffs , and other law enforce-ment people were present , not a single person so much as hinted that prisons reformed people or made them better . The justification for the prison was the protection of society in keeping predatory individuals " on ice " for several years . It would seem that suspended animation would accomplish this more economically and humanely than the pres-ent system of prisons and jails . Cataloguing the deficiencies of the present prison system is not diffi-cult . Ironically , one can read a criticism of the American penal system written fifty years ago and find it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no hope for basic change in our penal institu-tions ? I do n't think so . For one thing , at long last there are large amounts of money going into the criminal justice system . Secondly , the reduction of the mental hospital population has established an impor-tant precedent for corrections as well as making available professional staff experienced in institutional change . At a recent conference I met the commissioner of a state corrections system who had previously been the commissioner of mental hygiene . He had moved into correction where both the need and promise seemed greater . Also impressive is the number of architects and planners who have followed the dollar bill into corrections . Whatever their reasons for being there , it is en-couraging to see so many intelligent and concerned people directly // involved with the criminal justice system . Probably the greatest impetus for change thus far has come from the inmates themselves in protesting prison conditions . Following the disturbances at the Tombs Jail in New York City , some prisoners were found who had been in jail over 24 months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and four to a cell during a time which they were still presumably innocent . The large isolated prison is not going to disappear overnight . The pressure from the courts system is undoubtedly a significant factor in effecting changes , because the notion of " cruel and unusual punishment " has been extended to include degrading institutional conditions . If the precedent of mental hospitals is followed , one can expect the older and more dilapidated penal institutions to close one by one over a period of several decades . This makes it terribly important to humanize the conditions in these institutions that will be accommodating inmates and staff for many years . Reform and revolution are not mutually exclusive . I would like to conclude this section with some modest suggestions for improving correctional environments . No one of them will by itself transform a prison from an oppressive to a humane place , yet any one of them will alter the institutional structure in a humane direction . Pilot projects and experimental programs are meaningful only when there is some commitment on the part of institutions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of suggestions is not intended to be exhaustive or encompassing . It was developed in the course of discussion with a number of prison officials , architects , and others concerned with the penal system . If it does no more than jog the thinking of correctional people and architects to develop and apply new ideas of their own , it will have served its purpose . URBAN RESOURCE CENTERS The conservation camp has already proven a valuable tool in the correctional field . At Camp Sierra in California , selected inmates are given several months of forestry training and then sent out to minimum security camps under the joint supervision of the Departments of Forestry and Corrections . The careful selection of inmates is as important for the success of the program as is training in forestry skills . // The camps provide a valuable service to the state in maintaining forested areas and recreational grounds , particularly during critical fire periods . One can imagine urban counterparts of the conservation camp . Rather than constructing campgrounds and forest trails , efforts would be directed to rehabilitating slum buildings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urban areas might find this far more satisfying than cleaning up campgrounds in remote areas . As the program developed , urban resource centers might change from renewing the ghetto physically to working with human problems . There are many young children in the streets who could benefit from a relationship with an adult male . It is all too tragic that a disproportionate number of minority group males are in prison while children in their districts grow up fatherless and increasingly resistant to adult authority . There is also an urgent need for the rehabilitation and restoration of urban buildings of architectural , historical , and cultural significance . It is noteworthy that the U.S. Department of the Interior is not only responsible for the National Parks Service but for historical and cultural landmarks as well . There are many buildings listed in the National Registry of Historical Landmarks that are in great need of rehabilitation . The urban landmarks concept could be broadened to include buildings that have particular cultural significance for the community , such as an old hotel where many single and retired men live . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rehabilitate . The urban resource center could work with HUD and urban renewal agencies in selecting sites for preservation and restoration . It is possible that these urban resource centers could become the vanguard of small community-based prisons . Just as park rangers and ranchers have accepted prisoners who will help control fires , it is likely that neighborhoods will be more receptive to prisons whose inmates help to rehabilitate old houses , play yards , and parks . SERVICE VOCATIONS Finding work that is socially and vocationally meaningful , personally satisfying to the inmates , and economically justified , has been a // persistent problem in American prisons . Most of the emphasis to date has been upon maintenance tasks ? in the kitchen , laundry , or farm ? or upon production of items for state institutions . Although maintenance tasks and production for state agencies have been useful in the area of job training potential , it is also true that the employment opportunities in production are not increasing as fast as the number of jobs in the service areas . Industrial technology has been automated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology has increased life span and kept alive more infirm and disabled individuals who need personal attention . Most hospitals , particularly those for the elderly or the disabled , as well as institutions for the retarded and mentally ill , are critically understaffed . A solution would be to locate a small correctional facility near a school for retarded children or a convalescent hospital . The entrances of both institutions could be arranged so that security arrangements would be possible . Pilot programs could be developed that trained inmates in the care and rehabilitation of the retarded , the blind , the elderly , and the physically disabled . Such work may be more satisfying as well as vocationally relevant than existing prison jobs . From a practical standpoint , state-subsidized programs for employment after release are more feasible in service occupations ( because the institutions are under state auspices or are largely state-subsidized ) than in the production area in the private sector . VISITOR AND MAIL POLICIES Penal institutions vary greatly among themselves in the number , length , and circumstances of visits permitted . It seems clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is considered a minor problem in another . A properly designed visiting area with inspections for contraband taking place in an intermediate zone between the secure prison area and the visiting area can reduce many of the difficulties . With proper inspection taking place elsewhere , the visiting area does not have to be hard and unfriendly . Letters to prisoners also maintain contact with family and friends outside , but these are often slowed down or limited in number for security reasons . Again , institutions differ greatly among themselves in their mail restrictions and policies . It might be possible to design // a letter form comparable to the overseas air letter , perhaps with open sides and light paper , that would be virtually contraband-proof . Such letters might go directly to the prisoner without any sort of staff surveillance . Such a policy might be very good for prisoner morale and also for families , who would not feel that their letters were read by strangers . There should be a comprehensive examination of visiting and mail policies among various institutions . This would be a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correctional system . As in the hospital field , it seems probable that visiting hours can be liberalized without creating problems of great magnitude . Many restrictions on visiting rest on the fear that the institution would be swamped with visitors on weekdays or evenings as is often the case on weekends . Several pilot programs on open visiting hours might help dispel these fears or perhaps reveal that they are indeed justified . Another possibility , suggested by Mr. Richard McGee , is to explore the use of tapes and leased telephone wires for contact with the outside . Through leased wires a relative could phone the prison at any hour and the message would be recorded on tape and then passed on to the inmate sometime during the next day . Many inmates have difficulty writing letters and a tape system would be an excellent way for them to maintain contact with their families outside . It is possible that the Bell Telephone Company or one of its subsidiaries would help develop a pilot program exploring the use of a leased wiretape storage system for contact between prisoners and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes a program of family visits difficult if not impossible . Apart from programs where the spouse can stay overnight or over a weekend , there are problems bringing in children and having play areas available when they come to visit . A number of prisons in the United States , Mexico , and other countries have conducted successful programs of conjugal visits for many decades . These can not substitute for home visits , but for many prisoners without outside privileges they are the next best thing . On the basis of their years of experience with conjugal visits , prison officials in MisModels // sissippi believe that such visits keep down tensions that might erupt in violence , reduce homosexuality , maintain family contact , and give prisoners an additional incentive to maintain good behavior . Prisoners and their spouses are aware that smuggling in contraband or disruption within the prison could not only affect their own visiting privileges but the entire program as well . There is a difference between conjugal living and conjugal visiting that should be expressed clearly in architecture . Conjugal living emphasizes a residential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his family where they would stay for several weeks before he is formally released . In most cases these could be located in the city and make use of existing houses or apartments . Conjugal visiting , on the other hand , implies temporary one-day or weekend visits by wife and family , often to inmates who have no outside privileges . Here motel-type units within the same security perimeter that enfolds the visiting areas would be desirable . At present , many visiting areas are inside security control of the main gate , but outside the security of the inmate areas . This is the proper location for a conjugal visiting area , which should have play facilities as well as sleeping and dining accommodations for inmates and their spouses . LIVING-LEARNING UNITS Educational programs in correctional institutions have always been handicapped by a shortage of trained staff and classroom space . There would be tremendous value in self-instruction techniques , not only to compensate for shortages of staff and space but also to fill some of the idle hours . Programmed instruction is currently being used in correctional institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine used extensively in the federal system and elsewhere . However it does not seem that any parts of the prison were architecturally designed to include the new educational technology . The result is that inmates often have to wait until they can be escorted to the educational area of the prison before they can work on their materials , and in these areas there is an exclusive emphasis on classroom instruction in basic skills . The extensive use of programmed instruction in correctional facilities would require some changes in state education codes // as well as in building facilities . For example , to award educational credit the California Education Code requires 108 hours of classroom instruction . It is apparent that these codes were developed prior to standardized self-learning devices . Programmed instruction does not require separate classrooms , although it is usually beneficial to supplement self-learning with consultation with teaching staff . TELEVISION The use of television in prisons has been limited by the layout of cells and corridors . Virtually all dayrooms were planned prior to ' rv , and efforts to let prisoners congregate outside their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The value of a closed-circuit - ry system for educational programs has not been exploited for the same reasons . Television can also play an important role in any behavior reinforcement system . Perhaps the cheapest and easiest reinforcement schedule for an inmate would be the time he is permitted to watch Tv in his cell . Several manufacturers of television equipment should be contacted about instituting pilot programs in correctional facilities . The method used on some airplanes of having small individual sets in each unit is one possibility , another that is also used on airlines is to have sets at fixed locations in the corridor to be seen from a number of units with earphones in the individual cells . If the cost can be brought down , prisons would be a ready market for large numbers of ' ry sets that would also be used for educational programs . With a closedcircuit system , reading , foreign languages , geography , and the verbal component of courses in electronics , machine repair , or computer programming could be taught where ry is tied in with complementary classroom and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extensive in-house educational program are enormous . It seems quite reasonable that the television manufacturers and the broadcast industry would see the market possibilities of a small , inexpensive , single-channel , no-frills Tv receiver for institutional use . // FLEXIBLE SECURITY Whatever figures and projections in terms of number and type of inmates are used in designing a new institution , it is likely that they will be changed at one time or another . The demands upon a correc-tional facility change over the years as society 's needs change or as new sorts of institutions are built that take over some of its functions . A good example is the treatment of the criminal offender with psychi-atric problems where both working philosophy and legal regulations are in constant flux . Even if it becomes possible to transfer inmates to specialized institutions , there will still be a need for some differen-tiation system with a single institution . Unless the correctional ad-ministrator can apply rigid selection criteria , and few are in this posi-tion , he will not know in advance how many people are going to need what sorts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity to respond to shifts in inmate population and correc-tional programs . To design a fully flexible institution , where secure living units would be combined or separated , is very expensive . A promising compromise between the need for flexibility and econ-omy is the idea of flexible security . Although individual living units can not be changed or combined easily , the security arrangements can . Hardware would be located in the buildings so extra doors or bars can be located at various points along a corridor or row of cells . When minimum security is needed , the doors or bars can be removed and inmates can circulate within and between areas . When maximum security is called for , additional rows of bars and doors can be added easily . This is a different concept of flexibility than most architects use . It is not the building itself ? the walls or the structure ? that is de-signed for changing conditions , but rather the security hardware of the interior . The building must be specifically designed to facilitate the easy installation and removal of security hardware . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems approach such as that used in the School Construction System Development ( SCSD ) school design pack-ages The SCSD system did not provide the super-flexibility of doors and partitions that the teacher could move around at will . Instead it // employed demountable partitions that could be removed or rearranged overnight or over a weekend by the janitorial or maintenance employees . A flexible security system for a prison would also involve one or two days ' time for a conversion to a new level of security . INVOLVING SELF-HELP GROUPS IN PRISON PROGRAMS One of the most heartening developments in the rehabilitation field is the organization of people who had once suffered from the abuse of alcohol or drugs for the purpose , not only of helping themselves , but of assisting others . In the drug abuse field there are several successful institutions for treating addicts run by ex-addicts . As part of prison decentralization , several buildings or wings could be set aside for specialized programs by AA , Synanon , Daytop Village , or the Seventh Step Foundation . Security arrangements would remain the responsibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable latitude in the physical arrangement and layout of the experimental unit . The plan would require considerable advance discussion and agreement between state officials and the sponsoring organization . Contrary to what is often believed , many of these organizations are quite decentralized themselves and there is considerable variation among local chapters in the activities and interests of the membership . Although some local units of AA might be reluctant to supervise the day-to-day operations of a prison rehabilitation program , others would be pleased to do so . It would be worthwhile to have at least one or two pilot programs involving a substantial number of ex-inmates as rehabilitation counselors . They should not be recruited as individuals but as members of self-help organizations . In order to resist the temptation of bringing in contraband or relaying messages , both of which they are likely to be asked to do , they will need commitment to group goals and purposes which can best be supplied through organizations such as Synanon or Seventh Step . It would be logical for the self-help groups to develop marketing facilities for craft work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods , or art work . Many prisoners do much more art work than // they are able to sell at the prison itself . A Seventh Step house in a downtown area would be a good location for a craft shop . Synanon has developed several retail and wholesale operations which are econom-ically successful and they would be in a good position to advise on mar-keting prison craft work . CONCLUSION This list of changes , most of them minor , is not intended to be ex-haustive . An administrator of a progressive county jail described pro-grams developed to use outside volunteers , particularly students , to work directly with inmates , run a child-care center for visitors ' chil-dren , a portable telephone that could be wheeled up and down the tiers and plugged in any cell . There is really no limit to the number of creative innovations that could improve prison conditions . The present depressing conditions come about because one group ( the in-mates ) can not do anything to improve their conditions and another group ( keepers and/or outside society ) is unwilling or unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unresponsive build-ings ; but even here some of the above suggestions as well as those im-plemented on a haphazard basis in jails and prisons across the country can create a more humane and natural life for inmates . The essential ingredient is a determined commitment to improvement , or what Robert Hutchins has called " a questioning community " among in-mates , guards , and governing boards . There is a limit as to how far one can go in humanizing a penultimate hard building before one decides to scrap it entirely , but I have never seen the jail or prison that has come even close to this limit . The major issue facing the people concerned with the criminal jus-tice system is not so much the form , shape , or size of prisons but whether or not there should be prisons at all.8 There has been a general disenchantment with institutionalization of offenders . This is hardly surprising because it follows several decades of disenchant-ment with other types of institutions including the orphanage , the mental hospital , and the " old folks ' home . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical hospital is pricing itself out of existence . Although the idea of abolishing prisons is an attractive one , this is not going to happen overnight and hundreds of thousands of men and women are going to be incarcerated in existing facilities for decades no matter how many master plans are formulated . This means we must develop and implement reforms of existing prisons as well as formulate and test alternatives to incarceration . The fashion conscious-ness of many design professionals has been mentioned several times . There is a hypnotic pull to phrases like " community corrections " or " non-prison . " I have been to " non-meetings " that were actually very dull " meetings " and visited prisons renamed " reception centers , " " medical facilities , " and " state colonies " that were all prisons . Tan-gible improvements within institutional environments are the goal , not simply renaming traditional buildings and procedures . The vision of the late David Vail , a dedicated psychiatrist who transformed Minnesota 's mental hospital system , can be applied to prisons as well : The mental institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how evil is done in that microcosm , we may learn how evil is done in the world around . And if we learn how , we may then learn why . More importantly if we learn how evil is done to the human spirit , we may learn someday how it can be undone.9 Although prisons remain the hardest buildings in America today , there are signs that other building types are using the prison as a model in developing security systems . The use of prison fixtures in parks and other public buildings , closed-circuit Tv in garages , subway stations , and public housing projects , the use of " man traps " in banks and office buildings , high fences , electronic surveillance , and no-man 's land type of guarded enclaves of suburbia have already been men-tioned . This emulation of prison facilities might be more comprehen-sible if the prison were not a failing institution . Perhaps if we can learn to humanize the prison we can also learn how to develop a so-ciety without guards , often armed , in every bus station , department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison remains one of the few settings in which guns are never visible . This may come as a surprise to anyone who has never visited a prison , but it is true . // There are many uniformed men in evidence but they are not likely to carry even billy clubs . The ratio of guards to inmates is so unbalanced and the inmate society so well organized that any weapons introduced into the prison by the administration would quickly pass into the con-victs ' hands . The prison depends for its security upon remote force . In the crunch this means intervention by the state police and national guard . There are indeed armed men in the gun towers ( San Quentin has recently added an armed woman ) but their missions are surveil-lance and prevention of escapes . The internal maintenance of order depends upon unarmed officers and the inmate social system , which has a stake in keeping things cool . The winds of change can blow from unexpected directions . Hedi-ger 's pioneer work in the psychology of zoo animals influenced mental hospital administrators . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when neighbors complained that little Mary Ellen , the ward of one Mary Connoly in New York , was being beaten , starved , and mutilated . The police were sympathetic to the complaints but there were no laws under which Mary Connoly could be prosecuted . It was not until an officer of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals obtained a writ of habeas corpus under laws designed to protect animals that Mary Connoly could be brought to court . Under the ASPCA anti-cruelty statutes , she was sentenced to a year in jail and Mary Ellen was adopted by " a respectable family . " The following year the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children was formed.lo Who can say what is likely to happen when an environ-mental bill of rights is established for prisoners covering such items as minimum space requirements , access to fresh air and natural light , recreation and family visits , and access to green spaces . Tenants of pub-lic housing projects as well as office and factory workers are going to take a long hard look at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blamed a recent strike on the Church of the New Song ; " They have an egalitarian creed and a lot of verbiage which makes them appear to have the same kind of structure as a legitimate religion . The whole thrust is to improve prison conditions , but I think it goes beyond that to making prisons nice places to be . " 11 Hard on the Animals Too There is more information about the spatial needs of animals in zoos than about human spatial needs . If a zoo animal is given too lit-tle , too much , or the wrong kind of space it will become listless , lose its body sheen , fail to reproduce , become sick , and die . Because captive animals , particularly large mammals , are expensive , zoo-keepers have done extensive research on animal spatial needs . Some monkeys are arboreal and need to inhabit the upper reaches of their cages ; some rodents will venture into the open only at night , and a hippopotamus will require a wallow pit in which to immerse himself periodically . Hediger concludes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quantity of room at its disposal ; it is much more depend-ent upon the quality of the room ? that is , on the similarity of the area of landscaping to its territory , the naturalness and the structure of family and social groups , and so forth . ' The work of Hediger , Lorenz , Kummer , and other biologists is pro-ducing a body of reliable information about the spatial needs of cap-tive animals . Still unanswered , however , is the question of why animals are caged and kept in zoos at all . This question is of more than aca-demic interest and its implications reach beyond the zoo . Just because we know how to keep zoo animals alive , or prisoners alive for that mat-ter , it does not mean that either zoo or prison deserves public support . Both zoo and prison are penultimate hard environments that have done great harm to their inmates . The damage may be easier to observe in captive animals whose natural behavior is also known . The listless caged bear sitting in the corner of the cage watching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural self . Animals that refuse 64 // to mate or breed in captivity are not their natural selves . It is fairly easy to document the behavioral anomalies produced by forced confinement in restricted space . Yet the zoo , like the prison , is presumably justified not in terms of its benefits for its inmates but for its benefits to society . No one pretends that animals are benefited from confinement in zoos any more than convicts are benefited from confinement in cells . It is true that some species will gain weight in captivity and live longer than they would in the wild , but the quality of life is so different it is hard to speak of size or longevity as benefits . The zoo is also supposedly justified on the basis of its educational value to society ? it helps people to learn what animals look like and something about their behavior . This justification is as questionable as the rehabilitative or even protective value of the prison . Although some primatologists have been concerned about some of the lessons people have learned by seeing monkeys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not received much systematic inquiry . The list of behaviors common in the zoo but relatively uncommon in nature include sexual aberrations , a heavy incidence of aggression , and the blandness of many animals that do n't have anything to do in a concrete cage . Although this had led animal biologists to question the research function of the zoo , it has rarely led to significant questions about the zoo 's role in public education . From the descriptive brochures , one receives the impression that the presence of the animals in enclosures is regarded as educational . There is good reason to question the validity of this assumption . Are we trying to teach visitors that a lion can survive in a 15 by 25-foot cage or that occasionally two animals of a threatened species can breed in captivity ? The sight of animals waiting for visitors to bring them peanuts would seem to develop a homocentric environmental ethic . One of the most depressing aspects of a zoo visit is the amount of petty sadism and exhibitionism among the visitors , adults as well as children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that the sight of caged animals does not by itself engender respect or learning . Prior to the development of photography , there was some justification for exhibiting animals as an educational exercise . The zoo provided an opportunity for the public to see what certain animals looked like . However the ready availability of wildlife documentaries showing an animal in its natural habitat as well as the availability of illus66 TIGHT SPACES trated nature books and magazines compels us to view the problem in a new light . A school teacher or wildlife biologist must ask himself specifically whether he would prefer the public to observe a species in the zoo or see a good documentary film . This question need not be framed in an either/or manner . It may be that certain species can be adequately portrayed in their natural habitat in a large specialized zoo with an adequate staff and budget . Yet other species , particularly large mammals , simply can not be accommodated in any kind of urban zoo without having gross violence done to their natural behaviors . Like any hard environment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural behavior . Heini Hediger , the curator of the Zurich Zoo and probably the foremost student on the behavior of captive ani-mals , states categorically that " the study of the behavior of large animals must be conducted in the wild . " 2 Hard and constraining environments leave little room for a full range of behaviors to come into play . For the same reason the zoo is a very poor place for photographing ani-mals . A recent article discusses some of the frustrations of the zoo pho-tographer . The animals sit around almost stuporous and it is hard to find one that is doing anything . As a result some photographers have developed techniques for screening out the steel and concrete environ-ment . ( The photographer ) carefully excludes from her pictures anything that smacks of human manufacture ? using selective focus , clever cropping , care-fully chosen camera angles , and naturalistic or empty backgrounds . With a 200 mm lens , she finds she can throw some of the zoo hardware so far out of focus it looks like a jungle background . . . Prison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a concrete wall can be made to look like a section of a cliff face , or shot so far out of focus that it looks like the sky . It is no problem at all to make a hedge with a steel fence in it look like jungle , or a dead tree look alive.3 The same techniques can be applied at a prison . A 200 mm lens will photographically transform the convict 's cell into a jungle or a park . It is questionable whether this is morally justified or educationally // useful . Photographer Hattersley believed that " successful zoo photography requires persistence , hard work , patience , observation , study , the ability to care , a portrait approach , and knowing how to eliminate the zoo environment from pictures . " It would seem more important to eliminate the unnatural conditions in all places of confinement that provoke unnatural responses rather than to develop photographic tricks that convert cages into parks . The inadequacy of hard institutions for the rehabilitation of inmates and mental patients was discussed in previous chapters . The zoo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution as an educational or research resource for the outside society . Unless one 's goal is to learn about the effects of confinement , the educational value of the zoo is probably more negative than positive . Despite excellent intentions , it is likely that even the best public zoos are creating stereotypes about animal behavior that are not only incorrect but work against the interests of wildlife preservation . Any hard institution inevitably distorts behavior . Just as it would be a mistake to confuse the behavior of a captive mammal with the behavior of the same animal in its natural habitat , it would be an even more tragic mistake to confuse the behavior evident in any prison or mental hospital with the " natural " behavior of criminals or mental patients . There is no evidence that most criminals are naturally homosexual in their inclinations even though there is a tremendous incidence of homosexuality inside the walls of any American prison . The apathy and dejected posture characteristic of chronic mental patients is a reflection of the lack of recreational and vocational activities and an inadequate staff-patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , everybody in the mental hospital , staff included , sits around most of the day . When walking , they use a slow institutional gait . A visit to a hard institution will reveal more about the nature of institutional routine than about the behavior of the occupants in their natural environment . The similarity between the barred doors and barred windows of zoo and prison is obvious . Less apparent but perhaps more fundamental is the similarity between the zoo and mental hospital . In a brilliant paper , Psychiatrist Henri Ellenberger traces the parallel development of the mental hospital and the zoo from being places of public amusement to their present emphasis on humane treatment and public edu68 TIGHT SPACES cation . The first public mental institution in England , Bethlehem Royal Hospital ( later corrupted to Bedlam ) was supported by admis-sion fees charged to visitors at the penny gates . Tickets were sold to those members of the public who wanted to view the " antics " of mental patients . The patients would perform in order to receive candy , food , or money . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop a model zoo , the Natural History Society of Paris appointed a committee of three men to study the project . One of these was Pinel , who had supervised the reform of the Bicetre Hospital . Out of the efforts of this committee came the Jardin des Plantes in Paris , a different sort of zoo which was intended for public education , and which became the model for institutions of its kind during the 19th Century.4 A heartening development from every standpoint including that of public education and amusement is the animal park . In a large pre-serve similar to their natural habitat , water buffalo can wade in swamps and antelope roam the plains . Animals that coexist in nature are placed together , others are separated by concealed moats . Unlike the ordinary zoo in which animals are captive and people roam free , the reverse occurs in the animal park where the people are enclosed in trains and the free-ranging animals move in herds rather than in pairs as they do in most zoos . This reversal of roles has produced some inter-esting reactions from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Randell Eaton , " Animal parks are better for people , too . In a park the animals wander freely , doing their own thing ; you are in the role of trespasser . And in the park , it is the visitors who are cooped up ? inside automobiles or monorails ? not the animals . You have , incidentally , the sense of being imprisoned ? a humbling ex-perience. " 5 The harder the environment , the more the behavior of the occu-pants will be distorted from its natural state . This has obvious rele-vance to the zoo where part of its justification is its educational value . The distortions in behavior produced by prisons are less significant as educational failures than as human tragedies . Adjustment to a rigid // institutional setting does not guarantee subsequent adjustment after release . If people or animals are to be caged , and we must first question why this should be so , it will be in everyone 's interest to see that the conditions are not so unnatural as to twist and deform behavior . This principle is as valid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a classroom as it is for a captive animal . Let us use the obvious pathologies of zoo animals to protest the evils of caging human beings , but at the same time let us not overlook the evils of caging animals in unnatural conditions . The hard zoo consisting of concrete boxes , steel bars , and fixed routine of feeding , watering , and washing by outside maintenance personnel , distorts the behavior of the animals . This distortion reduces the value of the zoo for public education , research , and as a breeding institution to assist endangered species . The presumed advantages of the hard zoo all lie in the area of efficiency and maintenance . There is some saving in space and effort if all the cages are lined up in a row so that mass feeding and cleaning techniques can be used . However this overlooks the long-run efficiency of letting the animals look after many of their own needs rather than having an external agency do this . The closer an environment to the animal 's natural habitat , the less need there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality and low breeding rates of many species in hard zoos are other reasons why their presumed efficiency is specious . I would not want to overdraw the analogy between people in offices , factories , and classrooms on the one hand and caged animals on the other . Thinking by analogy can be helpful but it is necessary to avoid both dehumanization and anthropomorphism . The hard zoo can tell us something about the problems of caging large mammals . Perhaps because we are less involved in lions and giraffes than in our own species , the zoo can teach us how to find the proper environment to maintain organisms in natural conditions . If living creatures can not be left in their original habitat , the least that can be done is to place them in natural and responsive surroundings ? natural so that their character is not warped , and responsive so that their individuality and creativity are firmly respected . 5 Funnels and Tunnels : The Airport as a Place for People Airport terminals rank high in any list of socially destructive buildings . They are among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the school of monumental architecture . From the exterior most airports are impressive but you would n't want to live around one or spend much time inside . Airports are being recognized as a source of air pollution and harmful noise , but I will leave these topics to those more qualified in the natural sciences and concentrate instead on the human environment inside the airport . Over the years my students and I have observed a number of different airports and interviewed passengers waiting there . This is probably an invalid approach if one considers the airport as a design problem because most airports are not designed for people . They are considered warehouses where the merchandise is sorted and stacked for shipment . No agency or organization feels a responsibility for insuring that waiting time is pleasant or productive . A common misconception is that people spend very little time in airports . This is perhaps true on commuter flights but it hardly applies to cross-country or international flights where flights are delayed , overbooked , consolidated , and cancelled at the slightest pretext . Even if people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an estimate I believe to be low , there is no reason why this must be wasted time in a cold , sterile , and unfriendly building . Some passengers want to be left alone and their wishes should be respected . The sociofugal layout of airports suits these passengers quite 70 // nicely , but the situation is different for passengers who would like to wait in a reassuring and comfortable environment . The terminal at-mosphere does nothing to calm people who have latent fears about flying . I can still remember when flying was fun and airports exciting places to visit . This is hardly the case any longer . The service on a flight to Europe may be as perfunctory as at a Skid Row mission . Edgar Frieden-berg observed : " Flights to California have now become sheer anomie ? a melange of drunken salesmen trying to exhibit a rather unconvincing sexual interest in a stewardess who is serving bad but pretentious food whose name she ca n't pronounce to anxious retired couples on their way to Hawaii and wondering how they can afford it . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than relieved after such a journey . A TWA official observed : Have you ever gone out to Kennedy , stood in the international arrivals building , watched people come through from the customs and whatnot out into the concourse area ? Now most of them , like 70 percent of them or so , are people who have just come back from a vacation , and what you should expect to see , I would think , is a uniform array of smiling happy faces , everybody joyous , everybody relaxed , everybody happy , and to be sure , you see quite a few people who obviously have had a hell of a good time . But you see a distressingly large number of people who look harassed and sort of overdone , people who look almost as if they were glad the goddam thing is over .2 Since 1948 the air time between New York City and six of the nation 's largest cities has been cut about 50 percent . Ground travel time between airport and downtown has increased almost by the same per-centage because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get from downtown Manhattan to Kennedy Airport as it does to fly from New York to Washington or New York to Boston . After the arduous trip to the airport , the passenger is left to his own devices and treated as a non-person by all the uniformed personnel chatting with one another . Assuming he finds the right sequence of lines in which to wait and walks down the right tubes , he eventually // arrives in a sterile room in which all the black chairs , facing a single direction , are bolted together and he is again ignored by uniformed staff who converse with one another and occasionally make announce-ments into microphones . When he finally boards the plane by entering a smaller tube and being strapped in a larger one , the uniformed peo-ple suddenly become aware of his existence . Coffee , tea , or milk , cock-tails , magazines , three-course dinners , films ? there is no end to what is done for him . Ignored at the terminal , he reigns as king of the long tube he assumes is on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is nil and the social environment is as bad . The stewardess waits on each passenger individually and there is very little possibility for interaction between passengers . Very few passengers have ever made a friend during an air trip.3 The usual pattern is to mumble some generalities to the passenger sitting in the next seat , perhaps bor-row a newspaper if one is especially bold , and say " Excuse me " as one exits to the restroom and returns . Flying in a commercial airline is as desolate an activity as waiting in an air terminal . The person who starts a trip alone will end the trip alone . For the traveling business-man things will not be much better in the plastic motel in the distant city . He will sit alone at a table in the coffee shop of the Holiday Inn reading a newspaper or looking morosely ahead . Many other buildings we have discussed , such as mental hospitals and jails , also discourage contact between people , but none does this as effectively as the airport . It is a classic example of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast to a sociopetal building , which encourages human contact.4 The same is true of the prison , which is designed to inhibit interaction but rarely , if ever , does . Prisons are hotbeds of interaction . Civil prisoners as well as POWs have developed elaborate tapping codes that will reach from one isolation cell into another , pass illegal notes ( kites ) through ven-tilator shafts , and employ a complex messenger service involving guards as well as inmates . In practice the long corridors and the cold , bare waiting areas of the typical airport are more sociofugal than the isolation wing of the state penitentiary. // Two movies , The Loved One and The Graduate , have used the Los Angeles Airport to heighten the viewer 's sense of loneliness and alienation . At the beginning of The Graduate , Dustin Hoffman rides alone and expressionless on an endless belt . The viewer wonders whether the entire film will consist of his silent vigil on the slowly moving conveyer with formless shapes overtaking him on either side . In a cigarette commercial , the announcer describes how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cigarette while the camera travels through the vast empty hollows of an airport building . It seems no accident that an air terminal is used to illustrate how lonely life can be . Crowding does n't make the terminal any friendlier , because people still remain psychologically apart . Biologist Glen Mc-Bride has studied the way turkeys behave when they are crowded in a coop . Accidental encounters provoked aggression , which destroyed the turkey society , so it is common to find crowded birds lined up at the fence facing outward ? eye contact , which would provoke an aggres-sive response , is thereby minimized.5 This seems similar to the function of the airport windows , which provide psychological refuge for those who want to avoid potentially unpleasant visual encounters . Passengers can also retreat into newspapers and magazines . There is the apocry-phal story of the New York newspaper strike when the seated subway patrons , deprived of their usual refuge in the printed page , unhappily had to meet the eyes of men and women standing above them . Books and magazines mitigate the tension produced by crowding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from interacting with those in the immediate vicinity . The present situation is hardest on the elderly , the infirm , families with young children , and gregarious people who like to talk with their neighbors . The lone businessman can easily adapt to the isolating arrangement . Indeed , he may prefer it if he has work to do . However , both children and older people quickly discover that the shiny tile floors are good for sliding , though only the children are pleased at the discovery . If it were not for the presence of anxious adults , for children the airport could be a first-rate play area with its long smooth corri-dors ideal for running and sliding , its alcoves for hiding , the chairs stacked for climbing , the odd and unrecognizable noises from the pub74 TIGHT SPACES lic address system , and the many doors leading to ramps , hidden stairways , and tunnels . Rules made by adults discourage children from using the environment creatively . Instead the children ( like the adults ) are restricted to a few rote responses such as playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning on the water fountain , riding the conveyer belt in the baggage section when the attendant is n't present , inspecting the candy machines , checking out the wastebaskets , and pulling the levers on the cigarette machines . Often the airport windows are too high for children to use and parents must lift them in order to watch the planes . However children can still find a lot to do if given half the chance . The exploratory urges of the child propel him to the only flexible , movable , manipulable objects available ? and these are likely to be the cigarette machine and the stainless steel ashtray . If these activities disturb airport managers either on aesthetic or on safety grounds , the most reasonable solution would be to provide opportunities for creative play that do n't have hazards . It can not be denied that children are a legitimate constituency in airport waiting areas . At any time of the day or night one can find children of all ages there . The question of play facilities for children raises the moral question of whether children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not take much observation to see that children already play in airports . Even in dull waiting areas designed solely for adults , children still find things to do . Perhaps it is unnecessary to make special provisions for children in airport terminals because they already have the insurance machines , escalators , and baggage conveyers available to them . The problem is that sooner or later airport rules against children 's play will be enforced . The result wil be a lot of frustrated and unhappy children making their parents frustrated and unhappy in turn . The elderly are also affected by the inflexible and unresponsive interior . A grandmother hears her grandson talking five chairs down the row but she can not understand what he is saying without access to the facial cues she ordinarily uses . Her sense of separation begins as soon as the family sits down in the institutional row of chairs . Varying the color of the chairs and mounting posters on the walls makes the area prettier , but does n't help a family of five converse when they have to sit side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inexpensive or unfurnished , for many are built in the best traditions of monumental sculpture . Rather they seem deliberately designed to eliminate conversation among passengers . The seats are fastened together with armrests , clearly marking off each person 's space ; the rows are placed back-to-back or arranged classroom style facing the counter where the ticket agent plays the role of teacher . Another assumption is that all people are the same size and shape and therefore all chairs in an area should be identical . To see most waiting rooms , one would never know that coat racks had been invented . A man either wears his coat regardless of the temperature , folds it inelegantly on his lap , or lets it spill over into an adjacent chair . Unless he is fortunate enough to be near a table , parcels either remain on his lap or on the floor while he must stay alert so that others do n't trip over them . Two men traveling together will frequently leave an empty seat between them in order to talk without breathing into one another 's face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed on the empty seat to reserve it . The designers have assumed that air travelers are spectators or misanthropes . This impersonal institutional atmosphere is due largely to the furnishing of airport waiting areas . Some people come to the airport alone , but a sizable number arrive with family , friends , and business associates . One has only to observe the tightly knit groups that form the moment a plane arrives to realize the potential for social activity in the terminal . The family comes to pick up Billy on furlough or Suzie back from college or Aunt Emmy coming to California for the first time . These are family and friendship groups of the most intense sort . To see them sitting dumbly side by side in the shiny plastic chairs is heartrending . Every so often one family member rises and walks to the water cooler so that he can speak to the rest of the family as he returns to his seat . The start of a conversation is marked by one person leaning forward while the others lean back so that they may at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not last long . There is no way that two or three people seated side by side can converse comfortably . It is not simply the lack of privacy in the large open spaces , although this is part of it . The main reason is that the chairs are arranged to minimize social intercourse . Most conversations take place between people standing or in clusters where one or two will sit and the rest stand . // Almost every year a bill is introduced into the California legislature to prohibit pay toilets in publicly operated buildings such as airports , and then the bill dies or is defeated . One toilet in each washroom remains free to the public while all others require a coin . Typically the free stall is poorly maintained , lacks a coat rack and door , and not infrequently is out of toilet paper . Without a latch on the inside of the door , the patron is in the awkward position of sitting on the stool while holding the door closed with his foot . A survey of airport patrons by William Polowniak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toilets , especially when children were involved . It was common to find parents suggesting to children that they go under the toilet doors rather than use the coin mechanism . However , the pay toilets are a good source of revenue . In 1969 the pay toilets in the San Francisco International Airport produced a net profit of $48,456 ? at that time the toilets cost a nickel . In 1970 the user fee was raised to ten cents and the revenue figures have risen accordingly . The situation in the toilets parallels that in the airport waiting areas . The philosophy is to drive people from the free public areas by making them unattractive and uncongenial . Anyone who has had the misfortune to be fogged in and spend the night in an airport knows how bad the sleeping situation is . The armrests on the chairs seem deliberately placed to thwart sleepers . In many airports there are never more than two adjacent seats without an intervening armrest . I doubt if this is done to provide accessible armrests because the person at the end seat still does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discourage passengers from stretching out . Because of the armrest arrangement , most late-night passengers must sleep upright or hunch over in a single seat using an overcoat as a pillow , ignoring the custodian who comes by at regular intervals pushing a pile of mysterious red sawdust with his broom . A ready contrast exists between these rigid chairs and those in the airplane which adjust to reclining positions according to the passenger 's convenience . Nowadays , many airports provide , for a fee , special sleeping and dressing rooms in the terminal building or in a special structure close by . The unresponsiveness of terminal buildings to human intervention became a distinct liability in the aftermath of the bomb scares . The rigid form of the building made it difficult to locate screening devices // and guards in any efficient way . The costs of moving walls , changing pathways , or consolidating boarding areas which might have been done economically in a more flexible structure became prohibitive . The result was the cordoning off or " sanitization " of boarding areas for passengers already screened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boarding areas . Concessionaires are also being hurt by the security measures . Passengers between flights are not likely to reenter the main building if they have to be sanitized for a second or third time . The costs of rigid and unresponsive buildings may not be evident until some new need arises . How is it that a building type that used to be equated with glamor , excitement , and holidays has become a symbol of air and noise pollution as well as isolation , boredom , and dreariness ? These are many reasons , including the obvious fact that travel is no longer limited to a few jet-setters , and trips to distant cities for business or pleasure have lost their novelty . Airports are more crowded , lines are longer , it takes more time to get to the airport and almost every airport looks the same . A cartoon shows two passengers meeting and one asking " Where am I ? " and the second replying , " I 'm not sure ! Is this Dallas or Denver ? " A third man comes up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and the fourth replies , " Let me see ! I think we 're either in L.A. or Detroit . " Many of these problems can be attributed to the architectural layout and furnishings of the buildings . There is a general unfriendliness produced by the endless corridors , the stark colors , the ubiquitous vending machines , the uncomfortable and cold furniture , and the lack of any warm textures . The word terminal means end and in the sense that the building succeeds in ending conversations , it is aptly named . One sees the same vending machines and concessionaires selling the same gewgaws in every city . The restaurant menus are identical , with the same overpriced plastic fare . The key questions are how things got this way and how they can be changed . Let us begin with the matter of the rows of chairs bolted together . I asked some air terminal people the reasons for this odd arrangement , which none of them would tolerate in their own homes . The answers generally followed a predictable sequence . The first answer was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I expressed disbelief or laughed , the airport manager would relax and // admit this was n't the real reason , although it is interesting to see how often a security explanation is used to mask economic considerations . It did n't seem likely that people would come all the way out to an airport to steal chairs . For one thing it was n't clear that anyone wanted these uncomfortable chairs for their own homes . They might be acceptable for an office anteroom or doctor 's office , although they are a little cold and stiff for that , and it seemed doubtful that corporation executives and doctors were roaming the countryside stealing chairs . The next reason was that the bolted chairs made it easier for the janitors to sweep . This reason did ring true . With the chairs in straight rows , it was much easier for the janitor to push his broom in an uninterrupted straight line . Janitors have a stake in the buildings they maintain and their interests should be respected in the design process . When a building is designed without thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interests of the custodians must be placed alongside those of the other users of a building . In the airport terminal it would seem that the interests of the janitors had been given excessive weight and those of the passengers too little . The most significant reason for the antiseptic and sociofugal appearance of airport terminals is indeed an economic one , but not in the sense one might suppose . The present layout and furnishings of the airport are not cheap . They are durable but equally durable items could be more pleasing , comfortable , and sociopetal . In airport economics the largest single source of income comes not from landing fees , but from the concessions , including shops , restaurant , parking garage , insurance counters , and so on . In fact one can see in the waiting areas a conspiracy to drive passengers out to the concessions where they will spend money . Any effort to humanize or provide amenities in the waiting area is a threat to the restaurant , cocktail lounge , newsstand , and gift shop . No one , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of passengers in the waiting areas . If people spent less money in airport shops , the landing fees for the airlines would be raised . The influence of these commercial interests is seen in the design of the terminal building . A creative proposal for the Houston International Airport called for a system similar to the German airbus , which actually placed the loading or unloading of automobiles within 100 feet of the aircraft . This was discarded because it did not draw the pasFunnels // sengers through the various commercial enterprises that pay for the airport.6 Passengers have no organization or representation to look after their interests . They are regarded by the airlines as merchandise to be shipped elsewhere and by the concessionaires as sheep to be sheared . Furthermore , those passengers of greatest power and influence have been bought off by the airlines with special lounges and facilities . The super-rich and the powerful ( including high government officials ) have their own planes and use private airports . The middle-level corporation executive spends his time in the Horizon Club and then in the first-class section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsidized by the economy class passengers . The extra charge paid by the first-class passengers does n't come anywhere near reimbursing airlines for providing a first-class section with 50 percent more seating area and probably three times as many stewardesses per actual passenger as in the economy section or the cost of maintaining special " clubs " in airports complete with bartender and bunnies.7 It can be noted that the furnishings in these airport terminal clubs , which all have conspicuously underdesigned exteriors to minimize the curiosity of the economy passenger who subsidizes them , contain none of the uninteresting and uncomfortable furniture of the plebian waiting areas . These clubs are full of heavy plush chairs and couches , statues and fountains , live green plants and fresh flowers ( instead of plastic ) , as well as free soft drink and coffee service . People who spend time in these lounges have no stake in changing the character of the regular boarding areas . Some airport furnishings are like school furnishings in that they are pseudo-fixed rather than fixed literally . Some of the chairs that are joined together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even when the chairs are attached to one another permanently , the entire row may be turned around so that at least two rows can face one another rather than all facing in the same direction . I have seen this happen spontaneously only once in what must be hun80 TIGHT SPACES dreds of hours of airport watching . My wife and I have done this ourselves several times and passengers looked at us as if we were crazy . I have also separated the chairs in pseudo-fixed rows . The results have been disappointing . Most people are unprepared for the new arrangement and do n't know how to use it . In one case I watched in disbelief as people filed into the rearranged waiting room and returned the chairs to the straight rows . It was like the old days in the mental hospital where patients moved the chairs back against the walls " where they belonged . " It is evident that Americans have adapted to the desocializing atmosphere of the airport terminal . This adaptation to withdrawal is the most insidious and frightening aspect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waiting is considered a serious activity instead of dead time of value only to concessionaires . There is no objection to commercial concessions whether they are public or privately owned ? the Mexico City airport with its rows of stalls , shops , and concessions is an exciting place in which to spend a morning or afternoon . In this kind of space the requirements of a passenger could go beyond time-filling activities and alcohol-induced indifference . I wait with some anticipation for the first decent airport cinema . The hackneyed commercial films that pass for airport movies are beyond comment . Passengers will either have to organize or assemble under the umbrella of a Nader-type organization in order to correct the inequities of airport terminals where the economy passengers subsidize the amenities of the first-class passengers . None of this is going to come about until people begin doing hard time in air terminals ? hard time in the sense of being aware of the specific sources of their frustrations . Awareness at least provides some hope for corrective action , for considering a humane and comfortable environment as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prescription for even more monumental architecture and sociofugal furnishings . 6 A building can be tight and uncomfortable because people do n't know how to use it properly . Fred Steele has developed the idea of pseudo-fixed space , or space that seems to be rigid but isn't.2 Often this rigidity stems from institutional sanctity or the unwillingness of people to deviate from a familiar pattern . In other cases the pseudo-rigidity is produced by the policies of the people responsible for main-taining the space , frequently the janitors or custodians . University classrooms are among the most fixed spaces in the United States today . Elementary school classrooms have loosened up considerably over the last decade and it is common to find innovative arrangements at the primary or secondary levels . Although grade school teachers have been willing to move their desks out among their pupils and teach in teams , professors still insist on lecturing from the front of the room . In both cavernous lecture halls and small seminar rooms , one is likely to encounter neatly spaced rows of chairs standing at attention before a podium . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but usually they are in straight rows . It does not take much imagination to picture students filing in , sitting down , opening note-books , and sitting mute during the class hour while the instructor stands behind his podium or paces in front of the room . Sanders found teachers and administrators did not often take advantage of innovative 81 // furniture arrangernents.3 Portable chairs , he found , rarely were moved from their fixed rows . The sanctity with which straight rows are re-garded makes it almost inevitable that departures from them will be considered subversive . Some teachers see the need for guerilla-type rearrangements . One junior high teacher we knew tried for several days to get her students to move their chairs around , but with little success . She finally arrived early one day and rearranged the chairs in a ran-dom fashion . When the students arrived , they returned the chairs to their original rows . Rolfe compared participation in classrooms which had either sta-tionary or movable seating . He concluded that although " the large classrooms with movable seating provided a more comfortable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more convenient to teach , these rooms did little to change the pattern of teaching or to change the traditional use of space for instruction . ti ? A recent study found that the activity patterns in open-plan schools are quite distinct from traditional plan schools . There was less structuring of spaces and teachers were more personal and informal with students . Students worked more often in small groups or alone and used a greater variety of tools.5 Although educational critics such as Holt ? and Kohl ? urge departure from traditional straight-row seating , there has been very little empirical research dealing with this issue . Most experimentation in school architecture , has occurred in the primary schools . One is struck with the physical resemblance between the typical elementary school classroom of twenty years ago and the typical university class-room today . Probably the chief difference is that the university has longer rows and more of them . Efforts to loosen up the classroom run counter to the security men-tality discussed earlier . It may be possible for a teacher to give pupils // freedom of space within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the halls without a pass . A dedicated teacher might give all pupils passes valid for the entire semester . However , more than hall patrols seem to be in store for urban schools . Many of them reflect advanced stages of the hardening process . Fenced off completely from the community and with only one or two access points , two-way micro-phones in every classroom , and without outside windows , the domi-nant themes are isolation and insulation . A welfare mother described her children 's school this way : The schools are like jails . The classrooms are locked . When the kids are inside , they are locked for " safety . " When the kids are outside , they are locked so nobody can steal anything . There are iron gates in the hall-way.8 The assumption is made that learning can take place best in dis-traction-free , lockable cells . Human contact in the form of casual con-versation ( " milling around " ) is a threat to order and a distraction to the assembly line . The only freedom of space remaining to students and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use rooms properly and are willing to do so . In this chapter I would like to discuss the various aspects of classroom layout and utilization . A humane classroom can represent a refuge in a hard building or a base camp out of which efforts to humanize the environment can grad-ually radiate through the austere hallways , asphalt yards , workshops , and locked offices . Administrators may resist attempts to humanize classrooms on the basis of security considerations . Suggesting that ster-ile institutional furnishings be replaced with softer and more colorful chairs will produce the objection that nice furnishings will be stolen . At one university I met with students in a dormitory lounge where all the chairs , tables , and ash trays were chained to the floor . It was diffi-cult to show slides because the small table was chained too far away from the wall outlet for the electrical cord to reach . None of the chairs could be moved to a location suitable for viewing the slides . Eventually we balanced the projector precariously on the seat of a chair and everyone sat on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wasteful to chain the tables and chairs in this way . Obviously it was not very pleasant or practical for the dormitory residents to use them this // way . Sitting in one of these chairs was like being on a leash . An archi-tecture student in the group mentioned that he was designing a dor-mitory lounge in which the door would be smaller than the furnishings and all the furniture would be introduced into the room prior to the time the door was completed . Presumably no one would be able to re-move the tables and the chairs from the lounge . It is n't too far fetched to assume that people who want to steal these chairs will remove the legs or otherwise abbreviate their size before transporting them out of the room . Perhaps they will steal the furnishings before the door is completed . The hard architecture approach does nothing to deal with the motives of those who steal lounge furniture . In virtually every case I have seen , the theft is not done by outsiders but by the domitory residents themselves who replace the uncomfortable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more comfortable fur-nishings from the under-utilized lounges . As Van der Ryn and Silver-stein , Hsai , and other researchers have found , 9 these formal lounges are designed as status space to impress visiting parents . It is unusual to find a dormitory lounge used to any efficient degree . Lounges are empty most of the time or there are one or two students using it as a study hall . Student interest in preserving the lounge furniture under these conditions is minimal . One can argue that the softer furnishings will be used more efficiently when removed to the students ' rooms . However , it would be more sensible to make available softer furnishings for the students ' rooms and classrooms ( while giving people the option to have hard chairs if they want them ) and thereby reduce the motives for re-moving furnishings from the lounge . One should also attempt to counter the formal atmosphere of dormitory lounges which in spite of the expensive furnishings make them such inhospitable places for students . STUDY 1 : PARTICIPATION There is no shortage of advocates of the circular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference between adMovable // vocating a particular kind of seating and demonstrating that it will produce more participation , raise morale , or increase learning in some objective way . On the basis of the many discussions about classroom arrangements , we decided to undertake first a field study of the amount of participation that actually occurred and then secondly a guerrilla-type study in which the arrangements would be altered in a systematic fashion and the effects would be monitored . To avoid creating a bias about what was expected , we decided that we would not inform the instructors whose classrooms would be rearranged.9 During the first part of the study we wanted to learn how much participation actually occurred in college classrooms , and whether there was a connection between the size of the class and the amount of par-ticipation . This was a naturalitic study , following the methods of Roger Barkerlo and undertaken by six student observers who audited fifty-one classes and unobtrusively recorded how much classroom inter-action occurred . If the observer were asked , as occasionally happened in small classes , to identitfy himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wondered what that particular class was like . This an-swer seemed to satisfy both students and instructors . To monitor the amount of participation , the observer kept a stopwatch in his pocket or under his jacket and recorded the length of time a student spoke , the number of students who participated , and if possible , whether the discussion involved student and instructor or student and student . Table 1 shows that class size influenced the amount of student par-ticipation . In small classes ( 6 to 20 students ) there was an average of 5.8 minutes of student participation , compared to 2.4 and 2.6 minutes // respectively in medium ( 21 to 50 ) and large ( 50+ students ) classes . Statistical analysis showed a reliable difference between the small classes and the large classes , but no difference between the small and medium or the medium and the large classes . Table 2 shows the clear progression in the amount of participation from small to large classes . However , the actual number of students participating was roughly similar for small , medium , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participated in some way during the course of the class hour . There is a ready explanation for the seeming paradox that there was more time spent in discussion in small classes , but that approximately the same number of students spoke whether the class was small , medium , or large . In the medium and large classes , the nature of the participation frequently involved requests for clarification or repetition ? for example , a student in the back of the room asking that a // statement be repeated . This was included by the observers as student participation although it hardly counts as a contribution to intellec-tual discourse . However , if one looks at the percentage of students who participated in each size class , the results parallel those of Barker and Gump , who found that students in small schools participated more on a per capita basis than did students in large schools even though there was a wider range of activities available in the larger school.11 On a percentage basis , an average of 41 percent participated in small classes , compared to 19 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It seems clear that there is more time spent in discussion in small classes than in large ones , and a greater proportion of the students is involved in the discussion . Although the difference between small and large classes is highly reliable from a statistical standpoint , it should be noted that even in the small classes , the total amount of student participation time aver-ages only 12 percent of the class hour . We turn now to the second phase of the study to learn whether or not a rearrangement of the room would appreciably increase the amount of student participation . In these sessions , the observer arrived at the room just as the previous class was leaving . He then quickly con-verted the straight rows into a circular arrangement , an operation that took less than 60 seconds . At the time he rearranged the chairs , the ob-server did not know which particular class would be using the room in the next hour . The data here were not what we expected . We had hoped to com-pare participation in the circular arrangement with participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in field research one always accepts the possibility that the subjects will exercise options that are unavailable or unlikely in the laboratory . In this case , we found that twenty of the twenty-five classes rearranged the chairs back into straight rows before the class began ! This was as true for small classes as it was for larger ones , and for social science classes as well as natural science classes . What was most discouraging was that stu-dents were often the instigators in returning to row arrangements , sometimes before the instructor even arrived . In several cases the in-structor made negative remarks and the students practically jumped // to rearrange the room according to his wishes . Here are several representative examples from field notes : In a physiology class with about 30 chairs which E had arranged into a circle , the first student in the room declared , referring to the room arrangement , " This is weird . " Another student said , " It would be great if only 10 or 12 people were in here . " A third student said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructor came in . Sarcastically , the first thing he said was , " Is n't this sweet ! " He went on to say , " We 'll stop this . I have to have something to hide behind , not like these liberal arts people who can sit around a circle and chat . " He moved the desk out further into the room and stood behind it . The chairs were arranged back into rows . He proceeded to lecture for 50 minutes without stopping once . No student said a word the entire time . Twenty-five students were present . An education class reflected the students ' uneasiness with circular arrangement and their haste in restoring the more familiar pattern . A student entered and said , " Well , what happened ? " She walked to the center front and pulled along several chairs and proclaimed " This is the second row . " A second student said " This is strange . " Another student came in and asked " Are there supposed to be ten chairs in a row ? " She counted and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the time the instructor appeared . In only one class was there a genuine acceptance of the circular arrangement . In an Integrated Studies class ( a new program on the campus ) with sixteen students , the teacher responded to the change by saying " Oh , good , we have a different seating arrangement . Did we do this ? " The class remained in the circular arrangement and had a relatively high amount of student participation . STUDY 2 : TEACHING LABORATORIES After finding the meager amount of student participation in traditional classroom settings , we decided to look at various laboratory settings to see if more participation occurred there . We felt ' that room arrangement , by itself , may be less important than the general manner in which the session is conducted , particularly in terms of the nature of teacher participation and the kinds of activities required of the students . // One observer entered thirteen laboratory sessions of various types . Nine were a variety of physical science laboratories including physics , biology , zoology , botany , and bacteriology . Four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting , etc . Laboratories were selected by walking through buildings at different times and selecting the first occupied laboratory . One observer was used because classes were small ( 9 to 25 ) and we felt that two strangers in the class would be too obtrusive . In most instances the observer found it advantageous to obtain the consent of the laboratory instructor before recording data . Instructors invariably wanted to know the exact nature of the study . In an attempt to reduce reactivity , instructors were told that a classroom study was being done and that they would be informed about the study after the observation period . In only one case was the observer 's presence challenged , when an instructor asked if the observer had departmental permission . This was quickly obtained . Comparison with unselected control laboratories supports the normality of the observed laboratory sessions . The observer recorded the number and duration of interaction among students ( S ? S ) and students and teacher ( S ? T ) . Interaction was defined as a verbal exchange directed to a specific person(s) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their prior activity or laboratory project . Because of the frequency of interaction among students , the following durational categories were developed to simplify and make more reliable the data collection : 1 = less than 10 seconds , 2 = less than 30 seconds , 3 = more than 30 seconds . The smaller number of student ? teacher interactions permitted accurate timing of the duration of the exchange with a stopwatch . The primary reliability safeguard was to devise a simple method of recording data so that complexity and confusion were held to a minimum . Observation periods were 50 minutes , and were randomly selected from each of the threehour-long laboratory periods to reduce bias from selection of slow first hours or more active second hours . The observer also recorded the size , arrangement , and level of the class ( lower- and upper-division undergraduates ) , as well as the primary participation pattern of the instructor : walk and comment , lecture , leave , sit and wait . Walk and comment referred to an instructor walking around the room and talking with students about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not lecture or // give a set presentation . Lecture referred to the instructor giving a set presentation while remaining at the front of the class . Leave referred to the cases where an instructor would give an assignment and then physically leave the setting . Sit and wait referred to an instructor who simply sat somewhere in the room and waited for students to come to him or her for advice , help , or instructions . Results The contrast between the earlier classroom study and this one was extreme . In general , the laboratory sessions were characterized by their fluidity and the mobility of all the participants . With the exception of one instructor who " sat and waited " and another who lectured , the pattern of instructor participation was " walk and comment . " The physical arrangements were impossible to separate into a manageable number of categories . No two labs were alike . In general , the science labs were much more structured than the art labs . Science rooms had long lab tables permanently bolted to the floor while art rooms had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs . In all laboratories , students were free to come and go as they liked . When a student finished his assignment he left whether or not the scheduled period was over . Art students were assigned projects due on a certain date , and were required only to complete the project by that date . Where , when , and how they worked was their choice . Science students were more dependent on the equipment in the lab for their projects . Both the total time and the proportion of different students participating were high in the laboratory sessions . On the average , S ? T interaction lasted over 12 minutes in each 50-minute observation period , or about 24 percent of the time . This percentage of class time consumed in S ? T interaction compares with 12 percent found in regular classrooms in Study I. The more significant fact is that , simultaneous with S ? T interaction , interactions were occurring among students throughout the entire period . Study I in orthodox classes found virtually no S ? S interaction at all . Because a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S ? S interactions , rather than actual time , and many conversations occurred simultaneously , it was not possible to arrive at a figure // for the average total minutes of S ? S interaction in the laboratory ses-sions . Instead , the proportion of S ? S and S ? T interaction that occurred within each time category ( less than 10 seconds , 11 to 30 seconds , 31 to 60 seconds plus ) were analyzed ( see Table 3 ) . Additionally , it was pos-sible with respect to S ? T participation to find the range of the dura-tions above 60 seconds and the mean number of seconds of each of these interactions . Table 3 shows that the largest proportion of S ? S interactions lasted for less than 10 seconds ( 53% ) with an equal pro-portion split between 11 to 30 seconds ( 23% ) and 31 to 60 plus sec-onds ( 24% ) . The largest proportion of S ? T interactions lasted for 31 or more seconds ( average duration of each interaction above 60 sec-onds was 129 seconds ) with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , over eleven different students , or almost 73 percent of each class , participated in S ? S interaction . Over 65 percent of the students participated in S ? T interactions . Most students participated in more than one interaction , and with different students at different times . There was no correlation between class size ( range from 8 to 25 ) and percentage of student participation . This is not surprising , given the small size of all the classes in the sample . A larger proportion of different students participated among themselves than with the teacher . Similarly , there was a significantly large number of S ? S than S ? T inter-actions . STUDY 3 : LOCATION AND GRADES Study 3 was designed to elicit information concerning the relationship between seating position and performance ( grades ) , student 's perception of interest in the class , and liking of the teacher as a person . Earlier studies found that classroom participation varied greatly with seating.12 More participation occurred toward the front and in the center of the room , indicating increased student involvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructor . It is probable that seating position interacts with other factors to produce the resulting relationships . In other words , sitting in a particular spot may evoke certain role behaviors from the occupant and those around him , but in many cases the person selects a position because it reflects and reinforces goals the person brought with him to the situation . Persons who consider themselves leaders chose to sit at the head rather than side position at rectangular tables.13 // Method The subjects were 282 undergraduate students from three classes at the University of California , Davis . All three classes met in the same room to keep certain aspects of the classroom environment such as size , lighting , and location of the door , constant . Classes with different course topics were selected in order to measure the effect of seating over a more general population than one course topic could offer . Permission to conduct the study was obtained from each professor . The students were asked on a questionnaire for their sex , class , gradepoint average ( GPA ) , and current grade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the teacher as a person " and the perceived similarity between themselves and the teacher on a 7-point scale . They indicated their position in a row by letter and their seat by number . Students were also asked , " Do you usually sit in this seat or within two seats of it ? " Students replying " no " to this last question were eliminated in order to get a more reliable estimate of the proximity effect . Over 70 percent of the students indicated that they usually sat in the same or a nearby seat . Questionnaires were completed during class time and handed to the experimenter , who then left . Figure I shows grade in the class as a function of seating . Grades decreased as a function of distance away from the instructor both toward the rear and side areas of the room , although the effect of distance was more pronounced in the rear areas . These findings parallel the findings of earlier studies on participation and location in which front ? middle locations , where there is the closest proximity and the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to high levels of participation . In the present case , front ? middle locations were strongly related to performance , as measured by current grade in the class . However there was no relationship between overall grade-point average ( GPA ) and seating position within any single class . This was not surprising to us in view of the restricted range of GPA for these highly selected university students . We were also dealing with large heterogeneous classes from all departments and colleges on the campus . There are large differences between departments and colleges in the kinds of grading used . The last published analysis of local grades showed several departments in which the average student grade was 3.8 ( on a 4.0 scale ) , whereas in several other departments , particularly the natural sciences , the average course grade was much lower . It seemed clear that the CPAs of students from these different departments were not directly comparable . The only meaningful comparison would be between examination scores of students enrolled in the same course . The last part of study 3 was designed to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher in the classroom . By speaking " about the other " we hoped to get some indication of how their per-ception of the classroom situation related to seating position , grades , interest , and participation . The study occurred in one of the classes previously used in the seating arrangement-class grade comparison . The 172 students were shown a diagram of the room divided into nine equal sections . Each section was labeled by its position ? front , middle , back and left middle , or right . Students were asked to indicate their answers to the following questions on this diagram : " Which section or sections of the room contain students with the most ( and then the least ) interest in the course ? " " Which section or sections contain stuMovable // dents with the highest ( and lowest ) grades ? " " In which section or sections in each drawing do you think the teacher thinks the students with the highest ( and lowest ) grades are ? " Students felt overwhelmingly that the most interested students sat in the front of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least interested ones sat in the rear ( 92 percent of replies ) . There is a similar pattern for best and worst grades . Fifty-eight percent replied that the best grades were in the front and 87 percent replied that the worst grades were in the rear . The students thought the teacher perceived the most interested ( 84 percent of replies ) and the students with the best grades ( 86 percent of replies ) sitting in the front . These findings suggest that the interpretation of more participation and better grades in the front of the room as indicating greater student interest are correct . The data also indicate that students might sit in the front of the room as a means of conveying their interest in a course to the instructor . STUDY 4 : CLASSROOM DECORATIONS I have also made several attempts to humanize the drab spaces of the college classrooms in which I taught . It may seem odd to anyone unfamiliar with the reality of higher education that I have never taught in a classroom that had even a single picture on the wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind and no tropical fish , terraria , or tapestry . The classrooms lacked all of those things that would convert a bare room into something lived in . The arguments against decorations are the precepts of hard architecture . One familiar refrain is that decorations would distract people from whatever they are doing . The fact that this principle never prevails at the higher echelons of organization is an interesting paradox . Apparently the work of the school principal or the corporate manager is enhanced by pictures on the wall and plants on the desk while lower-level workers or students would be distracted by the same things . A second argument is based on a nearsighted conception of democracy . If someone were allowed to hang pictures on the wall , somebody else might not like them . What right does person A have to impose his taste on person B ? This argu96 TIGHT SPACES ment has been leveled against murals in cafeterias and posters in classrooms . I will readily admit that there is no picture that everyone will find beautiful and stimulating . Yet there are many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and offend no one . There are still others that will give pleasure to a few and offend a few . Finally there are some that will give pleasure to an artist and offend almost everyone else . However a vote against pictures and murals and amenities is at the same time a vote for drabness and sterility . The administrator who believes that someone might complain about a given picture or mural seemingly pays no heed to protest against drab walls and furnishings . Let me briefly describe one small attempt Linda Davis and I made to improve the decor of a college classroom . Perhaps the only thing unique about the effort is that we systematically attempted to evaulate its effects . Certainly the extent of the decoration was insignificant in relation to the total drabness of the room . The room chosen for decoration was 20 feet by 21 feet , contained twenty-five chairs , and was located in a relatively new classroom building . There were windows along one wall but they did not open and were largely covered by louvers . The room was considered exceptionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three abstract yarn designs along the back wall , two pictures on the side wall , and two posters at the front . To avoid a confrontation with the administration , nothing was done to deface or alter the room in a major way but rather we simply added some posters , mobiles , and art objects . The two posters were not put in the room by us , but by an anonymous donor . The bulletin board was festooned with flower stickers and a jar of paper flowers was placed on the front table . In the front right corner of the room we hung a blue fish mobile and three Gods-Eyes were placed on the wall above the windows . Three weeks after the decorating , we conducted a survey among classes meeting in the room . The reactions of students and faculty alike were uniformly positive . Almost everyone liked the decorations when they first saw them and this favorable reaction persisted at least until the time of the survey . The room was now judged to be pleasant , comfortable , cheerful , and relaxing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentration during class or hindered it during evening study in the room . Virtually everyone felt that more // classrooms on campus should be decorated . Of the four instructors questioned , three were favorable towards the decorations , one said they were messy and somewhat distracting . The students were also given an opportunity to suggest other improvements . Suggestions included colorfully painted walls , more variety in furnishings , and more windows . It is clear that more than wall decorations are needed to improve classrooms . On the other hand , it is also clear that these decorations did change the appearance of the room in a positive way . The amount of money involved in such decorations is negligible . This would be an excellent opportunity for design classes to get experience in an actual decorating situation that concerns them directly . One cautionary note is needed about the temporary decorations we used . It would be highly advisable that some of the decorations be attached permanently and solidly to the walls . A large number of our decorative items were " borrowed . " This included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and most of the paper flowers arranged in the bowl . The paper flowers disappeared one by one over weekday nights , while the mobile and Gods-Eyes disappeared over the quarter break . Had the study continued much longer , it is doubtful if any of the decorations would have remained . This is a further argument for using murals and other decorative forms that can be changed but not easily carted away . It is important to avoid decorations being either too fixed or too portable . Some intermediate state is necessary so that things can be altered or removed but not too easily . The security concerns are legitimate but only in the context of the purpose for which the item is intended . Much of social research is concerned with dispelling myths . Iwould put many of the attitudes about the distracting or corrupting effects of decorations in the category of myth . There is no proof that spartan surroundings build strength of character . Nor is there any evidence that pictures on the wall , drapes on the windows , or green plants in a classroom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be nice to lay these superstitions to rest . If somebody wants to argue against amenity on economic grounds , a reasoned discussion can be held on costs , maintenance problems , and so on . In most cases the cost of decorations is so miniscule that this argument quickly vanishes . Most often these economic arguments are screens to cover an almost religious faith in the cleansing properties of hard architecture . // DISCUSSION The results of the four studies are both depressing and encouraging . Although small classes have more participation than large ones , and this was one of the questions we had originally set out to answer , the difference between them ( 5.8 minutes versus 2.5 minutes ) pales beside the 40 --  minutes of class time taken by the instructor . The most encouraging datum for the advocate of small classes is the consistent decrease in the proportion of students participating as class size increases . Although this relationship is hardly surprising ( it would be very difficult to imagine half of a class of 100 students participating during a 50-minute hour ) , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are much greater in a small class than in a large one . However , this finding lends little encouragement to the idea . that class size is the crucial variable in classroom participation . Cutting a class of 200 students down to 100 probably is n't going to make any difference at all . A reduction from 150 to 20 students is likely , on the basis of our results , to produce an average of 3.3 minutes of additional student participation . It does not seem that reducing class size will by itself accomplish very much if a lecture format is used . This should not be surprising when one considers the actual situation of a classroom inhabited by one teacher who is there to instruct and twenty students who are there to learn . Defining the situation in this manner makes it inevitable that the discussion will flow from one teacher to the students with an occasional request for clarification coming from the students . In all the lecture sessions that were monitored , apart from the laboratories , there was very little student ? student interaction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , we have learned from repeated experience that straight rows are inordinately resistant to change . The customary and expected becomes sacred and any departure from it raises anxiety . We also should not underestimate the security that many faculty and students find in straight-row podium arrangements that make few demands on them for active involvement . The failure of the guerrilla arrangements makes it clear that we should have worked with students // and teachers rather than against them . Our initial conception of the research was that students and teachers would respond in a direct way to changed surroundings . Indeed they did , but instead of accepting the new arrangement , they returned things to their original state . Our motives in imposing change from above were not illogical . It would have been difficult and time consuming to request twenty-five instructors and twenty-five classes to try out the new arrangements , i.e. the custodial argument . There was also the risk of a so-called Hawthorne Effect in which a desire to please the experimenter becomes the major consideration . As events turned out , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had assumed that students and teachers would accept an imposed environmental change at least on a trial basis . This model would be appropriate for people with no alternative ( i.e. chairs arranged in a circular pattern and bolted to the floor ) , but not for a low involvement situation where they could easily return to a familiar pattern . Hard architecture works its most insidious effects in the way people adapt to it . Unless one wants to compound withdrawal and alienation , one must work for change with people rather than attempt to change things from above . The most encouraging finding was the high frequency of participation among all participants in the laboratory sessions . We found that even static and highly structured laboratory environments ( desks and tables bolted to the floor ) can be surmounted by increased levels of activity by the users . In some cases where the physical environment acts as a barrier to mobility , it may be more realistic to construe the physical environment as accurately reflecting administrative and professional norms against mobility . Providing open classrooms is no guarantee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jointly determined by the characteristics of the environment and the social structure of those using it . Given an instructor who acts as a resource person and tasks that promote interaction and involvement , some physical arrangements may be easier to use or may more easily facilitate these processes than others . The message of chairs lined up behind each other is that people should not interact with others , but focus interest forward to the instructor ( sit and learn ) . Given an instructor who wanted to move about the classroom acting as a resource person and the encourage-                     